Sustainability Data 2019 Sustainability Data 2019 CONTENTS Executive Message 03 The Environment 59 Toppan’s Sustainability Initiatives 04 Basic Approach Pollution Control Mitigation of Global Warming Biodiversity Organizational Governance 06 Building of a Recycling-oriented Society Corporate Governance Control of Chemical Substances Risk Management Group Business Outline 95 BCP/BCM Independent Assurance Report 97 Human Rights 14 Labor Practices 18 Sustainability Data 2019 Employee Work and Health & Safety This report presents Toppan’s sustainability information. The report Human Asset Development focuses chiefly on various types of performance data and information on environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues. Fair Operating Practices 30 Period Covered This report mainly covers activities in fiscal 2018 (from April 2018 to March 2019), though information on prior and later years is Strict Compliance also included in parts. CSR Procurement Scope and Boundary Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and its Group entities consolidated for accounting purposes. The information on personnel Consumer Issues 37 principally applies to personnel within Toppan Printing Co., Ltd., the parent company. For details on the scope of the environmental performance data, Initiatives for Products and Services see the List of Indicators Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider Consumer Protection shown on page 2. Publication Dates (English version) Previous report, December 2018; Community Involvement and Development 49 Current report, December 2019; Next report, December 2020 (planned) Contact Information Sustainability Promotion Team, Public Relations Department, Public Relations Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (Tokyo, Japan) Email: csr@toppan.co.jp Sustainability Information Disclosure System Toppan reports the Group’s sustainability initiatives in line with the seven core subjects set under the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 26000 standard, a globally recognized set of guidelines on social responsibility for organizations. Information relevant to sustainability activities is disclosed using timely and appropriate methods that make the best use of the Portable Document Format (PDF) and the Toppan website. Website ● Selectively presents principal information on Toppan’s sustainability initiatives (Toppan’s basic approach, promotion framework, main activities, etc.) ● Special reports PDF (This medium) ● Presents comprehensive information (including detailed sustainability performance data and information related ●Sustainability Section of Toppan Website to environmental, social, and governance [ESG] issues) https://www.toppan.com/en/sustainability/ Sustainability Data 2019 (PDF) and various other forms of detailed performance data are posted here. Related information ●Integrated Report 2019 In addition to financial information, Toppan’s Integrated Report presents the Group’s sustainability initiatives and other nonfinancial information. https://www.toppan.com/en/ir/material/annual.html ●Sustainability Data 2019 Guidelines This report has been edited according to the Environmental Reporting Guidelines (fiscal year 2018 version) issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan and prepared in accordance with the “Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: Core option” in the “GRI 102: General Disclosures.” 1 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 List of Indicators Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider The following sustainability performance indicators in this report (Sustainability Data 2019 PDF) are assured by KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd., an independent assurance provider. Performance Indicators Assured by an Independent Assurance Provider and Scope of the Performance Data ❶ Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (“the Company”) ❷ 15 domestic subsidiaries under the control of the Company or the Company’s business divisions and subsidiaries with production facilities (subject to the Company’s environmental targets) ❸ 21 domestic Group companies (not subject to the Company’s environmental targets) ❹ 23 overseas subsidiaries of the Company (not subject to the Company’s environmental targets) ❺ 8 overseas Group subsidiaries (not subject to the Company’s environmental targets) 68 companies and subsidiaries in total On the following pages every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Indicator Assured by an Independent Companies Page Category Data Scope Assurance Provider Promoting Positive Action Number of Female Managerial and Supervisory Staff 〇 1 ① P16 Human Total number of regular recruits (percentage of women); Rights Number of Recruits Number of mid-career recruitments of experienced female 〇 1 ① personnel Number of female directors 〇 1 ① Labor P23 Employee Work Information on Personnel Number of female employees 〇 1 ① and Health & Practices Safety Average tenure 〇 1 ① Occupational Health and Deaths from occupational accidents; frequency rate; severity P26 Safety rate 〇 1 ① P62 ISO 14001 environmental management system certification － 60 ①-④ Single-year Environmental Values, Results, and Evaluation of Environmental Targets Targets (CO2; waste; VOC) ○ 16 ①, ② P63 CO2 Emissions ○ 16 ①, ② Medium-and-long-term Environmental Targets Final Landfill Waste Disposal ○ 16 ①, ② VOC Emissions into the Atmosphere ○ 16 ①, ② Evaluating Domestic Environmental Impact and Environmental Efficiency in Japan － 16 ①, ② P64 Environmental Impact based on LIME Types of Environmental Impact by Business Field － 16 ①, ② Environmental Performance Major Types of Environmental Burden (Total burden; covering P65 Data Group companies around the world) ○ 68 ①-⑤ Environmental Performance Major Types of Environmental Burden (subject to the P66 Data environmental targets in Japan) ○ 16 ①, ② Basic Approach Environmentally Friendly P67 Products － 16 ①, ② Results of Environmental Education － 16 ①, ② P68 Numbers of Internal Environmental Audits and Issues in Need of Improvement － 17 ①-④ Capital Investment for Environmental Conservation － 67 ①-⑤ P69 Environmental Accounting Environmental Conservation Benefit － 68 ①-⑤ Green Procurement Standards for Paper and Level of － 11 suppliers － Fulfillment Green Procurement and Green Purchasing Green Procurement Standards for Ink and Level of Fulfillment － 4 suppliers － P70 In-house Green Purchasing Standards and Levels of Fulfillment － 16 ①, ② The Environment Environment-related Businesses Total sales of environment-related businesses － 68 ①-⑤+1 Group-wide emissions, including emissions associated with Group subsidiaries around the world ○ 68 ①-⑤ P74 CO2 Emissions Emissions subject to the environmental targets in Japan ○ 16 ①, ② Group-wide energy consumption, including consumption associated with Group subsidiaries around the world ○ 68 ①-⑤ Energy consumption subject to the environmental targets in P75 Energy Consumption Japan ○ 16 ①, ② Mitigation of Global Toppan Logistics Fuel Efficiency of Vehicles Owned by Toppan Logistics － 1 Co., Ltd. Warming Scope 1-3 Greenhouse Gas P76 Scope 1-3 CO2 Emissions ○ 162 *1 Emissions Percentages of Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Type (in tons of CO2 equivalent) ○ 68 ①-⑤ P78 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Percentages of Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Source (in tons of CO2 equivalent) ○ 68 ①-⑤ Calculated Level of Fluorocarbon Leakage － 68 ①-⑤ Material Input ○ 68 ①-⑤ Building of a P81 RecyclingWater Consumption (Water Consumption; Effluent Discharge) ○ 68 ①-⑤ oriented Waste Discharge and Recycling ○ 68 ①-⑤ Society P82 Zero-emission Efforts Zero-emission Sites － 26 ①-③ Control of VOC Emissions into the Atmosphere ○ 16 ①, ② P85 Chemical Substances PRTR Data ○ 16 ①, ② Pollution Monitoring Soil and Groundwater Pollution － 21 ①-③ P89 Control Preventing Pollution; Approach to Environmental Compliance － 21 ①-③ Approaches to Forest P93 Management Certification FSC® and PEFC Certification － 68 ①-⑤ Biodiversity P94 ECO-GREEN Purchasing － 16 ①, ② *Total values may not exactly match the sum totals of individual values, as decimals are rounded up or down. *1 All Group entities consolidated for accounting purposes, excluding one overseas manufacturing subsidiary. 2 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Executive Message Creating Value that Drives a Sustainable Society Hideharu Maro President & Representative Director Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. With the G20 summit being held in Japan in June 2019 and ongoing debate about environmental pollution, the level of interest in climate change and marine pollution is increasing, and the efforts of businesses to address environmental issues are receiving widespread attention. Since its founding in 1900, Toppan has worked with its stakeholders to find solutions to the challenges faced by society. Toppan established its Ecology Center in 1991 as an organization focused on environmental issues and conservation activities. As a result of committed efforts to address ESG-related issues, Toppan has received various accolades. These include being featured in the DJSI World Index for two consecutive years. I took over as the president of Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. in June this year. I intend to further strengthen and accelerate our activities to contribute to a sustainable society and drive business initiatives that target enhanced value for society and the Company. We are currently assessing materiality in relation to the SDGs at Toppan, with the results due to be announced in the autumn. In order to continue to be a company that plays a vital role in society, we will present our approach to the SDGs and clearly indicate our long-term goals to all stakeholders. Toppan will continue to contribute to a sustainable society by maintaining the earnest approach it has taken for more than a century and proactively addressing the issues highlighted by the SDGs. We rely on and greatly appreciate your continued support. June 2019 3 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Toppan’s Sustainability Initiatives Evolving as a Corporation that Creates Social performing business operations. The Conduct Guidelines set out the basic concepts and behavioral norms for Toppan employees Value both as businesspeople and as members of society. The Toppan Group strives to evolve as a corporation that creates social value towards the realization of a sustainable society. The Business Fields, meanwhile, are made up of two categories: TOPPAN VISION 21 sets forth the basic concepts and direction for “Technology & Expertise” and “Markets & Customers.” The former the ongoing growth of the Group in harmony with society and the category encompasses accumulated Toppan knowledge and global environment. The vision consists of a “Corporate Structure” technologies classified into five resource-based segments. The and a set of “Business Fields.” latter focuses on four key fields for growth: Healthcare & Life Sciences, Education & Cultural Exchange, Urban Space & Mobility, The Corporate Structure is made up of three elements: Toppan’s and Energy & Food Resources. The Toppan Group strives to create Corporate Philosophy, the Corporate Creed, and the Conduct social value in these four growth fields and five resource-based Guidelines. The Corporate Philosophy specifies ideals and the business segments by providing societies with an array of products, most important values and concepts for the Group. The Corporate services, and solutions developed through inclusive relationships Creed expresses the standards to be kept foremost in mind when with stakeholders. ■ Toppan’s Business Fields Toppanʼs Business Fields Markets & Customers Technology & Expertise Four Growth Fields Five Segments Four ﬁelds on which to focus Toppan resources classiﬁed into ﬁve different segments Healthcare & Life Sciences Creative Communication Information Management Packaging & Converting Performance Materials Electronic Devices Education & Cultural Exchange Urban Space & Mobility Energy & Food Resources Toppan’s Sustainability Activities companies in their efforts to overcome business challenges. The solutions Toppan offers to meet the ever-changing needs of markets The Toppan Group undertakes sustainability activities in and clients have been based on specialist knowledge and expertise accordance with the principles of the United Nations Global of every variety derived from printing over many decades. Toppan Compact and the guidelines of the ISO 26000 Guidance on Social shapes the Group’s current Business Fields by applying printing Responsibility, a globally recognized standard for organizations. The technologies on all fronts. United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) have also been incorporated into the Group’s sustainability activity targets. In working with client companies as a partner to tackle their Toppan will commit to addressing the social issues targeted by the business challenges, the Toppan Group gains opportunities to help SDGs in order to promote the continual development of the Group solve global social issues through its core B2B business models. as a creator of social value. The social issues targeted under the SDGs are the very issues the Group should address. Toppan will advance its sustainability The SDGs, a set of shared global development agendas, were activities towards the solution of the SDGs by integrating these adopted by 193 countries at the UN General Assembly held in development agendas into Group management in consideration of September 2015. The SDGs encompass 17 goals and 169 targets the opportunities they offer and the risks they pose. focused on social issues for the international community to commit to achieving by 2030. Private-sector businesses around the world Toppan will be reviewing the 17 SDGs and 169 targets to select are expected to join policy initiatives to help solve the social issues material issues for the Group to address by analyzing the relevant under the SDGs. connections linking the SDGs with the operations and Business Fields of the Group. Toppan plans to establish long-term goals in an Since its foundation in 1900, Toppan has supported various client effort to achieve the targets the Group selects as material issues. 4 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Toppan’s Sustainability Initiatives ■ Toppan’s Approach to Sustainability A sustainable society A corporation that creates social value TOPPAN VISION 21 Corporate Structure Corporate United Nations Global Compact Philosophy ISO 26000 Principles guiding sustainability activities Guidance on sustainability activities Corporate Creed Universal principles to be espoused by Globally recognized standard on social corporations responsibility Conduct Guidelines 10 principles in four areas Business Seven core subjects Customers partners Markets & Customers Technology & Expertise Four Growth Fields Five Segments Shareholders Employees and investors Communities Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Sustainability activity goals 17 action goals for the realization of a sustainable society Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles United Nations Global Compact https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/ 5 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Basic Approach Corporate governance focused on the management of sustainability Exchange. activities provides an integral foundation for Toppan’s approach to Toppan and its Group companies work together to implement fulfilling corporate social responsibilities as a group of companies consolidated management under the Related Company dedicated to furthering sustainable growth hand-in-hand with the Administration Regulations prescribed for the advancement of fair development of society at large. management within the Group. Through this approach, the Toppan Toppan has formulated a Basic Policy on Corporate Governance Group implements governance aimed at maximizing the value of to further strengthen corporate governance based on a full the entire Group. understanding of the spirit and aims of the principles of the Basic Policy on Corporate Governance of Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Corporate Governance Code established by the Tokyo Stock https://www.toppan.com/en/ir/management/governance-policy.html Promotion Framework Toppan’s governance structure employs an Audit & Supervisory independent external members audits the execution of duties by Board. directors from a position independent of management. As an entity entrusted by shareholders, the Board of Directors An Advisory Committee for Nomination and Remuneration has strives to achieve sustainable growth and a mediumto long-term also been set up to enhance the objectivity and transparency of increase in the corporate value of the Group while overseeing personnel affairs and remuneration of directors. important managerial decision-making and the execution of duties Toppan has adopted an executive officer system to clarify the by each director. authority and responsibilities of those in charge of business An Audit & Supervisory Board composed of a majority of execution. ■ Corporate Corporate Governance Governance Structure Structure (as of31, (as of March 2019) 31, 2019) March Meeting of Shareholders Appointing or dismissing Appointing or dismissing Appointing or dismissing External directors (including two independent oﬃcers) Board of Directors Auditing Auditing Advisory Committee for Selecting or Special Committee Advising and Supervising Advising Nomination and Remuneration dismissing (for defending against takeover bids) counseling Crisis Management Committee President & Representative Director Executive Oﬃcer Management Committee Committee Audit & Supervisory Board Investment & Legal Review Council Directors in Charge Executive Oﬃcers in Charge Monitoring Auditing Monitors and veriﬁes the legality and Auditing Business Divisions Audit Firm and guiding Management Audit Oﬃce appropriateness of operational activities Reporting Group Companies Spearheads, monitors, and veriﬁes the strict observance of business-related laws Compliance Department and regulations and the establishment of Independently check, evaluate, and make improvements under ethical business practices Oﬃce of the Audit & Supervisory the direction of departments responsible Oversees, monitors, and veriﬁes for laws, regulations, etc. Ecology Center environmental activities across the Group Guiding Instructing Board Members National Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisors (in Japan) Other organizations for control Assisting Chief Information Security Manager Safety and Health Committee TPM National Conference (in Japan) National Eco-protection Committee (in Japan) Working together 6 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Corporate Governance ■ Directors, Board of Directors, ■ Audit & Supervisory Board, Board Members, and Various Meetings and Audit Firm Toppan’s Board of Directors is composed of 16 Company directors As of the end of March 2019, Toppan has five audit & supervisory and three external directors, two of whom are independent officers board members, including three external members who are (as of the end of March 2019). Board meetings are held monthly independent officers. Along with their own board meetings, the and whenever a pressing matter requires action or deliberation. board members attend meetings of the Board of Directors, meetings Especially important matters are deliberated beforehand by the of the Management Committee, and other important meetings on Management Committee, a body made up of directors nominated risk management. These board members systematically manage the by the President & Representative Director. The goal is to lay weight implementation of audits of operational sites and Group companies on managerial efficiency in business decision-making. Toppan has in close cooperation with the audit firm and internal audit-related also adopted an executive officer system to clarify the authority departments of the Company. By these means, they audit and and responsibilities of those in charge of business execution and advise the Company from a preventive perspective to ensure enable prompt responses to changes in business circumstances. the legality of the operations of the directors and departments An Advisory Committee for Nomination and Remuneration for and smooth and appropriate corporate management in line with directors has also been in place since fiscal 2017. The Company company policies and regulations. They also regularly convene a partially revised its executive officer system in May 2018. meeting of audit & supervisory boards from related companies to improve the effectiveness of the audits by board members across the Group. Toppan has had KPMG AZSA LLC verify the propriety of the Company’s accounts through audits in order to enhance the reliability and transparency of the Company’s financial information. ■ Strengthening Audit Functions The Management Audit Office is a body established independently The department also reports to the Audit & Supervisory Board on from the business divisions of the Company. Working from legal improper acts such as collusion, illicit trading, and bribery, along and rational viewpoints, the office conducts fair and objective audits with other forms of corruption, misconduct, and legal violations. on the administrative and operational systems of management Toppan addresses these compliance issues through the Toppan activities and the practical status of the Company’s operations. Group Helpline, an internal reporting system open to all Group The office provides feedback to the relevant departments on issues officers and employees (including dispatched staff and part-time identified, proposes measures for improvement, and reports the workers) when a legal violation or other improper act comes to audit results to the President & Representative Director, directors light. in charge of relevant departments, and audit & supervisory board The Information Security Division audits information security members. management within Toppan as an organization responsible for The Compliance Department in the Legal Affairs & Intellectual the control of information security. The Ecology Center in the Property Division spearheads the Company’s initiatives to ensure Manufacturing Technology & Research Division, meanwhile, the strict observance of laws and regulations and to firmly oversees environmental activities across the Group, conducts establish ethical business practices. The department is responsible internal audits at operational sites, and monitors the progress of for ensuring that employees are fully informed of the Conduct their improvements. Guidelines and comply with applicable laws and regulations. ■ Mechanism for Promoting Sustainability ■ Toppan’s Sustainability Promotion Structure Initiatives (as of March Toppanʼs 31, Promotion 2019) Structure Sustainability The divisions of the head office work in collaboration with each (as of March 31, 2019) other to promote sustainability activities under the President & President & Representative Director Representative Director and the Director in charge of Sustainability. Director in charge of Sustainability Each division confirms the materiality of action points in line Sustainability promotion departments with the seven core subjects set under ISO 26000. The divisions Administration devise action plans and carry out measures while sharing Public Relations Division information about the issues they are addressing and the progress Secretary Oﬃce they are making. The head office divisions also coordinate and Corporate Planning Division share information with Group companies to advance Group-wide Personnel & Labor Relations Division sustainability initiatives. Legal Aﬀairs & Intellectual Property Division Every year Toppan organizes a training course on sustainability management for new employees and e-learning-based, Group-wide Finance & Accounting Division basic education for employees of the Company and the other main Manufacturing Management Division companies of the Group. Business Development & Research Division Information Security Division 7 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Corporate Governance Main Activities and Relevant Information Revision of the Executive Officer System Toppan introduced an executive officer system and set up an The Company created new managing executive officer posts in Advisory Committee for Nomination and Remuneration for fiscal 2018 to more clearly segregate the duties of directors and directors in an effort to upgrade its existing corporate governance executive officers. structure in fiscal 2016. ■ List of Directors and Corporate Auditors (as of June 28, 2019) First year Attendance Number of Name Male / Current position Independence as director Tenure at the Board shares of the Female or corporate in years of Directors Company auditor meeting held 1 Shingo Kaneko Male Chairman & Representative Director 2003 16 18/18 97,207 2 Hideharu Maro Male President & Representative Director 2009 10 18/18 46,311 3 Yukio Maeda Male Director & Executive Vice President 2016 3 18/18 59,876 4 Shinichi Ohkubo Male Director & Executive Vice President 2005 14 18/18 83,548 5 Makoto Arai Male Director & Senior Managing Executive Officer 2008 11 18/18 59,068 6 Sumio Ezaki Male Director & Senior Managing Executive Officer 2011 8 17/18 30,497 7 Tetsuro Ueki Male Director & Senior Managing Executive Officer 2015 4 18/18 12,023 8 Yasuhiko Yamano Male Director & Managing Executive Officer 2011 8 18/18 29,971 9 Mitsuhiro Nakao Male Director & Managing Executive Officer 2017 2 18/18 21,220 Director & Managing Executive Officer 10 Yuichiro Kotani Male 2019 19,661 Newly appointed on June 28, 2019 Director & Managing Executive Officer 11 Kazunori Sakai Male 2019 14,723 Newly appointed on June 28, 2019 Director & Managing Executive Officer 12 Masanori Saito Male 2019 12,800 Newly appointed on June 28, 2019 13 Takashi Kurobe Male Director & Executive Officer 2018 1 14/14 6,722 14 Kunio Sakuma Male Director External 2010 9 17/18 1,500 External 15 Yoshinobu Noma Male Director 2010 9 16/18 34,543 Independent External 16 Ryoko Toyama Female Director 2016 3 16/18 0 Independent 1 Jitsumei Takamiyagi Male Senior Audit & Supervisory Board Member 2014 5 18/18 Audit & Supervisory Board Member 2 Itaru Kubozono Male 2019 Newly appointed on June 28, 2019 External 3 Hiroyuki Shigematsu Male Audit & Supervisory Board Member 2014 5 18/18 Independent External 4 Keiko Kakiuchi Female Audit & Supervisory Board Member 2016 3 18/18 Independent External 5 Haruo Kasama Male Audit & Supervisory Board Member 2018 1 13/14 Independent Average tenure in years 5.33 Percentage of female executives 9.52% Average attendance rate 97.61% 8 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Corporate Governance Management Audits The Management Audit Office carried out 28 operation audits in fiscal 2018 and conducted maintenance and operational evaluations of internal controls over financial reporting for all business divisions and main subsidiaries. The audit results are regularly reported to the representative directors, directors in charge of the relevant organizations, and the audit & supervisory board members. Remuneration to Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members The total annual remuneration to directors and total annual Securities report (in Japanese) https://ssl4.eir-parts.net/doc/7911/yuho_pdf/S100FTAK/00.pdf remuneration to audit & supervisory board members were 1,041 million yen and 74 million yen, respectively, in fiscal 2018. Please see the section covering corporate governance in the securities report for details on the method used to determine remunerations and remuneration-related information. 9 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Risk Management Risk Management Basic Approach The Toppan Group views the accurate detection and appropriate adverse impact on business operations. When a risk actually arises, management of impending risks as a corporate social responsibility. Toppan immediately collects necessary information and takes In keeping with this view, the Group has identified and taken comprehensive and strategic countermeasures under the Group’s steps to mitigate quality-related incidents, natural disasters, risk management structure to minimize losses, ensure business and other types of risk requiring action to limit the possibility of continuity, and maintain the trust of society. Promotion Framework ■ Division-specific Risk Management Structure In accordance with the Rules on Risk Management, the Toppan directors in charge of each relevant division are responsible for Group has set up a risk management structure under which taking measures to prevent, avoid, and correct each risk. When a the responsibilities for risk management are allotted to specific significant risk requiring action arises somewhere in the Group, the divisions in the head office based on the types of risk involved. The responsible director reports it to the Board of Directors. ■ Risks toRisks Be to Managed Be Managed andand the Relevant the Relevant HeadHead Office Divisions Ofﬁce Divisions in Charge in Charge Type Risks to Be Managed Divisions in Charge Product-related incidents or Manufacturing Technology & product liability Quality-related incidents Research Div. Manufacturing Technology & Accidents or disasters related to ﬁres, explosions, etc. Research Div. Manufacturing Technology & Illegal activities related to the storage of solvents, dangerous chemicals, etc. Research Div. Occupational accidents, traﬃc accidents, or other accidents involving employees Personnel & Labor Relations Div. Accidents or Incidents related to notes or accounts receivable Finance & Accounting Div. disasters related to Legal Aﬀairs & Intellectual company operations Legal problems with orders received Property Div. Leakage of personal information or conﬁdential information Information Security Div. Interruption of business operations by cyber attacks Information Security Div. Accidents related to main computer systems Digital Innovation Div. Violations of environmental laws or regulations Environmental problems Environmental impact levels exceeding applicable regulatory standards Manufacturing Technology & Illegal disposal of industrial waste Research Div. Transition risks Greenhouse gas (GHG) emission pricing, strengthened obligations for emission reporting, or higher incidence of climate-related lawsuits Risks related to the transition to a low-carbon economy or replacement of existing products by lowClimate change or water risks carbon alternatives Manufacturing Technology & (transition risks) Changes in customer behavior or increases in material costs Research Div. Widespread public disapproval of the industry or changes in the attitudes of customers or society Physical risks Escalation of typhoons, hurricanes, ﬂoods, or other natural disasters caused by extreme weather Shifts in global climate patterns such as rising sea levels or increasing average temperatures Material losses or personal accidents due to earthquakes, wind or water damage, lightning strikes, etc. Personnel & Labor Relations Div. Natural disasters Spreading of new strains of inﬂuenza Personnel & Labor Relations Div. Related to the Companies Act Legal Aﬀairs & Intellectual Shareholder derivative lawsuits or hostile takeovers of Japan Property Div. Improper practices in disclosing False reporting or improper statements Finance & Accounting Div. information in ﬁnancial reporting Manufacturing Technology & Violations of the Subcontract Law of Japan or illegal transactions with business partners Research Div. Improper conduct related to accounting, taxes, or payments (ﬁctitious orders, etc.) Finance & Accounting Div. Legal violations or misconduct Harassment, discrimination, violations of the Labor Standards Act of Japan, etc. Personnel & Labor Relations Div. Misappropriation, etc. Personnel & Labor Relations Div. Collusion, insider trading, violations of the Subcontract Law of Japan, Legal Aﬀairs & Intellectual illicit import or export transactions, or bribery Property Div. Infringements of intellectual Legal Aﬀairs & Intellectual Infringements of patents, trademarks, or copyrights property rights Property Div. Relationships with antisocial Unreasonable demands from antisocial organizations or transactions conducted between Legal Aﬀairs & Intellectual organizations subcontractors or suppliers and antisocial organizations Property Div. Defamation, slander, Acts of violence against the Company (threats, kidnapping, theft, etc.) Personnel & Labor Relations Div. or other criminal damages Product-related incidents, harassment, dismissals, environmental problems, ﬁres, natural disasters, Risks in overseas business etc. Corporate Planning Div. activities Damage to human or physical assets of customers or the Company caused by international conﬂicts, Personnel & Labor Relations Div. terrorism, etc. Directors overseeing divisions in charge https://www.toppan.com/en/about-us/officer.html 10 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Risk Management ■ Risk Management Liaison Meeting All of the personnel in charge of risk management in the head office divisions assemble on a regular basis to share information at the Risk Management Liaison Meeting. When a risk actually arises, the responsible persons from relevant head office divisions convene an extraordinary meeting to take necessary management actions and develop preventive measures. ■ Risk Management The Toppan Group manages individual risks specific to ■ Risk Management Structure organizations such as business divisions, subsidiaries, and Group companies. Board of Directors Specifically, the Group performs annual risk surveys to determine all types of risk that require action. The frequency and severity of Director in charge of Risk Management possible risks are assessed, and countermeasures are formulated based on the assessment results. Midway through the fiscal year, Administration the Group monitors the progress of mitigation measures designed office at the beginning of the year. As the administration office, the Compliance Department in the Legal Affairs & Intellectual Property Head office divisions Division takes the time every year to identify serious types of risk that could exert significant adverse impact on management. Departments in business divisions The responsible head office divisions spearhead efforts to plan countermeasures and take comprehensive measures required for the management of the risks determined to be serious. The Director in charge of Risk Management regularly reports the outcomes of the measures taken to the Board of Directors. The Toppan Group identified the following 15 types of serious risk in fiscal 2018. 1. Fires or occupational accidents 6. Leakage of personal information 11. Damage to human or physical or confidential information assets caused by natural disasters 2. Risks involved in Group control 7. Interruption of business 12. Investment loss 3. Risks involved in overseas operations by cyber attacks business activities 13. Infringements of intellectual 8. Quality-related incidents property rights 4. Non-performing inventory assets or long-term inventories 9. Soil or groundwater pollution 14. Legal violations 5. Incidents related to notes or 10. Problems related to labor affairs 15. Bribery or corruption accounts receivable (including long working hours) 11 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development BCP/BCM BCP/BCM Basic Approach The Toppan Group manufactures a wide variety of products To mitigate negative impact, Toppan conducts business necessary for everyday lives. Many manufacturers that procure continuity management (BCM) activities under the Group’s Basic from the Group, for example, use Toppan packaging products such Plan for Countermeasures against Disasters. These activities aim as cartons, food packaging materials, and detergent and shampoo to ensure the safety of employees, minimize damage to the Group, bottles. A large earthquake or other disaster may interrupt the and maintain a steady supply of products and services to customers supply of these products, causing considerable impact on customer when a wide-scale disaster strikes. companies and consumers. Promotion Framework ■ Promotion System ■ Promotion Mechanism The Toppan Group takes comprehensive measures to address the Everybody must remain calm and take prompt action in the event of risks posed by large-scale disasters under the leadership of the a wide-scale disaster. Critical for Toppan is to keep each and every BCP Promotion Office in the head office Legal Affairs & Intellectual employee aware. The Group focuses on holding business continuity Property Division. The office coordinates with persons in charge management (BCM) training for new employees and veterans, of business continuity planning (BCP) at head office divisions and fostering BCM-qualified personnel with specialist knowledge and business divisions across Japan. The Group has also acquired ISO expertise in business continuity management, and organizing other 22301 certification and consistently enhances its competence for forms of BCM education. Toppan also repeats various BCM training business continuity by implementing the following measures. to enhance employee preparedness for dealing with emergency situations. ・Operational-site-based evacuation drills, employee fire response The Group determines the business continuity competencies training, and drills using a communication system to check the of business partners by surveying material suppliers and safety of employees and their families subcontractors involved in production. The head office holds ・Stockpiling of water, food, and other emergency supplies to workshops for business partners to encourage them to cooperate support local communities and commuters who will have no with Toppan in performing BCM activities. means to return to their homes Toppan carries out an annual self-review with checklists to ・Japan-wide BCP Meetings (annual) and BCP Liaison Meetings of assess the Group’s BCM activities. Management reviews reported Related Companies (semiannual) to senior management are conducted in every business division to ・Preparations for the startup and operation of emergency task upgrade the activities. forces ・Establishment of an alternate structure in the Kansai area in preparation for the disaster scenario of an earthquake striking directly beneath the Tokyo Metropolitan Area ・Regular review of action procedures during a wide-scale disaster and disaster-simulation drills In the event of a natural disaster, Toppan will immediately set up emergency task forces at the head office in Tokyo and operational sites in the disaster-stricken region and take necessary actions based on the Group’s business continuity plans. 12 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development BCP/BCM Main Activities and Relevant Information More than 100 BCM Drills at 52 Departments and Group Sites across Japan The Toppan Group is aware of the special importance of drills in business continuity plans. facilitating business continuity management (BCM) activities. This drill has deepened employee awareness of the roles of the Group sites organize regular comprehensive disaster-preparedness task force. Regular improvements and repeated reviews of the drills to perennially rehearse the actions to be taken during actual points identified in the drill have enhanced the skills required of wide-scale disasters: the initial damage assessment and safety employees for the handling of emergency conditions caused by a verification, the evacuation procedures, the employees’ journeys large-scale disaster. back home from their workplaces on foot, and the distribution of stockpiled supplies. Toppan also focuses efforts on a task-force operation simulation drill developed and designed by the Group to promptly start up and operate the task force in the event of a disaster. In this simulation drill, Group employees form an actual task force equipped with information collection tools, an emergency IP wireless communication system, and other hardware arranged in advance according to the procedures formulated in the Group’s Task force operation drill Task force operation drill (Fukaya Plant) (Hokkaido Subdivision) BCP Workshops for Business Partners The lessons learned from past earthquake disasters have renewed with other participants who tackle Toppan’s awareness of the importance of business continuity similar challenges.” planning (BCP) throughout the supply chain. On February 25, The strong demand for regular 2019, the Group invited an expert to lecture at the third workshop sessions has encouraged the for business partners on effective BCP. In total, 23 participants Toppan Group to continue holding from 17 companies exchanged views in a workshop program held workshops for more business to identify BCP issues that business partners are likely to face. partners. Toppan seeks to enhance They also learned about the significance of business continuity the corporate value of the Group plan formulation, the details of the training and drills carried out by further solidifying its business in the Toppan Group, and the tools prepared for sharing damage foundations and responding to information in emergency situations. The participants spoke highly the trust of customer companies of the training overall. One was pleased to have “reinforced my through these workshops and awareness of the importance of information-sharing and good ongoing BCP and BCM activities teamwork with Toppan in the event of an emergency situation.” of various other types. Another found “the session very productive” and “gleaned important hints on approaches for addressing BCP issues through discussion ISO 22301 Certification for Security-related Business Operations After the Great East Japan Earthquake struck in 2011, many cement the trust of client companies, Toppan acquired ISO companies were forced to halt their business operations due 22301 certification for its security-related business (card issuing to damage incurred by suppliers of production materials. The operations, direct-mail creation, operations related to securities experience alerted client companies in every kind of industry to production, and back-office operations entrusted to Toppan) in the importance of business continuity management (BCM) within February 2018. The ISO 22301 is an internationally recognized the Toppan Group as a partner with links to their own businesses. standard on business continuity management systems. The Group The Group began strident efforts to formulate business continuity will extend the scope of the certification to include other operations plans immediately after the earthquake to meet their expectations. based on the assessment of client demands and market trends. Toppan has since applied BCP across the Group and continued BCM activities through a plan-do-check-act (PDCA) cycle. To 13 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Human Rights Human Rights Basic Approach The Toppan Group regards human rights as a paramount principle norms set under the Conduct Guidelines for Toppan personnel. in its business activities and sustainability initiatives. The guideline stipulations include respecting people’s personalities The Group operates business under the foundational concept and individuality, prohibiting discrimination and harassment, and of respect for people. To ensure this foundational concept, Toppan prohibiting child labor and forced labor. calls for respect for basic human rights as one of the behavioral ■ Supporting the Principles of Human Rights Manifested in the United Nations Global Compact Toppan has been participating in the United Nations Global Guiding Principles of Business and Human Rights and implements Compact and therefore supporting its two principles of human the human rights due diligence process and other initiatives for rights since 2006. The Group also espouses the United Nations human rights. Human Rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary protection of internationally proclaimed human approach to environmental challenges; rights; and Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human environmental responsibility; and rights abuses. Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of Anti-Corruption association and the effective recognition of the Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all right to collective bargaining; its forms, including extortion and bribery. Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. ■ Labor-Management Initiatives for Human Rights Toppan’s labor union and management undertake various measures The Toppan Group has also been taking measures to avoid for labor-related human rights based on a fundamental policy human rights violations in the form of negative impact on the lives stated in a collective labor agreement. of people living near its operational sites. For example, the Group The Toppan Printing Labour Union and Toppan’s management promotes environmental conservation initiatives based on The have concluded the collective labor agreement in order to ensure Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment and the stable labor-management relations, maintain and improve working Basic Policy on Biodiversity. conditions, and secure the corporate concord. This agreement sets forth a fundamental policy between labor and management, Fundamental Policy under the Collective Labor the rules governing union activities and labor-management Agreement negotiations, and employment conditions such as wages and As a fundamental policy between labor and management, Article 1 working hours. of the collective labor agreement, the General Principles, stipulates that the Company and union shall contribute to society through The Toppan Printing Labour Union is run by members business operations and collectively work for the benefit of the from Toppan and seven Group companies. The union and the Company and long-term stability of the livelihood of employees. management have concluded an agreement to impose a uniform Labor and management both uphold this policy as a common goal. Article 2 of the agreement clearly states that the union has all the set of liability-related clauses (rules governing union activities rights established by law, specifying that the Company shall respect and labor-management negotiations) on all eight companies the union’s rights to organize and collectively bargain and act. represented. United Nations Global Compact More details on Toppan’s environmental conservation initiatives https://www.unglobalcompact.org/ https://www.toppan.com/en/sustainability/environment/ The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment Conduct Guidelines https://www.toppan.com/assets/pdf/sustainability/ https://www.toppan.com/en/about-us/philosophy/conduct-guidelines.html The_Toppan_Group_Declaration_on_the_Global_Environment.pdf Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact Basic Policy on Biodiversity (in Japanese) https://www.unglobalcompact.org/what-is-gc/mission/principles https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/japanese/csr/files/pdf/2013/biodiversity.pdf 14 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Human Rights Promotion Framework The Personnel & Labor Relations Division, Legal Affairs & Research Division, and other head office divisions collaborate to Intellectual Property Division, Manufacturing Technology & implement various measures for human rights. ■ Training on the Conduct Guidelines ■ CSR Procurement Respect for basic human rights is positioned as Basic Principle 1 The Toppan Group asks business partners to comply with the of Chapter 1 of the Conduct Guidelines, the standards of behavior Procurement Standards Concerning Human Rights, Labor, the for Toppan personnel. Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders Environment, and Anti-Corruption under the Toppan Group CSR continue to disseminate this principle at their workplaces. The Procurement Guidelines. Business partners continue to work with the Toppan Group educates employees on human rights through Group to undertake initiatives to promote respect for human rights. first-year training, e-learning-based programs, and other training Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines (second edition) sessions. https://www.toppan.com/library/english/about-us/files/ sustainability/2014/proc2014_en01.pdf More details on Toppan’s CSR procurement https://www.toppan.com/en/sustainability/procurement.html ■ Operating Hotlines ■ Pursuing Diversity Management Toppan operates a Toppan Group Helpline through which Group Toppan pursues diversity management with a focus on equal officers and employees can report human rights issues or violations. opportunity to innovate and create value by engaging diverse Toppan also runs a helpdesk in the head office Personnel & human assets* and nurturing their capabilities to maximum Labor Relations Division to deal with power harassment, sexual potential. harassment, and any other forms of harassment. The Company promotes positive action to bring out the full The Toppan Group has also set up a Supplier Hotline, a portal potential of individual employees and assign them to more diverse for receiving reports from business partners on human rights issues positions regardless of gender. Women play important roles or violations committed by the Group’s procurement departments. in widening arenas and the Company strives to ensure equal treatment in promotion to managerial positions. Toppan Group Helpline *Toppan values its employees as precious “human assets.” https://www.toppan.com/en/sustainability/fair-practices.html#link Supplier Hotline https://www.toppan.com/en/about-us/our-corporate-approach/ supplier-hotline.html ■ Self-determination on the Career Path / ■ Providing an Open Environment for Recruitment In-house Staff Recruitment Toppan provides every employee with equal opportunity for skill Toppan hires persons regardless of gender, nationality, and age improvement through an in-house staff recruitment system and and offers employment opportunities to persons of varying levels the Challenging Job System, a self-directed program to encourage of physical and mental ability. By publicizing its working styles in employees to set out their career development plans. The Company company orientation sessions and on its website and other media, expects these systems to nourish a problem-solving, can-do mindset Toppan reaches out to diverse people such as new graduates from throughout the widening arenas in which the Toppan workforce universities and high schools, experienced personnel in the middle operates. The Challenging Job System is also used to measure of their careers, and persons with disabilities. employee satisfaction. Every year employees fill out a five-stage self-evaluation for submission to their superiors and the Personnel Department. In fiscal 2018 employees were asked to indicate their level of satisfaction with their current job on a 5-level scale. In total, 86.0% of responses were level 3 or above, indicating moderate to high satisfaction overall. ■ Employment of Persons with Disabilities Toppan promotes the hiring of persons with disabilities in persons with disabilities by devising procedures and routines that collaboration with a special subsidiary, Tokyo Metropolitan empower them to perform wide-ranging jobs in ways better suited Government (T.M.G.) Prepress Toppan Co., Ltd. Toppan and T.M.G. to their capabilities. Prepress Toppan support the ongoing hiring and employment of 15 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Human Rights *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Main Activities and Relevant Information Promoting Positive Action Toppan promotes positive action to bring out the full potential of ■ Number of Female Managerial and Supervisory individual employees and assign them to more diverse positions Staff (as of April) regardless of gender. Women play important roles in wider arenas ■ Female supervisory staff ■ Female managerial staff 500 491 and the Company strives to ensure equal treatment in promotion 418 to managerial positions. As of April 2019, Toppan has appointed 400 104 female employees to managerial positions and 387 female 348 299 employees to supervisory positions. With these appointments, 300 387 327 Toppan has attained a 10.0% ratio of women among managerial and 267 200 226 supervisory staff. Toppan will continue to promote positive action aiming to raise 100 73 81 91 104 the number of female managerial and supervisory staff to 464 by 0 fiscal 2020, a two-fold increase compared to fiscal 2014 (232 as of 2016 2017 2018 2019 (year) March 31, 2015). Number of Recruits ■ Number of Recruits Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Sales, Male 98 105 102 115 Regular recruitment of new graduates from administration, etc. Female 73 65 86 100 universities and graduate schools Male 102 115 86 108 Technical Female 35 36 45 55 Regular recruitment of new graduates from high schools and colleges of Male 3 1 6 4 technology Female 33 33 30 29 344 355 355 411 Total number of regular recruits (percentage of women) （41.0％） （37.7％） （45.4％） （44.8％） Male 56 55 46 − Mid-career recruitment of experienced personnel Female 20 22 13 − Employment of Persons with Disabilities ■ Employment of Persons with Disabilities Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Fiscal 2019 Employees 250 253 274 312 Percentage of 2.07％ 2.06％ 2.25％ 2.29％ total workforce* *The percentage is calculated based on the total number of regular employees (as of June 1) as a denominator. The total number was presented in the Disabled Persons Employment Report in accordance with Article 8 of the Japanese Law for Employment Promotion, etc. of the Disabled. SPORTRAIT Sports-themed Website for the Disabled Toppan has operated the SPORTRAIT website since 2015. This Visitors to the SPORTRAIT website learn the attractions of sports website provides competition rules and athlete information related for the disabled. To raise awareness as widely as it hopes, Toppan is to sports for the disabled as a means to raise awareness, spread pursuing a goal of 7,500 page views per month by fiscal 2020. acceptance, and encourage expansion of this category of sport. 16 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Human Rights Open Seminar to Explore Workplace Diversity Toppan held an open Group employee seminar focused on lesbian, touched on LBGT-related workplace communications and the gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) inclusion in the workplace activities of LBGT allies, as well as her own experiences. In a brief at its office in Akihabara, Tokyo on January 15, 2019: “Let’s explore questionnaire passed out after the seminar, about 98% of the 125 workplace diversity to create a corporate culture where members of Group employees who attended indicated that they were glad to the LGBT community can work with peace of mind.” have attended and came away with a broadened understanding The seminar sought to enhance employee awareness and of LGBT issues. As the questionnaire demonstrated, the seminar understanding of LGBT issues in the workplace. Companies further raised the awareness of participants on diversity through nowadays are expected by society to become more inclusive in inclusion initiatives for LGBT persons. Toppan will continue pursuit of sustainable management. The fundamental principles for working to enhance understanding of LGBT issues and carry out sustainable sourcing at the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic measures for diversity management. Games, for example, require all vendors and resource providers to prohibit all forms of harassment and discrimination against persons based on sexual orientation or gender identity in their organizations. Koyuki Higashi, an LGBT activist and former performer in the Takarazuka Revue, a celebrated all-female musical theater troupe in Japan, was invited to speak at the seminar as a guest lecturer. Her talk covered the basics of LGBT living, the various difficulties LGBT persons face and ways they are received in society, and Open seminar on LGBT issues and Koyuki Higashi, guest lecturer their psychological wellbeing in working environments. She also diversity in the workplace 17 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Employee Work and Health & Safety Employee Work and Health & Safety Basic Approach Toppan values its employees as precious “human assets” and employees and their families through various approaches, such as understands how deeply it depends on them. The Company is activities to support work-life balance. The second is to contribute convinced that human assets perform to their full potential when to society through health-related businesses that support health they are vigorous, earnest, and driven. promotion activities undertaken in communities. To support motivated, vigorous, and earnest work, Toppan The Basic Policy on Health and Safety, meanwhile, enunciates a promotes positive working conditions and healthcare and safety “safety first” principle as a top priority for the entire Toppan workforce, measures in cooperation with the labor union and Toppan Group including both regular and contract employees, towards the complete Health Insurance Union (“the health insurance union”). elimination of occupational accidents. The Group is maintaining its For employee health and safety in particular, the Group efforts to eliminate occupational accidents in fiscal 2019. formulated a Basic Policy on Health and Safety in 2010 and *The term “health and productivity management®” is a registered a Health Management Declaration in October 2015. Various trademark of the Workshop for the Management of Health on Company measures have been undertaken ever since. and Employee. The Health Management Declaration clarifies future health management policies for maintaining and enhancing the health Health Management Declaration (in Japanese) of Group employees. From a viewpoint of “health and productivity https://www.toppan.co.jp/about-us/our-corporate-approach/ management*,” this declaration visualizes and reorganizes health health-manage-declaration.html promotion measures and action plans previously organized by the Basic Policy on Health and Safety (in Japanese) Group and the health insurance union separately. The declaration https://www.toppan.co.jp/about-us/our-corporate-approach/ pursues dual aims. The first is to promote enhanced health for safety-policy.html 18 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Employee Work and Health & Safety Promotion Framework The Personnel & Labor Relations Division in the head office spearheads the development of employee health and safety coordinates with general affairs departments in business divisions initiatives in cooperation with the labor union, the health insurance across the Company to implement various measures on labor union, and general affairs departments in business divisions across matters in consultation with the labor union. The division also the Company. ■ Labor-Management Partnership Toppan’s labor union and management respect each other’s ■ Structure for Health Management Promotion positions as partners with shared ideals. They have been working together on various issues on an equal footing. Business councils General aﬀairs departments Head of health management at operational sites are convened as Company-wide and operational-site-based (President & Representative Director) forums to discuss wide ranging managerial issues. Several special Toppan Printing Labour Union committees are also convened to deliberate pertinent issues of the Health management promotion supervisor day. Standing committees meet to discuss issues such as working (Director in charge of personnel and Safety and Health Committee hour reductions, wages, and health and safety. Individual laborgeneral aﬀairs departments) Industrial physicians management committees meet when necessary to discuss specially Collaborating in implementing measures designated subjects such as the creation of a working environment Clinics and medical specialists amenable to enhanced job satisfaction. Toppan has adopted a union shop system. In principle, all nonHealth Management Promotion Council Industrial counselors managerial employees belong to the labor union as members. Health insurance union, Personnel and Toppan Group Fraternal general aﬀairs divisions at the head oﬃce Beneﬁt Society ■ Committing to Health Management Collaborating Collaborating The Toppan Group has formulated a structure for promoting “health and productivity management*” by establishing a Health Departments involved in Public relations Corporate planning healthcare businesses Collaborating division division Management Promotion Council overseen by the President & Representative Director as the head of health management. Representatives from the Group and the health insurance union meet to engage in constructive discussions on various healthcare measures. A healthcare-guidance brochure for Group employees illustrates the diverse outputs from the council. *The term “health and productivity management®” is a registered trademark of the Workshop for the Management of Health on Company and Employee. ■ Supporting Work-Life Balance ■ Announcing a Common Employer’s Action Plan At the ongoing business councils and labor-management Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. has published a common employer’s committees to support work-life balance, Toppan’s labor action plan based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to representatives and management exchange opinions and deliberate Support Raising Next-Generation Children of Japan. measures to further shorten overtime working-hours and comply This act specifies respective responsibilities of central and local with the revised Labor Standards Act of Japan. They have also been governments, employers, and citizens of Japan in their efforts to analyzing actual overtime practices, reviewing the use of recently create healthy environments for the upbringing of children who adopted working systems, and examining the introduction of new are to lead coming generations. The act stipulates that, as of its systems. Their deliberations in fiscal 2018 led to the introduction enactment on April 1, 2005, these four parties are expected to of Smart Work, a flexible system to enhance labor productivity and intensively and systematically engage in childrearing initiatives. shorten working hours by giving employees comprehensive control The common employer’s action plan, meanwhile, aims to develop over the scheduling of their work shifts month by month. a working environment that supports balanced work and family Labor and management at each operational site also discuss life for employees with young children. Employers are expected to approaches to creating more accommodating workplace design a plan primarily to arrange varied working conditions for environments that encourage employees to take leave. The diverse employees, including those not raising children. measures they have devised and implemented are tailored to the Common Employer’s Action Plan (fourth term) of actual working conditions at their sites. Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (in Japanese) https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/japanese/csr/files/pdf/2018/ koudou_4-20180713.pdf 19 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Employee Work and Health & Safety ■ Efforts to Support Employees with Children Toppan has striven to create a working environment in which 2019, employees are able to take five days of paid leave for child employees can achieve better work-life balance. It does so by healthcare in one-hour allotments, as necessary. providing systems for childcare and nursing care leave, reduced Toppan has also been developing the “Hagukumi (nurturing) working hours, higher family allowances for dependents, and Program” since fiscal 2012. This program supports the wellbeing various other benefits for employees. of employee parents by providing therapeutic activities for parents In a move taken in fiscal 2016 to support employees with on childcare leave, activities to share the know-how necessary for children, the period during which employees with childcare maintaining good balance between working and raising children, responsibilities remain eligible for reduced working hours and and activities to give employees in various positions opportunities other preferential working schedules was extended to the end of to learn about and consider the importance of work-family balance. a child’s fourth year of elementary school (surpassing the ageThe Hagukumi Program received the Minister of State for Gender three requirement imposed under Japanese law). From fiscal Equality Award at the Kids Design Award 2016 in Japan. ■ Hagukumi (nurturing) Program A scheme to support the wellbeing of ● To provide therapeutic activities for parents on childcare leave employee parents ● To share the know-how necessary for maintaining good balance between working and raising children Hagukumi Program ● To give employees in various positions opportunities to learn about and consider the importance of work-family balance Hagukumi Art Salon Hagukumi Seminar Hagukumi Circle (from ﬁscal 2012) (from ﬁscal 2013) (from ﬁscal 2014) ● To strengthen bonds between parents and To learn and enhance understanding about To build a network of working parent children good balance between work and parenting employees who wish to discuss their concerns ● To stimulate interaction among employees throughout the workplace about work and parenting and share ideas and currently on childcare leave tips on work-family balance ● To alleviate anxieties about returning to work 20 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Employee Work and Health & Safety ■ Efforts to Support Employees Bearing Nursing Care Responsibilities Toppan’s labor union and management employ systems to help care-giving employees to commute to and from work by Shinkansen employees maintain good balance between work and care at bullet train in certain cases. Employees are now able to take paid home. These systems create an environment where employees leave for nursing care in one-hour allotments, just as they can with can concentrate on work without worrying about care for family the child healthcare leave. members at home. After reviewing the results of employee Toppan will continue to enrich employee support measures by questionnaires on nursing care, Toppan relaxed the eligibility providing information on good work-care balance through the requirements for nursing-care-related systems, designed ways intranet, holding NPO seminars on nursing care, and conducting to enable employees to more flexibly adjust their working hours various other activities to alleviate concerns and raise awareness on for care, enhanced financial support during nursing care leave, the issues faced by employees who shoulder responsibilities as care and provided more information on work-care balance. Along with providers for their families. system enhancements in these four areas, the Company allows ■ Four Approaches in Employee Four Approaches in EmployeeSupport Systems Support Systems forfor Good Good Work-Care Balance Balance Work-Care Eligible members from employee families are in need of long-term care or support under one of the following conditions: Eligibility requirements for nursing-care-related ● “In need of long-term care” as speciﬁed in the Child and Family Care Leave Act of Japan systems ● “In need of long-term care” as speciﬁed in the Long-term Care Insurance System of Japan ● “In need of support” as speciﬁed in the Long-term Care Insurance System of Japan ● Nursing care leave ● Reduced working hours for nursing care (reduced working hours, ﬂexible work schedules, reduced number of prescribed working days per week) *Nursing care leave and reduced working hours for nursing care can be taken in Ways to more ﬂexibly adjust installments. working hours for care *Employees are allowed to switch between the two systems. ● Leave for nursing care (entitlement for one-hour-based allotments, as necessary) ● Commuting by Shinkansen bullet train for family care reasons Financial support during ● Allowance for nursing care leave (40% of the employeeʼs average wage) nursing care leave ● Entitlement for paid leave for nursing care ● Launch of an intranet site to provide information on work-care balance This site provides employees with general knowledge about work-care balance and information on support systems available at the Company, public nursing-care-related systems, and so on. Provision of information on work-care balance ● Launch of a nursing-care consultation desk run by outside experts The Company commissions an external professional body to oﬀer unlimited, free-of-charge nursing-care consultation to employees on a contract basis. Employees can also use fee-based agency services such as watch-over visits or administrative processes handled by dedicated staﬀ at care facilities and hospitals. ■ Occupational Health and Safety Safety masters, safety personnel, employees in charge of sites in fiscal 2017, one in China and another in Thailand. The engineering and safety, and other safety experts have been deployed dojo facilities have been operated for several years domestically at to Group sites across Japan to strengthen safety promotion systems. the Kawaguchi Plant in Saitama Prefecture, Takino Plant in Hyogo In accordance with the Basic Policy on Health and Safety, Toppan Prefecture, and Fukuoka Plant in Fukuoka Prefecture. Companies organizes extensive safety education of various types for the Group’s and organizations outside of the Toppan Group have been welcome workforce, including both regular and contract employees. This to train at the dojo at the Kawaguchi Plant. The dojos at the Takino includes thorough training for forepersons and risk assessments to and Fukuoka Plants are also now open to visitors. upgrade the intrinsic safety of machines and equipment for every worker across the Group. Anzen Dojo initiatives (in Japanese) Anzen Dojo safety training facilities outfitted to simulate and alert https://www.toppan.co.jp/about-us/our-corporate-approach/safety-policy/ employees to workplace dangers were set up at two overseas Group anzendojo.html 21 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Employee Work and Health & Safety ■ Measures for Mental Healthcare Toppan undertakes the following measures to prevent mental Toppan recognizes that the most effective strategy to administer health problems at the workplace. fundamental prevention measures for mental health problems is to enable employees to improve their physical and mental conditions ・A stress check system and e-learning-based programs to help by having the means and wherewithal to better understand individuals better perceive and cope with the stresses affecting themselves, communicate skillfully, and adopt positive lifestyle them habits. The Company has been organizing mental healthcare ・An Art Salon workshop to refresh minds and bodies through the programs such as workshops arranged in cooperation with act of artistic creation workplaces. ・Rank-based training and handbooks to prevent or promptly detect and treat mental problems ・Counseling rooms where employees can receive advice from inhouse counselors in a comfortable, pressure-free setting ・Advisory agreements concluded with mental healthcare specialists ・A new employment regulation defining rehabilitation programs that support employees returning from mental healthcare leave by helping them to return to work more seamlessly ■ Overview of Mental Healthcare Activities Line Care Care Using Resources Care Using Resources Self-care (by managers and within the Workplace outside the Workplace supervisors) Fundamental ● Assertion ● Dialogue skills ● Participation in ● Participation in ● Career development in-house seminars external seminars prevention ● Target management ● Good physical and ● Operational reform Creation of job satisfaction mental condition and improvement Primary prevention ● Self-development ● Attendance ● Participation in ● Participation management rank-based training in external seminars Prevention ● Improvement of programs workplaces ● Activities by the Safety and Health Committee Stress check Test administration and Improvement of Interviews system understanding of current conditions workplaces and guidance Secondary prevention ● Early counseling and consultation ● Recommendation for early consultation ● Consultation with industrial physicians ● Hospitals and EAPs* Early detection and early and public health response nurses Tertiary prevention ● Ongoing treatment ● Return-to-work program ● Periodic interviews by ● Treatment by a ● Personnel reassignment industrial physicians specialist physician Steps to limit severity and prevent recurrence *Employee assistance programs (EAPs): The EAPs shown above are counseling and training programs run by an external specialist body under contract with the Company and the Toppan Group Health Insurance Union. 22 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Employee Work and Health & Safety *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Main Activities and Relevant Information Information on Personnel ■ Number of Personnel (as of March 31) Management Total Average Average Sum Total Part-time Dispatched Directors Supervisors Class Employees Tenure Age Employees Workers Staff Male 26 1,989 1,843 7,576 15.4 42.9 Fiscal 2015 8,993 562 203 Female 0 59 192 1,417 9.8 34.2 Male 18 2,158 1,932 7,930 15.1 43.4 Fiscal 2016 9,551 502 237 Female 1 71 224 1,621 9.3 34.3 Male 19 2,201 1,914 7,964 15.2 43.6 Fiscal 2017 9,699 451 246 Female 1 79 266 1,735 9.3 34.6 Male 18 2,282 1,891 7,974 15.4 44.0 Fiscal 2018* 9,993 233 249 Female 1 89 319 2,019 9.0 35.5 *Regarding the tally for fiscal 2018: the total number of employees includes the number of the part-time workers who have shifted to indefinite-term employment; the average tenure (tallying periods of less than one year on a monthly basis) increases to 17.3 years for male employees and 9.3 years for female employees when summed together with reemployed employees’ tenure before retirement. ■ Fiscal 2018 Rank-based Percentages of Female Personnel (%) Percentage of female personnel Total employees 20.2% Directors 5.3% Managers 3.8% ■ Reasons for Leaving *1 Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Personal 184 (39) 206 (54) 217 (62) 305 (92)*2 reasons Retirement 94 ( 0) 85 ( 1) 120 ( 1) 132 ( 8) Requested by 0 ( 0) 0 ( 0) 0 ( 0) 0 ( 0) the company Other 92 ( 3) 83 ( 3) 108 (20) 93 ( 3) Total 370 (42) 374 (58) 445 (83) 530 (103) Turnover rate 4.0％ 3.8％ 4.5％ 5.2％ *1 The number of female employees who left the Company is shown in parentheses. *2 Four female and 31 male employees took advantage of Toppan’s support system for employees who pursue new careers after leaving the Company. ■ Retention Rates for Recruits (Percentage of fiscal 2016 hires still working at Toppan) Male Female Hired on April 1, 2016 203 141 Still with Toppan as of April 1, 2019 176 116 Retention rates 87% 82% Average for male and female employees 85% Percentage who leave the Company 15.1% before working three years 23 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Employee Work and Health & Safety ■ Average Annual Salary Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Average 6,697,391 yen 6,956,597 yen 6,910,163 yen 6,644,621 yen annual salary Recognized as a Health & Productivity Management Organization for Three Years Running Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. was certified as an enterprise of are strategically engaged in healthcare initiatives for employees and excellence in the 2019 Health and Productivity Management* their families from a management perspective on a one-company“White 500” (large enterprise category) under a program jointly per-industry basis in Japan. conducted by the Japanese Ministry of Economy, Trade and Toppan will continue to work in collaboration with the Group’s Industry (METI) and members of Japanese health insurance on-site clinics, industrial physicians, labor union, and other organizations. Toppan has been recognized under the program in healthcare-related entities to develop working environments each of the three years since 2017, when the program was launched amenable to enhanced job satisfaction and promote healthto select organizations that have achieved excellent results in conscious activities for employees and their families. Toppan’s advancing health and productivity management. healthcare solutions will also contribute to the maintenance and Toppan Printing was also listed in the 2018 Health & Productivity enhancement of public health. Stock Selection under another program operated by METI and the Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) to select TSE-listed enterprises that TOPPAN NEWSROOM (in Japanese) https://www.toppan.co.jp/news/2018/02/newsrelease180220.html *The term “health and productivity management” is a registered trademark of Health & Productivity Stock Selection (left, in Japanese); “White 500” the Workshop for the Management of Health on Company and Employee. (center, in Japanese) Toppan Sports Festival 2017 The Toppan Sports Festival 2017 was held in the Saitama Super Group organizes site-based labor-management events designed to Arena on October 1, 2017. This labor-management event was strengthen bonds between colleagues. Toppan also holds a Groupplanned, organized, and run by mostly younger employees of the wide sporting event every two years to facilitate communication, Group. Some 4,300 employees and family members came to take build a sense of unity, and heighten an understanding of the Group part in various games and events. among employee families. To enhance job satisfaction at the workplace, the Toppan Annual Paid Leave Used Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Average paid leave used (days) 8.6 9.6 10.3 10.3 Average ratio * 45.1% 50.8% 55.1% 54.9% *Average ratio = average paid leave used / average paid leave granted 24 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Employee Work and Health & Safety Main Leave Systems and Family Benefits ■ Main Leave Systems and Family Benefits / Measures to Support Work-Life Balance and Foster the Next Generation If annual paid leave is left unused for two years after it is granted, up to 50 days of the leave can be accumulated as stock leave. Employees are eligible to use their stock leave for reasons such as medical treatment for themselves or their spouses, healthcare or Stock Leave nursing care for their families, fertility treatment, recovery-work in the aftermath of unexpected disasters, or the closure of their children’s schools or the like because of infectious diseases, natural disasters, or other calamities. Both mothers and fathers are eligible for fulltime childcare leave taken consecutively until their child reaches the age of two years. The first five days of childcare leave can be taken as paid leave. From the sixth day, employees on leave receive 10% of their regular salaries from the Company (until their child reaches the age of two years) and subsidies of 30,000 yen a month from the Toppan Childcare Leave Group Fraternal Benefit Society. They can also work for shorter hours (maximum reduction of two hours per day) or select a flextime or irregular working schedule from the date of their return to the job until their child completes the fourth year of elementary school. The Company subsidizes certain childcare costs and provides childcare-related information through a consultation office. Rehiring is guaranteed for an employee who resigns to deliver and raise a child, provided that the employee has worked for Toppan Rehiring of Employees who Leave the for more than three consecutive years up to the date of resignation. A resigned employee who meets this condition will remain Company to Raise Children eligible for rehiring until May 1 of the year when the child enters elementary school. Employees are entitled to take leave for nursing care. For every family member requiring care, an employee is entitled to one year of consecutive or aggregated leave and up to three years of other work-hour adjustments such as staggered working hours or Nursing Care Leave two-hour working day reductions. The Toppan Group Fraternal Benefit Society pays a 30,000-yen subsidy per month as assistance during the leave. Toppan offers nursing care-related information and contracts consultants outside the Company to provide advice. Employees can take up to 10 days of leave a year, regardless of the number of children they are raising. (Entitlement for half-day Leave for Child Healthcare allotments, as necessary; Five of the 10 days can be taken as paid leave, either as full days or in one-hour allotments, as necessary.) Employees can take volunteer leave to engage in socially beneficial activities for up to one year. Employees on volunteer leave Volunteer Leave receive an allowance. An employee can adjust daily working hours upward or downward by one hour to avoid rush-hour commutes during pregnancy Staggered Work-hours and by two hours for childcare (until his or her child completes the fourth year of elementary school). For employees with children, the Company pays a monthly allowance of 20,000 yen for each child. This allowance is discontinued Dependent Family Allowance on the first April 1 to arrive after the child’s 20th birthday. (No limit for the number of children is applied.) Partial Subsidization of Babysitter The Toppan Group Fraternal Benefit Society subsidizes 50% of babysitter expenses (up to 5,000 yen per day) for up to 90 days a Expenses year. Advice on Finding Kindergartens and Specialists provide knowledge and skill to help parent employees find kindergartens and daycare for their children, along with Daycare practical advice to help them return to work from childcare leave more seamlessly. The Toppan Group Health Insurance Union covers standard medical costs for childbirth. The union also gives out a complimentary Other childrearing magazine and runs a consultation office for employees with questions about the health of the body and mind. Employees Taking Maternity or Childcare Leave Fiscal 2015 Fiscal 2016 Fiscal 2017 Fiscal 2018 Employees taking maternity leave 85 105 111 79 Employees taking childcare leave * 295 (160) 300 (173) 334 (160) 363 (197) *The number of male employees who took childcare leave is shown in parentheses. Seminars for Good Balance between Work and Care at Home Toppan sites in Tokyo have been holding seminars to help fiscal 2018. As these seminars are held in more sites, they will help employees maintain a good balance between work and care at home create an environment where employees can concentrate on work since fiscal 2016. Outside experts from a nursing-care consultation without having to worry about care burdens for family members at service with which Toppan has a contract are invited to lead home. seminar courses. The guest lecturers present general knowledge on nursing care and tips for achieving good work-care balance. Toppan personnel also inform participants of support systems available at the Company, such as nursing care leave and reduced working hours for nursing care, as well as intranet sites and other information sources on nursing care. The Company organized seminars at operational sites in the Kansai area for the first time in 25 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 に合わせた展示、体感設備の導入と、運用体制の構築を行っています。 Organizational Community 運用体制については、国内と同じように安全師範を現地にて要請し、定期的に現場オペレーターを集めて、 Fair Operating Human Rights Labor Practices 安全教育を実施しています。 Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development （中国・リーホォン東芫工場の安全道場） Employee Work and Health & Safety *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Expanding Anzen Dojo Overseas 2017年10月にタイ・サイアムトッパン、2018年1月に中国・リーホォン東芫工場に「トッパングループ安全道場（以下 を開設しましたが、今後は他の海外事業所にも順次安全体感道場を開設し、その現地に合せた安全教育を強化し 今回開設された海外2カ所の「安全道場」では、これまで国内で培ってきた知見を活かし、また海外事業所の実情 に合わせた展示、体感設備の導入と、運用体制の構築を行っています。 Two new Anzen Dojo safety-training facilities were recently opened training at dojo facilities in fiscal 2018. On a cumulative basis, 運用体制については、国内と同じように安全師範を現地にて要請し、定期的に現場オペレーターを集めて、 at Toppan Group sites outside of Japan: one at Siam Toppan training has been provided to more than 32,000 people at the 安全教育を実施しています。 Packaging Co., Ltd. in Thailand in October 2017; another at Toppan facilities since they opened. （中国・リーホォン東芫工場の安全道場） （タイ・サイアムトッパンの安全道場） Leefung Packaging & Printing (Dongguan) Co., Ltd. in China in January 2018. These overseas facilities leveraged the Group’s expertise on safety education cultivated at similar dojos in Japan. Both facilities are equipped with safety-related displays and danger simulators optimally selected for the working conditions at their sites. The Group trains on-site safety masters and regularly holds safety sessions for frontline operators according to the same operational scheme applied in Japan. Toppan also conducted an Anzen Dojo TOPPAN NEWSROOM : Toppan Printing Opens Anzen Dojo Safety （タイ・サイアムトッパンの安全道場） Tour at four Group sites in the U.S. in May of 2019. Training Facilities Overseas A total of 3,200 Group employees around the world took safety https://www.toppan.com/en/news/2018/03/newsrelease180308.html Company-wide Mental Stress Checks Toppan began providing Company-wide mental health checkups In fiscal 2018 Toppan began using the New Brief Job Stress well before stress checks in organizations were required by Questionnaire (80 questions) issued by the Ministry of Health, Japanese legislation. Toppan has implemented a web-based Labour and Welfare of Japan. This survey sheet, together with checking system across the Company since fiscal 2017. The Toppan’s original mental health survey questions, provide data employees receiving the checkups and the personnel administering the Company needs to enhance mental healthcare for employees them can look up the results as soon as the checkups are and delve more deeply into the sources of stress within Toppan’s completed. Toppan will promptly provide necessary care to any organizations. employee found to be exhibiting a high level of stress. Mental stress check results are valuable data for fully An e-learning-based self-care program on stress is also arranged understanding the mental health online. A total of 22,812 Group employees participated in the status of Toppan’s organizations as course in fiscal 2018. well as its individual employees. For cross-organizational analyses of checkup results, meanwhile, Toppan continues to use these managerial staff are informed of detailed organization-specific data to steadily work towards the trends in mental wellbeing. Managerial staff push further efforts creation of workplaces free of towards improved working environments, mainly in the workplaces mental illnesses. found to be subject to higher health risks. Occupational Health and Safety In fiscal 2018 the Toppan Group continued undertaking safety the death of an employee or contract worker in the Toppan Group activities towards the complete elimination of occupational in the last three years. accidents. There have been no occupational accidents leading to *1 Number of occupational accidents requiring employee 2015 2016 2017 2018 leave, per million cumulative actual working hours Deaths from occupational accidents 0 0 0 0 (reflects the frequency of occupational accidents) *2 Number of workdays lost as a consequence of Frequency rate*1 0.05 0.000 0.000 0.048 occupational accidents, per thousand cumulative actual Severity rate*2 0.001 0.000 0.000 0.001 working hours (reflects the severity of occupational accidents) Safety Meetings The Personnel & Labor Relations Division (Health, Safety & Fire safety risks. Safety Promotion Department) coordinates with the Manufacturing Safety meetings were held at 26 operational sites across Japan in Technology & Research Division in safety meetings to assess and fiscal 2018. Toppan plans to organize meetings at 35 sites in fiscal deliberate the ongoing safety measures applied to machines and 2019. equipment and the activities undertaken to mitigate health and 26 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Human Asset Development Human Asset Development Basic Approach Labor shortages are anticipated throughout various industries in the driving force towards the realization of TOPPAN VISION Japan. Toppan is convinced that maximizing the performance of the 21 . Toppan would like to contribute to society as a corporation workforce as an asset of society will help solve social issues. blessed with human assets with excellent communication skills and Mindful of how deeply it depends on its employees, Toppan fosters heightened awareness and sensibilities. individuals with ambition and integrity who will go on to become Promotion Framework ■ Toppan University The Human Resource Development Center in the head office Toppan University, a simple platform that strives to foster leaders Personnel & Labor Relations Division coordinates with persons in while supporting the skill improvement and career enhancement charge of human asset development at departments throughout the of employees through basic and special programs, a leadership Company to institute training programs. These programs to develop program, and a personal empowerment program. and nurture human assets are organized systematically around ■ Systematic Systematic HumanHuman Asset Development Asset Development Programs Programs “Conduct of High Value” Based on the Corporate Philosophy and Corporate Creed Earning the trust Strengthening business Fulﬁlling corporate Strengthening Improving of customers foundations social responsibility the organization corporate value Abilities and Skills for “Conduct of High Value” Knowledge and Ability to identify Ability to Techniques Skills in communication information skills and formulate tasks accomplish tasks and know-how and fostering subordinates Rank-based Training Department-based Training ● New division manager training ● New employee Company-wide training ● Program to strengthen sales departments ● Training for new supervisors in technology ● New department manager training ● Early career planning ● Training for plant managers departments ● New manager training ● OJT brother/sister training ● Training for new managers in technology ● Individual department-based training ● New supervisor training and manufacturing departments (purchasing, secretary, personnel & labor ● Training for employees in production relations, technology & research, etc.) control departments Basic Company-wide Education Globalization Training (e-learning) Training by Divisions Toppan Business School ● Basic education on TOPPAN VISION 21 ● MBA abroad training ● Basic education on CSR ● Study abroad program for engineers ● Training in each division or ● Group training ● Basic education on the environment ● IT training in India workplace ● e-learning ● Education on proﬁt maximization in ● Short-term overseas study ● Dispatching human assets outside business ● Selective training on global business Selective Training the Company ● Basic education on globalization ● Trainee system ● Executive business school ● Mental health self-care ● IMD (International Institute for ● Training to cultivate industryChallenge School ● BCM initiatives Management Development, Switzerland) leading talent ● Various correspondence-learning ● Program to nurture talented individuals courses who can develop new businesses ● Advance̶Shaping the Future Operated together with Toppan Mind Wellness Co., Ltd., an education consultation company within the Group entrusted with training projects inside and outside the Group. 27 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Human Asset Development Toppan has established training centers in Kawaguchi, Saitama Prefecture and Yugawara, Kanagawa Prefecture to nurture human assets. These centers are venues for various training sessions and interaction between Toppan personnel. In April of 2017 Toppan launched the Human Resource Development Laboratory as a research base to develop innovative personnel training programs that apply brain research, neuroscience, analysis of physical condition, and various technologies. This laboratory will be used as a platform to design and implement programs that foster human assets with excellent communication skills and heightened sensibilities. The Company plans to improve individual productivity and facilitate the individual development of the Toppan workforce via this platform. The Company also operates a training management system that Human Resource Development Laboratory offers training tools and information on various learning courses. Employees can review records of their own training online via the e-learning programs. Toppan has also surveyed every employee with a questionnaire on the Company’s human asset development programs to reflect the results in future development plans. 28 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Human Asset Development Main Activities and Relevant Information Results of Toppan’s Human Asset* Development Programs in Fiscal 2018 Number of Employee Program Outline Participants (cumulative) A series of programs to provide self-development training with group and e-learning-based Toppan Business School courses. A wide range of training is available, from courses to learn basic knowledge and skills 3,498 in business to advanced courses to enhance specialist skills. A program to provide self-development training with correspondence-learning courses to Challenge School 4,008 acquire knowledge and skills. E-learning-based GroupE-learning-based programs to give every Group employee the opportunity to learn requisite 68,115 wide basic education business knowledge. Selective training on global A program to equip employees with fundamental qualities for global business such as linguistic 26 business aptitude, cross-cultural competency, and consensus building. A system to deploy young employees to overseas affiliates for one year of language immersion Trainee system and practical training in day-to-day business activities, primarily to enhance their linguistic 10 aptitude and cross-cultural competency. A program to dispatch Toppan employees to emerging and developing countries via the trainee JICA Japan Overseas system to work as Japan Overseas Cooperation Volunteers for the Japan International 2 Cooperation Volunteers Cooperation Agency (JICA). A program to send employees involved in international business to short-term open courses at the International Institute for Management Development (IMD; one of the world’s top-ranked Short-term open programs at business schools) in Lausanne, Switzerland to acquire practical training in leadership, the 2 IMD tenacity required to follow through on projects to completion, and other capabilities required in global business. *Toppan values its employees as precious “human assets.” Fiscal 2018 Human Asset Development Expenditure Usage Rates of Toppan Expenditure on Training, etc. Training Centers* per Employee Kawaguchi Yugawara Fiscal 2015 79,251 yen 85.7％ 45.1％ Fiscal 2016 70,783 yen 87.0％ 45.8％ Fiscal 2017 70,730 yen 87.6％ 46.2％ Fiscal 2018 67,383 yen 85.8％ 45.5％ *Usage rates are calculated by dividing the number of days the training centers are used by the number of days the centers are available (excluding holidays, etc.) 29 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Strict Compliance Strict Compliance Basic Approach Legal compliance in business operations is an indispensable into the Toppan Group Conduct Guidelines, a set of common prerequisite for every corporation to fulfill its responsibilities to principles that all Group companies around the world are required society. to observe for the assurance of strict compliance. These GroupToppan established the Conduct Guidelines as a set of wide guidelines are reviewed every year to adjust to changes in compliance standards in June 2000, the centennial of Toppan business environments, social conditions, and other circumstances Printing Co., Ltd. These guidelines set forth standards for Toppan relevant to the Group. Any revision of the guidelines is subject to a personnel’s behavior based on the Corporate Philosophy and resolution by the Board of Directors of Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. principles of legal compliance. Toppan Group Conduct Guidelines In November 2010 Toppan completely revised the guidelines https://www.toppan.com/en/about-us/philosophy/conduct-guidelines.html Promotion Framework ■ Compliance Promotion Structure Toppan believes that the strict observance of the Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders at workplaces initiate guideline Guidelines directly links to legal compliance. The Group has been compliance activities under the Director in charge of Conduct operating a Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leader system to ensure Guidelines Promotion. full observance of the guidelines in daily operations. The Conduct ■ Structure to Promote the Conduct Guidelines President & Representative Director Director in charge of Conduct Guidelines Promotion Compliance Department, Legal Aﬀairs & Intellectual Property Division Business divisions Head oﬃce divisions Division heads Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisor Conduct Guidelines Promotion Supervisors Senior General Manager Person in charge of management: of Legal Aﬀairs & Business Strategy Department GM Intellectual Property Person in charge of education: Division General Aﬀairs Department GM Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders Promotion Leaders in Promotion Leaders Conduct Guidelines in sales and planning administrative in manufacturing Promotion Leaders departments departments departments Supervisors from each Supervisors from Supervisors or Supervisors from educational leaders department each department from each department each department Employees Employees 30 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Strict Compliance ■ Compliance Training ■ Anti-Corruption Initiatives Toppan organizes group training for Conduct Guidelines Promotion Toppan conforms to the anti-corruption principle set out by the Leaders every year. The Group devises ways to enhance the United Nations Global Compact. The Conduct Guidelines, a code to effectiveness of training sessions through activities such as group be observed by all Toppan employees, include wide-ranging policies discussions using case methods describing actual incidents. on corruption prevention, such as the prohibition of collusion, illicit Toppan gives every employee in Japan a Conduct Guidelines transactions, and other corrupt practices. Every Group employee Casebook , a Q&A style casebook describing situations that can is kept fully informed of the guidelines through regular activities arise in daily work. The casebook is used in various guideline led by Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leaders who have received promotion activities. The Leaders, for example, use it to relevant training. The Conduct Guidelines Casebook distributed to disseminate the guidelines at their workplaces. The Group also all Group employees enhances awareness of anti-corruption issues posts regular Conduct Guideline Notifications on themes relevant through various case studies of corrupt practices. Messages from to the guidelines in order to heighten employee awareness and call executives to the entire workforce also address the issues of strict attention to compliance-related issues. Toppan has been holding compliance and the prevention of corruption. seminars, producing posters, and implementing other compliance In terms of bribery prevention, in fiscal 2016 the Group promotion activities to ensure strict compliance among Group formulated an anti-corruption framework led by the Director in employees. charge of Legal Affairs as the chief anti-bribery manager. A set of anti-bribery rules was also established in the same year to ensure strict anti-bribery practices. For more intensive anti-bribery control in line with the antibribery rules and guidelines, the Group has tightened its internal procedures for applying for authorization to offer entertainment or gifts to public officials and the like. In fiscal 2018 Toppan reviewed the guidelines based on current circumstances and provided Group employees with a Q&A collection regarding bribery. ■ Training for Compliance with Transaction■ Training to Prevent Infringements of related Laws and Regulations Intellectual Property To enforce compliance with major transaction-related laws and Protection and management of intellectual property is a crucial regulations in Japan, the Toppan Group has been comprehensively issue for Toppan, a group of companies operating in the three preventing improper import and export transactions and ensuring fields of Information & Communication, Living & Industry, and compliance with the Subcontract Law. Toppan conducts regular Electronics. The Group devotes strict attention to measures to training and audits on compliance with the subcontract law for the prevent the infringement of copyrights, trademarks, and other departments and Group companies engaging in subcontracting intellectual property rights of other parties while obtaining patents transactions. The Group also continues to hold training sessions for its own technologies and business models. and carry out audits focused on export controls under the Foreign Apart from in-house special training, Toppan holds regular Exchange and Foreign Trade Act. training sessions for employees of the Toppan Group and its Regardless of level of risk, Toppan bases its transactions on business partners. Participants in these sessions acquire basic the observance of standards related to such issues as legal and legal knowledge on intellectual property rights by reviewing case regulatory compliance, fair operating practices, and bribery histories in design work and other operations involving intellectual prevention, as stipulated in the Toppan Group CSR Procurement property issues within the Group. Guidelines issued to all suppliers, subcontractors, and intermediaries. To provide training on the guidelines and monitor the status of their observance, Toppan fully informs suppliers and subcontractors of the guidelines, holds briefings, and conducts questionnaires. CSR procurement https://www.toppan.com/library/english/sustainability/files/pdf/2019/ csr2019_detail-en.pdf#page=35 31 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Strict Compliance ■ Internal Reporting System When a person at Toppan discovers a legal violation or improper Toppan ■ Toppan Group Group Helpline Helpline conduct somewhere in the Group, he or she is to report it to his/her superior for deliberation as a basic rule. If his/her superior fails to Communicator When the problem Any Group oﬃcer or employee remains unresolved resolve the problem, the person is encouraged to call the Toppan Group Helpline, the Group’s internal reporting system. The helpline Reporting and consultation is open for use by all Group officers and employees, including Reporting on dispatched staff and part-time workers. This system allows the Superior progress and Group to ensure strict compliance with the Toppan Group Conduct results, follow-up communication Internal reporting (an email or sealed Guidelines by promptly identifying legal violations and improper document sent in the name of the person reporting) acts and properly dealing with them. Receiver President & Representative Director or ■ Compliance in fiscal 2018 Senior Audit & Supervisory Board Member Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Toppan was not involved in any serious incidents or violations of Instructions Reporting laws or regulations in the course of business in fiscal 2018. Department responsible for investigation and countermeasures 32 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Strict Compliance Main Activities and Relevant Information Conduct Guidelines Promotion Leader System Six hundred and seventy-seven Conduct Guidelines Promotion from Toppan and Group companies in fiscal 2018. Leaders (the “Leaders”) were deployed across the Group in fiscal The Compliance Department in the Legal Affairs & Intellectual 2018, including 86 women (12.7% of the Leaders). A cumulative Property Division sent out 12 Conduct Guideline Notifications on total of 9,732 employees have worked as Leaders since the system topics relevant to the Conduct Guidelines in fiscal 2018 to ensure was launched in fiscal 2004. strict compliance at the workplace under the Leaders. Toppan held 79 training sessions across Japan for 964 Leaders Number of Female Number of Newly Cumulative Total Leaders Deployed Deployed Leaders Number of Leaders (Percentage) Fiscal 2016 741 82（11.1%） 8,322 Fiscal 2017 733 95（13.0%） 9,055 Fiscal 2018 677 86（12.7%） 9,732 Anti-Corruption Initiatives As indicated in the list of serious risks, Toppan identifies “bribery records and provided Group employees with a Q&A style casebook or corruption” as a risk that could have a particularly significant in fiscal 2018. impact on management and takes appropriate measures to address In April 2018 Toppan revised the guidelines and issued a Q&A such risk. In March 2017 the Group established a set of anticollection to equip employees with the awareness required to bribery rules and guidelines to ensure strict anti-bribery practices. strictly avoid committing bribery themselves. When an overseas A group-wide e-learning program on anti-bribery practices business or public sector project is deemed to have a comparatively was arranged for 8,515 employees in fiscal 2017. Based on the high level of corruption-related risk, Toppan addresses specific risk anti-bribery rules and guidelines, Toppan also works to ensure by holding training sessions for relevant individuals focused on the observance of the internal procedures that employees use to apply prevention of collusion, cartels, and bribery. for authorization to offer entertainment or gifts to public officials and the like. Toppan reviewed the guidelines based on application Compliance with Transaction-related Laws and Regulations Toppan regularly organizes transaction-related training and compliance with the subcontract law and 9,126 employees took an monitors and audits how business transactions are being handled. e-learning course on export controls under the Foreign Exchange Both activities are key to preventing improper import and export and Foreign Trade Act of Japan. The Group also audited compliance transactions and ensuring compliance with the Subcontract Law of with the subcontract law in 21 departments and the observance of Japan. export controls in 34 departments. In fiscal 2018, a total of 994 employees were trained on Number of Internal Reports The Toppan Group Helpline was used in six cases in fiscal 2018. Every case was properly handled and followed up with necessary countermeasures to prevent recurrence. Reviewing the Toppan Group Conduct Guidelines The Legal Affairs & Intellectual Property Division reviews the Toppan Group Conduct Guidelines every year. In its review of fiscal 2018, the division concluded that the guidelines were appropriate and required no revision. 33 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development CSR Procurement CSR Procurement Basic Approach Sustainability initiatives can be completed only when implemented Turning to the environment, the Toppan Group’s basic policy throughout the entire supply chain. takes an assertive approach to the sustainable use of resources The Toppan Group therefore promotes corporate social by avoiding or minimizing the impact on biodiversity during raw responsibility (CSR) procurement in cooperation and collaboration material procurement. with business partners as a means of implementing sustainability Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines (second edition) initiatives throughout the entire supply chain. The concept of https://www.toppan.com/library/english/about-us/files/ CSR procurement is applied not just to material and raw material sustainability/2014/proc2014_en01.pdf suppliers, but to subcontractors, intermediaries, and all other Toppan Group Standards for the Management of Chemical Components entities on the supply chain. of Raw Materials (ver. 4.5) The Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines are a set https://www.toppan.com/library/english/about-us/files/ of principles the Group observes to drive this endeavor. These sustainability/2019/proc2019_en04.pdf guidelines consist of the Basic Procurement Policy, a conceptual Basic Policy on Biodiversity (in Japanese) framework to be closely observed by every Toppan employee https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/japanese/csr/files/pdf/2013/ involved in procurement operations, and the CSR Procurement biodiversity.pdf Standards, a set of requirements to be satisfied by every business Toppan Group Paper Procurement Guidelines for the Sustainable Use of partner. The CSR Procurement Standards are composed of the Basic Forest Resources (second edition, in Japanese) Procurement Standards and the Procurement Standards Concerning https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/japanese/corporateinfo/files/csr/2014/ Human Rights, Labor, the Environment, and Anti-Corruption. proc2014_06.pdf Promotion Framework The Purchasing Center in the head office Manufacturing efforts of business partners to comply with the Group’s procurement Technology & Research Division and other procurement standards on human rights, labor, the environment, and antidepartments across the Group take the initiative in advancing CSR corruption; and ongoing efforts to conclude basic sale and purchase procurement in close coordination with business partners. agreements with business partners stipulating the observance of The center and departments have undertaken a host of CSR the Group’s procurement guidelines. procurement initiatives focused on business partners, including the The Toppan Group also controls chemical components following: briefing of business partners on the Toppan Group CSR throughout the entire supply chain based on the Standards for the Procurement Guidelines; surveys with questionnaires to check the Management of Chemical Components of Raw Materials. ■ Ensuring Compliance in Procurement Departments CSR procurement initiatives should be built upon trust between the Basic Policy on Biodiversity. The policy stipulates a proactive businesses. Toppan therefore regularly monitors whether the approach to the sustainable use of resources by avoiding or Group’s procurement departments operate properly in accordance minimizing the impact on biodiversity in the procurement of raw with the Basic Procurement Policy in their transactions with materials. For the sustainable use of forest resources in line with business partners. the basic policy, the Group has cooperated with paper suppliers Toppan has also set up a Supplier Hotline on its corporate (business partners) to ensure that the lumber they use for paper website as a portal for receiving reports from business partners production is legally obtained. involved in the Group’s procurement operations. The hotline is Supplier Hotline open for use by all business partners of the Group. https://www.toppan.com/en/about-us/our-corporate-approach/ The Toppan Group targets sustainable procurement based on supplier-hotline.html 34 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development CSR Procurement Main Activities and Relevant Information Briefing on Procurement Guidelines and Concluding Basic Sale and Purchase Agreements As of the end of fiscal 2018, Toppan has briefed 2,104 business ■ Briefing Sessions on CSR Procurement partners on the Toppan Group CSR Procurement Guidelines. The Guidelines Group has also promoted sustainable initiatives throughout the Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal 2016 2017 2018 entire supply chain by asking business partners to conclude basic Number of business sale and purchase agreements stipulating the observance of the 7 25 4 partners briefed guidelines. As of fiscal 2018, Toppan has concluded agreements Cumulative total of with 76% of the business partners that sell the Group goods and 2,075 2,100 2,104 business partners services worth more than 10 million yen a year. The Group’s goal is to conclude agreements with all of its business partners by no later ■ Percentage of Basic Sale and Purchase than fiscal 2025. Agreements with CSR Procurement Turning to the environment, the Toppan Group promotes CSR Provisions Concluded (with business procurement in line with specific standards such as the Standards partners supplying goods and services worth for the Management of Chemical Components of Raw Materials more than 10 million yen a year) and the Paper Procurement Guidelines for the Sustainable Use of Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Forest Resources. 2016 2017 2018 Cumulative percentage of agreements (out of 68％ 72％ 76％ the business partners targeted) Verifying the Legality of Lumber as a Paper Material The Toppan Group formulated a Basic Policy on Biodiversity and ■ Results of Surveys to Verify the Legality of posted it on the Toppan website*1 in May 2010. Lumber as a Paper Material The basic policy stipulates that “we will take a proactive (Paper providers representing over 90% of purchase approach to sustainable use by avoiding or minimizing the impact expenditures within the Group) on biodiversity” during raw material procurement operations. For Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal paper procurement, for example, the Group surveys the legality of 2016 2017 2018 lumber as a paper material as a means of promoting the sustainable Number of business 20 18 18*2 use of forest resources. The Group is convinced that lumberpartners surveyed legality verification leads to the creation of a sustainable society by Purchase price basis 99.6％ 92.3％ 90.6％ expanding measures to conserve forest resources and avoid human Percentage of lumber rights violations during paper production. sources verified as 100％ 100％ 100％ In surveys performed on paper manufacturers representing more legal than 90% of the Group’s paper procurement on a purchase price basis, Toppan checks whether the lumber used for their paper *1 https://www.toppan.com/en/sustainability/environment/ production is obtained through legal channels. In fiscal 2018 the biodiversity.html Group surveyed 25 sites of 18 business partners around the world *2 Paper suppliers subject to a higher risk of noncompliance over and confirmed that all of the lumber procured from them was the most recent three-year period obtained legally. In yen terms, these 25 partner sites supplied 90.6% of the paper used by Toppan in fiscal 2018. 35 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development CSR Procurement Monitoring Compliance in Procurement Departments The Toppan Group regularly monitors whether its procurement ■ Monitoring Results departments operate properly in accordance with the Basic Fiscal Fiscal Fiscal Procurement Policy in their transactions with business partners. 2016 2017 2018 In fiscal 2018 the Group used the results of a questionnaire survey Number of business of eight business partners to improve compliance in procurement partners that filled out 10 13 8 operations. the questionnaire Toppan has also set up the Supplier Hotline*, a portal for Cumulative total receiving reports from business partners, on its website. number of business 103 116 124 partners monitored *https://www.toppan.com/en/about-us/our-corporate-approach/ supplier-hotline.html Participating in the Green Purchasing Network The Green Purchasing Network (GPN) of Japan was established in 1996 as a loose-knit network of businesses, civilian organizations, government agencies, and other entities proactively engaged in green purchasing practices. GPN is convinced that green purchasing plays a critical role in the formation of a market for ecoproducts on a scale sufficient to facilitate eco-product development. GPN believes that green purchasing will contribute significantly to the realization of a sustainable society. As a GPN member, Toppan provides printing services based on Green Purchasing Network the GPN Ordering Guidelines for Printing Services. https://www.gpn.jp/english/index.html 36 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Initiatives for Products and Services Initiatives for Products and Services Basic Approach Quality assurance for products at the Toppan Group is a concern that “help realize a society with a high appreciation of diversity.” for every department, not only the departments directly responsible By embracing UD approaches, Toppan assigns greater weight for production. Departments involved in marketing, R&D, planning, to dialogue with diverse people and the concerns of people with design, sales, and shipment all contribute to quality. This is why different physical abilities and perceptions while considering usage Toppan describes quality assurance as a total activity (“total quality scenarios and design parameters such as understandability and assurance”) and strives to improve product quality and manage usability. product safety throughout the Group. For the maintenance and improvement of product quality, the Group has established a Basic Stance on Product Safety Management and a set of Basic Guidelines on Product Safety Management to securely manage the Basic Stance on Product Safety Management safety of the products Toppan manufactures. We promote product safety management throughout the Group The global environment is another crucial social issue requiring by securing safety and improving the quality of our products Toppan’s committed efforts. To propel sustainable consumption, based on the Basic Principles of Conduct Guidelines and the Toppan markets environmentally friendly products and services and principles of corporate social responsibility as a protector of visualizes CO2 emissions associated with the products and services user* safety and health. *User: Includes both customer companies and end-user consumers. the Group provides. Toppan and Group companies endeavor to contribute to the realization of sustainable consumption under The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment. Basic Stance on Product Safety Management / Basic Guidelines on The Toppan Group also realizes the social value of universal Product Safety Management design (UD). Since its launch of a pioneering UD packaging https://www.toppan.com/en/about-us/our-corporate-approach/ consulting service in 1999, Toppan has been consistently product-safety.html designing and producing attractive, easy-to-use UD packaging The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment and communication tools for as many people as possible in every https://www.toppan.com/assets/pdf/sustainability/ Business Field of the Group. The_Toppan_Group_Declaration_on_the_Global_Environment.pdf The Toppan Declaration on Universal Design and Toppan’s Seven Toppan Declaration on Universal Design / Toppan’s Seven Principles on Principles on Universal Design (both established in 2010) define Universal Design (in Japanese) UD as a guiding philosophy for developing products and services https://www.toppan.co.jp/sustainability/consumers/ud.html Promotion Framework The Quality Assurance Center in the head office Manufacturing the Group. Technology & Research Division holds a Japan-wide conference Toppan has arranged rank-based curriculums and Group-wide of quality assurance departments every three months. Conference e-learning programs to heighten employee awareness and facilitate participants clarify various challenges related to safety a deeper understanding of Toppan’s environmentally friendly management and quality assurance for products and monitor products, carbon-offsetting initiatives, and carbon footprint of the progress of key initiatives to mitigate quality loss and further products (CFP) services. The Ecology Center in the Manufacturing improve product quality. Every Group site consistently enhances Technology & Research Division at the Toppan head office compiles its quality management system (ISO 9001) to bolster product safety and discloses information on registered environmentally friendly management. The Quality Assurance Center organizes seminars products. on ISO 9001 and training sessions for internal auditors every year. These training sessions aim to constantly improve quality ISO 9001 Accreditation and Certification (in Japanese) management systems underpinning total quality assurance across https://www.toppan.co.jp/about-us/our-corporate-approach/iso/iso9001.html 37 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Initiatives for Products and Services ■ Assuring Product Quality ■ CFP and Carbon-offsetting Services The quality assurance department in each business division The Ecology Center offers training sessions on the Toppan Group’s handles complaints and claims from customers. When a serious carbon footprint of products (CFP) and carbon-offsetting initiatives product-related incident occurs, Toppan sets up an emergency focused on printed materials and events, in order to support taskforce in line with the Group’s rules on risk management to the efforts of employees in the marketing and sales promotion rapidly and properly handle the issue, giving the top priority to departments to promote CFP and carbon-offsetting services. user safety. The Group has also established rules on corrective actions for claims from customers in accordance with ISO 9001. Based on these rules, the quality assurance departments determine fundamental causes, take optimal countermeasures, and prevent recurrence through the standardization of corrective actions. The Quality Assurance Center compiles monthly data on customer claims and cases of product quality loss from business divisions and assesses the progress of improvement activities. For serious product-related incidents, the center examines the validity of recurrence-prevention measures and the status of efforts to sustain these measures. The Toppan Group has also adopted a certified approval system for food packaging requiring exacting quality assurance for safety and sanitation to ensure that the operational sites of Toppan and partner companies can manufacture containers and packages only after undergoing audits with checklists in conformance with the Quality Assurance Guidelines for Food Packaging. 38 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Initiatives for Products and Services Main Activities and Relevant Information Initiatives for Product Safety Toppan has established a Basic Stance on Product Safety them with the skills and knowledge they need to consistently Management and Basic Guidelines on Product Safety Management operate the quality management systems (QMS) formulated under to secure the safety management of the products the Group the ISO 9001:2015 requirements for the integration of QMS with manufactures. business processes. A total of 429 employees took the training in All Group sites continue to improve their quality management fiscal 2017 and another 175 employees were trained in fiscal 2018. systems (ISO 9001) in order to bolster product safety management. The head office organizes training for internal auditors to equip Certified Approval System for the Production of Food Packaging Food packaging requires exacting quality assurance for safety and undergoing audits with checklists in conformance with the Quality sanitation. The Toppan Group has adopted a certified approval Assurance Guidelines for Food Packaging. Toppan carried out system to ensure that the operational sites of Toppan and partner accreditation audits for packaging operations at 12 operational sites companies can manufacture containers and packages only after inside and outside the Group in fiscal 2018. ■ Audits for the Food Filling/Packing Businesses Audit Points Operational Sites Audited ・Agreements with client companies Primary food filling/packing businesses ・Quality assurance systems 5 sites run by manufacturing subsidiaries ・Management of equipment and inspection devices 7 sites run by production business partners ・Management of safety and sanitation ・Steps to prevent the admixture of different products ・Steps to safeguard against insect infestations ・Steps to prevent the admixture of foreign substances ・Steps to prevent the outflow of defective products ・Steps to prevent contamination ・Traceability ・Food defense ・Education and training ・Maintenance of systems and frameworks for product safety and quality 39 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Initiatives for Products and Services Conducting CFP Quantifications and Applying for Carbon-offset Certification for Printed Materials and Events The Toppan Group has been visualizing CO2 emissions associated Clean Development Mechanism (CDM). The carbon-offsetting with printed materials and events through carbon footprint of mechanism using the Gold Standard CDM allows Toppan to products (CFP) and carbon offsetting initiatives. The Group’s address relevant sustainable development targets such as climate one-stop service for client companies covers every step from CFP security and stable power supply. quantification to carbon-offset certification for printed materials The Group has also offset the CO2-equivalent GHG emissions and events. This procedure has also been applied to the Group’s associated with in-house educational events focused on biodiversity own products and events. In fiscal 2018 the Group conducted CFP and the various meetings Toppan holds on environmental issues in quantifications for a total of 27 products, services, and events. Japan, such as the National Eco-protection Meeting and the Toppan In self-initiated activities, CO2-equivalent greenhouse gas (GHG) Group Environmental Meetings. Toppan has used the carbonemissions associated with printed materials issued by Toppan offsetting initiatives for these events and meetings to support the are offset by a J-VER credit generated by a subsidiary and a credit recovery of Kumamoto from the earthquake disaster of 2016 by linked to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (originating applying a J-VER credit, a credit originating from GHG (CO2) from power generation using Forest Stewardship Council (FSC®)absorption using lumber from thinning operations in forests owned certified wood refuse in the Amazon basin, Brazil) provided by Kumamoto Prefecture. by the Gold Standard Foundation under the United Nations ■ Framework for CFP and Carbon Offsetting Carbon Footprint of Products (CFP) Quantify CO2-equivalent greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions throughout the entire life cycle (① ⑤) of a product and display the CFP data on printed materials brochures shop brochure collection box ① Raw material ④ Use and ⑤ Disposal and procurement ② Production ③ Distribution maintenance recycling Carbon Offsetting Partially or completely “offsetting” difficult-to-reduce GHG emissions with equivalent credits (GHG-emission reduction values and/or GHG absorption values) earned elsewhere. ■ CFP information on the Toppan Sustainability Highlights 2018 (Japanese brochure) https://www.cfp-japan.jp/common/pdf_permission/001582/CR-BS05-18015.pdf Toppan Sustainability Highlights 2018 (back cover) 40 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Initiatives for Products and Services DentatsuClinic® Counseling on Information Tools In October 2016 the Toppan Group established the UD ■ Five Evaluation Points in the DentatsuClinic Communication Laboratory, an organization tasked with Service augmenting the social value of knowledge in universal design (UD) and knowhow in communication design. The UD Communication ❶ Information governance: Tool organization Laboratory supports client companies in their efforts to solve Whether or not the tool is appropriately positioned in diversity-related challenges of various kinds. accordance with expected roles, etc. In fiscal 2017 the laboratory launched a series of ❷ Information architecture: Page composition “DentatsuClinic®” solutions (“dentatsu ” means “communication” Whether or not information is easy to find and the reader in Japanese) to provide counseling on information tools. This stays with the tool. service pursues a wholly optimized system for developing effective information tools based on an original method that schematizes ❸ User interface: Page layout every process of information editing from UD perspectives. Whether or not the tool imposes a lighter load on the DentatsuClinic solutions allow client companies to deliver reader and facilitates the reader’s instinctive understanding. information more effectively by enabling improvements based on ❹ Look & feel: Graphic expression in-depth assessments of their information tools. The assessments Whether or not the tool strikes a balance between are based on five evaluation points focused on criteria ranging accessibility and attractive design. from individual elements of expression to overall tool organization. DentatsuClinic counseling helps clients create information tools ❺ Plain wording: Text expression that are easier to read, easier to understand, and more effective Whether or not the tool delivers important information for diverse persons such as the elderly, the physically and mentally promptly and necessary information appropriately. disabled, businesspeople, and parents with young children. 41 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Initiatives for Products and Services UD Solutions for Packaging The Toppan Group has been focusing on universal design (UD) Toppan’s Universal Design Diagnostic System for Packaging, in packaging since the 1990s and developing and improving UD meanwhile, checks the existing packaging of customer products packaging for products manufactured by Toppan and customer from UD perspectives throughout the stages of the product life companies. cycle from purchase to disposal. This system singles out and Toppan takes a scientific approach to determining the challenges assesses the challenges that packaging designers face in their consumers face in using products. The challenges identified have work to create user-friendly, easier-to-understand packages. With been codified into a set of Group UD packaging guidelines that more than 1,000 evaluation results compiled into its database, the facilitate the development of UD packaging for wide-ranging system enables client companies to analyze the various elements of products such as foods, snacks, toiletries, medical supplies, and usability in their package designs. medicines. The Toppan Group also has a proven track record of usability Based on the guidelines, Toppan provides customers with UD surveys to gather information on the actual use of products. Toppan packaging solutions that meet criteria for usability (such as the ease customers can use the survey results to thoroughly analyze the with which packages are read, held, handled, opened and closed, usability of their products and receive hints on ways to resolve UD stored, and discarded) and consider the psychological impacts of challenges. designs and the ways designs are perceived with the five senses. Through these initiatives, the Group offers one-stop UD solutions These UD solutions also meet criteria for user friendliness (such for customer companies seeking to offer universal designs by as injury prevention and ease of use for children and the elderly), helping them detect challenges to address, define basic approaches time-efficiency for busy people, environmental friendliness, and to solve them, and realize their design concepts through the stages other prominent needs society seeks to address. of verification and production. Guidelines for Universal Design in Packaging ■ Intangible perspectives Elements perceived with the ﬁve senses Psychological elements Tactile sense Is understandable Perceived by touch Accommodates impairments in attention or memory Visual sense Auditory sense Is worry-free Perceived accurately Reaﬃrmed with the eyes by hearing Facilitates access to information Sense of smell Sense of taste Accommodates changes in mood or temperament Supplemented Supplemented Oﬀers improved comfort and enjoyment by other senses by other senses other ■ Tangible perspectives Easier to Easier to Easier to Easier to Easier to Usability Easier to Easier to Injury distinguish hold open read / unpack reseal discard / prevention Easier to Resource understand saving 42 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Consumer Protection Consumer Protection Basic Approach Toppan has reinforced safeguards to prevent leaks and outflows of personal information in the diverse processes in which it is Toppan Group Basic Policy on Information handled within the Group by restricting the handling of personal Security information to tightly secured areas that satisfy rigorous criteria As a group of companies operating in the information communication for qualification audits. The Group has also worked for thorough industry, each of us at the Toppan Group carries out Groupsecurity control in operation design and quality assurance with wide information security management in the recognition that the management of information necessary for business is a significant safe, secure systems and processes designed to manage personal managerial challenge for us as a means to reciprocate our customers’ information. trust and promote the ongoing growth of the Toppan Group. Toppan has also declared that “each of us at the Toppan Group 1. We manage information necessary for our business appropriately in carries out Group-wide information security management” in its observance of our in-house rules, the law, and the principles of social basic policy on information security. Under the basic policy, Toppan order. has continuously upgraded the Group’s systemized rules formulated 2. We collect information for appropriate purposes using appropriate based on ISO/IEC 27001 (a stringent, globally recognized standard methods. on information security management) in compliance with Japanese 3. We safely manage the information entrusted to us by customers in Industrial Standards (JIS) Q 15001 (standard for accrediting order to reciprocate our customers’ trust. PrivacyMark Systems for personal information protection 4. We are deeply aware of the risks to the information assets we handle, management). such as illegal access, loss, damage, falsification/manipulation, and leakage of information, and take necessary and reasonable safety measures against these risks. We deal with and rectify any problems Toppan Group Basic Policy on Information Security that occur promptly and in an appropriate manner. https://www.toppan.com/en/about-us/our-corporate-approach/ security-information.html 5. We establish, operate, maintain, and continuously improve information security management systems. Personal Information Protection Policy https://www.toppan.com/en/privacy.html Established on April 1, 2001 Revised on June 27, 2019 Hideharu Maro President & Representative Director Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Promotion Framework ■ Organizational Structure for Information Security Management Companies today face wide-ranging types of information security strengthen cooperation with relevant departments throughout the risk, from careless mistakes and fraudulent acts committed inGroup. Toppan seeks to maintain the Group’s governance structure house to cyber attacks and hidden threats in new business fields. through cooperation that goes beyond existing organizational The head office and every business division at Toppan work to boundaries. President & Representative Director External organizations Chief information security manager Nippon CSIRT Association (NCA) National center of Incident readiness and Internal advisory body Information Security Division Strategy for Cybersecurity (NISC) of Japan Japan Computer Emergency Response Information Security Team Coordination Center (JPCERT/CC) TOPPAN-CERT SOC Council Toppan Computer Security Operation Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department Cyber-attack Control Center Emergency Response Team Center Japan Cybercrime Control Center (JC3) Japan Network Security Association (JNSA) Business divisions Group and related Information-technology Promotion Agency (IPA) of Japan companies Information security managers Support members 43 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Consumer Protection ■ Training in Information Security Management ■ Complying with Laws, Regulations, and Standards on Personal Information Protection Toppan works to ensure awareness of the importance of To comply with the General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), information security management through face-to-face group a piece of EU legislation enforced on May 25, 2018, the Toppan training for employees. Group has formulated a data protection structure with necessary In the course of fiscal 2018, Toppan held five training sessions measures specific to its EU affiliates and has concluded standard for managers and persons in charge of PC and server operations to contractual clauses (SCC) for the transfer of personal data from the reaffirm their roles and baseline knowledge on cyber security and European Economic Area (EEA). Toppan is also concluding SCCs thereby secure their readiness against cyber incidents. with its overseas Group affiliates. The European Commission formally adopted an adequacy decision on Japan in January 2019. Under the reciprocal adequacy decisions, Toppan has clarified safety considerations in the course of Group business operations and posted Q&As with safety consideration reminders on its internal portal site to reinforce the understanding of relevant personnel across the Group. ■ Tightly Secured Areas Designated for the ■ Number of Domestic Sites with Tightly Secured Handling of Personal Information Areas designated for the handling of personal Number of Domestic Sites with Tightly Secured Areas designated for the Operations entailing the use of confidential materials at the information handling of personal information March (as of (as of March31, 2019) 31, 2019) Toppan Group are conducted exclusively in physically isolated, tightly secured workplaces to minimize the risk of potential acts of Hokkaido Kansai (2 areas) fraud inside or outside the Group. Operations under strict control (13 areas) include the handling of personal information, such as individual Chugoku & Shikoku Higashinihon identification numbers under Japan’s Social Security and Tax (4 areas) (1 area) Number System, as well as the production and handling of security Kyushu Kanto (2 areas) printing products with monetary value. (66 areas) In response to customer requests, the Group has been increasing Chubu the number of tightly secured areas and strengthening the (4 areas) procedures to monitor and audit these operations. Toppan intends to strengthen control over personal information through fiscal 2025 with the aim of eliminating all instances of unauthorized information removal. ■ Measures against Cyber Attacks ■ Preparing for the Tokyo 2020 Games The Toppan Group has set up a specialized team called TOPPANThe Olympic and Paralympic Games, large-scale sporting festivals, CERT to address cyber attacks. TOPPAN-CERT collects internal are easy targets for organized criminals. and external information and monitors technological trends in While collecting information, as a Tokyo 2020 Official Partner computer security in order to provide necessary information on a Toppan Printing is taking part in anti-cyber-attack joint simulation continuous basis and technical support for solutions when a cyber drills organized by the Tokyo Metropolitan Police Department. incident occurs. Toppan has established an emergency report form, a hotline for informing TOPPAN-CERT, on the Group internal portal site. CERT will take immediate action whenever the hotline receives a report of a targeted email attack, virus infection, or any other type of cyber attack. The Company has also engaged every Toppan officer and employee in regular drills to rehearse countermeasures against targeted email attacks. Toppan will continue to strengthen protections and training through fiscal 2025 with the goal of completely eliminating information leakage due to cyber attacks. 44 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Consumer Protection Main Activities and Relevant Information Information Security Training ■ Group-wide and Divisional Training In fiscal 2018 the Toppan Group held about 400 regular face-toprovided them with catch-up classes via the e-learning system. face group-training sessions on information security management For manufacturing departments, the Group has reviewed its across Japan. By streamlining the process of collating data on training approaches, reexamined the methods used to collect all Group employees and those who have taken courses, Toppan training data, and arranged division-specific training. promptly identified employees who had not received training and Workplace precautions presented in a regular training course (in Japanese) Tips for keeping the workplace organized (in Japanese) Toppan Cyber Security Seminar 2019 Toppan invited guest lecturers to a cyber security seminar and panel discussion at Koishikawa Terrace in the Toppan Koishikawa Re-assessing cyber security: What is required of Building in Tokyo in March 2019. One lecture was presented by businesses in the digital era? Mr. Ikuo Misumi, the Cabinet Secretariat of the National center of ・Cyber security as a business challenge and initiatives by Incident readiness and Strategy for Cybersecurity (NISC) of Japan. the Japanese government In addition to Toppan personnel, visitors from 30 customer ・Cyber security in business operations companies closely involved in cyber security issues attended ・Cyber security during the digital transformation (DX) the seminar. The participants were also given an overview of the Toppan Group’s cyber security measures. Poster for seminar held in Japan 45 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Consumer Protection Advanced Security Management The Toppan Group imposes an advanced security management ■ Safety management measures for tightly regime on the handling of personal information, including day-tosecured areas day operational checks and management assessments via internal audits. Detection of abnormal behavior and audit inspections of operational management take high priority among the information security measures enforced. Detection of abnormal behavior The Group disables access to external devices and prevents other Surveillance camera behavior that can lead to information leakage. By analyzing alerts on a daily basis, the head office is always ready to check and verify any abnormal behavior on the same day it is discovered. Audit inspections of operational management In internal audits conducted in fiscal 2018, in-house auditors sought Access control to preempt accidents that can result from the mistaken handling of personal information by assessing improvements achieved in the editing of data; the sending of emails; the printing, insertion, and sealing of documents; and other operational procedures for which instructions have been provided. Their assessment report confirmed that compliance was ensured throughout the relevant processes. 46 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Consumer Protection Third-party Certification Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and its Group companies have acquired ISO/IEC 27001 certification for information security management systems (ISMS), PrivacyMark accreditations under Japanese Industrial Standards (JIS) Q 15001:2006 for their personal information protection management systems (PMS), and other third-party certifications. ■ PrivacyMark Accreditations ■ ISMS Certification (ISO/IEC 27001) for ( JIS Q 15001:2006) Information Security Management Systems Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. 10190891 Information & Communication Division, Toppan Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd. 24000216 Printing Co., Ltd.; Data Direction Center, Digital Innovation Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.; IC06J0151 Toppan Graphic Communications Co., Ltd. 10190298 Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd.; Toppan Editorial Communications Co., Ltd. 24000308 Toppan Graphic Communications Co., Ltd. Toppan Logistics Co., Ltd. 10450006 Toppan Group Kansai Business Center, Toppan JQA-IM0137 Forms Co., Ltd. Toppan Travel Service Corp. 10450093 Toppan Forms Co., Ltd. 10190934 Toppan INFOMEDIA Co., Ltd. RB-IS14004 Toppan Forms Central Products Co., Ltd. 24000366 Asaka Plant and Shiga Plant, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.; Semiconductor photomask operations, Toppan Forms Tokai Co., Ltd. 24000204 Asaka Plant and Shiga Plant, Toppan Electronics IS 530416 Toppan Forms Kansai Co., Ltd. 24000101 Products Co., Ltd.; Toppan Technical Design Toppan Forms Nishinihon Co., Ltd. 18860028 Center Co., Ltd. Toppan Forms Operation Co., Ltd. 10820089 ONE COMPATH Co., Ltd. IS 533218 Toppan Forms Logistics and Services Co., Ltd. 10450002 Kyushu, Chugoku & Shikoku Team and ISMS Toppan Forms (Hokkaido) Co., Ltd. 10190307 Promotion Committee, Information Security I308 Management, Nishinihon Division, Toppan TOSCO Corp. 11820447 Printing Co., Ltd. J-SCube Inc. 10860018 Kansai Production Department, Toppan Graphic IC13J0361 Tosho Printing Co., Ltd. 24000032 Communications Co., Ltd. Tokyo Shoseki Co., Ltd. 10190966 Higashinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. IS 606897 Livretech Co., Ltd. 10190035 Takino Manufacturing Department, Takino Plant, Tokyo Logistics Co., Ltd. 10860071 Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd.; Technology, Kansai Information & IC14J0376 EduFront Learning Research Co., Ltd. 10861827 Communication Subdivision, Toppan Printing Froebel-Kan Co., Ltd. 24000369 Co., Ltd. BookLive Co., Ltd. 28000007 Secure BPO Team, Chubu Division, Toppan Tokyo Metropolitan Government (T.M.G.) Printing Co., Ltd.; Chubu Production 24000419 Prepress Toppan Co., Ltd. Department, Toppan Graphic Communications IC17J0444 Co., Ltd.; Nagoya Plant, Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd. One undisclosed entity 47 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Consumer Protection Complying with Laws, Regulations, Standards, and their Amendments The Toppan Group complies with the amended Act on the systems, the newly enforced EU General Data Protection Protection of Personal Information of Japan, the revised Japanese Regulation, and other information-protection legislation around the Industrial Standards (JIS) standard for accrediting PrivacyMark world. ■ Complying with the Amended Japanese ■ Complying with the Revised JIS Q Act on the Protection of Personal 15001:2017 Information In 2017 the Japanese Standards Association (JSA) revised JIS Q The Toppan Group complies with the amended Act on the 15001:2017, a standard for accrediting a business operator or other Protection of Personal Information enforced in May 2018 in Japan, entity with an appropriate system for the protection of personal in line with a set of guidelines issued by the Personal Information information. The Toppan Group has joined an inter-business Protection Commission of Japan. Toppan has revised the Group’s project to compile a handbook on the revised standard in order to personal information protection bylaws based on the amended spread the relevant information throughout the printing industry in act and strived to prescribe the revised bylaws throughout the Japan. Toppan has also directed Group companies to formulate a Group. The key revisions to the bylaws are additional rules on personal information protection system to meet the requirements the verification of appropriateness when obtaining personal for PrivacyMark accreditation under the revised standard. information, procedures for providing information to third parties, and the handling of “anonymously processed information*.” Agreements on outsourcing operations have also been reviewed. *Personal information that has been processed to ensure that it cannot be used to identify a specific individual or otherwise restored to its original form, as defined by the Act on the Protection of Personal Information of Japan. ■ Complying with the EU’s GDPR ■ Complying with PCI DSS for Credit Card Information Management The Toppan Group complies with the newly enforced General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), a piece of EU legislation that The Toppan Group follows the principle of “not storing cardholder imposes strict punitive actions, in line with the policies prescribed data” for credit card issuance operations. The Group works to by the Personal Information Protection Commission of Japan. comply with the Payment Card Industry Card Production (PCI Based on the GDPR, Toppan has revised its bylaws, improved its CP) and the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard (PCI existing data protection structure, and provided training to Group DSS), a standard applied to the production of credit cards and a employees. Toppan is also concluding standard contractual clauses standard applied to the datacenters that store and manage card (SCC) with its overseas Group affiliates for the transfer of personal data, respectively. data outside of the European Economic Area (EEA). Organizing Drills against Targeted Email Attacks Though originally intended for Toppan officers and Company About 28,200 employees from Toppan and 40 Group companies employees, Toppan’s drills to rehearse countermeasures against participated in the drill in June of 2018. Some 28,700 employees serial targeted email attacks have steadily been extended to cover from Toppan and 39 Group companies did the same in December. affiliated and related companies within the Group. This drill has been redesigned to accomplish more than just raised awareness. In fiscal 2018 Toppan organized training to simulate conditions encountered during an actual attack. The drill held in June and December focused on the details of seemingly innocuous messages and the reinforcement of the initial responses to take after a malicious link is clicked. For enhanced initial responses, an emergency report form has been made available on the Group portal site to ensure that employees can report an infection as soon as one occurs. Toppan has been using this form Screenshot of the emergency during drills to inform Group employees of the required procedure report form on the Toppan for reporting an incident. portal site (in Japanese) 48 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Community Involvement and Development Community Involvement and Development Basic Approach The Toppan Group engages in diverse community contribution information.” Every Group site organizes various social initiatives activities focused primarily on the environment, education, in full recognition of the importance of engaging in community and culture to address local issues and support sustainable contribution activities as a community member. development. Basic Principle 9 of the Group’s Conduct Guidelines emphasizes the value of “Building trust from society through Conduct Guidelines social contribution activities and appropriate disclosure of https://www.toppan.com/en/about-us/philosophy/conduct-guidelines.html Main Activities The Environment: Conservation and Nurturing of Community Environments Beautification and Cleanup around Operational Sites Employee engagement Employees at Group sites across Japan regularly beautify and clean up the communities around them. In Kitakatsushika-gun, Saitama Prefecture, for example, the employees of the Toppan Technical Research Institute venture out into the community to carry out a monthly “Cleanup Operation.” Every employee from the research institute helps to remove litter from the streets and public spaces of neighboring communities at least once a year. Toppan sites also cooperate with community members, NPOs, NGOs, and other organizations to create better environments through various community activities to beautify and clean up local environments such as riversides and parks. Biodiversity-learning Events Employee engagement The Ecology Center in the head office collaborates mainly with community groups and environmental NPOs to organize events Activities in Fiscal 2018 where people can learn about biodiversity. In fiscal 2018 Toppan ● Biodiversity-learning event: “Observing wildlife and employees and their families took part in various biodiversity making a mini-aquarium at Yanase River!” activities, such as nature workshops at the Tama Zoological Park in Date: July 22, 2018 Hino City, Tokyo and Yanase River near Kiyose Kanayama Ryokuchi Place: Yanase River near Kiyose Kanayama Ryokuchi Park Park in Kiyose City, Tokyo. (Kiyose, Tokyo) Through these events, the center encourages employees, their Participants: 42 employees and their families families, and other stakeholders to consider biodiversity and take Collaborator: Saitama Ecosystem Conservation Society steps to conserve biodiversity in their communities. ● Biodiversity-learning event: “Conserving forests and making a leaf collage at Tama Zoological Park” Date: October 13, 2018 Place: Tama Zoological Park (Hino, Tokyo) Participants: 22 employees and their families Collaborator: Environmental NPO “SHU” 49 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Community Involvement and Development Education: Initiatives Sustained by Toppan Resources Printing School Employee engagement Toppan Group sites in Bunkyo and Itabashi, Tokyo work together Thirty-three Toppan employees and 115 elementary school with local elementary schools to run the Printing School, a students took part in the Printing School workshops in fiscal 2018 workshop where students create guidebooks with reports on (a cumulative total of about 140 Toppan employees and some 430 appealing points of area shopping districts. Younger employees elementary school students have taken part since the workshop was from Toppan lecture on efficient methods to gather and edit the launched in fiscal 2013). information to be reported in the guidebooks. Once the guidebooks are completed, the students hand them out in and around the shopping streets of Bunkyo and Itabashi. Activities in Fiscal 2018 ● Printing School at Shimura 2nd Primary School (Itabashi, Tokyo) Dates: October 6 December 6, 2018 (7 workshops) Participants: 33 Toppan employees, 115 elementary school students Printing School project for learning and growing together (in Japanese) https://wao-koishikawa.com./project.php?pid=9 Culture: Sports Promotion and Support for the Arts and Culture Printing Museum, Tokyo The Printing Museum, Tokyo was established in 2000 to mark the 100th anniversary of the founding of Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Activities in Fiscal 2018 In the years since, the museum has sponsored myriad activities ● Temporary exhibition focused on the collection and research of materials related to ・Astronomy and Printing: In Search of New World Vision printing culture, the planning of exhibitions and events, and the For details: implementation of educational activities such as letterpress printing https://www.printing-museum.org/en/exhibition/temporary/181020/ workshops at the Printing House. To promote printing culture, for example, Toppan retirees come ● Exhibitions and events at the multipurpose P&P Gallery to the Printing House to instruct neighborhood elementary school ・Evolutionary Digital Printing: from on-demand publishing students about letterpress printing. Members of the public are also to variable printing invited to take part in printing workshops hosted by Toppan at ・Graphic Trial 2018 “Passion” libraries and museums across Japan. ・Modern Japan Package 2018 ・World Book Design 2017-18 For details: https://www.printing-museum.org/en/exhibition/pp/ ● Lectures, workshops, etc. ・Letterpress Printing Workshop for Adults 2018 ・Making a Name Card: Japanese Papermaking and Letterpress Printing by Hand *Hands-on program produced in collaboration with the Paper Printing Museum, Tokyo Museum (Oji, Tokyo) https://www.printing-museum.org/en/ ・3rd lecture session on “Printing in the Edo Period— Ieyasu: Typographic Man” hosted by Tokugawa Mirai Gakkai (Tokugawa Futurists Society) (Shizuoka) ・Extracurricular study program at Kanatomi Elementary School (Bunkyo) to learn about the local printing industry in Tokyo (letterpress printing workshop, etc.) For details: https://www.printing-museum.org/en/bottega/ 50 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Community Involvement and Development Toppan Hall Toppan Hall is a symphonic concert hall that opened concurrently with the Printing Museum, Tokyo in 2000 to commemorate the Activities in Fiscal 2018 100th anniversary of the founding of Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. ● 2017/2018 season performances The hall organizes and holds various recitals as a venue for good (from September 2017 to August 2018): music. The regular Lunchtime Concerts, for example, support http://www.toppanhall.com/en/concert/lineup/lineup1718.html talented young musicians. Toppan Hall promotes arts and culture through these musical performances under the Group’s corporate ● 2018/2019 season performances philosophy of “contributing to fulfilling lifestyles as a mainstay of (from September 2018 to August 2019): information and culture.” http://www.toppanhall.com/en/concert/lineup/lineup1819.html Toppan Hall http://www.toppanhall.com/en/ Toppan Charity Concerts The annual Toppan Charity Concert series held by Toppan since 2008 supports global initiatives to raise literacy rates in developing Activities in Fiscal 2018 countries. ● 11th Toppan Charity Concert Ticket revenue from the concerts has been donated to the AsiaDate: June 1, 2018 Pacific Cultural Centre for UNESCO (ACCU) to fund the SMILE Venue: Toppan Hall Asia Project for the support of literacy education for Cambodian Artists: Karl-Heinz Schütz (flute), Sarah Christ (harp) women, especially mothers who are raising young children or have Donations: 2,345,800 yen children on the way. For details : https://www.toppan.com/en/news/2018/05/ newsrelease180507.html 11th Toppan Charity Concert Women learning literacy skills under the SMILE Asia Project in Cambodia Toppan Charity Concerts (in Japanese) https://www.toppan.co.jp/charityconcert/ 51 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Community Involvement and Development Graphic Trial The Toppan Group promotes printing culture and supports the graphic design industry through Graphic Trial, an exhibition Activities in Fiscal 2018 that explores relationships between graphic design and the art ● Graphic Trial 2018 “Passion”—Exploring the Possibilities of printing in search of new forms of expression. Artists at the of Graphic Design through Offset Printing forefront of graphic design experiment with different offset-printing Dates: June 16, 2018 September 17, 2018 techniques every year to create posters for the exhibition. Graphic Artists: Akira Uno (illustrator, art director), Santi Trial is held at the multipurpose P&P Gallery in the Printing Lawrachawee (designer from Thailand), Yoshihiro Yagi Museum, Tokyo. (creative director, art director at DENTSU INC), Haruyuki Suzuki (art director at Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.) For details: https://www.printing-museum.org/en/exhibition/pp/180616/ Graphic Trial (in Japanese) https://www.toppan.co.jp/biz/gainfo/gt/ Cosponsoring the Central Contest for Book Report Drawings Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. continues to work with the Japan School distributes a calendar and document sleeves decorated with the Library Association and The Mainichi Newspapers Co., Ltd. as a prize-winning works to schools and other educational facilities cosponsor of the Central Contest for Book Report Drawings, an across Japan. The prize-winning students also receive replicas annual contest that cultivates the reading and creative skills of of famous Japanese-style paintings produced using Toppan children by encouraging them to express their impressions of books technologies. by drawing. For ongoing support to the contest, Toppan produces and Activities in Fiscal 2018 ● 30th Central Contest for Book Report Drawings Areas: 38 prefectures around Japan (excluding Yamaguchi Prefecture and the eight prefectures of the Kyushu region) Pictures: 650,204 entries from 6,089 schools For details (in Japanese): http://www.dokusyokansoubun.jp/kansouga/prize30.html Award ceremony at the 30th Central Calendar (left), document sleeve Contest for Book Report Drawings (right) Kanosei Art Project Exhibition In fiscal 2018 Toppan worked with an NPO called Support Center Toppan Koishikawa Building in Tokyo. The second was a special DREAM to launch the Kanosei Art Project (“kanosei ” means exhibition held at Choraku-ji Temple in Kyoto in cooperation “potential” in Japanese), a series of artistic activities conducted to with the Yoi-Otera Research Institute (“yoi-otera ” means “good encourage human resource development in companies and the temples” in Japanese). Toppan plays an active role in supporting greater independence of persons with illnesses and disabilities. and promoting borderless art. Artworks created by borderless artists affiliated with the Support Center DREAM were exhibited at two venues for the Kanosei Art Project Exhibition. The first was held in the Activities in Fiscal 2018 ● Kanosei Art Project Exhibition 2018 Dates: March 27 to April 26, 2018 Venue: Lobby (1F), Toppan Koishikawa Building, Tokyo ● Kanosei Art Project Exhibition in Choraku-ji Dates: November 16 to December 5, 2018 Venue: Shoin (study room), Choraku-ji Temple, Kyoto Toppan Koishikawa Building in Choraku-ji Temple in Kyoto Tokyo 52 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Community Involvement and Development Popularizing Para-Sports Employee engagement Toppan promotes para-sports as a partner of the Tokyo 2020 Paralympic Games and the Japanese Para-Sports Association Activities in Fiscal 2018 (JPSA). The Company also introduced an employee athlete program ● Hands-on para-sports events for local communities in 2014 to hire and support people specializing in sports*, including Venues: Hokkaido, Miyagi, Aichi, Osaka, Hiroshima, and para-sports athletes. Fukuoka Prefectures Toppan also operates a para-sports information website called Sports: Wheelchair basketball, boccia, blind football, etc. SPORTRAIT . In fiscal 2018 Toppan held an extensive series of hands-on para-sports events for local communities in cooperation ● Hands-on para-sports event held in cooperation with with various sports associations, attracting many employees Kanatomi Elementary School and a sports club in the together with their families and community members. Rekinan area (Bunkyo) Venue: Kanatomi Elementary School gym in Bunkyo, Tokyo *Employee athlete program: Established in 2014 as a mechanism for Sports: Wheelchair basketball, boccia, blind football, para promoting sports and supporting employee athletes who participate in international tournaments and competitions. Toppan currently employs powerlifting, etc. five athletes (including two para-sports athletes). ● Para Relay Race held in cooperation with Japan Para For more information（in Japanese） Athletics（JPA） https://www.toppan.co.jp/player/ Venues: 8 schools in the Tokyo metropolitan region Sport: Para relay race (combining track & field events of the Olympic and Paralympic Games) Hands-on wheelchair basketball Toppan’s para-sports information event website SPORTRAIT（in Japanese） https://sportrait-web.com/ 53 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Community Involvement and Development Major Community Contribution Activities at Operational Sites The Environment: Conservation and Nurturing of Community Environments Culture: Sports Promotion and Support for the Arts and Culture for the Community Education: Initiatives Sustained by Toppan Resources Community: Initiatives Conducted with Community Groups, NPOs, NGOs, etc. ■ Major Community Contribution Activities at Domestic Sites (fiscal 2018) Site Location Theme Activity The environment ・Participation in community cleanup activities (e.g., concerted cleanup campaigns in Chiyoda) Culture ・Donation to and cooperation with community festivals and events (e.g., Torigoe Festival) Akihabara Chiyoda, Tokyo (Head office) ・Participation in anti-disaster and fire-safety campaigns organized by the Ueno Fire-response Squad) Community ・Participation in fire drill competitions organized by the Kanda Fire Department ・Welcoming of community members, etc. to in-house events (e.g., beer festivals) ・Lectures by Noriko Taniguchi, an employee specializing in sports (women’s rugby), at neighboring elementary and junior high schools ・Tag rugby lessons offered by Wasana Fukushima, an employee specializing in sports (women’s Culture rugby), at the Bunkyo Rugby Festival ・Involvement in activities organized by the Koishikawa Korakuen Garden Maintenance Association ・Co-sponsorship of and cooperation with community festivals and events Koishikawa Bunkyo, Tokyo ・Co-sponsorship of radio calisthenics events for children organized by neighborhood associations during summer vacation ・Involvement in community safety activities (e.g., registration as a temporary shelter to protect Community children from crimes and other dangers) ・Provision of site facilities ・Blood donation drives ・Co-sponsorship of and cooperation with community festivals and events (e.g., Shibaura Festival and Shibaura Minato, Tokyo Culture Shibaura Canal Festival) ・Employee initiative to practice the Japanese custom of uchimizu (the watering of sidewalks to The environment combat the summer heat) around the site during the Sumida Street-watering Months ・Cooperative support for activities to promote the Tokyo 2020 Olympic and Paralympic Games in Honjo Sumida, Tokyo Culture Sumida ・Cooperative support for community festivals and events (e.g., Ushijima Shrine Festival) Community ・Blood donation drives Osaka City, Osaka Nakanoshima Community ・Blood donation drives Prefecture Sugito Kitakatsushika-gun, The environment ・Community “Cleanup Operations” by employees (monthly) (Toppan Technical Saitama Prefecture Research Institute) Community ・Welcoming of community members, etc. to in-house events (e.g., beer festivals) ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site (monthly) The environment ・Employee participation in cleanup activities around neighboring rivers Sapporo City, Sapporo Plant Hokkaido Prefecture Education ・Plant tours for students from neighboring elementary and nursing schools Community ・Blood donation drives The environment ・Employee participation in community cleanup activities (e.g., Nanakita River Cleanup Campaign) ・Plant tours for students from neighboring elementary schools and practical training sessions for Education students from nursing schools Sendai City, Miyagi ・Support for the activities of Ishinomaki Hibi Kodomo Rappers (“hibi ” means “everyday” and Sendai Plant Prefecture “kodomo ” means “children” in Japanese) to convey the history of the 2011 Great East Japan Community Earthquake to future generations in song (incl. an offer to perform and support for CD sales) ・Participation in disaster response training sessions organized by the Izumi Fire Department ・Blood donation drives 54 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Site Location Theme Activity The environment ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site (monthly) Education ・Practical training sessions for students from neighboring high schools Shibata City, ・Welcoming of community members, etc. to in-house events (e.g., beer festivals) Niigata Plant Niigata Prefecture ・Participation in and cooperation with community safety activities Community ・Opening of the site gym ・Blood donation drives ・Employee participation in community cleanup activities (at the Sakura River, Yokoyama Taikan The environment Memorial Park, and Hitachiyama Memorial Park in Mito City) ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site (two or more times a month) Culture ・Co-sponsorship of community festivals and events Mito City, Ibaraki Mito Plant Prefecture ・Plant tours and support for students from neighboring elementary schools Education ・Practical training sessions for students at special schools in the community ・Opening of the site sports field Community ・Blood donation drives Culture ・Participation in and cooperation with community festivals and events ・Provision of learning opportunities on printing and packaging in cooperation with neighboring elementary Education schools (incl. a workshop to produce original printed materials) ・Plant tours Ora-gun, Gunma ・Welcoming of community members, etc. to in-house events (e.g., beer festivals) Gunma Central Plant Prefecture ・Planning and operation of a venue where people meet and mingle in Meiwa Town (in cooperation with the town’s Board of Labor-Management Education) Community ・Participation in public meetings on a community renovation project to enable women to play more active roles in society while raising children ・Support for a vehicle wrap advertising project using nursery school and kindergarten buses ・Blood donation drives The environment ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site (monthly) Culture ・Co-sponsorship of sports festivals and events in the community (e.g., Fukaya City Half Marathon) Fukaya City, Saitama Fukaya Plant Education ・Plant tours and practical training sessions Prefecture ・Welcoming of community members, etc. to in-house events (e.g., beer festivals) Community ・Blood donation drives The environment ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site (weekly) Satte City, Saitama Satte Plant ・Welcoming of community members, etc. to in-house events (e.g., beer festivals) Prefecture Community ・Blood donation drives ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site (monthly) The environment ・Participation in community cleanup activities (e.g., a campaign organized by the Ranzan Hanamidai Industrial Complex Association) Hiki-gun, Saitama Culture ・Participation in and co-sponsorship of community festivals and events Ranzan Plant Prefecture ・Welcoming of community members, etc. to in-house events (e.g., beer festivals) ・Participation in training sessions on indoor hydrant operation organized by the Hiki Wide Area Fire Community Department ・Blood donation drives The environment ・Community “Cleanup Operations” by employees (monthly) Culture ・Co-sponsorship of community festivals, events, etc. (e.g., Sakado Yosakoi Festival) Education ・Plant tours for students from neighboring elementary schools Sakado City, Saitama Sakado Plant ・Welcoming of community members, etc. to in-house events (e.g., beer festivals) Prefecture ・Participation in training sessions on indoor hydrant operation organized by the Sakado Community Tsurugashima Fire-fighting Union ・Opening of the tennis courts at the site ・Blood donation drives ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site (weekly) ・Biodiversity conservation at the biotope on the site The environment ・Provision of environmental lectures and learning opportunities for teachers in Saitama Prefecture and students from neighboring elementary schools (incl. biotope tours) Asaka Plant ・Meeting with community members to report environmental initiatives Asaka Securities Niiza City, Saitama Education ・Plant tours for students from neighboring elementary schools Printing Plant Prefecture ・Welcoming of community members, etc. to in-house events (e.g., beer festivals) ・Participation in training sessions on indoor hydrant operation organized by the Southwest Regional Community Fire Department in Saitama Prefecture ・Opening of the site gym ・Blood donation drives ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site (monthly) The environment ・Meeting with community members to report environmental initiatives Kawaguchi City, Culture ・Participation in and co-sponsorship of community festivals, events, etc. Kawaguchi Plant Saitama Prefecture Education ・Plant tours ・Welcoming of community members, etc. to in-house events (e.g., beer festivals) Community ・Participation in fire-fighting drills organized by the Kawaguchi Fire Department 55 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Community Involvement and Development Site Location Theme Activity The environment ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site (monthly) ・Co-sponsorship of and cooperation with community festivals and events (e.g., Kashiwa Matsuri Kashiwa City, Culture Kashiwa Plant Festival) Chiba Prefecture Education ・Plant tours and practical training sessions for students from neighboring junior high schools Community ・Welcoming of community members, etc. to in-house events (e.g., beer festivals) ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site Sodegaura Beverage Sodegaura City, The environment ・Donation of used cardboard for events at neighboring elementary schools Plant Chiba Prefecture Education ・Plant tours for students from neighboring elementary schools ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site (monthly) ・Cleanup activities led by employees around neighboring bus stops (weekly) The environment ・Participation in environmental trade fairs in Itabashi (e.g., Everything Environmental Trade Fair at the Eco-polis Center) ・Participation in and cooperation with community festivals and events Culture ・Cooperative support provided by employees from Toppan’s sumo club for the Wanpaku Sumo Itabashi Plant Itabashi, Tokyo Tournament in Itabashi (for fourthto sixth-graders) ・Printing School workshops held in cooperation with neighboring elementary schools Education ・Plant tours for students from neighboring elementary schools ・Welcoming of community members, etc. to in-house events (e.g., beer festivals) ・Participation in anti-disaster and fire-safety activities in the community (disaster prevention drills, Community fire-prevention activities organized by the Shimura Fire-response Squad, etc.) ・Blood donation drives The environment ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site (weekly) Hino Plant Hino City, Tokyo ・Participation in and cooperation with traffic safety campaigns in the community Community ・Blood donation drives ・Involvement in environmental conservation activities in the community (organized by the Society for a The environment Better Environment in Sagamihama) Culture ・Cooperative support for community festivals and events (e.g., Mitake Shrine Summer Festival) Sagamihara City, Education ・Plant tours for students from neighboring elementary schools Sagamihara Plant Kanagawa Prefecture ・Welcoming of community members, etc. to in-house events (e.g., beer festivals) ・Participation in community activities for safety promotion and disaster prevention Community ・Opening of the gym and green area at the site ・Blood donation drives Hamamatsu City, Mikkabi Plant Education ・Plant tours and practical training sessions for students from neighboring high schools Shizuoka Prefecture ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site The environment ・Employee participation in the Nagoya Cleanup Campaign held in the community ・Employee participation in the Fujimae Tidal Flat Cleanup Campaign held in the community Nagoya City, Aichi Culture ・Support for and co-sponsorship of community festivals and events Nagoya Plant Prefecture ・Co-sponsorship of traffic safety campaigns organized by the Aichi Prefectural Nishi-ward Police Station in Nagoya City Community ・Participation in and cooperation with traffic safety campaigns in the community ・Participation in and cooperation with fire-safety activities and anti-disaster drills in the community Matsusaka City, Mie The environment ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site Matsusaka Plant Prefecture Education ・Plant tours for students from neighboring junior high schools The environment ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site Kameyama City, Mie Mie Plant (Kameyama) ・Participation in and cooperation with traffic safety campaigns in the community Prefecture Community ・Blood donation drives The environment ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site Tsu City, Mie Mie Plant (Hisai) ・Participation in and cooperation with traffic safety campaigns in the community Prefecture Community ・Blood donation drives ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site (monthly) The environment ・Donation through the ecoCAP campaign sponsored by the Japan Committee “Vaccines for the World’s Children” (JCV) Osaka City, Osaka Culture ・Co-sponsorship of community festivals and events (e.g., Namba Yasaka Shrine Summer Festival) Ebie Plant Prefecture Education ・Practical training sessions ・Involvement in community safety activities (e.g., registration as a temporary shelter to protect children Community from crimes and other dangers) ・Participation in fire-fighting training sessions organized by the Fukushima Fire Department ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site (monthly) Osaka City, Osaka Oyodo Plant The environment ・Donation through the ecoCAP campaign sponsored by the Japan Committee “Vaccines for the World’s Prefecture Children” (JCV) 56 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Community Involvement and Development Site Location Theme Activity ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site (monthly) The environment ・Aluminum can collection to donate to the Higashi-omi-shi Child Future Dream Fund Higashiomi City, Education ・Practical training sessions for students from neighboring junior high schools Shiga Plant Shiga Prefecture ・Welcoming of community members, etc. to in-house events (e.g., beer festivals) Community ・Participation in and cooperation with traffic safety campaigns in the community ・Blood donation drives The environment ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site (monthly) Takino Plant ・Co-sponsorship of and cooperation with community festivals and events (e.g., Flower Festival and Ayu Takino Securities Kato City, Hyogo Culture Sweet Fish Festival in Kato City) Printing Plant Prefecture Education ・Practical training sessions for students from neighboring junior high schools Community ・Blood donation drives The environment ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site (monthly) ・Co-sponsorship of community festivals and events Kanzaki-gun, Hyogo Fukusaki Plant Culture ・Donation to and cooperation with sports festivals and other events in the community (e.g., Nature Trail Prefecture Walking Event in Fukusaki Town and Hyogo Ichikawa Marathon in Ichikawa Town) Community ・Blood donation drives The environment ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site (monthly) Fukuyama City, ・Co-sponsorship of community festivals and events (e.g., Fukuyama Rose Festival and Fukuyama Summer Fukuyama Plant Culture Hiroshima Prefecture Festival) Education ・Work experience programs for students from neighboring high schools ・Employee participation in community activities to clean up, beautify, and conserve local rivers (e.g., grass The environment burning on Kokubu River banks) ・Plant tours for community members and local government officials Nankoku City, Kochi Kochi Plant ・Plant tours and classes and lectures for students from elementary schools, junior and senior high schools, Prefecture Education and universities in Kochi Prefecture ・Special lectures at universities in Kochi Prefecture Community ・Blood donation drives The environment ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site (monthly) Koga City, Fukuoka Fukuoka Plant Education ・Plant tours for students from neighboring technical high schools Prefecture Community ・Blood donation drives The environment ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site (monthly) Kanzaki-gun, Saga Plant Culture ・Co-sponsorship of and cooperation with community festivals and events (e.g., Yoshinogari Fire Festival) Saga Prefecture Education ・Work experience programs for students from neighboring junior high schools The environment ・Beautification and cleanup activities led by employees around the site Kumamoto Plant Culture ・Co-sponsorship of community festivals and events (e.g., Tamana Summer-night Fireworks Display) Tamana City, Tamana Plant Kumamoto Prefecture Education ・Work experience programs for students from neighboring technical high schools ・Welcoming of community members, etc. to in-house events (e.g., beer festivals) Community ・Blood donation drives 57 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment Governance Practices Development Community Involvement and Development ■ Major Community Contribution Activities at Overseas Sites (fiscal 2018) Location Company Theme Activity Toppan USA, Inc. Education ・Plant tours for students from neighboring schools ・Cooperative support for the volleyball team in the Special Olympics (volunteer Culture coaching, donation, etc.) Georgia, USA Education ・Donation to schools in the community Toppan Interamerica Inc. ・Cooperative support for charitable organizations in the community (food aid for needy households, donation, volunteer activities by employees, etc.) Community ・Donation and employee involvement to support local troops of the Boy Scouts and Girl Scouts of America ・Co-sponsorship of sports festivals and events in the community (e.g., REWE Team Culture Dresden, Germany Toppan Photomasks, Inc. Challenge Dresden 2018) Community ・Donations by employees (Christmas presents for children in the community) ・VR theater tours at the Palace Museum Digital Institute for the members of the Culture Japanese Association in Beijing and students studying at Japanese schools Beijing, PRC Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. ・Japanese company tours for Chinese university students: “Learn about and Education experience Japanese companies” ・Participation in, donation to, and co-sponsorship of sports festivals and events in the Culture Icheon, South Korea Toppan Photomasks Korea Ltd. community Community ・Involvement in disaster prevention activities in the community Culture ・Donation to community festivals and events Taipei and Hsinchu, ・Support for and donation to social welfare groups and other organizations in the Toppan Chunghwa Electronics Co., Ltd. Taiwan Community community ・Blood donation drives Culture ・Cooperative support for community festivals and events Jakarta, Indonesia PT. Indonesia Toppan Printing Community ・Support for and donation to orphans in the community The environment ・3R promotion campaign Malaysia Ortustech (Malaysia) Sdn. Bhd. Community ・Donation to victims of the Lombok Island Earthquake of 2018 58 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach Basic Approach Basic Approach With the growing awareness of environmental conservation throughout the world in the 1990s, the scope of environmental The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global issues to be tackled by businesses grew significantly. Toppan Environment reorganized its previous structure for environmental conservation As responsible members of international society, by establishing the Ecology Center in 1991 and formulating its we who work within the Toppan Group strive to realize a sustainable society Declaration on the Global Environment, a basic philosophy through forward looking corporate activities with consideration for environmental conservation activities, in 1992. Toppan has for the conservation of the global environment. promoted environmental initiatives based on the declaration ever Basic Principles since. 1. We observe all laws, regulations and in-company rules relating to the environment. The Toppan Group targets the creation of a sustainable society 2. For the future of the Earth, we strive for the effective utilization of where all forms of life in the global ecosystem can coexist into the limited resources and the reduction of all types of environmental burden. future. In April 2009, the Group revised the Declaration on the 3. With foresight, we promote the development and widespread use Global Environment into The Toppan Group Declaration on the of products that show consideration for the environment, and contribute to the environmental activities of customers. Global Environment, a new basic philosophy for environmental 4. We engage in communication related to the environment with a activities applied to the entire Group. The revised declaration wide range of peoples both inside and outside the company, and strive for mutual understanding. reflects Toppan’s more assertive approach to the conservation of the 5. We also take a proactive approach to environmental conservation in global environment. corporate activities in international society. The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global Environment Established in April 1992 https://www.toppan.com/assets/pdf/sustainability/ Revised in April 2009 The_Toppan_Group_Declaration_on_the_Global_Environment.pdf Promotion Framework ■ Promotion Structure The Board of Directors is the highest-level body responsible for the actual implementation of conservation activities carried out at their Toppan Group’s environmental management. The board appoints a sites and collaborate to propel environmental initiatives throughout director to head the Ecology Center, an organization that oversees the divisions. Toppan’s environmental conservation initiatives by supervising, To accelerate the initiatives, these officers have set up Ecoevaluating, and verifying environmental activities undertaken protection Promotion Committees, bodies composed of persons throughout the Group and reporting results to the Board of relevant to the environment across the departments. The Directors. committees promote environmental conservation activities at The Toppan Group has established an environmental Group sites and manage progress. For advanced environmental conservation framework in which the heads of every division, measures, the committees have convened multiple subcommittees Group company, and operational site are positioned as the to formulate necessary responses to specific environmental issues. personnel chiefly responsible for environmental efforts. These Energy Subcommittees, for example, pursue energy-saving efforts to heads appoint Environmental Management Officers to steer the help mitigate global warming. 59 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach ■ Environmental Management Organization Board of Directors Director in charge of the Ecology Center Ecology Center Group companies Toppan business divisions Presidents Division heads Environmental Management Oﬃcers Environmental Management Oﬃcers Eco-protection Promotion Committees Eco-protection Promotion Committees Energy Subcommittees Other subcommittees ■ Environmental Management Systems The Toppan Group has established environmental management the Toppan Group’s environmental conservation activities. The systems (EMSs) based on ISO 14001. evaluation results are assured by an audit firm (independent A PDCA cycle of planning, support and operation, performance assurance provider) and reported to the Board of Directors. The evaluation, and improvement serves as a core part of the ISO center discloses the verified performance data via the Toppan 14001-based EMSs to ensure ongoing improvement. corporate website and other communication channels. Group sites maintain their EMSs through management system audits by ISO 14001 registrars, internal audits (of legal compliance) ISO 14001 environmental management system certification (in Japanese) by the Ecology Center, and other internal environmental audits at https://www.toppan.co.jp/about-us/our-corporate-approach/iso/iso14001.html individual sites. Independent Assurance Report The Ecology Center aggregates evaluations of environmental https://www.toppan.com/library/english/sustainability/files/pdf/2019/ performance as the organization responsible for overseeing csr2019_detail-en.pdf#page=98 ■ Management Cycle under ISO 14001:2015 Internal and Needs and external issues Context of the organization expectations of interested parties Scope of the environmental management system P Planning 6.1 Actions to address risks and opportunities 6.1.1 General 6.1.2 Environmental aspects Support and 6.1.3 Compliance obligations 6.1.4 Planning action Operation 6.2 Environmental objectives and planning to achieve them 7.1 Resources 6.2.1 Environmental objectives 7.2 Competence 6.2.2 Planning actions to achieve environmental objectives 7.3 Awareness 7.4 Communication 7.4.1 General A Improvement Leadership 7.4.2 Internal communication D 7.4.3 External communication 10.1 General 5.1 Leadership and commitment 7.5 Documented information 10.2 Nonconformity and 5.2 Environmental policy 7.5.1 General corrective action 5.3 Organizational roles, 7.5.2 Creating and updating 10.3 Continual improvement responsibilities and authorities 7.5.3 Control of documented information 8.1 Operational planning and Performance Evaluation control 8.2 Emergency preparedness 9.1 Monitoring, measurement, 9.2 Internal audit and response analysis and evaluation 9.2.1 General 9.1.1 General 9.2.2 Internal audit 9.1.2 Evaluation of compliance programme 9.3 Management review C Intended outcomes of the environmental management system 60 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach ■ Environmental Education ■ Environmental Communication The Toppan Group implements various measures to improve the The Toppan Group develops Environmental Communication environmental literacy of employees based on social trends related Activities to share environmental conservation awareness with to the environment, priority topics for year-by-year environmental stakeholders through integration into the communities, along with activities, and other environment-related issues. environmental education for Group employees and non-Toppan Toppan has been holding sessions for rank-based training, individuals. Toppan has been organizing a host of environmental optional training, and internal auditor training. The rankcommunication activities such as industry-government-academiabased training includes both group sessions and Company-wide civil society projects, the disclosure of environmental performance e-learning programs. The Group also organizes regular training on data on the Toppan website, the publication of Site Eco Reports for Eco-creativity Activities for employees in sales departments. surrounding communities and local governments, neighborhood meetings to report on the Group’s environmental efforts, and participation in eco-exhibitions and environmental consortiums. ■ Medium-and-long-term Environmental Targets As the highest-level body responsible for the Toppan Group’s atmosphere for the conservation of the atmospheric environment. environmental management, the Board of Directors appoints the Toppan has also set a greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reduction Director in charge of the Ecology Center, an organization responsible target for fiscal 2030 for the entire Group, including overseas sites, for overseeing the Group’s environmental conservation initiatives. in order to meet the goals of the 2015 Paris Agreement: keep the The director leads the center in its work to establish a set of global temperature rise this century to no more than 2°C above environmental targets. Management indicators to be targeted are set the pre-industrial level. Toppan’s GHG-emission reduction target based on guiding forces on the environment such as international has been approved by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi), treaties and conventions, Japanese laws and regulations, social a partnership between the CDP, UN Global Compact, World conditions, and the voluntary action plans of the KEIDANREN Resources Institute (WRI), and World Wildlife Fund (WWF). (Japan Business Federation) and Japan Federation of Printing The Ecology Center collects results for these four management Industries (JFPI). For the objective assessment of environmental indicators every year, reports them to the Board of Directors, impact by indicator, the Toppan Group applies the Life-cycle decides a set of single-year targets, and finally develops Impact assessment Method based on Endpoint modeling (LIME) environmental measures for the current year with authorization to consolidate INPUT and OUTPUT data on the environmental from the Board of Directors. These Group-wide targets are burden associated with business activities into a single index of reshaped into site-specific targets to be treated as key indicators for environmental impact. This quantitative assessment provides a managing the progress of the environmental conservation activities holistic view of the environmental impact of the overall business carried out at individual sites. activities of the Group as a benchmark for checking which management indicators exert comparatively significant influences on Single-year and Medium-and-long-term Environmental Targets the Group’s environmental impact. https://www.toppan.com/library/english/sustainability/files/pdf/2019/ The Toppan Group has established targets for three management csr2019_detail-en.pdf#page=64 indicators for fiscal 2020 at domestic sites: CO2 emissions for Evaluating Domestic Environmental Impact based on LIME the mitigation of global warming, final landfill waste disposal for https://www.toppan.com/library/english/sustainability/files/pdf/2019/ building a recycling-oriented society, and VOC emissions into the csr2019_detail-en.pdf#page=65 ■ Medium-term Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2020 (for Domestic Sites) ❶ Mitigation of global warming ❷ Action for building a recycling❸ Conservation of the atmospheric oriented society environment ● Reduce CO₂ emissions by 30% compared ● Reduce ﬁnal landﬁll waste disposal by ● Reduce VOC emissions into the to the ﬁscal 2008 level (751 kilotons → 95% compared to the ﬁscal 2008 level atmosphere by 70% compared to the 530 kilotons: reduce by 221 kilotons) (1,584 tons → 80 tons: reduce by ﬁscal 2008 level (7,326 tons → 1,504 tons) 2,198 tons: reduce by 5,128 tons) ■ Medium-and-long-term GHG Reduction Target for Fiscal 2030 (for All Group Sites) Scope 1 (Direct emissions from industrial processes Scope 3 (Indirect emissions not or fuels consumed at the Toppan Group) included in scope 2, associated with + Scope 2 (Indirect emissions associated with the business operations throughout the consumption of electricity, heating, or cooling entire value chain of the Toppan purchased or acquired by the Group) Group) ● Reduce by 30% compared to the ﬁscal 2017 level ● Reduce by 20% compared to the ﬁscal 2017 level 61 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach Main Activities and Relevant Information ISO 14001 Certification (53 systems at 97 sites, as of March 31, 2019) ■ ISO 14001 Certificates Obtained at Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and Domestic Manufacturing Subsidiaries (subject to the environmental targets) Operational Site (Division or Manufacturing Subsidiary) Registrar Registration Date Electronics Division JQA July 1998 Environmental Design Subdivision [Kashiwa Plant and Satte Plant of Toppan Decor Products GCC March 2000 Inc.] (Living & Industry Division) Tokyo-based sites (Information & Communication Manufacturing Subdivision) SAI GLOBAL February 2002 Fukusaki Plant [including Fukusaki Plant of Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd.] (Toppan Packaging JQA July 2002 Products Co., Ltd.) Takino Site JQA October 2002 Azusawa Site, Atago Site, Kawaguchi Site, Sagamihara Site, Numazu Site (Toppan Logistics Co., GCC October 2002 Ltd.) Gunma Central Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) JQA July 2003 Mito Plant (Toppan Prosprint Co., Ltd.) GCC January 2004 Fukuyama Plant (Toppan Joho Kako Co., Ltd.) GCC October 2004 Higashinihon Subdivision GCC March 2005 Toppan Technical Research Institute JQA May 2005 Sapporo Plant, Chitose Plant (Hokkaido Subdivision) GCC June 2005 Satte Plant (Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd.) SAI GLOBAL December 2006 Ranzan Plant, Kyushu Plant (Toppan Packaging Service Co., Ltd.) JQA February 2007 Sagamihara Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) SAI GLOBAL March 2007 Saga Plant (Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd.) GCC November 2007 Kyushu Subdivision (Nishinihon Division of Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.) GCC October 2008 Head office, Kansai branch (Toppan Techno Co., Ltd.) SAI GLOBAL March 2009 Sodegaura Beverage Plant (Toppan Packaging Service Co., Ltd.) SAI GLOBAL April 2009 Fukaya Plant [including Satte Site] (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) GCC March 2010 Chubu Division JQA December 2010 ■ ISO 14001 Certificates Obtained at Domestic ■ ISO 14001 Certificates Obtained at Overseas Subsidiaries Subsidiaries (not subject to the environmental targets) (not subject to the environmental targets) Registration Registration Operational Site (Group Company) Registrar Group Company Registrar Date Date Total Media Development Institute Toppan Photomasks France SAS LRQA October 2000 JSA March 2001 Co., Ltd. Toppan Photomasks, Inc. [Round Rock] LRQA November 2001 Head office, Saitama Plant (Livretech Siam Toppan Packaging Co., Ltd. MASCI April 2002 JCQA July 2001 Co., Ltd.) Toppan Printing Co., (H.K.) Ltd. DNV May 2002 Fukushima Plant [including Takino Plant, Sagamihara Plant] (Toppan JUSE November 2001 Toppan Chunghwa Electronics Co., Ltd. SGS October 2003 Infomedia Co., Ltd.) PT. Indonesia Toppan Printing LRQA November 2004 Central Research Center (Toppan Toppan Photomasks Korea Limited JQA March 2004 LRQA February 2005 Forms Co., Ltd.) Toppan Photomasks Co., Ltd. Shanghai Toppan Forms Tokai Co., Ltd. JQA August 2004 Toppan SMIC Electronics (Shanghai) SGS February 2007 Toppan Forms Kansai Co., Ltd. JQA April 2007 Co., Ltd. Toppan Forms Nishinihon Co., Ltd. JQA January 2005 Toppan Leefung Printing (Shanghai) CCCI April 2007 Co., Ltd. Hino Plant (Toppan Media Printec JSA November 2005 Toppan Leefung Packaging (Shanghai) Tokyo Co., Ltd.) NQA July 2008 Co., Ltd. Zama Plant (Toppan Media Printec JACO September 2009 Toppan Leefung Changcheng Printing Tokyo Co., Ltd.) ZDHY November 2009 (Beijing) Co., Ltd. Tosho Printing Co., Ltd. Intertek May 2003 Toppan Leefung Printing Limited Head office, Kochi Plant (Ortus (H.K.) BV February 2008 CNAS March 2009 Technology Co., Ltd.) Toppan Leefung Packaging & Printing Gunma Plant (Tamapoly Co., Ltd.) JQA February 2011 (Dongguan) Co., Ltd. Toppan Forms Central Products Co., Toppan Excel Printing (Guangzhou) JQA September 2011 CNAS May 2009 Ltd. Company Limited Sanda Plant (Tamapoly Co., Ltd.) JQA January 2012 Toppan Excel Printing (Meizhou) Co., Ltd. CQC September 2013 Tochigi Plant (Tamapoly Co., Ltd.) JQA August 2017 Toppan Security Printing Pte. Ltd. TUV August 2010 Toppan Win Label Company Limited CQC November 2012 Toppan Yau Yue Paper Products (Dongguan) Co., Ltd. Intertek May 2016 Toppan Yau Yue Packaging (Dongguan) Co., Ltd. 62 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Single-year Environmental Targets ■ Values, Results, and Evaluation of Environmental Targets for Fiscal 2018 and Environmental Target Values for Fiscal 2019 Fiscal 2018 Environmental Management Environmental Targets Target Achievement Target Values Indicators Results Evaluation for Fiscal 2019 Values Rates 1. Mitigation of global warming 535 527 CO2 emissions 101.5% A 535 kilotons Reduce CO2 emissions kilotons kilotons 2. Action for building a recycling-oriented society Final landfill 80 tons 79 tons 101.0% A 78 tons Reduce final landfill waste disposal waste disposal 3. Conservation of the atmospheric environment VOC emissions into the 3,100 tons 2,719 tons 112.3% S 2,700 tons Reduce VOC emissions into the atmosphere atmosphere Evaluation criteria S: Results achieved far surpass the targets (achievement rate [%] ≧ 105) A: Targets achieved (100 ≦ achievement rate [%] < 105) B: Activities fully carried out, but targets unachieved (70 ≦ achievement rate [%] < 100) C: Activities insufficient (achievement rate [%] < 70) Achievement rate: 200 – (values actually achieved / target values) x 100 [%] Medium-and-long-term Environmental Targets The Toppan Group has been undertaking environmental the target values for fiscal 2020. Values from fiscal 2008 are set as conservation activities to ensure that Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. baseline values. and its main domestic Group manufacturing subsidiaries attain ■ CO2 Emissions ■ Final Landfill Waste Disposal (kt-CO2) (tons) 800 751 1,800 1,584 561 537 600 527 1,350 400 900 200 450 97 82 79 0 0 2008 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) 2008 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) *CO emissions associated with electricity consumption are calculated 2 uniformly as 0.378 t-CO2/MWh to confirm the degree of improvement achieved. CO2 emissions in fiscal 2018 totaled 620 kt-CO2 when calculated using the basic emission factor according to the method specified in the Ministerial Ordinance Concerning the Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities of Specified Dischargers (the latest amendment on April 30, 2015) issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan. ■ VOC Emissions into the Atmosphere (tons) 8,000 7,326 6,000 4,000 3,403 2,915 2,719 2,000 0 2008 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) *The data for fiscal 2017 and earlier are adjusted based on revised calculation methods. 63 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The The Environment Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach Evaluating Domestic Environmental Impact based on LIME The Toppan Group applies the Life-cycle Impact assessment baseline of 100. In fiscal 2018 the Group attained a 46% reduction Method based on Endpoint modeling (LIME) to quantify domestic compared to the baseline value from fiscal 2006. environmental impact. The value from fiscal 2006 is set as a ■ Environmental Impact and Environmental ■ Types of Environmental Impact by Business Field Efficiency in Japan 100％ ■ Environmental impact (left axis) Environmental efficiency (right axis) Other 100 Other Other 100 400 Photochemical 80 80％ oxidants 296 310 288 300 60 54.1 ５８． ４ 55.8 40 Environmental impact 200 60％ 189 20 Global Global warming warming Global 0 100 warming 2006 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) 40％ *1 The value in fiscal 2006 = 100 (baseline); recalculated with nonproduction sites excluded *2 Environmental efficiency = net sales / environmental impact The Toppan Group has implemented the following measures in Japan 20％ since fiscal 2006 (base year). ・ Installed solvent treatment equipment and other systems and processes that have together helped reduce VOC emissions into the Resource Resource Resource atmosphere by approximately 77% consumption consumption consumption ・ Practiced high-efficiency production, material recycling, and other 0％ processes that have together contributed to the reduction of total Information & resource consumption by approximately 74% Living & Industry Electronics Communication ・ Replaced existing equipment with energy-saving, high-efficiency alternatives and conducted other energy-saving initiatives that *Toppan’s environmental impact cannot be expressed in uniform terms have contributed to the reduction of total energy consumption by or units, as the materials and product types handled by the Group differ approximately 33% among the business fields. Toppan therefore assesses the environmental impact associated with key items for each business field and reflects that impact in the medium-term targets for the entire Group. 64 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The The Environment Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Environmental Performance Data ■ Major Types of Environmental Burden (Total burden; covering Group companies around the world) Category Chief Component Environmental Burden (Total) Total input 1,847,655 Paper 1,442,375 Ink, solvent 86,658 Material (tons) Plastic 273,141 Glass 9,878 Other 35,604 Total consumption 20,876 Energy (1,000 GJ)*1 Fuel 4,207 INPUT Electricity, steam 16,669 Total consumption 13,922 Industrial water 845 Municipal water 5,151 Water (1,000 m3) Groundwater 7,903 Rainwater used 23 Use of water circulated on premises 4,339 Handling of chemical substances designated under Chemical substances (tons)*2 4,754 the PRTR law CO2 emission (t-CO ) 2 *3 971,327 Fuel-derived (t-CO2) 235,048 Electricity-, steam-derived (t-CO2) 736,279 Atmosphere Release of chemical substances designated under 136 the PRTR law (tons)*2 VOC emission into the atmosphere (tons)*2, 4 4,131 Total effluent discharge (1,000 m3) 10,795 Into public water system (1,000 m3) 7,791 OUTPUT Into sewage system (1,000 m3) 3,003 BOD (kg) 44,438 Water and soil environments COD (kg) 84,120 Nitrogen discharge (kg) 28,268 Phosphorous discharge (kg) 54,827 Release of chemical substances designated under 2 the PRTR law (tons)*2 Total discharge*5 335,445 Waste (tons) Recycled 328,510 Final landfill disposal 5,405 *1 Energy consumption associated with fuel consumption is calculated using the conversion factor specified in the year 2000 amendment of the Act on the Rational Use of Energy of Japan. The primary energy input associated with electricity consumption is calculated uniformly as 0.00983 GJ/kWh. *2 The PRTR data only covers domestic sites (including Group sites not subject to the environmental targets). *3 CO2 emissions are calculated by the method specified in the Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Businesses (2003) issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan. CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption are calculated uniformly as 0.378 t-CO2/MWh. CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption at overseas Group sites, however, are calculated based on the latest conversion factors published by the International Energy Agency (IEA). Fuel-derived CO2 emissions include emissions derived from combustibles burned in incinerators. *4 Emissions into the atmosphere are calculated in conformance with the standards established by the Japan Federation of Printing Industries (JFPI) and the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA). *5 The total discharge of waste includes industrial waste of no value and waste materials of value sold or transferred as resources (both generated in association with business activities). 65 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The The Environment Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . ■ Major Types of Environmental Burden (subject to the environmental targets in Japan) Environmental Burden (subject to the Category Chief Component environmental targets in Japan) Total input 1,071,021 Paper 799,075 Ink, solvent 59,314 Material (tons) Plastic 180,632 Glass 7,763 Other 24,237 Total consumption 12,159 Energy (1,000 GJ)*1 Fuel 3,245 INPUT Electricity, steam 8,914 Total consumption 6,409 Industrial water 818 Municipal water 1,340 Water (1,000 m3) Groundwater 4,240 Rainwater used 10 Use of water circulated on premises 3,813 Handling of chemical substances designated under Chemical substances (tons) 4,610 the PRTR law CO2 emission (t-CO2) *2 526,748 Fuel-derived (t-CO2) 183,727 Electricity-, steam-derived (t-CO2) 343,021 Atmosphere Release of chemical substances designated under 135 the PRTR law (tons) VOC emission into the atmosphere (tons) *3 2,719 Total effluent discharge (1,000 m3) 5,023 Into public water system (1,000 m3) 3,689 OUTPUT Into sewage system (1,000 m3)*4 1,333 BOD (kg) 8,574 Water and soil environments COD (kg) 9,156 Nitrogen discharge (kg) 10,929 Phosphorous discharge (kg) 515 Release of chemical substances designated under 0 the PRTR law (tons) Total discharge*5 209,591 Waste (tons) Recycled 209,029 Final landfill disposal 79 *1 Energy consumption associated with fuel consumption is calculated using the conversion factor specified in the year 2000 amendment of the Act on the Rational Use of Energy of Japan. The primary energy input associated with electricity consumption is calculated uniformly as 0.00983 GJ/kWh. *2 CO2 emissions are calculated by the method specified in the Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Businesses (2003) issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan. CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption are calculated uniformly as 0.378 t-CO2/MWh. Fuel-derived CO2 emissions include emissions derived from combustibles burned in incinerators. *3 Emissions into the atmosphere are calculated in conformance with the standards established by the Japan Federation of Printing Industries (JFPI) and the Japan Electronics and Information Technology Industries Association (JEITA). *4 Includes 10,926 m3 of spring water from the premises of the Akihabara Sales Building. *5 The total discharge of waste includes industrial waste of no value and waste materials of value sold or transferred as resources (both generated in association with business activities). 66 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The The Environment Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach Environmentally Friendly Products (87 products as of March 2019) Business Business Product Standard Categories Field Product Standard Categories Field Ecothrough card Suitability for disposal Cylindrical paperBulky Waste composite container Use of sustainable resources Resource saving (reduced use of materials) Processing Sticker for refill Eco Pack (life-size High-resistance Resource-saving efforts, improvement in transport Resource saving (reduced use of materials) POP display) Flexible Pouch efficiency Paper Desk Calendar Use of recycled materials BIOAXX (label) Use of sustainable resources Ecology Calendar Use of recycled materials Aluminum-free Lid Use of sustainable resources Non-vinyl Chloride Material Suitability for disposal Lenticular Lens Multi-layer Blow Tube Resource-saving efforts Eco Pack Multipanel Reusability Steam-release Reduced environmental burden during use Eco Floor Sticker Suitability for disposal Packaging Information & Communication Eco Pack End Panel Resource saving Air Hold Pouch Resource-saving efforts Eco Pack Stand (round Use of sustainable resources, resource saving, Resource saving BIOAXX (flexible type) environmentally friendly disposal, visualization of packaging material) Resource saving, prolonged product life, recyclability, environmental burden Disk Tottokun Series Square-bottomed Improvement in transport efficiency, resource saving, suitability for disposal Ultra-thin DM Resource saving, reduced energy consumption in Gazette Pouch environmentally friendly disposal (brochures, etc.) production, recyclability Use of recycled materials, procurement of materials with Flexible packaging Eco Pack Multipanel Reusability, prolonged product life, recyclability, easy lower environmental burden, reduced energy consumption material using Mini separation and disassembly in production, environmentally friendly disposal, recycled materials Reusability, prolonged product life, recyclability, easy visualization of environmental burden Multicube POP Printed Decorative Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of separation and disassembly Paper (Coated Paper) hazardous substances Green Bankbook Recyclability, suitability for disposal Printed Decorative Biodegradability, use of safe materials, resource saving, Use of sustainable resources, reduced use of chemical KAMICARD® Paper (Coated Paper recyclability substances, reduced use of hazardous substances FSC-certified) Recyclability, use of safe materials, resource saving, easy Printed Decor Paper KAMI-RFID CARD Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of separation and disassembly for HPL/LPL hazardous substances, reduced release of chemical Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of (Saturated Grade substances Printed materials with hazardous substances, use of recycled materials, use of Paper) environmental logos sustainable resources, use of recyclable energy, carbon Printed Decor Paper Use of sustainable resources, reduced use of chemical offsetting, labeling with environmental logos for HPL/LPL substances, reduced use of hazardous substances, reduced Flip chip ball grid array (Saturated Grade release of chemical substances [FC-BGA] substrate Suitability for disposal Paper FSC-certified) (halogen free) Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of Transfer paper for Color filter (resin Use of safe materials, energy saving, reduced release of hazardous substances, reduced release of chemical Electronics padded floors black matrix [BM]) chemical substances, suitability for disposal substances Palladium pre-plated Use of safe materials, reduced release of chemical Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of Lower-VOC wallpaper leadframe substances, suitability for disposal hazardous substances, reduced release of chemical (Exceptional*) Flip chip ball grid substances Use of safe materials, reduced release of chemical Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of array [FC-BGA] substances, suitability for disposal SnapFit hazardous substances, use of sustainable resources, substrate (lead free) Reduced release of chemical substances, use of safe extension of product life Toppan Ecowall 101 Coordination Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of materials, suitability for disposal Living & Industry TOPPAN ECO Reduced release of chemical substances, extension of Floor REPREA eco hazardous substances, use of sustainable resources, SHEET product life (Exceptional*) extension of product life, labeling with environmental logos GL BARRIER Resource saving, improvement in transport efficiency, Use of sustainable resources, resource-saving efforts Sosogi Jozu (Exceptional*) environmentally friendly disposal Stand-up pouch Resource-saving efforts Preform for PET Improvement in transport efficiency, visualization of Bottled Pouch Resource-saving efforts bottles environmental burden Plastic container made Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of Use of recycled materials hazardous substances, environmentally friendly disposal, from recycled materials FORMANO TT Paper Can Use of sustainable resources reduced release of chemical substances, extension of Ecotainer Recycling, improvement in transport efficiency product life TL-PAK Recycling, improvement in transport efficiency Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of EP-PAK (EP-GL) Improvement in transport efficiency, recycling hazardous substances, environmentally friendly disposal, FORTINA reduced release of chemical substances, extension of EP-PAK (Al) Improvement in transport efficiency product life Stand-up Laminated Resource-saving efforts Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of Tube TOPPAN MATERIAL hazardous substances, use of recycled materials, Recyclen Cap Recycling WOOD (Exceptional*) environmentally friendly disposal, reduced release of AP Carton Improvement in transport efficiency chemical substances, extension of product life Micro Flute Resource-saving efforts, recycling Smart Deli Bag Reduced environmental burden during use TP-Tray Recycling, use of sustainable resources Plastic UV ink Use of recycled materials, use of sustainable resources, Corrugated Board Living & Industry Recycling container improvement in transport efficiency, recycling Cushioning Material Forest-certified-paper Use of sustainable resources, labeling with environmental AD-Case Resource-saving efforts packaging logos Cartocan Use of sustainable resources, recycling, visualization of Biodegradable plastic (Exceptional*) environmental burden Use of biodegradable materials products GL-C Bottle Resource-saving efforts Cardboard with Jar Plus Resource-saving efforts, recycling Resource saving, reduced energy consumption in shrink wrap GL FILM Lined Paper production, improvement in transport efficiency, recycling Use of sustainable resources packaging Cup Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of Double-wall Barrier Emergency magnesium hazardous substances, use of sustainable resources, Resource-saving efforts Paper Cup air battery extension of product life, reduced environmental burden Fluorine-free during use, recycling, environmentally friendly disposal Recycling oil-repellent paper Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of In-mold Barrier Cup Extension of product life, improvement in transport efficiency FINE FEEL (101 hazardous substances, resource saving, extension of Easy Peel-off Materium) Recycling product life, environmentally friendly disposal Thermo-label Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of Eco Band Reusability EP-PAK Fold & Tear/ hazardous substances, use of sustainable resources, Paper carton with Easy Removal Cap improvement in transport efficiency, recycling, tamper-evident Resource-saving efforts (Exceptional*) environmentally friendly disposal, labeling with closure environmental logos Clear UV-blocking BIOAXX flexible Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of Use of sustainable resources Film packaging material hazardous substances, resource saving, use of sustainable BIOAXX (molding (Eco Mark certified) resources, environmentally friendly disposal, visualization Use of sustainable resources product) (Exceptional*) of environmental burden, labeling with environmental logos EL-Case Resource-saving efforts, recycling Reduced use of chemical substances, reduced use of Paper cup made from Flexible packaging hazardous substances, use of recycled materials, resource pulp from forestUse of sustainable resources material using recycled saving, reduced energy consumption in production, thinning operations materials (Eco Mark environmentally friendly disposal, visualization of certified) (Exceptional*) environmental burden, labeling with environmental logos *Exceptional environmentally friendly product 67 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach Results of Environmental Education Training Number of Trainees New employee training: General environmental education 345 E-learning-based programs 14,441 Toppan Challenge School (12 courses) 42 Internal environmental auditor training program 172 Numbers of Internal Environmental Audits and Issues in Need of Improvement Domestic sites audited 57 sites Issues in need of improvement identified at domestic sites 62 issues Domestic sites reviewed 3 sites 68 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach Environmental Accounting: Capital Investment for Environmental Conservation (million yen) Increase/ Average for the Item Major Content Fiscal 2018 Decrease from Fiscal 2017 Last Five Years Investment in equipment to prevent atmospheric and 1,502 499 1,353 Investment in equipment 1 other forms of pollution to prevent pollution (Including equipment to prevent water pollution) （214） (-59) (224) Investment in equipment Investment in equipment to conserve the global 2 to conserve the global 1,088 481 920 environment by mitigating global warming, etc. environment Investment in equipment to realize the appropriate 82 13 146 Investment in equipment treatment and recycling, etc. of waste 3 to circulate resources (Including equipment to use rainwater and reduce water （1） (-8) (18) consumption) Investment in equipment Investment in equipment to monitor and measure 4 to carry out environmental environmental burden, plant trees at operational sites, 12 -37 24 management activities and implement other environmental measures Total 2,683 955 2,443 Environmental Accounting: Environmental Conservation Benefit Item Major Content Increase/Decrease Fiscal 2018 from Fiscal 2017 Energy Total energy consumption (1,000 GJ) -85 20,876 Water Water consumption (1,000 m3) -147 13,922 CO2 emission (kt-CO2) -35 971 Atmosphere Emission of dioxins (mg-TEQ) 2 3 Total effluent discharge (1,000 m3) 183 10,795 Water and soil BOD (tons) -10 44 environments COD (tons) 1 84 Waste Total discharge (kilotons) -27 335 69 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Basic Approach Green Procurement and Green Purchasing ■ Green Procurement Standards for Paper and Level of Fulfillment Fiscal 2018 Green Principle Level 1 Level 2 Result* Paper composed of at least 20% recycled Paper composed of at least 60% recycled 1. Using recycled paper or paper made pulp or forest-certified paper, tree-free pulp plus forest-certified pulp for the with fewer forest resources (excluding paper, paper made with pulp from remaining portion, or with an overall rating covers for brochures) forest-thinning operations, or tissue of more than 80 points paper 5.3% 2. Reducing component properties Non-usage of printing materials with waste Non-usage of printing materials with waste obstructive to waste paper recycling paper recyclability rankings of B, C, or D paper recyclability rankings of C or D 3. Procuring from manufacturers Procurement from manufacturers who proactively use waste paper as a raw material proactively engaged in paper recycling for recycled paper Note: Result under the Green Standards for Offset Printing Services (April 1, 2017 amendment) of the Japan Federation of Printing Industries (JFPI) *Level 1 or 2 paper used (kg) / offset paper purchased (kg) ■ Green Procurement Standards for Ink and Level of Fulfillment Fiscal 2018 Green Principle Level 1 Level 2 Result* 1. Avoiding the use of substances Conformance with the NL regulations of the Japan Printing Ink Makers Association harmful to the human body 2. Considering chemical substances Non-usage of substances designated under Identification of substances designated designated under the PRTR law of the PRTR law under the PRTR law (via SDSs) Japan 3. Controlling VOC emissions Vegetable oil ink, soybean oil ink, or “ig” (for offset ink, excluding heat-set ink Non-VOC ink or UV ink 97.6% ink (labeling with Ink Green Mark) for web press) 4. Using sustainable resources Vegetable oil ink, soybean oil ink, or “ig” ink (labeling with Ink Green Mark) (for heat-set ink for web press) Non-usage of printing materials with 5. Reducing component properties Non-usage of printing materials with waste waste paper recyclability rankings of C obstructive to waste paper recycling paper recyclability rankings of B, C, or D or D Note: Result under the JFPI Green Standards for Offset Printing Services (April 1, 2017 amendment) *Level 1 or 2 ink used (kg) / offset ink purchased (kg) ■ In-house Green Purchasing Standards and Levels of Fulfillment Product Standard Fiscal 2018 Result Copy machines and printers Configured to automatically revert to low-power mode or off mode 89.4% Configured to automatically revert to low-power mode or off mode and to maintain PCs 100.0% low energy consumption when in low-power mode Stationery and office goods Products listed in eco-friendly product catalogues of manufacturers 72.5% Environment-related Businesses The total sales of environment-related businesses—including, most notably, sales of environmentally friendly products satisfying the inhouse criteria of the Toppan Group—were 600.6 billion yen in fiscal 2018. 70 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Mitigation of Global Warming Mitigation of Global Warming Basic Approach The Toppan Group has formulated the following basic policies for climate security. mitigating global warming. The Group will continue to adopt renewable energy sources on Toppan positions global warming mitigation as an important a preferential basis and assertively encourage the broad use of element of management. The Group focuses on energy management renewables into the future. and the rational use of energy in implementing activities towards Promotion Framework ■ Promotion Structure The Board of Directors is the highest-level body responsible for the actual implementation of conservation activities carried out at their Toppan Group’s environmental management. The board appoints a sites and collaborate to propel environmental initiatives throughout director to head the Ecology Center, an organization that oversees the divisions. Toppan’s environmental conservation initiatives by supervising, To accelerate the initiatives, these officers have set up Ecoevaluating, and verifying environmental activities undertaken protection Promotion Committees, bodies composed of persons throughout the Group and reporting results to the Board of relevant to the environment across the departments. The Directors. committees promote environmental conservation activities at The Toppan Group has established an environmental Group sites and manage progress. For advanced environmental conservation framework in which the heads of every division, measures, the committees have convened multiple subcommittees Group company, and operational site are positioned as the to formulate necessary responses to specific environmental issues. personnel chiefly responsible for environmental efforts. These Energy Subcommittees, for example, pursue energy-saving efforts to heads appoint Environmental Management Officers to steer the help mitigate global warming. ■ Environmental Management Organization Board of Directors Director in charge of the Ecology Center Ecology Center Group companies Toppan business divisions Presidents Division heads Environmental Management Oﬃcers Environmental Management Oﬃcers Eco-protection Promotion Committees Eco-protection Promotion Committees Energy Subcommittees Other subcommittees 71 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Mitigation of Global Warming ■ Environmental Management Systems The Toppan Group has established environmental management the Toppan Group’s environmental conservation activities. The systems (EMSs) based on ISO 14001. evaluation results are assured by an audit firm (independent A PDCA cycle of planning, support and operation, performance assurance provider) and reported to the Board of Directors. The evaluation, and improvement serves as a core part of the ISO center discloses the verified performance data via the Toppan 14001-based EMSs to ensure ongoing improvement. corporate website and other communication channels. Group sites maintain their EMSs through management system audits by ISO 14001 registrars, internal audits (of legal compliance) ISO 14001 environmental management system certification (in Japanese) by the Ecology Center, and other internal environmental audits at https://www.toppan.co.jp/about-us/our-corporate-approach/iso/iso14001.html individual sites. Independent Assurance Report The Ecology Center aggregates evaluations of environmental https://www.toppan.com/library/english/sustainability/files/pdf/2019/ performance as the organization responsible for overseeing csr2019_detail-en.pdf#page=98 ■ Management Cycle under ISO 14001:2015 Internal and Needs and external issues Context of the organization expectations of interested parties Scope of the environmental management system P Planning 6.1 Actions to address risks and opportunities 6.1.1 General 6.1.2 Environmental aspects Support and 6.1.3 Compliance obligations 6.1.4 Planning action Operation 6.2 Environmental objectives and planning to achieve them 7.1 Resources 6.2.1 Environmental objectives 7.2 Competence 6.2.2 Planning actions to achieve environmental objectives 7.3 Awareness 7.4 Communication 7.4.1 General A Improvement Leadership 7.4.2 Internal communication D 7.4.3 External communication 10.1 General 5.1 Leadership and commitment 7.5 Documented information 10.2 Nonconformity and 5.2 Environmental policy 7.5.1 General corrective action 5.3 Organizational roles, 7.5.2 Creating and updating 10.3 Continual improvement responsibilities and authorities 7.5.3 Control of documented information 8.1 Operational planning and Performance Evaluation control 8.2 Emergency preparedness 9.1 Monitoring, measurement, 9.2 Internal audit and response analysis and evaluation 9.2.1 General 9.1.1 General 9.2.2 Internal audit 9.1.2 Evaluation of compliance programme 9.3 Management review C Intended outcomes of the environmental management system 72 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Mitigation of Global Warming ■ Mitigating Global Warming The Toppan Group has been reducing total emissions of carbon Group, is working with shippers from Toppan Group companies dioxide (CO2) and other greenhouse gases (GHGs) to help to optimize transportation conditions and further improve mitigate global warming. To reduce scope 1 GHG emissions transportation efficiency. Together they endeavor to reduce the (direct emissions from industrial processes or fuels consumed at energy consumption per unit of transport volume by company the Group), Toppan is systematically replacing long-used utility vehicles and the total volume of CO₂ emissions from transport. facilities with high-efficiency alternatives. The Group is also As a member of the Japan Federation of Printing Industries (JFPI; installing systems to abate high-global-warming-potential (GWP) Chairman Shingo Kaneko, Chairman & Representative Director gases emitted from semiconductor production processes and of Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.), Toppan has driven industry-wide replacing the high-GWP gases used in those processes with lowerefforts to spawn global warming mitigation measures, primarily GWP alternatives. through its involvement in JFPI activities to address climate Toppan also reduces scope 2 GHG emissions (indirect emissions change and promote low carbonization. Under the leadership of associated with the consumption of electricity, heating, or cooling Toshiro Kinoshita from Toppan Printing’s Ecology Center, the JFPI’s purchased or acquired by the Group) by operating a nationwide Working Group for Voluntary Action Plans on the Environment demand-monitoring system to control peak power demand across (under the Environmental Management Task Force of the Global Japan, redressing power demand-and-supply imbalances, and Environment Committee) pursues industry-wide global warming reducing the nonessential use of power by suspending the operation mitigation initiatives by devising voluntary action plans for reducing of equipment during vacations. VOC emissions and implementing various other measures towards Toppan Logistics Co., Ltd., the logistics specialist for the the realization of a low-carbon, circular economy. 73 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Mitigation of Global Warming *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Main Activities and Relevant Information CO2 Emissions ■ CO2 Emissions (Group-wide) (kt-CO2) In fiscal 2017 the Toppan Group began evaluating and disclosing 1,200 1,032 1,006 Group-wide CO2 emissions, including emissions associated with 971 1,000 overseas Group subsidiaries. 800 600 400 200 0 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) *CO2 emissions are calculated by the method specified in the Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Businesses (2003) issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan. CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption are calculated uniformly as 0.378 t-CO2/MWh. CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption at overseas Group sites, however, are calculated using the latest conversion factors published by the International Energy Agency (IEA). CO2 emissions include emissions derived from combustibles burned in incinerators. ■ CO2 Emissions (kt-CO2） (subject to the environmental targets in Japan) 800 751 Among CO2 emissions from various sources (subject to the environmental targets in Japan), emissions associated with 600 561 537 527 electricity consumption are calculated using a fixed factor to assess the Group’s CO2 reduction measures. 400 200 0 2008 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) *CO2 emissions are calculated by the method specified in the Guidelines for Calculating Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Businesses (2003) issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan. CO2 emissions associated with electricity consumption are calculated uniformly as 0.378 t-CO2/MWh to confirm the degree of improvement achieved. CO2 emissions in fiscal 2018 totaled 620 kt-CO2 when calculated using the basic emission factor from another MOE method specified in the Ministerial Ordinance Concerning the Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities of Specified Dischargers (the latest amendment on April 30, 2015). CO2 emissions include emissions derived from combustibles burned in incinerators. 74 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Mitigation of Global Warming *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Energy Consumption In fiscal 2017 the Toppan Group began evaluating and disclosing energy consumption across the entire Group (including consumption at overseas Group subsidiaries). ■ Energy Consumption ■ Electricity Consumption (1,000 GJ) ■ Group-wide (GWh) ■ Group-wide ■ Group sites subject to the environmental targets in Japan ■ Group sites subject to the environmental targets in Japan 25,000 2,000 21,903 1,761 1,735 1,695 20,961 20,876 20,000 1,600 15,000 1,200 12,842 12,380 12,159 937 912 906 10,000 800 5,000 400 0 0 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) ■ Natural Gas Consumption ■ Kerosene Consumption (1,000 Nm³）■ Group-wide (kL) ■ Group-wide ■ Group sites subject to the environmental targets in Japan ■ Group sites subject to the environmental targets in Japan 100,000 5,000 90,580 87,813 84,588 80,000 75,309 4,000 3,748 3,907 71,273 3,492 3,667 3,618 67,965 3,403 60,000 3,000 40,000 2,000 20,000 1,000 0 0 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) ■ Fuel Efficiency of Vehicles Owned by Toppan Logistics (km/L) 5.0 4.5 4.31 4.11 4.0 3.91 3.5 3.0 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) 75 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Mitigation of Global Warming *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Scope 1-3 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Based on the fiscal 2018 results, Toppan calculated the Groupmaterial consumption collectively accounted for the largest wide scope 3 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (indirect emissions share of the Group’s CO2-equivalent GHG emissions: category 1 not included in scope 2, associated with business operations (manufacturing of products purchased by Toppan), categories 4 throughout the entire value chain of the Group) to identify the and 9 (transportation and distribution of products purchased and categories of corporate activity that represented larger sources sold by Toppan), category 12 (end-of-life treatment of products sold of CO2 emissions and to establish priority targets in the Group’s by Toppan). emission reduction strategy (GHG emissions associated with one Meanwhile, Toppan has met the Group’s fiscal 2018 target for overseas manufacturing subsidiary were excluded). reducing CO2e GHG emissions in line with the 2030 goal approved This calculation showed that four categories related to raw by the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). ■ Scope 1-3 CO2 Emissions (kt-CO2) ■ Calculating Scope 3 Emissions Scope 3 Other categories* Scope 1 ● Extraction of raw materials 325 232 Scope 2 Category 9 886 Scope 2 320 ● Consumption of Category 12 Suppliers, etc. electricity supplied ● Production of raw by entities outside the reporting 867 company materials, etc. ● Consumption of heating and cooling 6,917 supplied by entities outside Category 4 the reporting company 547 Scope 1 Category 1 The reporting company itself 3,740 ● Transportation and ● Fuel combustion distribution of raw ● Emissions from industrial materials, etc. processes *Categories 2, 3, 5, 6, 7, 8 ● End-of-life treatment of ● Employee commuting sold products and goods ● Sales activities, business travel Users of products ● Transportation and and goods distribution of sold ● Use of sold products products and goods and goods 76 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Mitigation of Global Warming ■ Details of the Scope 1-3 Categories ・ For scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions, CO2 emissions associated with Emissions Types electricity consumption at domestic sites are calculated using the basic emission Direct emissions Direct emissions from industrial processes or factor from the method specified in the Ministerial Ordinance Concerning the (Scope 1) fuels consumed at the reporting company Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities of Specified Indirect emissions associated with the Dischargers (the latest amendment on April 30, 2015) issued by the Ministry of the Indirect consumption of electricity, heating, or cooling Environment (MOE) of Japan. Meanwhile, CO2 emissions associated with electricity emissions purchased or acquired by the reporting consumption at overseas sites are calculated using country-specific conversion (Scope 2) company factors published by the International Energy Agency (IEA). ・CO2 emissions associated with fuel consumption, excluding electricity consumption, are calculated globally by the MOE method specified in the Ministerial Ordinance Concerning the Calculation of Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Business Activities of Specified Dischargers (the latest amendment on April 30, 2015). ・ Non-energy-derived GHG emissions from production processes are presented on page 78. Calculation Methods Indirect Emissions Not Included in Scope 2 (Scope 3) Activity Quantity Basic Unit from Emissions associated with activities up to the point of the Purchased goods production of raw materials, components, goods, sales-related Materials purchased or Category 1 CFP-DB*2 and services materials, or the like purchased or acquired by the reporting acquired (by weight) company Emissions that occur during the construction or production of Capital investments by Category 2 Capital goods MOE-DB*1 capital goods purchased or acquired by the reporting company business field Fueland energyEmissions associated with the procurement of fuels supplied by 1. Electricity and steam related activities (not entities outside the reporting company or fuels necessary for the 1. MOE-DB*1 Category 3 consumption included in scope 1 or generation, etc. of electricity, heating, cooling, etc. consumed by 2. CFP-DB*2 scope 2) the reporting company 2. Fuel consumption 1. Freight ton-kilometers as a Emissions associated with logistics up to the point of the arrival designated shipper classified Upstream of incoming raw materials, components, goods, sales-related under the Energy Saving Act 1. Energy Saving Category 4 transportation and materials, or the like purchased or acquired by the reporting of Japan Act of Japan distribution company; transportation and distribution of products sold by the 2. Estimated freight ton2. CFP-DB*2 reporting company kilometers of procurement logistics Waste generated in Emissions associated with the transportation and treatment of Category 5 Waste discharge by type MOE-DB*1 operations waste generated at the reporting company Business travel expenses by Category 6 Business travel Emissions associated with business travel by employees MOE-DB*1 transport mode Employee Emissions associated with the commuting of employees between Category 7 Commuter fares or petrol costs MOE-DB*1 commuting their homes and worksites Emissions associated with the operation of assets leased by the Upstream leased Electricity and gas consumed Emission factors Category 8 reporting company (lessee), excluding scope 1 and scope 2 assets at tenant premises by business emissions Downstream Emissions associated with the transportation, storage, loading, or Estimated freight Category 9 transportation and CFP-DB*2 retailing of sold products after delivery to customers ton-kilometers by product distribution Excluded from calculation because there are no Processing of sold Emissions associated with the processing of sold intermediate Category 10 scenarios or units that apply universally to products products by downstream companies Toppan’s diversified products Emissions associated with the end use of sold products by users Category 11 Use of sold products Not applicable (consumers, downstream companies) End-of-life Emissions associated with the transportation and treatment of Waste disposal by product Category 12 treatment of sold sold products at the end of their life by users (consumers, CFP-DB*2 (estimated) products downstream companies) Downstream leased Emissions associated with the operation of assets owned by the Category 13 Not applicable assets reporting company (lessor) Category 14 Franchises Emissions from franchise members Not applicable Category 15 Investments Emissions related to the operation of investments Excluded from calculation Notes ・ Toppan calculates the Group’s scope 3 emissions for categories 1-9 and 12. ・ The calculation boundary covers Group-wide GHG emissions associated with Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. and its consolidated entities, excluding one overseas manufacturing subsidiary. ・ For “freight ton-kilometers as a designated shipper classified under the Energy Saving Act of Japan” in category 4, “business travel” in category 6, and “employee commuting” in category 7, Toppan has estimated total values across the calculation boundary in terms of the proportion of production volume or employee numbers based on the values counted for organizations whose activities are quantifiable. *1 MOE-DB: Emission unit database for calculating the greenhouse gas emissions, etc. of organizations throughout the entire supply chain (ver. 2.5) issued by the Ministry of the Environment of Japan *2 CFP-DB: Standard database (ver. 1.01) of the Japan Environmental Management Association for Industry (JEMAI) Carbon Footprint of Products (CFP) Communication Program 77 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Mitigation of Global Warming *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Greenhouse Gas Emissions ■ Percentages of Greenhouse Gas Emissions ■ Percentages of Greenhouse Gas Emissions by Type (in tons of CO2 equivalent) by Source (in tons of CO2 equivalent) Scope 2: Electricity and Scope 1: Fuel consumption steam consumption 220,576 t-CO₂e CO₂ 736,279 t-CO₂e （19.9%） 87.71% （66.5%） Scope 1: Non-energy-derived greenhouse gases 150,629 t-CO₂e （13.6%） Other SF6 2.09% 10.20% NF₃ Notes N₂O 0.04% ・ Calculated by the method specified in the Guidelines for Calculating 0.08% Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Businesses (2003) issued by the HFC CH₄ Ministry of the Environment of Japan. 0.02% 0.11% ・ Fiscal 2018 greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions from domestic sites PFC (subject to and not subject to the environmental targets) and overseas 1.83% sites (including Group company sites) are based on calculations of emissions of energy-derived CO2 and non-energy-derived CO2, CH4, N2O, HFC, PFC, SF6, and NF3. GHG emissions accounting for 0.01% or more of total emissions in CO2-equivalent values from these sites (namely, emissions associated with dry etching, dry ice consumed, waste burned in incinerators, combusted refuse-derived fuel, and fuel consumed in Total: 1,107,484 t-CO2e cogeneration systems) are included. ■ Calculated Level of Fluorocarbon Leakage Fiscal Year Domestic Sites Domestic Sites Overseas Sites (subject to the environmental targets) (not subject to the environmental targets) 2018 892 t-CO2e 594 t-CO2e 4,165 t-CO2e Notes: ・ The values shown for domestic sites (subject to and not subject to the environmental targets) are calculated in conformance with the Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons enforced in April 2015 in Japan. ・ The value shown for overseas sites (including Group company sites) is calculated by a method corresponding to the Japanese Act on Rational Use and Proper Management of Fluorocarbons. 78 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Building of a Recyclingoriented Society Building of a Recycling-oriented Society Basic Approach The Toppan Group has formulated the following basic policies 2) Second priority is given to the reuse or recycling of industrial to contribute to the building of a recycling-oriented society, an waste and waste materials discharged in spite of the reduction endeavor it positions as an important element of management. The efforts. Group processes industrial waste and waste materials in line with 3) Third priority is given to the application of appropriate treatment the following priorities. methods to industrial waste and waste materials not reused or 1) First priority is given to reductions of the discharge of industrial recycled. waste and waste materials generated in association with This order of priority may not apply when another order of priority business activities. is deemed to be more effective for reducing environmental burden. Promotion Framework ■ Promotion Structure The Board of Directors is the highest-level body responsible for the personnel chiefly responsible for environmental efforts. These Toppan Group’s environmental management. The board appoints a heads appoint Environmental Management Officers to steer the director to head the Ecology Center, an organization that oversees actual implementation of conservation activities carried out at their Toppan’s environmental conservation initiatives by supervising, sites and collaborate to propel environmental initiatives throughout evaluating, and verifying environmental activities undertaken the divisions. throughout the Group and reporting results to the Board of To accelerate the initiatives, these officers have set up EcoDirectors. protection Promotion Committees, bodies composed of persons The Toppan Group has established an environmental relevant to the environment across the departments. The conservation framework in which the heads of every division, committees promote environmental conservation activities at Group company, and operational site are positioned as the Group sites and manage progress. ■ Environmental Management Organization Board of Directors Director in charge of the Ecology Center Ecology Center Group companies Toppan business divisions Presidents Division heads Environmental Management Oﬃcers Environmental Management Oﬃcers Eco-protection Promotion Committees Eco-protection Promotion Committees Energy Subcommittees Other subcommittees 79 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Building of a Recyclingoriented Society ■ Environmental Management Systems The Toppan Group has established environmental management the Toppan Group’s environmental conservation activities. The systems (EMSs) based on ISO 14001. evaluation results are assured by an audit firm (independent A PDCA cycle of planning, support and operation, performance assurance provider) and reported to the Board of Directors. The evaluation, and improvement serves as a core part of the ISO center discloses the verified performance data via the Toppan 14001-based EMSs to ensure ongoing improvement. corporate website and other communication channels. Group sites maintain their EMSs through management system audits by ISO 14001 registrars, internal audits (of legal compliance) ISO 14001 environmental management system certification (in Japanese) by the Ecology Center, and other internal environmental audits at https://www.toppan.co.jp/about-us/our-corporate-approach/iso/iso14001.html individual sites. Independent Assurance Report The Ecology Center aggregates evaluations of environmental https://www.toppan.com/library/english/sustainability/files/pdf/2019/ performance as the organization responsible for overseeing csr2019_detail-en.pdf#page=98 ■ Management Cycle under ISO 14001:2015 Internal and Needs and external issues Context of the organization expectations of interested parties Scope of the environmental management system P Planning 6.1 Actions to address risks and opportunities 6.1.1 General 6.1.2 Environmental aspects Support and 6.1.3 Compliance obligations 6.1.4 Planning action Operation 6.2 Environmental objectives and planning to achieve them 7.1 Resources 6.2.1 Environmental objectives 7.2 Competence 6.2.2 Planning actions to achieve environmental objectives 7.3 Awareness 7.4 Communication 7.4.1 General A Improvement Leadership 7.4.2 Internal communication D 7.4.3 External communication 10.1 General 5.1 Leadership and commitment 7.5 Documented information 10.2 Nonconformity and 5.2 Environmental policy 7.5.1 General corrective action 5.3 Organizational roles, 7.5.2 Creating and updating 10.3 Continual improvement responsibilities and authorities 7.5.3 Control of documented information 8.1 Operational planning and Performance Evaluation control 8.2 Emergency preparedness 9.1 Monitoring, measurement, 9.2 Internal audit and response analysis and evaluation 9.2.1 General 9.1.1 General 9.2.2 Internal audit 9.1.2 Evaluation of compliance programme 9.3 Management review C Intended outcomes of the environmental management system ■ Building a Recycling-oriented Society In a drive to use limited resources more effectively, the Toppan field. The Group has striven to increase the material recycling Group works to reduce the discharge of waste, increase the rate by processing waste paper into recycled paper, separating recycling rate, and apply appropriate waste treatment methods waste plastics and processing composite plastics into pellets, and based on The Toppan Group Declaration on the Global recycling by other methods. Waste acid, meanwhile, has been Environment. treated in-house to lower volumes for disposal. In its approaches Waste paper derived from operational sites primarily in the to water, a limited resource, Toppan is committed to reducing the Information & Communication and Living & Industry fields makes level of water consumed and to controlling the quality of effluents up the largest portion (about 70%) of the total waste discharged discharged into water systems. The Group will continue reducing at Group sites. This is followed by waste plastics from plants in waste discharge and promoting material recycling. the Living & Industry field and waste acid from the Electronics 80 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Building of a Recyclingoriented Society *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Main Activities and Relevant Information Material Input In fiscal 2017 the Toppan Group began evaluating and disclosing (kilotons) ■ Paper ■ Plastic ■ Ink, solvent ■ Other ■ Glass 2,500 Group-wide material input, including input at overseas Group 10.1 9.6 subsidiaries. 2,000 44.4 9.9 43.3 91.5 35.6 1,500 89.4 267.8 86.7 270.5 273.1 1,000 1721.1 1582.5 1442.4 500 0 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) Water Consumption In fiscal 2017 the Toppan Group began evaluating and disclosing Group-wide water consumption, including consumption at overseas Group subsidiaries. ■ Water Consumption ■ Effluent Discharge (1,000 m³) ■ Groundwater ■ Municipal water ■ Industrial water (1,000 m³) (1,000 m³) ■ Into public water system ■ Into sewage system ■ Rainwater (left axis) ■ Use of water circulated on premises (right axis) 15,000 4,500 12,500 24 24 23 942 815 845 12,000 4,358 4,339 4,400 10,000 3,085 3,003 5,656 5,151 3,171 9,000 5,762 4,300 7,500 4,203 6,000 4,200 5,000 7,086 7,527 7,791 3,000 7,352 7,468 7,903 4,100 2,500 0 4,000 0 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) Waste Discharge and Recycling In fiscal 2017 the Toppan Group began evaluating and disclosing (tons) ■ Recycled ■ Final landfill waste disposal Group-wide waste discharge and recycling, including discharge and 400,000 recycling at overseas Group subsidiaries. ５，７０8 7,407 320,000 5,405 240,000 160,000 362,860 353,221 328,510 80,000 0 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) 81 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Building of a Recyclingoriented Society Zero-emission Efforts ・55 sites approved in July 2018 99.5% or over; A+-rank site, recycling rate of 99% or over and less ・The Toppan Group approves operational sites as zero-emission than 99.5%; and A-rank site, recycling rate of 98% or over and less sites based on a three-level grading system according to their than 99%. recycling rates. ・Group sites satisfying any of the following criteria were approved as zero-emission sites in July 2018: S-rank site, recycling rate of ■ Zero-emission Sites (TZERO-18) (55 sites approved in July 2018) Total Waste Waste Recycled in Recycling Rate in Operational Site (Division or Group Company) Generation in Rank Fiscal 2017 (tons) Fiscal 2017 (%) Fiscal 2017 (tons) Sapporo Plant (Hokkaido Subdivision) 2,071 2,071 100.00 S Sendai Plant (Higashinihon Division) 4,687 4,682 99.894 S Itabashi Site 5,390 5,365 99.536 S Asaka Site [Commercial Printing, Publications Printing] (Toppan 1,757 1,754 99.818 S Communication Products Co., Ltd.) Asaka Securities Printing Plant (Toppan Communication Products 3,080 3,080 100.00 S Co., Ltd.) Kawaguchi Site 32,061 32,061 100.00 S Sakado Site 24,153 24,153 100.00 S Ranzan Plant (Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd.) 812.5 812.5 100.00 S Nagoya Plant (Chubu Division) 6,248 6,243 99.929 S Takino Plant (Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd.) 9,419 9,348 99.237 A+ Takino Securities Printing Plant (Toppan Communication Products 900.0 892.5 99.173 A+ Co., Ltd.) Fukuoka Plant (Toppan Communication Products Co., Ltd.) 5,913 5,913 100.00 S Fukuyama Plant (Toppan Joho Kako Co., Ltd.) 1,913 1,899 99.294 A+ Oyodo Plant (Kansai Subdivision, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.) 147.1 145.5 98.891 A Chitose Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 3,320 3,262 98.253 A Gunma Central Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 11,322 11,303 99.830 S Sagamihara Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 17,289 17,289 100.00 S Matsusaka Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 2,974 2,942 98.932 A Takino Plant [liquids] (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 5,252 5,252 100.00 S Takino Plant [folding cartons] (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 6,614 6,614 Fukusaki Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 6,983 6,901 98.830 A Fukusaki Plant (Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd.) 361.0 361.0 100.00 S Fukuoka Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 5,952 5,952 100.00 S Miyata Plant (Toppan Packaging Service Co., Ltd.) 166.0 166.0 100.00 S Mikkabi Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 3,065 3,065 100.00 S Tamana Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 5,022 5,022 100.00 S Satte Plant (Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd.) 773.2 769.4 99.516 S Saga Plant (Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd.) 188.0 187.9 99.985 S Ranzan Plant (Toppan Packaging Service Co., Ltd.) 629.3 629.3 100.00 S Sodegaura Beverage Plant (Toppan Packaging Service Co., Ltd.) 1,771 1,771 100.00 S Amagi Plant (Toppan Packaging Service Co., Ltd.) 227.4 227.4 100.00 S Mito Plant (Toppan Prosprint Co., Ltd.) 4,690 4,690 99.990 S Kansai Bottling Co., Ltd. 75.37 75.35 99.973 S Harima Plant (Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd.) 653.7 653.7 100.00 S Satte Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 616.5 616.5 100.00 S Fukaya Plant (Toppan Packaging Products Co., Ltd.) 1,862 1,858 99.781 S Kashiwa Plant (Toppan Decor Products Inc.) 399.4 397.7 99.560 S Satte Plant (Toppan Decor Products Inc.) 6,670 6,670 100.00 S Asaka Plant (Toppan Electronics Products Co., Ltd.) 65.48 65.48 100.00 S Shiga Plant (Toppan Electronics Products Co., Ltd.) 347.9 347.9 99.901 S Shiga Plant (Toppan TOMOEGAWA Optical Films Co., Ltd.) 531.7 530.9 Mie Plant [Kameyama] (Toppan Electronics Products Co., Ltd.) 2,262 2,262 100.00 S Mie Plant [Hisai] (Toppan Electronics Products Co., Ltd.) 2,840 2,840 100.00 S Niigata Plant (Toppan Electronics Products Co., Ltd.) 6,097 6,088 99.862 S Kumamoto Plant (Toppan Electronics Products Co., Ltd.) 6,405 6,405 100.00 S Toppan Technical Research Institute (Toppan Printing Co., Ltd.) 435.9 431.9 99.078 A+ Sagamihara Plant (Toppan TDK Label Co., Ltd.) 472.5 472.2 99.937 S Takino Plant (Toppan TDK Label Co., Ltd.) 443.9 443.9 99.995 S Fukushima Plant (Toppan TDK Label Co., Ltd.) 1,908 1,907 99.947 S Gunma Plant (Tamapoly Co., Ltd.) 3,178 3,130 98.489 A Sanda Plant (Tamapoly Co., Ltd.) 3,112 3,112 100.00 S Tochigi Plant (Tamapoly Co., Ltd.) 2,460 2,459 99.967 S Saitama Plant (Livretech Co., Ltd.) 6,853 6,818 99.498 A+ Hino Plant (Toppan Media Printec Tokyo Co., Ltd.) 588.7 588.5 99.966 S Zama Plant (Toppan Media Printec Tokyo Co., Ltd.) 223.0 222.8 99.910 S Tokyo Head Office (Ortus Technology Co., Ltd.) 4.819 4.731 98.177 A Kochi Factory (Ortus Technology Co., Ltd.) 1,330 1,316 98.970 A Notes: ・ The Toppan Group approves operational sites as zero-emission sites based on a three-level grading system according to their recycling rates. ・ S-rank site, recycling rate of 99.5% or over; A+-rank site, recycling rate of 99% or over and less than 99.5%; A-rank site, recycling rate of 98% or over and less than 99%. ・ Group sites satisfying any of the above criteria were approved as zero-emission sites in July 2018. 82 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Control of Chemical Substances Control of Chemical Substances Basic Approach The Toppan Group has formulated the following basic policies on and endeavors to reduce their usage and replace them with chemical substance control. substitutes. Toppan refrains from the use of hazardous chemical substances Toppan monitors every chemical substance used within the as a basic rule. The Group may, however, resort to the use of Group’s business operations. The Toppan Group seeks to eliminate hazardous substances when their use is legally permitted and obstacles to environmental conservation in advance by being no alternate technologies are available. Even when these latter proactive in constantly improving substance control methods as a conditions apply, the Group appropriately controls the substances business operator. Promotion Framework ■ Promotion Structure The Board of Directors is the highest-level body responsible for the actual implementation of conservation activities carried out at their Toppan Group’s environmental management. The board appoints a sites and collaborate to propel environmental initiatives throughout director to head the Ecology Center, an organization that oversees the divisions. Toppan’s environmental conservation initiatives by supervising, To accelerate the initiatives, these officers have set up Ecoevaluating, and verifying environmental activities undertaken protection Promotion Committees, bodies composed of persons throughout the Group and reporting results to the Board of relevant to the environment across the departments. The Directors. committees promote environmental conservation activities at The Toppan Group has established an environmental Group sites and manage progress. For advanced environmental conservation framework in which the heads of every division, measures, the committees have convened multiple subcommittees Group company, and operational site are positioned as the to formulate necessary responses to specific environmental issues. personnel chiefly responsible for environmental efforts. These Energy Subcommittees, for example, pursue energy-saving efforts to heads appoint Environmental Management Officers to steer the help mitigate global warming. ■ Environmental Management Organization Board of Directors Director in charge of the Ecology Center Ecology Center Group companies Toppan business divisions Presidents Division heads Environmental Management Oﬃcers Environmental Management Oﬃcers Eco-protection Promotion Committees Eco-protection Promotion Committees Energy Subcommittees Other subcommittees 83 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Control of Chemical Substances ■ Environmental Management Systems The Toppan Group has established environmental management the Toppan Group’s environmental conservation activities. The systems (EMSs) based on ISO 14001. evaluation results are assured by an audit firm (independent A PDCA cycle of planning, support and operation, performance assurance provider) and reported to the Board of Directors. The evaluation, and improvement serves as a core part of the ISO center discloses the verified performance data via the Toppan 14001-based EMSs to ensure ongoing improvement. corporate website and other communication channels. Group sites maintain their EMSs through management system audits by ISO 14001 registrars, internal audits (of legal compliance) ISO 14001 environmental management system certification (in Japanese) by the Ecology Center, and other internal environmental audits at https://www.toppan.co.jp/about-us/our-corporate-approach/iso/iso14001.html individual sites. Independent Assurance Report The Ecology Center aggregates evaluations of environmental https://www.toppan.com/library/english/sustainability/files/pdf/2019/ performance as the organization responsible for overseeing csr2019_detail-en.pdf#page=98 ■ Management Cycle under ISO 14001:2015 Internal and Needs and external issues Context of the organization expectations of interested parties Scope of the environmental management system P Planning 6.1 Actions to address risks and opportunities 6.1.1 General 6.1.2 Environmental aspects Support and 6.1.3 Compliance obligations 6.1.4 Planning action Operation 6.2 Environmental objectives and planning to achieve them 7.1 Resources 6.2.1 Environmental objectives 7.2 Competence 6.2.2 Planning actions to achieve environmental objectives 7.3 Awareness 7.4 Communication 7.4.1 General A Improvement Leadership 7.4.2 Internal communication D 7.4.3 External communication 10.1 General 5.1 Leadership and commitment 7.5 Documented information 10.2 Nonconformity and 5.2 Environmental policy 7.5.1 General corrective action 5.3 Organizational roles, 7.5.2 Creating and updating 10.3 Continual improvement responsibilities and authorities 7.5.3 Control of documented information 8.1 Operational planning and Performance Evaluation control 8.2 Emergency preparedness 9.1 Monitoring, measurement, 9.2 Internal audit and response analysis and evaluation 9.2.1 General 9.1.1 General 9.2.2 Internal audit 9.1.2 Evaluation of compliance programme 9.3 Management review C Intended outcomes of the environmental management system ■ Controlling Chemical Substances The Toppan Group strives to reduce the consumption of chemical substances, these standards list substances that are banned or substances in order to mitigate the impact of these substances on restricted with regard to use as raw materials. Toppan regularly the environment. The Group continues reducing the consumption reviews the list to assure chemical control and asks every supplier of chemical substances designated under the Pollutant Release to control the chemical substances listed. and Transfer Register (PRTR) law of Japan and introducing safer For reduced VOC emissions into the atmosphere, the Group substitutes by setting priorities in terms of both the type and range applies adequate treatment before discharge to ensure that the of application. Group production sites have also been appropriately emission volumes and concentrations are controlled at appropriate controlling chemical substances based on established management levels. Increasing efforts are also made to reduce the consumption procedures. of VOCs. The Toppan Group has formulated a set of Standards for the Management of Chemical Components of Raw Materials governing Toppan Group Standards for the Management of Chemical Components of Raw Materials (ver. 4.5) the substances and materials the Group purchases. Based on https://www.toppan.com/library/english/about-us/files/ Japanese and international laws and regulations on chemical sustainability/2019/proc2019_en04.pdf 84 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Control of Chemical Substances *Every indicator assured by an independent assurance provider is marked with an assurance stamp . Main Activities and Relevant Information VOC Emissions into the Atmosphere ■ VOC Emissions into the Atmosphere (subject to the environmental targets in Japan) (tons) 8,000 7,326 6,000 4,000 3,403 2,915 2,719 2,000 0 2008 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) *The data for fiscal 2017 and earlier are adjusted based on revised calculation methods. PRTR Data ■ Chemical Substances Designated under the PRTR law of Japan (subject to the environmental targets in Japan) (Unit: kg/year) Released Total PRTR No. Chemical Substance Handled 1. Atmosphere 2. Water 3. Soil Transferred 20 2-aminoethanol 26,472 0 0 0 0 16,266 44 Indium and its compounds 2,581 0 0 0 0 3 53 Ethylbenzene 17,163 1,110 1,110 0 0 603 59 Ethylenediamine 2,304 0 0 0 0 2,304 71 Ferric chloride 1,785,490 0 0 0 0 1,711,080 76 Epsilon-caprolactam 2,904 0 0 0 0 443 80 Xylene 52,117 1,532 1,532 0 0 610 87 Chromium and chromium (III) compounds 24,609 8 0 8 0 16,317 88 Chromium (VI) compounds 13,696 0 0 0 0 842 151 1,3-dioxolane 16,898 678 678 0 0 3,345 213 N,N-dimethylacetamide 2,285 134 134 0 0 366 243 Dioxins (mg-TEQ) 1,223 3 3 0 0 1,220 245 Thiourea 2,655 2 0 2 0 2,653 272 Copper salts (water-soluble, except complex salts) 294,502 204 0 204 0 101,350 296 1,2,4-trimethylbenzene 95,152 5,450 5,450 0 0 10,869 297 1,3,5-trimethylbenzene 11,922 579 579 0 0 2,579 300 Toluene 2,150,069 125,192 125,192 0 0 272,029 302 Naphthalene 1,438 19 19 0 0 25 308 Nickel 35,605 0 0 0 0 0 309 Nickel compounds 12,323 4 0 4 0 10,289 401 1,2,4-benzenetricarboxylic 1,2-anhydride 1,252 0 0 0 0 100 411 Formaldehyde 7,015 55 55 0 0 836 412 Manganese and its compounds 6,508 117 0 117 0 2,993 438 Methylnaphthalene 6,043 31 31 0 0 0 448 Methylenebis(4,1-phenylene) diisocyanate 38,553 0 0 0 0 0 Total 4,609,557 135,115 134,780 335 0 2,155,900 Notes: ・Period covered: April 1, 2018–March 31, 2019 ・Operational sites covered: Sites that handle more than 1.0 ton of Class I designated chemical substances per year (or specified Class I designated chemical substances in excess of 0.5 tons per year) ・The total transfer is the sum of transfers into waste and sewage systems. 85 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Pollution Control Pollution Control Basic Approach The Toppan Group has formulated the following basic policies on and work relentlessly to address the case while taking necessary pollution control. actions to reliably prevent recurrences. Toppan will also implement Toppan positions pollution control as an important element of recurrence-prevention measures for similar operations throughout management. The Group places utmost priority on environmental the Group. Proactive conservation activities will enable Toppan to conservation activities in its efforts to prevent pollution. In the detect any signs of pollution and swiftly correct the problem at its event that Toppan causes environmental pollution of any form, the source. Group will immediately publish the incident, disclose information, Promotion Framework ■ Promotion Structure The Board of Directors is the highest-level body responsible for the actual implementation of conservation activities carried out at their Toppan Group’s environmental management. The board appoints a sites and collaborate to propel environmental initiatives throughout director to head the Ecology Center, an organization that oversees the divisions. Toppan’s environmental conservation initiatives by supervising, To accelerate the initiatives, these officers have set up Ecoevaluating, and verifying environmental activities undertaken protection Promotion Committees, bodies composed of persons throughout the Group and reporting results to the Board of relevant to the environment across the departments. The Directors. committees promote environmental conservation activities at The Toppan Group has established an environmental Group sites and manage progress. For advanced environmental conservation framework in which the heads of every division, measures, the committees have convened multiple subcommittees Group company, and operational site are positioned as the to formulate necessary responses to specific environmental issues. personnel chiefly responsible for environmental efforts. These Energy Subcommittees, for example, pursue energy-saving efforts to heads appoint Environmental Management Officers to steer the help mitigate global warming. ■ Environmental Management Organization Board of Directors Director in charge of the Ecology Center Ecology Center Group companies Toppan business divisions Presidents Division heads Environmental Management Oﬃcers Environmental Management Oﬃcers Eco-protection Promotion Committees Eco-protection Promotion Committees Energy Subcommittees Other subcommittees 86 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Pollution Control ■ Environmental Management Systems The Toppan Group has established environmental management center discloses the verified performance data via the Toppan systems (EMSs) based on ISO 14001. corporate website and other communication channels. A PDCA cycle of planning, support and operation, performance The Ecology Center also manages the monitoring of soil and evaluation, and improvement serves as a core part of the ISO groundwater pollution, ascertains the results, and discloses the 14001-based EMSs to ensure ongoing improvement. details. Group sites maintain their EMSs through management system audits by ISO 14001 registrars, internal audits (of legal compliance) ISO 14001 environmental management system certification (in Japanese) by the Ecology Center, and other internal environmental audits at https://www.toppan.co.jp/about-us/our-corporate-approach/iso/iso14001.html individual sites. Independent Assurance Report The Ecology Center aggregates evaluations of environmental https://www.toppan.com/library/english/sustainability/files/pdf/2019/ performance as the organization responsible for overseeing csr2019_detail-en.pdf#page=98 the Toppan Group’s environmental conservation activities. The Monitoring Soil and Groundwater Pollution evaluation results are assured by an audit firm (independent https://www.toppan.com/library/english/sustainability/files/pdf/2019/ assurance provider) and reported to the Board of Directors. The csr2019_detail-en.pdf#page=90 ■ Management Cycle under ISO 14001:2015 Internal and Needs and external issues Context of the organization expectations of interested parties Scope of the environmental management system P Planning 6.1 Actions to address risks and opportunities 6.1.1 General 6.1.2 Environmental aspects Support and 6.1.3 Compliance obligations 6.1.4 Planning action Operation 6.2 Environmental objectives and planning to achieve them 7.1 Resources 6.2.1 Environmental objectives 7.2 Competence 6.2.2 Planning actions to achieve environmental objectives 7.3 Awareness 7.4 Communication 7.4.1 General A Improvement Leadership 7.4.2 Internal communication D 7.4.3 External communication 10.1 General 5.1 Leadership and commitment 7.5 Documented information 10.2 Nonconformity and 5.2 Environmental policy 7.5.1 General corrective action 5.3 Organizational roles, 7.5.2 Creating and updating 10.3 Continual improvement responsibilities and authorities 7.5.3 Control of documented information 8.1 Operational planning and Performance Evaluation control 8.2 Emergency preparedness 9.1 Monitoring, measurement, 9.2 Internal audit and response analysis and evaluation 9.2.1 General 9.1.1 General 9.2.2 Internal audit 9.1.2 Evaluation of compliance programme 9.3 Management review C Intended outcomes of the environmental management system 87 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Pollution Control ■ Preventing Pollution The Eco-protection Promotion Committee at each Group site in treatment facilities designed to correspond to specific water Japan sets in-house control standards that are more stringent than consumption and pollutant conditions at individual sites. the applicable regulatory standards. The Toppan Group works to Wastewater recycling systems have also been installed at reduce environmental burden and prevent pollution by complying Electronics plants that discharge effluents in significant amounts. with these in-house standards. By recovering and reusing wastewater via these systems, the plants To prevent atmospheric pollution, the Group controls boilers have been working to reduce the levels of water consumption and and other plant facilities responsible for air pollutants by managing effluent discharge. operations under appropriate combustion conditions. The Group The Toppan Group also checks plant facilities subject to the enhances the efficiency of effluent-gas treatment in plant facilities Water Pollution Control Law in compliance with the regulatory subject to requirements under the Air Pollution Control Act by standards for structures. The Group will monitor every facility, reusing recovered solvents and controlling combustion facilities including those not subject to the law, to prevent groundwater appropriately. pollution caused by the leakage of chemicals and other liquids. Any To prevent water pollution, the Group has installed wastewater equipment or components with undue wear will be replaced. ■ Education ■ Handling Inquiries and Complaints Toppan arranges three types of training programs on pollution The Toppan Group receives environmental inquiries and control: general education for every employee at individual Group complaints via “Inquiries,” a contact window for persons seeking sites; specific operational training for every employee engaged in information on corporate activities, on the Toppan corporate operations that cause or could potentially cause significant impact website. The Ecology Center receives reports on these inquiries on the environment; and emergency drills to prevent the spread of and complaints from the Public Relations Division and responds to damage in the event of a potential emergency. them as the organization overseeing environmental conservation activities across the Group. Inquiries on Toppan’s activities https://www.toppan.com/en/contact-us/privacy-corporate.html 88 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Pollution Control Main Activities and Relevant Information Monitoring Soil and Groundwater Pollution ■ Purification of Soil and Groundwater Pollution Operational Site Detail Current Progress Itabashi Plant (Itabashi City, Tokyo) Groundwater pollution by hexavalent chromium and toluene Continuously monitored Niigata Plant (Shibata City, Niigata) Soil pollution by fluorine and fluorine compounds Continuously monitored ■ Soil Pollution Remediation for Redevelopment in Conformance with Applicable Laws, Regulations, and Ordinances The Soil Contamination Countermeasures Act of Japan requires are occasionally subject to these legal demands. The Toppan Group remediation work or other countermeasures in the event that a soil has therefore conducted soil investigations in accordance with the investigation detects soil contamination at a site during construction act and taken necessary countermeasures when soil contamination or demolition work of a certain scale (including soil contamination has been detected at a Group site. by natural sources in the environment). Site reconstruction projects Chemical Substances Subject to Operational Site Remediation Measures Current Progress Remediation Hexavalent chromium compounds, Excavation and Remediation work completed Former Gunma Plant (Oizumi lead and its compounds, selenium and removal; purification of (Groundwater will be monitored Town, Ora-gun, Gunma) its compounds groundwater continuously up to November 2019.) Former Koshigaya Plant of Toppan Plastic Co., Ltd. (Koshigaya City, Fluorine and its compounds Excavation and removal Remediation completed Saitama) Preventing Pollution / Approach to Environmental Compliance ■ Preventing Pollution The Eco-protection Promotion Committee at each Group site in treatment facilities designed to correspond to specific water Japan sets in-house control standards that are more stringent than consumption and pollutant conditions at individual sites. the applicable regulatory standards. The Toppan Group works to Wastewater recycling systems have also been installed at reduce environmental burden and prevent pollution by complying Electronics plants that discharge effluents in significant amounts. with these in-house standards. By recovering and reusing wastewater via these systems, the plants To prevent atmospheric pollution, the Group controls boilers have been working to reduce the levels of water consumption and and other plant facilities responsible for air pollutants by managing effluent discharge. The Toppan Group also checks plant facilities operations under appropriate combustion conditions. The Group subject to the Water Pollution Control Law in compliance with enhances the efficiency of effluent-gas treatment in plant facilities the regulatory standards for structures. The Group will monitor subject to requirements under the Air Pollution Control Act by every facility, including those not subject to the law, to prevent reusing recovered solvents and controlling combustion facilities groundwater pollution caused by the leakage of chemicals and appropriately. other liquids. Any equipment or components with undue wear will To prevent water pollution, the Group has installed wastewater be replaced. 89 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Pollution Control ■ Approach to Environmental Compliance Toppan has used the Group’s in-house environmental database for the levels of water consumption and effluent discharge. operational sites across Japan to identify any risk of exceeding the As a preventive action against environmental pollution, the limits stipulated under laws, ordinances, agreements, and other Group also reviews drills for coping with potential emergencies and applicable regulations. Preventive measures against unduly high accidents during production operations whenever necessary. risks have been taken to ensure that none of the regulatory limits A community nearby one Toppan plant filed a noise complaint in are breached. fiscal 2018. The Group has identified the plant facilities responsible Despite these steps, one production site recorded an excessive for the noise and taken measures to mitigate the inconvenience to level of odor, one site recorded an excessive level of noise, and two community members. sites recorded excessive levels of water contaminant (BOD), relative Toppan will continue enhancing the quality of environmental to standards set under laws, ordinances, agreements, and other management through earnest dialogue with residents in applicable regulations in fiscal 2018 (one case at each site). The surrounding communities. Toppan Group has taken immediate corrective measures for each of the four cases above, including steps to inspect plant facilities and Fiscal Excessive Levels Relative to Complaints 2018 Applicable Legal Standards revise the methods for facility control. Since implementing these 4 corrective measures, the Group has standardized newly adopted 1 (2 cases involving water contaminant Cases (1 case involving control procedures and taken other actions to reliably prevent [BOD]; 1 case involving odor; 1 case noise) involving noise) recurrences. Meanwhile, Toppan has identified no problems with 90 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Biodiversity Biodiversity Basic Approach The Toppan Group has formulated the following basic policies on to conserve biodiversity with preventative and adaptive methods biodiversity conservation and the sustainable use of biodiverse formulated from long-term perspectives. These biodiversity resources. initiatives focus on cooperation with communities and various Toppan positions the conservation of biodiversity as an important other stakeholders with links to biodiversity. The Group recognizes element of management. The Group takes an assertive approach that biodiversity conservation and the sustainable use of biodiverse to the sustainable use of resources by avoiding or minimizing the resources help mitigate global warming and alleviate other impact on biodiversity during raw material procurement operations. environmental problems. The Group also proactively undertakes social contribution activities Promotion Framework ■ Promotion Structure The Board of Directors is the highest-level body responsible for the actual implementation of conservation activities carried out at their Toppan Group’s environmental management. The board appoints a sites and collaborate to propel environmental initiatives throughout director to head the Ecology Center, an organization that oversees the divisions. Toppan’s environmental conservation initiatives by supervising, To accelerate the initiatives, these officers have set up Ecoevaluating, and verifying environmental activities undertaken protection Promotion Committees, bodies composed of persons throughout the Group and reporting results to the Board of relevant to the environment across the departments. The Directors. committees promote environmental conservation activities at The Toppan Group has established an environmental Group sites and manage progress. For advanced environmental conservation framework in which the heads of every division, measures, the committees have convened multiple subcommittees Group company, and operational site are positioned as the to formulate necessary responses to specific environmental issues. personnel chiefly responsible for environmental efforts. These Energy Subcommittees, for example, pursue energy-saving efforts to heads appoint Environmental Management Officers to steer the help mitigate global warming. ■ Environmental Management Organization Board of Directors Director in charge of the Ecology Center Ecology Center Group companies Toppan business divisions Presidents Division heads Environmental Management Oﬃcers Environmental Management Oﬃcers Eco-protection Promotion Committees Eco-protection Promotion Committees Energy Subcommittees Other subcommittees 91 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Biodiversity ■ Environmental Management Systems The Toppan Group has established environmental management the Toppan Group’s environmental conservation activities. The systems (EMSs) based on ISO 14001. evaluation results are assured by an audit firm (independent A PDCA cycle of planning, support and operation, performance assurance provider) and reported to the Board of Directors. The evaluation, and improvement serves as a core part of the ISO center discloses the verified performance data via the Toppan 14001-based EMSs to ensure ongoing improvement. corporate website and other communication channels. Group sites maintain their EMSs through management system audits by ISO 14001 registrars, internal audits (of legal compliance) ISO 14001 environmental management system certification (in Japanese) by the Ecology Center, and other internal environmental audits at https://www.toppan.co.jp/about-us/our-corporate-approach/iso/iso14001.html individual sites. Independent Assurance Report The Ecology Center aggregates evaluations of environmental https://www.toppan.com/library/english/sustainability/files/pdf/2019/ performance as the organization responsible for overseeing csr2019_detail-en.pdf#page=98 ■ Management Cycle under ISO 14001:2015 Internal and Needs and external issues Context of the organization expectations of interested parties Scope of the environmental management system P Planning 6.1 Actions to address risks and opportunities 6.1.1 General 6.1.2 Environmental aspects Support and 6.1.3 Compliance obligations 6.1.4 Planning action Operation 6.2 Environmental objectives and planning to achieve them 7.1 Resources 6.2.1 Environmental objectives 7.2 Competence 6.2.2 Planning actions to achieve environmental objectives 7.3 Awareness 7.4 Communication 7.4.1 General A Improvement Leadership 7.4.2 Internal communication D 7.4.3 External communication 10.1 General 5.1 Leadership and commitment 7.5 Documented information 10.2 Nonconformity and 5.2 Environmental policy 7.5.1 General corrective action 5.3 Organizational roles, 7.5.2 Creating and updating 10.3 Continual improvement responsibilities and authorities 7.5.3 Control of documented information 8.1 Operational planning and Performance Evaluation control 8.2 Emergency preparedness 9.1 Monitoring, measurement, 9.2 Internal audit and response analysis and evaluation 9.2.1 General 9.1.1 General 9.2.2 Internal audit 9.1.2 Evaluation of compliance programme 9.3 Management review C Intended outcomes of the environmental management system ■ Promoting the Conservation of Biodiversity The Toppan Group established a Basic Policy on Biodiversity in in conservation activities organized in site neighborhoods by April 2010 to pursue biodiversity conservation. A set of Paper environmental NPOs and local governments. Procurement Guidelines for the Sustainable Use of Forest The Toppan Group works with a number of stakeholders, Resources was also formulated in September 2011 to step up including employees, to conserve biodiversity throughout Japan and specific conservation measures. the rest of the world. Concrete initiatives have been carried out through two Basic Policy on Biodiversity (in Japanese) approaches: biodiversity conservation at Group sites and https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/japanese/csr/files/pdf/2013/ biodiversity.pdf conservation outside the sites. In the former initiatives, Toppan employees and their families promote biodiversity conservation Toppan Group Paper Procurement Guidelines for the Sustainable Use of Forest Resources (second edition) (in Japanese) within site premises in cooperation with external environmental https://www.toppan.co.jp/library/japanese/corporateinfo/files/csr/2014/ experts. In the latter, employees and family members take part proc2014_06.pdf 92 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Biodiversity Main Activities and Relevant Information Approaches to Forest Management Certification ■ FSC® and PEFC Certification (as of June 18, 2019) FSC: Forest Stewardship Council PEFC: Programme for the Endorsement of Forest Certification Schemes Organization Country FSC PEFC Information & Communication Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Environmental Design Subdivision, Living & Industry Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Toppan Cosmo, Inc. Japan Satte Plant, Toppan Decor Products Inc. Japan Chubu Site, Environmental Design Subdivision, Living & Industry Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Nishinihon Site, Environmental Design Subdivision, Living & Industry Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Hiroshima Office, Environmental Design Subdivision, Living & Industry Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Takamatsu Office, Environmental Design Subdivision, Living & Industry Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Toppan Forms Co., Ltd. Japan Takiyama Plant, Toppan Forms Central Products Co., Ltd. Japan Fussa Plant, Toppan Forms Central Products Co., Ltd. Japan Kawamoto Plant, Toppan Forms Central Products Co., Ltd. Japan Hamamatsu Plant, Toppan Forms Tokai Co., Ltd. Japan Shizuoka Plant, Toppan Forms Tokai Co., Ltd. Japan Nagoya Plant, Toppan Forms Tokai Co., Ltd. Japan Osaka Sakurai Plant, Toppan Forms Kansai Co., Ltd. Japan Kyushu Plant, Toppan Forms Nishinihon Co., Ltd. Japan Toppan Infomedia Co., Ltd. Japan Living & Industry Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Kansai Living & Industry Subdivision, Nishinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Chubu Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Mito Plant, Toppan Prosprint Co., Ltd. Japan Higashinihon Subdivision, Higashinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Hokkaido Subdivision, Higashinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Kyushu Subdivision, Nishinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Chugoku & Shikoku Subdivision, Nishinihon Division, Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Tosho Printing Co., Ltd. Japan Organization Country or Region FSC PEFC Toppan Interamerica Inc. (PA) USA Toppan Interamerica Inc. (GA) USA Toppan Europe GmbH (London) UK Toppan Security Printing Pte. Ltd. Singapore Toppan Europe GmbH (Barcelona) Spain Siam Toppan Packaging Co., Ltd. Thailand Toppan Europe GmbH Germany Toppan Excel (Hong Kong) Company Limited Hong Kong Toppan Forms Hong Kong Toppan Win Label Company Limited Hong Kong Toppan Yau Yue Paper Products Limited Hong Kong Toppan Leefung Printing Limited PRC Toppan Leefung Advertising (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. PRC Toppan Forms (HK) Ltd. PRC Toppan Leefung Changcheng Printing (Beijing) Co., Ltd. PRC Toppan Leefung Packaging & Printing (Dongguan) Company Limited PRC Toppan Leefung Printing (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. PRC Toppan Leefung Printing Limited PRC Toppan Win Label Printing (Dongguan) Company Limited PRC Toppan Printing Co., (H.K.) Ltd. PRC Toppan Merrill LLC USA Toppan Merrill Limited Hong Kong Decotec Printing, S.A.U. Spain 93 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Organizational Fair Operating Community Human Rights Labor Practices Consumer Issues Involvement and The Environment The Environment Governance Practices Development Biodiversity ECO-GREEN Purchasing Fiscal Year 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Number of 2,867 2,811 2,949 3,046 2,942 Cases Note: ECO-GREEN is a toilet paper composed of about 50% used Cartocan paper. 94 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Group Business Outline Corporate Profile Group Profile The Toppan Group (“the Group”) comprises Corporate name President & Representative Director Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. (“the Company”) and Toppan Printing Co., Ltd. Hideharu Maro 191 related companies (162 subsidiaries and 29 Head office Number of employees (nonconsolidated) affiliates) engaged in manifold businesses in three 1, Kanda Izumi-cho, Chiyoda-ku, 9,993 (as of the end of March 2019) fields: Information & Communication, Living & Tokyo 101-0024, Japan Number of employees (consolidated) Industry, and Electronics. Phone: +81-3-3835-5111 51,712 (as of the end of March 2019) Detailed information on related companies Established Capital (nonconsolidated) can be found on Toppan’s website (https://www. 1900 104.9 billion yen toppan.com/en/about-us/group.html). Business Fields Information & Communication Living & Industry Electronics Providing solutions to enhance the Providing a wide range of products and Providing products related to displays value of information and deliver it services globally to create living and semiconductors developed based on effectively to customers who require environments that offer comfort and core microfabrication technologies. smooth communication. peace of mind. 95 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Group Business Outline DATA ■ Net Sales ■ Net Sales by Business Field ■ Net Sales by Region 1,464.7 billion yen ■Consolidated ■Nonconsolidated (billion yen) (billion yen) (billion yen) (billion yen) 2,000 Information & Electronics Communication Asia, excluding Japan Other regions 1,526.9 1,474.6 1,431.5 1,452.7 1,464.7 194.9（13％） 863.9（59％） 182.3（12％） 87.0（6％） 1,500 1,000 845.4 831.6 841.8 781.5 773.6 500 Living & Industry 0 405.8（28％） Japan 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1,195.3（82％） (ﬁscal year) ■ Operating Income ■ Net Income ■ Total Assets & Return on Assets (ROA) 45.7 billion yen 41.0 billion yen 2,193.9 billion yen/1.9% ■Consolidated ■Nonconsolidated ■Consolidated ■Nonconsolidated (billion yen) (billion yen) (billion yen) (%) 60 2,500 4.0 51.6 52.2 2,152.7 2,193.9 48.5 45 42.2 41.0 40.2 1,994.6 1,997.9 45.7 2,000 1,876.5 3.0 45 40.8 35.2 32.5 30.7 2.0 30 1,500 1.8 1.7 1.9 2.0 30 22.8 1,000 1.2 1.0 17.0 12.7 13.8 15 11.1 15 10.1 6.5 500 0 6.8 0 0 0 -1.0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 -5 -1.4 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) (ﬁscal year) ■ Net Assets & Return on ■ Capital Expenditure ■ R&D Expenses Equity (ROE) 1,328.8 billion yen/3.6% 68.5 billion yen 17.8 billion yen (billion yen) (%) (billion yen) (billion yen) 1,500 5.0 100 25 1,303.6 1,328.8 1,066.8 1,171.9 3.9 19.3 19.4 1,200 1,082.8 3.8 4.0 80 76.1 72.0 20 19.0 17.8 3.6 68.5 17.9 63.2 64.9 900 3.3 3.0 60 15 2.7 600 2.0 40 10 300 1.0 20 5 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) (ﬁscal year) (ﬁscal year) ■ Number of Employees ■ Number of Employees by 51,712 Business Field (consolidated) ■Consolidated ■Nonconsolidated Company-wide positions 60,000 1,382 50,705 51,210 51,712 Electronics 48,999 46,705 8,987 Information & 45,000 Communication 28,919 30,000 15,000 8,900 8,993 9,551 9,699 9,993 Living & Industry 0 12,424 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (ﬁscal year) 96 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019 Independent Assurance Report Toppan is authorized to attach the mark on the left as a testament to the reliability of the sustainability information presented in this Sustainability Data 2019 report. Any report bearing this mark meets the Sustainability Reporting Assurance and Registration Criteria established by The Japanese Association of Assurance Organizations for Sustainability Information. 97 TOPPAN Sustainability Data 2019
