SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 www.edelmann-group.com CONTENT ABOUT THIS REPORT 3 HIGHLIGHTS OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES ENGAGEMENT 28 STATEMENT FROM OUR CEO 4 EDELMANN FOUNDATION & SPONSORSHIP 29 EDELMANN GROUP AT A GLANCE 5 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 30 YEAR 2018 HIGHLIGHTS 6 ENVIRONMENT 33 OUR PRODUCTS 7 SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT 34 CORE MARKETS 8 ENERGY CONSUMPTION 36 MISSION, VISION AND VALUES 9 ENERGY-EFFICIENT PLANTS ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE 10 AND IMPROVEMENTS 37 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 11 WATER CONSUMPTION CSR TIMELINE 12 AND BIODIVERSITY 38 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT 14 WASTE MANAGEMENT 39 OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 15 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS CSR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE 16 AND CLIMATE CHANGE 40 EDELMANN GROUP AND SDGs 17 CO2 REDUCTION AND CO2 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 18 COMPENSATION PROJECTS 41 EMPLOYEE OVERVIEW, CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY 42 DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY 19 CSR MEMBERSHIPS AND TRAINING 20 LATEST AWARDS 43 ONE BUSINESS – ONE TEAM 21 OUR CORE SOCIAL AND GRI INDEX 44 ECONOMIC PRINCIPLES 22 FURTHER INFORMATION LABOUR PRACTICES 24 AND CONTACTS 47 SUPPORTING OUR EMPLOYEES’ HEALTH 26 DONATIONS AS A WAY TO SUPPORT THOSE IN NEED 27 2 ABOUT THIS REPORT The current sustainability report demonstrates how Edelmann Group addresses sustainable development within its global scope. The report is structured into economic, social, and environmental focus areas, including KPIs as well as qualitative descriptive data. The target readers of this report are our stakeholders, including customers, suppliers, shareholders, employees, business partners as well as local communities. Research institutions and industry players are also encouraged to learn more about sustainability at Edelmann Group by the means of this report. During the preparation stage of the current report, multiple departments from Edelmann sites were involved to ensure high quality of the data provided on different topics. As we are currently establishing the data collection process from our Indian sites, the report excludes this from the reporting scope unless otherwise stated. Since two new sites have joined Edelmann Group by the end of 2018, the reporting on their performance will start in 2019. For the rest, statements and key performance indicators mentioned in the report refer to all Edelmann sites if no additional remarks are made. The report was prepared following the standards developed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). This sustainability report was prepared in accordance with the GRI standards: Core option. Edelmann Group reports on its sustainability performance annually based on a calendar year (January, 1st – December, 31st). 3 STATEMENT FROM OUR CEO Dear Readers, Since its foundation, Edelmann Group has been committed to continuous improvement on sustainable development. As a family business founded in 1913, we have kept the key values, including responsibility for our business activities. It is my pleasure to reaffirm our commitment by the means of this Sustainability Report for the year 2018, covering social and environmental performance of the Edelmann Group, following GRI Guidelines. This year marks the start of reporting for the whole Group, addressing our “One business – One team” approach. As a global company, Edelmann Group makes a joint effort across the network worldwide to work on the pillars of sustainability, leveraging best practices within the Group as well as packaging industry trends. Featuring our newly developed corporate strategy, including mission, vision, and values, sustainability is a key element and therefore assigned a high level of importance to allow sustainable growth. Socially, we focus on developing our employees further, training, labour practices, health and safety, diversity and equality, local communities and the key human rights. Environmentally, most of our efforts address energy efficiency, raw materials, emissions and climate change, as well as waste reduction. Year 2018 has featured multiple improvements in all areas, taking us further in our journey towards becoming a global reference in sustainable packaging solutions. It is our firm belief that our responsibility goes beyond our internal network. Therefore we have strengthened our partnerships with our valued suppliers and customers even further to achieve fruitful collaboration on sustainability topics. Additionally, in our efforts to maximize transparency, we continued to report through EcoVadis, CDP Climate Change and UN Global Compact during the year 2018. It is one among many other ways for us to show our commitment in the present that in turn contributes to secure the future we are responsible for. I wish you an interesting and inspiring read. Sincerely, Oliver Bruns Chief Executive Officer, Edelmann Group 4 EDELMANN GROUP AT A GLANCE Edelmann Group is an international family business, operating in the packaging sector, as consumer brands packaging. Edelmann provides services for the whole portfolio delivering solutions with sustainable value to their customers in healthcare, beauty from the packaging design to a finished folding box. care and consumer brands markets. Edelmann Group is a leader in innovation, working with the newest technologies to The company was founded in 1913 in Heidenheim, Germany, where it is still headprovide reliable and safe packaging solutions and cutting-edge structural and graphic quartered. Since two new sites in Mexico and China were acquired in 2018, Edelmann design. Innovation-driven solutions support our goal to consistently identify areas to Group is now represented by 21 sites in 9 countries, distributed in four continents. improve our quality standards and to implement measures where necessary. Therefore, over 3,000 employees guarantee that Edelmann‘s strong international network is supporting its global presence. The actions and processes demonstrate measurable transparency and follows rigorous “High Q Packaging” guidelines which promise that Edelmann manufactures high quaThe packaging solutions offered by Edelmann are mainly folding cartons, rigid boxes lity packaging corresponding to the highest standards. Thereon, Edelmann’s expertise and leaflets. The product range includes pharmaceutical packaging, skincare as well is distinguished within the industry for many decades now. 5 YEAR 2018 HIGHLIGHTS > 300 million ¤ in sales 21 production sites in 9 countries > 3,000 employees > 4.7 billion folding cartons and rigid boxes > 1.3 billion leaflets TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES BREAKDOWN BY COUNTRY 2018 3,500 3,156 2% 2,807 +12% 5% 4% 3,000 7% 2,500 2,000 7% 40% 1,500 8% 1,000 13% 14% 500 0 Germany India Mexico Hungary Poland 2017 2018 China USA Brazil France 6 OUR PRODUCTS FOLDING CARTONS RIGID BOXES LEAFLETS WET LABELS, CORRUGATED BOXES & Individual packaging solutions Sharp edges Inserts and outserts Co-packing Folding & assembling capabilities COMBI CARTONS Individual finishings Coding systems Booklets Security features 7 CORE MARKETS HEALTH CARE BEAUTY CARE CONSUMER BRANDS Edelmann Group has been a leading packaging partner Edelmann thrives with the challenges of developing and At Edelmann, significant brand packaging design soto pharmaceutical companies for many years. It is top producing complex folding carton designs in cooperalutions for the specific requirements of personal care, priority to nurture the trust-based relationship with tion with some of the world‘s most famous cosmetic food and drink segment are developed and designed. customers and to responsibly handle all products. The brands. Unconventional forms and materials are welcoThe company is committed to support international cuscompany constantly develops and manufactures packamed to create exquisite packaging to meet the custotomers with innovative concepts. Edelmann stands out ging and leaflets which are precisely aligned with the mer‘s needs. by creating both efficient developments for the mass relevant requirement of ethical medical products, OTC, market as well as highly refined products for premium diagnostic or generics. brands. 8 MISSION, VISION AND VALUES OUR VISION: We are the global point of reference for packaging solutions, OUR MISSION: We are passionate about creating superior packaging delivering sustainable value to our customers, our people, solutions that always have the customer in mind. and our shareholders. OUR VALUES: I NNOVATION we develop ideas and create solutions to address specific challenges or improvements for our customers and our own company. M OTIVATION a fun atmosphere at our workplace helps us to be less stressed, more productive and ultimately, happier. P ASSION we are dedicated to creating outstanding packaging solutions and we are enthusiastic about coming up with improved solutions for our customers. A MBITION it is this energy that drives us to accomplish great things. C OLLABORATION/TEAMWORK we collaborate across all functions, segments and countries. We are committed to common goals based on open and honest communication, while showing concern and support for each other. T RUST we follow through with what we agreed to do and always act in a compliant and trustful manner. 9 ORGANISATIONAL STRUCTURE Carl Edelmann GmbH & Co. KG. Edelmann Bitterfeld GmbH Edelmann Leaflet Solutions GmbH Plant Leverkusen Edelmann Leaflet Solutions GmbH Plant Lindau Edelmann Norderstedt GmbH Edelmann Pharmadruck GmbH Edelmann Wuppertal GmbH Edelmann GmbH Edelmann Brazil Embalagens Ltda. Family ownership Advisory Board Edelmann Holding Edelmann (Beijing) Pharmaceutical Packaging & Printing Ltd. GmbH & CO. KG Edelmann France S.A.S Edelmann Packaging India (P) Ltd. M.K. PrintPack (P) Ltd. EDELMANN GMBH IS A FAMILY-OWNED Edelmann Packaging Mexico S.A. de C.V. BUSINESS AND BELONGS TO THE Edelmann Poland Sp. z o.o. EDELMANN HOLDING GMBH & CO. KG. THE COMPANY IS LED BY THE ADVISOEdelmann Hungary Packging Zrt. RY BOARD AND THE CEO OLIVER BRUNS Edelmann USA, Inc. California THROUGH THE EXECUTIVE MANAGEEdelmann USA, Inc. Tennessee MENT WHICH IS STILL SITUATED IN HEIDENHEIM, GERMANY. 10 STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT Direct communication with our stakeholders and addressing their interests allows our strengthened collaboration. Hence, our key stakeholders are involved in strategic decision-making on a continuous basis. We see this as an important part of our prosperous development with the valuable support of our employees, management team, family business owners, customers, suppliers, local communities, and investors. Below are our key stakeholders that we focus on without compromising the relevance of the rest of the stakeholder groups mentioned above: EMPLOYEES & MANAGEMENT FAMILY BUSINESS OWNERS CUSTOMERS SUPPLIERS Our committed employees are Since its foundation, Edelmann Our customers drive innovation Our valued suppliers are not just among the most valuable reGroup has been a family-owned and success at Edelmann Group supporting us with the manufacsources that allow growth and business and remains so up until and can rely on us around the turing. Instead, they are our key development of Edelmann Group. these days. It is of very high imworld, as we are where our cusstrategic partners, helping us to We are 3,000 heads – and hearts. portance for us to keep the family tomers are. Our technical knowachieve better results, keep the We make sure that our employees values and principles and pass it how, over a hundred-year exknow-how and drive innovation feel fulfilled, safe and valued, on to the next generations. Theperience and common passion through our mutual product debearing a sense of belonging to refore, an active involvement of for packaging can meet the very velopment. Therefore, our close a big family of Edelmann Group. the owners adds this stakeholder special demands of our customers collaboration keeps our strong reCommunication process happens group to the key list. We make around the globe. Regular comlationships with the key suppliers through regular internal meetings sure that the family takes a role munication with the customers and allows to follow a clear focus. whether it is within a department in the decision-making Board and is enabled through topic-specific The communication channels are or cross-disciplinary team, regular follows on current changes, conworkshops, individual product very diverse from managing our career development discussions, tributing with their impact. Henconsultations, joint product dedaily work to regular meetings, trainings, company events, annuce, regular visits and meetings are velopments, follow-up meetings workshops, company visits, Supal leadership conference as well held to ensure that the owners as well as frequent both-way viplier Fair and joint projects dedias a newly introduced Live Ticker participate in the development sits to discuss some of the current cated to new developments and on the go with regular updates and growth of Edelmann Group. issues. potential improvements. from our CEO, Oliver Bruns. 11 CSR TIMELINE Sustainable development has always been at the core of our strategy since the ear1992 A desilverisation system for fixing baths used in film development is comly days of our history. Many improvements have been made since then in relation missioned. The exhaust air purification system in the gravure printing sectito resource efficiency, health and safety, employee wellbeing, as well as sustainable on is commissioned. Additional warehouse for storing flammable liquids (as innovation. The continuous improvement of all key indicators is the goal we pursue per German ordinance on flammable liquids) is built. Offset ink is delivered steadfastly. Therefore, we are proud of our long-standing track record of CSR engain 200-litre drums, from which it is pumped pneumatically to the ink-migement which has brought consistent development over time and yet to bring further xing department. 1800 m² corrugated eternity roof containing asbestos fiopportunities for a long-term healthy growth of Edelmann Group. bers is removed and disposed of. 1975Surface finishing switches from solvent-based to water-based varnishes. 1993 The TÜV environmental seal is introduced. Calendar varnishes are switched 1981 Reduction of pollutants in production. to dispersion basis without solvents (CE-Gloss). 1994 A control system switches off demand-dependent electric power consumers 1977 A system for transporting cartonboard waste from the punching and waste to avoid power surges. Hall heating is fed by heat recovery from compressed stripping sections to the bailing press is commissioned. air generation 1983 Calculation bases for determining ink quantities using spectrophotometers, 1996 Disposal channels and options are highlighted in a Disposal Manual. The specimen printing equipment and analytical balances are developed. building heating is switched to gas. The burners are controlled by oxygen. A filtration system for leftover inks is commissioned. Hydraulic lifts are po1987 In areas with little natural light, fluorescent lights with electronic ballasts wered by biodegradable hydraulic oils. The first environmental report is puare installed. Ventilation and heating systems are controlled by PC-based blished. management system. 1999 Processes to produce pharmaceutical packaging are introduced to the OB 1988 Dies for punching machines are dressed in water-based adhesives, replacing section. spray-type adhesives with propellants. 2000 A fully automated ink-mixing system for offset inks is introduced. 1989 The lightning systems in the production areas are equipped with daylight detection control. Transformers and capacitor oils containing PBCs are repla2001 Plates are exposed almost entirely using CTP-systems. ced. A wastewater treatment system for rinsing water from the varnishing units is commissioned in the offset shop. Three additional press containers 2003 The automatic transport system FTS is introduced. are installed for even more effective selection of leftover card waste. A waste and recyclable material collection system is introduced. Process water 2004 Logistics and transport workflows are optimized by setting up a central wais heated by means of heat recovery from the compressed air generation rehouse. The entire roof area in the Weilheim factory is insulated. process. 2005 The Disposal Manual is introduced. 1991 All the cooling systems become closed systems. A system of leftover ink utilization is commissioned. Computer programs calculate the precise amount 2006 Natural gas vehicles are introduced for in-plant transport and city journeys. of ink required for each job. Disposable pallets are returned to cartonboard All processes and workflows are risk-assessed. suppliers for reuse. A new mixing plant for gravure inks reduces the amount of leftover ink produced. Fire protection insulators from asbestos are remo2008 The ESC office and technology building is built based on the latest ecological ved and disposed of. consideration. The noise level on the pharmaceuticals production hall is reduced by installing noise-absorbent mats. The factories in France, Heidenheim and Weilheim are FSC-certified. 12 2009 New acquisition of latest indoor concerning ventilation and air conditioning mechanism. Heat recovery in compressed-air system is optimized. 2010 Installation of photovoltaics on the roof of the factory in Heidenheim. 2013 Installation of a combined heat and power plant. Successful testimonial of an alternative energy management system. 2014 Combined heat and power plant is implemented. Installation of the LED lightning in the gluing department. New air compressor with installed heat recovery. 2015 The new more energy-efficient factory on the site in Hungary was built. Realization of the Energy Audit DIN EN 16247-1 in all German sites. 2016 Introduction of the Code of Conduct. Implementation of Corporate Social Responsibility. Membership in UN Global Compact. 2017 Receiving silver status on the rating platform EcoVadis. Replacement of the old heating pumps through a more efficient version. Human Rights Policy is introduced. 13 MATERIALITY ASSESSMENT Materiality assessment is a starting point for our strategy, as it defines the key topics, and therefore the key focus areas. As the interest of our stakeholders towards CSR is consistently rising, it is of very high importance to adapt to their expectations without compromising on our strategy goals. Therefore, it takes a continuous dialogue with the interested parties, especiHIGH VERY HIGH MEDIUM ally our customers and suppliers, to figure out ECONOMIC the relevant material issues, which later define 1. Economic value 2. Anti-corruption where most of our efforts will be applied. Edel17 16 3. Fair competition mann Group’s materiality assessment is divided 1 into economic, environmental, social, and ot11 SOCIAL VERY HIGH hers in order to keep a clear focus and set prio19 10 20 4. Employees and training rities. 5. Occupational health and safety 6. Labour practices 7. Labour principles, including non-discrimination, The matrix communicates the importance of equality and freedom of association IMPORTANCE TO OUR STAKEHOLDERS different topics, balancing between the issues 8. Child and forced labour relevant to Edelmann Group internally as well 8 12 9. Support of local communities as to our stakeholders externally, depending on 3 5 7 the potential impact of our business activities. HIGH ENVIRONMENTAL The relevance scale is divided into medium, 15 18 10. Raw materials 11. Energy efficiency high and very high importance. The assigned 12. Emissions level of importance depends on the legal regu13. Water lations which might automatically cover seve14. Waste management ral topics as well as the overall relevance. For 15. Climate change example, since water is not heavily used in the production process, it is not within the topics 13 2 14 4 6 9 OTHER 16. Customer engagement MEDIUM of key importance. As it can be seen from the 17. Supplier engagement matrix, the top relevance for both Edelmann 18. Responsible procurement Group and its stakeholders is assigned towards 19. Product quality economic value, raw materials, customer and 20. Legal compliance supplier engagement, product quality and legal IMPORTANCE TO THE ORGANISATION compliance. 14 OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Following from the materiality assessment, our sustainability approach serves as a leading tool for risk assessment, improvements and overall guidance on CSR development. The strategy is based on a circular approach, which means that we always come back to the starting point and restart the process again. As a foundation, we stand firmly on the notion of DATA legal compliance and following our internal poCOLLECTION licies. The three pillars of CSR coming from the Quantitative – KPIs materiality assessment form the basis of the Qualitative –b est ENVIRONMENTAL SOCIAL practices cycle, showing our focus areas. All three dimenRaw materials sions are of high importance and considered Human Rights Energy efficiency thoroughly throughout the process. Health & Safety Emissions Labour practices Waste Standing on the three pillars, the process mainly involves three steps, repeated annually. Continuous communication and engagement of all Edelmann Group sites as well as stakeholders ANALYSIS & define the start of the process. It is crucial not ENGAGEMENT IMPROVEMENT to separate these components, but rather keep International sites Gaps & them together for more efficient results achieStakeholders opportunities ved through our joint efforts. This way of coGoals operation leads to the next step, where qualitative and quantitative data is gathered for further analysis. Based on the results, we are ECONOMIC able to identify gaps and opportunities, and Anti-corruption & Fair competition therefore highlight the priorities. In turn, it Responsible use of economic value enables to set the goals, both short-term and Creating work places long-term, to move forward as a Group with a clear vision leading us. Legal Compliance & Policies 15 CSR GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE In order to gain a full understanding on the way CSR functions across Edelmann Group, it is important to describe governance structure, which specifically addresses sustainability management. We make sure that the whole Group German plants has a similar level of engagement to guarantee that CSR is equally embedded into our business operations across the globe. Since Edelmann Group steadily continues growing and increases Hungary the number of production sites, CSR governance structure is implemented to follow a systematic approach and ensure that the new sites stick to Poland General CENTRALIZED CSR MANAGEMENT the same procedure. Our CSR management is centralized in the headquarters in Heidenheim, leading the rest of the sites and providing guidance on CSR issues. All France Health & Safety Edelmann Group sites have a dedicated team, which consists of a general managers, health and safety, HR, environmental and purchasing representatives, who work together, while speChina HR & Human Rights Heidenheim Headquarters cializing in their own field to share the best of their knowledge. These five areas have been identified based on the materiality assessment with the goal to address all relevant issues Mexico Environment through continuous support of corresponding colleagues. All teams report annually to the headquarUSA Procurement ters, where the data is summarized, analyzed and later compiled in Edelmann Group annual sustainability report. Additionally, continuous communication is ensured to address all curBrazil rent CSR issues and work on the improvements. These efforts vary by site, as the needs, goals and challenges are slightly different depending on the country, scope of production and curIndia rent status. Obviously, newly joint sites require more support to facilitate their onboarding to Edelmann Group. Therefore, it is our common belief that best practice cases should be shared as part of our CSR collaboration across the sites. 16 EDELMANN GROUP AND SDGS Sustainable development goals (SDGs) represent a call for action by the governments, corporations and individuals to protect the planet, reduce inequalities and ensure peace and prosperity around the world. The seventeen goals address the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, unanimously adopted by all UN Member States in 2015 during the UN Summit. Companies are expected to contribute with their input, and so does Edelmann Group. While all SDGs bear extremely high importance, we choose to focus on three goals to address the 2030 Agenda. Goal 3: Good health and well-being Our care starts with our own employees, as we are responsible for more than 3,000 people around the world. Therefore, ensuring their health and safety, decent work conditions as well as access to healthcare support is our highest priority internally. Our product lines, such as “CEeasy” contribute to address the needs of elderly population in their ability to use packaging with no limitations. Additionally, we invest in multiple charity organizations that hold a significant impact on prevention and treatment of diseases along with supporting research. Goal 12: Responsible consumption and production As we are a packaging manufacturing company, it is our responsibility to develop new ways of using the resources efficiently. It refers to the production processes, raw materials used and innovative product development. We focus on energy efficiency, waste reduction, sustainable sourcing and emissions reduction along with promoting lightweight, environmentally friendly materials. Goal 17: Partnerships for the goals Our key strategic partners are our customers and suppliers. Together, we can tackle challenges of today through continuous collaboration. Our partnerships are mainly related to the new product development with innovative use of raw material, smart structural design solutions and advanced technology. While the demand is coming from our customers, key strategic suppliers are ready to support us with their knowledge and capabilities. 17 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY www.edelmann-group.com EMPLOYEE OVERVIEW, DIVERSITY AND EQUALITY Edelmann Group employees grew in number by 12%, senior management continues to grow steadily and has bringing more manpower to develop new products and reached 35% in 2018. Diversity at Edelmann Group is support the company in its prosperous growth. The total also transparent through the age distribution with all number of new employee hires has increased by 36% three groups being sufficiently present. We value young compared to the previous year. To demonstrate a healttalents as much as experienced professionals, and we hy balance between employees who are leaving and joibelieve that only the balance of both contributes to the ning, we choose to disclose the average employee turnbest results. over rate, that comprises the average value of Edelmann sites. Although the rate has grown against the previous Edelmann’s freshmen gain an opportunity to learn from reporting year, it is still well below the manufacturing senior colleagues, while employees with a long track reindustry average of 16%. Therefore, we target to maincord may benefit from the fresh ideas and out of the box tain this result further, demonstrating a high level of thinking that we usually observe from our young empour employees’ commitment, which in turn indicates loyees. We are also proud to keep the senior manageAVERAGE EMPLOYEE their overall job satisfaction and reliability of Edelmann ment talent pool locally, still allowing a sufficient proTURNOVER RATE Group as an employer. portion of managers coming from outside the local area. 11,2% In our efforts to address the key social issues, we value 12% diversity and equality as a global family business. The 10% 7,2% split into females and males has remained at the same 8% level as in 2017. The reason for a higher percentage for 6% males is the nature of work itself, as the main share goes 88% OF OUR SENIOR 4% to the production, where some tasks may require more physical strength and flexibility, i.e. late evening shifts. MANAGEMENT IS HIRED FROM 2% 0% It is notable though that the proportion of females in THE LOCAL COMMUNITY 2017 2018 MALES/FEMALES AGE DISTRIBUTION PERCENTAGE OF WOMEN IN NEW EMPLOYEE HIRES DISTRIBUTION SENIOR MANAGEMENT 350 50% 300 250 116 17% 40% 33% 35% 35% 31% 200 80 30% 150 65% 52% 100 156 206 20% 50 10% 0 2017 2018 0% Males Females Under 30 30-50 Above 50 2017 2018 Males Females 19 TRAINING As we secure high quality and competence, we invest in continuous training of our employees. Contributing to personal development, training also satisfies our colleagues’ eagerness to grow. Mainly, our trainings are performed locally at the plants. In total, 34,740 hours of training took place in 2018. The average number of trainings per employee increased to 14,3 compared to 12,7 in 2017. Training is aimed at both administrative and production employees. Onboarding programme & training Individual career discussions AVERAGE HOURS OF TRAINING Since 2016, every new administrative employee in HeiOptions for individual career development are always PER EMPLOYEE denheim participates in an onboarding house tour, as foreseen at Edelmann Group. Individual career discussi15 our headquarters encompass the largest scope of acons are held between employees and their direct mana14.3 tivities. This way, they gain a thorough overview on gers depending on their needs. To progress further, HR is 10 12.7 graphic and structural design, production processes, involved into the topic and decides on special trainings. quality management, controlling, purchasing, logistics, Year 2018 has brought an on-site English course for our 5 commercial development, sales, and IT. For every new employees in Heidenheim to strengthen their skills, two employee across all Edelmann sites, a training session additional production trainings in Mexico based on the 0 is mandatory for health and safety, business ethics and current needs of employees, a language course in Po2017 2018 conduct, and data privacy. Along with a dedicated sesland, as well as a separate training on leadership desion for each topic, newly arrived employees get acvelopment for managers and supervisors in USA Tennesquainted with the mission, vision, and values, Code of see. Production training & Employee skill matrix Ethics and Conduct as well as internal company policies. Special attention is paid towards continuous skill development of our production workers. An employee skill As for the existing employees, they receive an updated Dual studies in our HQ matrix is used, where every machine and process are training on these issues every year. Safety instructions described. The aim is to diversify the tasks of all empFor the upcoming generations, we work in collaboration are of highest importance to the production, and thereloyees and continuously develop their skills. Therefore, with the Cooperative State University Baden-Württemfore, they are continuously improved, while every prolong-term trainings for an average of six months are imberg (Duale Hochschule Baden-Württemberg). Thereby, duction worker is obliged to attend regular sessions. We plemented to introduce employees to the new tasks. The every year students are spending the working part of use training confirmations which need to be signed to trainings are decided in January every year, while a foltheir dual studies with us, while they are learning the keep a track on the current status. The safety instruclow-up in June is performed to check on the workflow. academic side at the Cooperate State University in Heitions are available on our Intranet for easier access any The focus of these trainings is not only on the learning denheim. Some students are later resumed as full-time time. process to operate a new tool, but also on potential haemployees. zards that come with the new scope. In 2018, three employees participated in this skill upgrade programme, as it is a very time-consuming and intensive commitment. 20 ONE BUSINESS – ONE TEAM Being a global company operating worldwide also brings some challenges, such as efficient communication across all sites that contributes to the same level of understanding on the key issues. To tackle this topic and bring the Group’s engagement to the next level, three new introductions were developed – Leadership Conference, Internal Awards and “Live ticker on the go” by our CEO, Oliver Bruns. Therefore, the year 2018 allowed us to make a big step forward and unite the Group even further. While these new developments were introduced in 2018, they will continue to function onwards. Leadership Conference 2018 The Leadership Conference was intended for all plant managers of Edelmann Group, Live ticker on the go and all sites participated for the first event, held on the 23rd – 25th of January, 2018. By the means of our Intranet that can be accessed by most of our employees from any The conference was a three-day event with diverse topics being covered. The speakers Edelmann site, a new introduction of the Live ticker on the go allowed direct commuand discussion leaders were both internal and external depending on the scope of nication from our CEO, Oliver Bruns, towards all employees, sharing the news, main the topic. The opening featured the review of 2017, general outlook for 2018 and an developments and important messages with no boundaries. The feedback among our update on the latest Group initiatives. Other topics were related to innovation, maremployees was in favour of the new Intranet feature, and the idea of hearing directly keting, technology, strategy, procurement and supply chain as well as multiple workfrom our CEO in such an easy way was welcomed and appreciated. The live ticker is shops, interactive sessions, and evening programs took place. This way, the event was updated regularly and can be accessed at any time. also designed to bring the team closer with these three full days spent together. Sustainability was also among the topics discussed during the conference, as it is among Edelmann Awards the key points of our strategic development. As a target for the next conference, the coverage of sustainability issues is planned to be strengthened. Year 2018 has also brought a global Award program implemented internally. The idea behind it was to reward best-performing sites on a range of indicators. Among other One of the highlights was dedicated to our valued partners – suppliers, to showcase titles, Safety Star was awarded to our Chinese and Hungarian plants, Efficiency Star their latest developments and share the insights with all Edelmann management rewent to Bitterfeld plant, while Cooperation Star was taken by the Procurement depresentatives at the Supplier Fair. After the conference, each managing director was partment in Heidenheim. responsible to communicate what had been discussed with corresponding employees. The outcome was exceptionally positive in terms of raising awareness, holding joint discussions on the main Group’s issues and setting the goals for the upcoming year. Therefore, this tradition will be maintained for the upcoming years. 21 OUR CORE SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC PRINCIPLES Our key social and economic principles are documented in our core policies, such as the Code of Ethics and Conduct and the Human Rights Policy. All employees, including new and current, are trained on the main topics annually to ensure the same level of knowledge across all Edelmann sites. This practice is of very high importance to address the key issues of business ethics, fair business practices, and human rights. With this, we support the corresponding SDGs and the principles set by the UN Global Compact, where Edelmann Group has been a proud member since 2016. Anti-corruption All our employees are aware of the need to be careful about accepting and offering any plementation of actions to prevent discrimination, addressing a basic expectation of kind of benefits that might pose a threat of binding dependence. Excessive advansocially responsible conduct. tages coming to/from our suppliers, customers, or business partners must be reported, and are subject to disciplinary actions. If there is uncertainty regarding the value or As a foundation, anti-discrimination training is part of the onboarding programme nature of the gifts, offers, or invitations, our employees are advised to contact senior and the annual training agenda. The corporate mechanism in place is referred to as management and request a written consent, if needed. Since most of Edelmann sites a whistleblowing procedure. Edelmann employees are expected to treat co-workers, are operating within socially favourable countries, the risk of corruption is assessed to customers and suppliers with dignity and respect. In case of misconduct, employees be relatively low. For the reporting year 2018, no incidents were registered, repeating are encouraged to report to the Employee Council, where all requests can be submitted the result of the previous year 2017. anonymously through the internal post service. Ensuring confidentiality is a key to an efficient whistleblowing system in place, therefore, considering that our Employee Councils represent diverse workforce, the most appropriate further action is guaranFair competition teed without compromising anonymity of the claim. If not seen suitable, an employee As commonly known, anti-competitive behaviour may potentially cause unhealthy may also report to a direct manager or any senior representative to take the situation price changes, affect consumer choices and overall market situation. Hence, Edelfurther. We always make sure that all concerns are thoroughly investigated, and premann Group follows the rules of fair competition and takes precautions related to ventive measures are taken, if necessary. No discrimination incidents were reported price arrangements, supplier relations, investment strategies, customer relations and during the year 2018. corresponding information exchange. No legal procedures related to the violations of legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices have been registered under national or international laws. Data privacy With the lead of our Data Protection Officer, we ensure that personal data is processed Money laundering and stored securely and does not exceed the required scope. All new employees are informed in detail on the elements of personal data being used at Edelmann Group, Money laundering refers to the use of funds that directly or indirectly originated from available sources of data, main purposes of data storage, internal and external functicriminal activities and were later introduced into the business cycle. Edelmann Group ons that may access several types of data, as well as the rights regarding data processtrictly prohibits any form of money laundering with criminal charges and disciplinary sing. All employees sign their agreement to store their personal data with the right to interventions being used as the means to respond to a potential case. No incidents refuse data processing for the selected categories. An updated agreement is collected were registered during the reporting year. from all employees annually in a digital form. Additionally, all employees have access to Frequently Asked Questions regarding data privacy via our Intranet. To ensure conDiscrimination tinuous communication, a separate email address was setup in 2018 to address all questions and requests on data privacy. Being a global company also means eliminating any sort of inequalities and discrimination. Therefore, this issue is among priorities on our social development agenda that addresses Human Rights. Based on International Labour Organization’s guidelines, discrimination may occur on the grounds of race, colour, sex, religion, political opinion, social origin, or age, to name a few. Edelmann Group supports the presence and im 22 Child and forced labour We refer to child labor as a subject to ILO Conventions 138 ‘Minimum Age Convention’ and ILO Convention 182 ‘Worst Forms of Child Labour Convention’. Child labor refers to an abuse, which is not to be confused with ‘children working’ or with ‘young person’s working’, which may not be abuses as stipulated in ILO Convention 138. According to the latest ILO Report on child labor, 152 million were in child labour with 73 million being exposed to hazardous conditions. We are strictly against it and strictly prohibit any form of child or forced labour. Within Edelmann Group, awareness is created through the Human Rights Policy, covering child and forced labour. No incidents were registered during the reporting year neither within Edelmann sites, nor in relation to our suppliers’ business activities. Freedom of association and collective bargaining All Edelmann employees are free to join unions of their choice as well as appoint their representatives who would communicate their interests in the most efficient way. The company then works with corresponding representatives to develop further solutions as a joint effort. The right of freedom of association and collective bargaining is clearly stated in Edelmann‘s Human Rights Policy, which has been created to address the main social principles of the UN Global Compact. The right is executed through the Employee Councils described in further details in this report under “Labour practices”. 23 LABOUR PRACTICES We seek for fair and equal labour practices, thus Edelmann Group eliminates all forms of non-legal and immoral actions which is also stated in our Code of Conduct. We foster a corporate culture locally and across the Group. With the appointment of a Global HR Director, our efforts will be strengthened starting in January 2019. Currently, all sites manage labour practices locally with the knowledge exchange across the rest of Edelmann sites. Fair compensation Employee Council Fair compensation and working conditions are of high importance to Edelmann Group. Every plant has its own Employee Council established. While it is required by law in Working hours are set according to the domestic laws in force or to industrial stansome locations, the rest are involved voluntarily. The committee speaks for the emdards. Therefore, at all German plants, clock-in/clock-out IDs are used for most employees’ rights and communicates their will to the management. They also have a ployees to keep track on the hours worked. Hence, it is ensured that hours on record co-determination right, when it gets to the approval of employees coming in or leaare adequate. Every employee is informed of and has the right to know the terms ving the company. As they represent the interest of the employees, they also decide and conditions of employment. In each employee’s personal contract, the probation about weekend hours and work safety of the employees. If any problems or requests period and the length of the notice period are determined. Differences in salary and are coming up on behalf of the employees, they are keen on finding compromises and remuneration between women and men are deprecated in our company. A salary scale fair solutions. For example, our Council in Heidenheim is assembled of 7 members is implemented to ensure fair compensation. Different salary levels are defined, and from different departments with weekly meetings in place. This Employee Council was depending on one’s education, task and years working for the company, one is cateimplemented more than 50 years ago. The members are working in different departgorized, and fair compensation is guaranteed. ments such as sales, controlling, logistics and CAD. Therefore, a broad coverage is ensured, and the influence comes from a fair sample of the workforce. In 2018 a Group Employee Council was founded, located in Germany. It is a selected delegation of members of the Employee Councils from all German plants. They have joint meetings to harmonize their approaches and exchange their experiences. Having STANDARD ENTRY LEVEL WAGE this new institution, the communication between the Employee Council and the maTO LOCAL MINIMUM WAGE (in %) nagement can reach the next level. 144% 137% 150 At our international sites, Employee Councils are organized according to the local law 125 requirements or their own will based on the current needs. They work independently 100 and guarantee a fair representation of their colleagues. 75 50 Benefits and work-life balance 25 0 The benefits given to our employees vary between the plants. Normally, healthcare, 2017 2018 disability, retirement provision and parental leave are offered. While these are the Average local most common employee benefits, every plant is open for suggestions, and new ideas minimum wage are welcome to improve the work atmosphere and employees’ well-being. It is a widespread practice across some Edelmann sites to offer fresh fruits and healthy snacks along with tea, coffee and water being available during the day. 24 Since we are a family-owned business, the benefits for and the incorporation of the employees’ families are very important to us. This concern is shown in celebrating a summer party for all employees and their families in Bitterfeld. In this relaxed environment, it is a great chance to get to know the colleagues and their families and strengthen the team spirit. By having the families inside the company and discussing not only work-related topics, a healthy work-life balance is assured. Similarly, at our Polish site, a large grill party is organized for employees and their families around Christmas time. It is a regular get-together with many employees attending. In the US, on Christmas time, meals for all employees are provided to gather all employees together and reflect on the past year. A reward program for safety is also established in our American sites to highlight the importance of work safety. Having access to food tickets and coupons for local services at many plants are available with leisure activities being also supported. Apprenticeship Edelmann Group offers apprenticeships in diverse tasks within administration and production. There are several types of internships: short-term (4 to 6 weeks), summer internships and long-term opportunities. The theoretical knowledge of students can be applied on their tasks at Edelmann Group. The trainees get educated for one particular job, however by switching departments, a general overview is offered to some of them. Most apprentices are welcome to stay in touch with us to follow on further career opportunities. Parental leave We value the importance of family and support different possibilities of parental leave PARENTAL LEAVE for both parents. 61 employees took parental leave in 2017, and 47 already returned 80 to the company, while the rest are planning to return. The amount of people who left for parental leave in 2018 grew even bigger. Out of 70 who left, more than two third 60 came back to work, either on part-time basis or other option that fitted best to the 30 current situation. Depending on a particular country and plant, there are variations on 26 Total 61 Total 70 approaches, but one principle is common for all – individual approach. Therefore, the 40 length of the parental leave and the time to come back to work is decided based on employees’ circumstances. Notably, 43% of the employees who took parental leave, were men in both years. We are proud of this close to equal proportion of men and 20 35 40 women taking parental break, and we target to continue this trend further. 0 2017 2018 Female Male 25 SUPPORTING OUR EMPLOYEES’ HEALTH The health of our employees is among our priorities, since their well-being at all ages is essential to our sustainable development. Therefore, we choose to invest in a health management which goes beyond convenient care. Regular health check-up Sports engagement Routine health checks and examinations are operated by an external medical offiA team of Edelmann also registered to run a half marathon in 2018. To prepare for cer. For employees under the age of 45, a health check is done every 4 years and for this event, they are a part of a special training for long trail running (Lauf gehts!). By employees older than 45 years, a health check is operated every 3 years. Before new sharing the joy of running, a great team spirit is implemented, and additional health employees are starting to work at Edelmann Group, they also undergo examination by benefits are achieved. the doctor to ensure a healthy start and implement any supportive and/or preventive measures in relation to their eyesight, hearing, posture or any special working condiIn Heidenheim, every year a skiing trip is organized internally. A fun outdoor atmotions required. sphere facilitates team building and combines health benefits with fostering a motivational team spirit. Thereby the work atmosphere is expected to improve for future joint work. Health survey 2018 To target the actual need of our employees by our sport offers, we implemented a Healthy everyday work practices health survey in 2018 in Heidenheim. All employees were expected to participate and suggest their ideas and wishes. The result showed that back pain was a common conOur administrative employees get instructed on several health-related tips regarding cern. As a result, a special back training in cooperation with an instructor from the the long screen hours, sitting posture, optimal chair height to ensure the right anglocal sports club (Heidenheimer Sport-Bund) was implemented and started in January le of the knees and the optimal distance between the eyes and the monitor. This 2019. It gives the employees the chance to strengthen their back, and it is also plankind of training is implemented for all new colleagues as well as continuous feedback ned to offer massages to employees with back pain. The outcome of the survey also and support is available for the existing employees. Every year a responsible health revealed a high demand for a combination of physical and mental exercises. In order and safety manager together with a medical representative perform a check for our to help our employees to relax, a yoga training in lunch breaks will start on-site in office employees in relation to the above-mentioned issues. As for the production Heidenheim. All the training will be fully paid by Edelmann if the employees attend employees, they are trained separately for the issues of safety and potential hazards, regularly. This opportunity is not only a motivation for the employees to care for their which is described in more details under the section “Occupational Health and Safety”. bodies, but also an improvement to their overall mental and physical health. 26 DONATIONS AS A WAY TO SUPPORT THOSE IN NEED For Edelmann Group it is both a privilege and an obligation to give back to the society. That is why we try to use our resources in the best possible way in order to help everyone progress further and have a positive impact on their lives. It is a pleasure to give back to those in need as this is the least we can do for them. Overall, Edelmann Group is always concerned to provide all donations to ethically correct and legal institutions, and we dissociate from any kind of bribery. Other than that, every plant has freedom of choice regarding what kind of organizations they want to promote and in which way. Bitterfeld France Poland Operating in the pharmaceutical industry suggests itself At our plant in France, every year a percentage of the saSince money itself does not always make children´s fato care about the health of people, including the younlary of the employees is voluntarily donated to Le Grouces smile, small gifts for Christmas are given to children gest members of our society. Every year on Christmas, pement des Entreprises Francaises dans la Lutte contre in a childcare home in Pruszków, Poland. Therefore, we Edelmann Bitterfeld is donating money to the Naturehele Cancer (GEFLUC). It is an association of several commake sure to bring a bit of happiness to their lives at art Foundation for Kids. The foundation has set itself panies to fight against cancer, and to not only invest in least at that special time of the year. It is great to see the task of funding, caring for and supporting children cancer research, but also in trying to make it as endurour employees supporting this project, and how it brings and adolescents in social and medical institutions and able as possible to the sick. In these cases, they provide joy to their lives as a reward for donating gifts. Our emchildren‘s homes all over the world. The new name of mental and financial help to the affected patients and ployees have shared their thoughts on this and highlthe former Phytokids Foundation highlights an additiotheir families. The organisation also takes care of diighted that they felt more fulfilled with this small action nal aspect in the foundation´s center: to foster the comsease prevention and health education. Therefore, they of kindness. petence of understanding and respecting nature which work together with governmental institutions to reach they share with Edelmann. Therefore, Edelmann uses its more awareness. Many charity galas and sports events USA resources to make an effort in the engagement for incalike soccer tournaments are organised by GEFLUC to colpable children in a sustainable way. lect more donations and broaden their audience. Edelmann USA also decided to donate toys and non-perishable food on Christmas to Charity Agencies, which distribute them to people in need. Even by small actions like these, support is shown, and positive spirit is spread. 27 HIGHLIGHTS OF LOCAL COMMUNITIES ENGAGEMENT The local communities where Edelmann Group is operating are of big concern to us. We like to support surrounding areas to enhance their development and to give back. In this way, we can easily assure to use our influence in the most helpful way and know where our help might be needed in the future. The main goal is not to get attention, but rather engage socially with long-term influence. These projects are organised by the plants themselves only in cooperation with the local authorities to acquire, maintain and improve a good relationship with our local institutions. No negative incidents were registered during the reporting period, including the rights of the indigenous people. Further we describe the highlights of social engagement with the local communities. Heidenheim Hungary – socially and environmentally active Our cartonboard can be used in many ways. Hence, it can also be a great material for In Hungary, every year in May, including 2018, employees have the chance to partichildren to create handicrafts with. Therefore, we give our spare cartonboard to local cipate in the Charity Run for Premature Infants as one of their social activities. The kindergarten and childcare services. This way, we can encourage the creativity of the race is organized by the Ambulance of Prematurity and the Charity for the intensive little ones and make sure that it gets reused with a great outcome. Care of Children. The race is done in teams which have to conquer a trail run over 59 km. Therefore, the team benefits in both their own health improvements as well as growing together as a team. Additionally, they use the joy of running to collect money USA for supporting the Foundation for Premature Babies. This is not only a great experienEducation is a privilege and therefore it is our pleasure to organize plant tours as an ce for the runners, but also for the supporters along the trail. The voluntary project orientation programme for students. Many students completing high school in the lotransfers a great spirit, meanwhile a lot can be achieved for good cause. In addition to cal area of our plants in California and Tennessee are hosted at our facility on a yearly the charity run, the employees are also part of the annual 24 hours Charity swimming. basis. They are taken on a tour of the plant, and we discuss the types of jobs we have This swimming event is called “The Ocean swimmer” and named after one popular available and expectations for people going into these jobs. In 2018, we participated Hungarian swimmer. in a program with a State Agency that provided young adults the opportunity for this first manufacturing work experience. We also host a group of adults who are particiMoreover, each year a blood donation on-site is organized and employees can parpating in a local leadership improvement process for young professionals. ticipate on a voluntary basis. In 2018, 37 employees donated their blood to those in need. Edelmann Hungary is also taking responsibility for the environment by planting trees and collecting waste nearby the plant. This way, they show their care for their Poland natural surroundings. Since we do not only care for the environment the next generaAt our Polish site we celebrate Children‘s Day every year and invite all local children. tion lives in, but also for their educational path, we offer plant tours for students as an Plant tours are organized, food is offered and the kids get educated on printing in a orientation and give them the opportunity to get an insight of a worldwide operating playful way, while they gain an insight into our business. company of this size. 28 EDELMANN FOUNDATION AND SPONSORSHIP In 2007, the shareholding family at Edelmann established the “Edelmann Stiftung” In 2018 the Edelmann foundation donated approximately 27,000 to various beneficia– a foundation based in Heidenheim. The purpose of this charitable foundation is to ries, once again supporting more than 20 initiatives with larger or smaller donations. generate resources to promote art and culture, sport, help for young people and the The institutions supported by the Edelmann foundation include Zukunftsakademie elderly, public welfare, science and research as well as the protection and maintenanHeidenheim (promoting enthusiasm for STEM subjects), Kinderschutzbund Heidenheim ce of historic monuments. e.V. (children´s campaign group) and Opernfestspiele Heidenheim (opera festival). The Since the foundation was established, we have provided over 200,000 of support to team of the football club Heideköpfe Heidenheim and the soccer club 1. FC Heidenheim around 100 facilities and projects – primarily in Edelmann´s home town of Heidenare supported by the Edelmann Group. heim and the local area. Quelle: 1. FC Heidenheim 1.FC HEIDENHEIM HEIDEKÖPFE HDH HEIDENHEIMER SPORTBUND 1846 E.V. SOCCER TEAM BASEBALL TEAM FENCING TEAM 29 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY We are committed to a safe, injury-free workplace. Within Edelmann Group, this material topic refers to regulations, policies, legislation and actions taken to ensure wellbeing of our employees and a safe work environment. Our long-term goal is to reach zero accidents. In the meantime, we are working on continuous improvements to fulfil a consistent reduction of injury rates, focusing on lost time injury rate. Each Edelmann site has a responsible health and safety manager, while the Global Head of OHS is located in our headquarters, proactively managing the responsible team worldwide. Monthly OHS reports with KPIs are delivered to the Global Head of OHS for centralized data collection and monitoring. No fatal injuries were registered during the reporting year. Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts is managed directly by the responsible team through the OHS system in place, hazards assessments and employee trainings. Edelmann Health and Safety Policy developed in 2018 communicates our commitment towards the issue. OHS management system Hazards assessment All Edelmann Group plants have a corresponding OHS management system implemenEither required by law or voluntarily implemented, our plants perform an independent ted. As the local regulations and national standards vary from country to country, hazards assessment annually or every two years, executed by a third-party organizaeach site adjusts its practices to follow legislation combined with their own initiatition. The goal is to identify potential risks in relation to substances, noise, dust, tools ves on OHS improvements. Examples of regulating bodies across Edelmann Group are and work processes as well as develop preventive measures and/or require immediate Arbeitssicherheitsausschuss (ASA) for German sites, Comissão Interna de Prevenção de or potential future actions. Therefore, hazards assessment reports are classified into: Acidentes (CIPA) in Brazil or Centralny Instytut Ochrony Pracy Pañstwowy Instytut Badawczy (CIOP-PIB) in Poland. The core goal is to prevent work-related accidents and » Work activity; advise on mandatory practices along with recommendations to promote preventive » Hazard cause; measures against injuries and diseases. 100% of our employees are covered by the » Protective measure; implemented OHS system. General preventive measures, such as production shoes, » Risk category; earplugs, special uniform are implemented across all sites. » Improvement measure (obligatory or recommended) We follow sector-specific guidelines, classified as manufacturing, that allows us to Audits from the reporting year have not revealed any high-risk activities, while all recognize potential risks linked to the industry. All plants function by the combination recommendations will be implemented in 2019, including several preventive measuof their internal OHS employees and external audit organizations to support them in res. In addition to the assessment provided by an independent third-party audit, an risk assessment. Monthly safety meetings are held internally to discuss current topics internal procedure is in place to ensure that all new substances are safe to the empand monitor the progress. loyees. For example, since our production employees in Germany receive their weekly uniforms after the laundry, a new washing powder was tested for potential allergies prior to the start of using it this year. Hence, any development or introduction of a new substance is thoroughly checked to make sure that it does not pose any risk for employees. 30 Employee safety training Employee engagement Training is the fundamental measure to ensure health and safety of our employees. All safety guidelines are available through Edelmann’s Intranet that can be accessed Appointed OHS managers are responsible for development, implementation and moby any employee. As an improvement to this efficient communication measure, it was nitoring of the training procedure, sharing the best practices among each other. While planned in 2018 to have all instructions printed and spread over production floors for our administration workers are trained annually on safe work practices and protection easier access that does not require Intranet use. Our employees participate in developmeasures in case of visiting productions floors, the main focus is on ensuring a safe ment and modification of the existing OHS system by either directly communicating workplace for production employees who deal with potentially risky work activities, their message to the responsible manager or through a labour union representative, processes and substances. The full training program is obligatory for all new empsuch as in France and Hungary. Both sites in the USA implement an employee suggesloyees, while the existing workers are trained annually and upon demand, i.e. if new tion program, facilitating communication process. All Edelmann employees have the substances or tools were introduced. Overall, the trainings are divided into: right to remove themselves from work situations that they assume could cause them or their colleagues injury or any kind of danger. » General briefings (why is it important, how it is managed); » Tool usage instructions (e.g. forklifts); » Substance instructions (e.g. flammable liquids) » Different work activity instructions (e.g. stacking, lifting and carrying items) » Fire safety; » Procedure in case of emergency; » Procedure in case of an injury; » General health and safety instructions (e.g. production safety shoes, recom mendations on sitting posture for admin employees) Detailed instructions and guidelines are available for each category, describing the material, process or activity, followed by the explanation of safety signs and preventive measures. All training sessions are documented and require a signature of a supervisor and the employee in question. 31 OHS improvement examples As a result of an internal assessment in our plant in Heidenheim, 30 new substances were identified and checked for hazardousness. Although they were proven to be safe in use, a special training was designed and implemented for employees working with LOST-TIME INJURY RATE BENCHMARK these substances to ensure awareness. A similar assessment will be performed further IMPROVEMENTS (PER 100 000 WORKING HOURS) in the rest of the German plants. 3 2.5 The Hungarian plant has trained a first-aid team to ensure that first aid will be pro2,5 vided among colleagues in case of an emergency or severe injury. This safety measure 1.9 2 1.6 was added to the list of best practices. 1,5 1.1 0.9 Although the area of OHS at Edelmann Group predominantly uses proactive approach, 1 0.5 some issues are hard to be foreseen, and therefore, they only become evident through 0,5 the cases of injuries. Year 2018 has brought 2 unfortunate injuries in Heidenheim, 0 caused by the use of the cutting knives. Therefore, to guarantee prevention of further Mexico California Tennessee injuries with the same root cause, special gloves were introduced for all employees 2017 2018 working with these knives. Risk assessment in relation to a similar issue will be performed for the rest of the plants. Referring to the OHS KPIs, there has been a significant improvement in lost time injury rate in Mexico, California and Tennessee, setting a benchmark. The total number of injuries remained 83 with all injuries being classified as production-related, except 1 administrative accident in France. INJURIES PER PLANT 30 25 20 15 27 10 14 5 3 3 5 3 3 3 4 3 3 1 1 1 0 1 2 2 2 2 < 3 days lost > 3 days lost 32 ENVIRONMENT www.edelmann-group.com SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT Procurement, as one of the key functions at Edelmann Group, significantly contributes to our sustainability performance. Our commitment starts with the compliance with corresponding legal requirements, including REACH and SVHC to ensure a responsible approach towards the use of chemicals and substances of very high concern. The development of Sustainable Procurement Policy in 2018 adds value to the principles that we follow as a Group to address responsible sourcing. There is a responsible purchasing team per plant with the Global Head of Procurement located in the headquarters. All initiatives are centrally coordinated, and best practices are shared, including sustainability-related initiatives being developed in close collaboration with our suppliers. Cartonboard – a sustainable raw material According to the recent study by Pro Carton, a European Association of carton and cartonboard manufacturers, cartonboard as a raw material is the leading choice for a PAPER AND CARTONBOARD CONSUMPTION (IN TONS) range of indicators, such as recyclability, overall carbon footprint, use of recycled and 100.000 renewable materials, inclusion of certified materials and minimal use of materials. 22,454 22,396 80.000 Total: 89,950 We are proud to support this responsible choice, as cartonboard is the key material Total: 89,408 25% 25% used in our production with a small share of paper included. Cartonboard and paper 60.000 consumption has slightly decreased in 2018 by 0,6%. The total consumption mainly 40.000 refers to cartonboard with an exception of Leaflet Solutions located in Lindau and 67,496 67,012 Leverkusen, where paper consumption stands for more than 90% of the total due to 20.000 the nature of leaflet business. The share of recycled cartonboard consumption has 0 remained at the level of 25%, proving our commitment to maintain a healthy balance 2017 2018 of fresh and recycled fibers. Paper and cartonboard consumption Share of recycled cartonboard Inks and varnishes Most inks and varnishes purchased for production facilities are water-based, excluding the use of strong chemicals. We are committed to the use of inks, varnishes and related products certified as free of conflict minerals and toxic heavy metals. Therefore, following our regular practice, we have collected corresponding proof of compliance, such as CONEG and section 1502 “Conflict minerals” of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform Act, provided by our major suppliers in 2018. Overall, only a few types of inks and adhesives are used to enable easier handling and disposal. INK BY TYPE INK CONSUMPTION (IN TONS) VARNISH CONSUMPTION (IN TONS) 8% 2% 9% 400 1.500 1,235 292 1,038 300 238 1.000 20% 61% 200 500 100 0 0 Water-based Vegetable oil-based Recycled 2017 2018 2017 2018 UV Mineral oil-based 34 Sourcing of wood from sustainably managed forests We make sure that all Edelmann sites have access to certified cartonboard, such as CERTIFIED CARTONBOARD (IN TONS) FSC or PEFC. Based on the customer requests, certified board can be ordered and used 25.000 22,401 in production. Therefore, we are in continuous communication with our cartonboard 19,643 suppliers to ensure their compliance, which in turn allows us to monitor environmen20.000 tal and social impacts of our products throughout the whole supply chain – from the 15.000 forest to the production point. From our side, 90% of Edelmann plants hold FSC Chain of Custody certification. The share of certified board purchased in 2018 increased by 10.000 14%. 5.000 0 Supplier assessment & Supplier harmonization 2017 2018 Edelmann Group has a long-standing relationship with its key suppliers, based on trust, transparency, and mutual interest towards a better future. We view our suppliers as strategic partners who would assist us in strengthening our sustainable procurement practices through a continuous dialogue and collaboration. We manage our relationship based on the Supplier Code of Conduct, covering employee protection, labour law and human rights; business practices and ethics; health, safety, and environment along with accountability and compliance with laws and regulations. Our internal supplier assessment is divided into the risk evaluation of new suppliers SUPPLIER HARMONIZATION 2018 and continuous assessment of the existing suppliers. The assessment is implemented Material Decrease in amount on the plant level. The new suppliers who have joined in 2018 were evaluated based on a self-assessment questionnaire, and they were further expected to sign the Code Board -4% of Conduct, confidentiality declaration, and the terms and conditions of purchasing. Supporting evidence is highly appreciated, including annual sustainability report and Raw materials -30% CSR assessment tools, such as EcoVadis or CDP. Existing suppliers were monitored based on the latter criterion along with updating all valid certifications, both social and enOther materials -60% vironmental. We are proud to give preference to local sourcing, and this commitment was once again proven in 2018. No incidents were registered during the reporting year in relation to the activities of our suppliers. In our efforts to gain better control over supply chain, a programme for supplier harmonization was launched in 2018. The goal was to focus on the key suppliers by reducing the total number of them, which in turn contributes to higher level of transparency, engagement, and our ability to monitor the supply chain. OVER 85% OF SOURCING IN GERMANY, HUNGARY & FRANCE IS DONE LOCALLY WITH AS HIGH AS 60% IN AMERICA AND ASIA 35 ENERGY CONSUMPTION Energy efficiency is part of our Environmental Concept, committing to energy preservation initiatives. The scope includes our plants, tools, equipment and everyday work practices. Each site employs a responsible manager who takes care of environmental development, including energy management. The Global Head of Environmental management is located in Heidenheim. Since 2018, we have set the goal to decrease total energy consumption by 5% within the estimated time frame of five years. Purchasing electricity generated from renewable sources, namely hydropower, still remains the most notable energy-related initiative for our German plants. The power source has been verified by the German Federal Environmental agency. 2018 energy consumption overview TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION-GAS (IN MWh) The total energy consumption of Edelmann Group consists of electricity consumption, district heating used in Poland and gas for the rest of the sites. Looking at the results 15.000 13,501 12,826 for the reporting year, energy consumption from the district heating decreased by 10.7% for the Polish plant, supported by the decrease in gas consumption by 4.9% for the rest of the plants. Meanwhile, the total electricity consumption increased by 3.3% 10.000 mainly due to a consumption increase in our biggest plant in Heidenheim because of the larger production volumes. It is worth mentioning that individual plants still reached and even exceeded their reduction goals with Lindau decreasing its electricity 5.000 consumption by 1.3%, Weilheim 4.8% and Poland by a whopping 8.9%. 0 2017 2018 TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION ELECTRICITY (IN MWh) DISTRICT HEATING (IN MWh) 50.000 1000 947 845 36,981 38,188 40.000 800 30.000 600 20.000 400 10.000 200 0 0 2017 2018 2017 2018 36 ENERGY-EFFICIENT PLANTS AND IMPROVEMENTS Combined heat and power in Heidenheim Edelmann Group headquarters in Heidenheim utilize the technology of combined heat and power. During the reporting year, the CHP station generated 872 MWh of electrical power and 1,145 MWh of heat power in 4,012 full-load operating hours. As a result, it covered almost 10% of electric power requirement and 20% of heat power demand in Heidenheim. Energy-efficient Hungarian plant Accomplished in 2016, an energy-efficient building technology was developed for our Hungarian plant in collaboration with the experts from heating, ventilation, sanitation and electrical installation. Latest technologies were implemented to address energy efficiency as part of our environmental agenda. With this, the heat loss from the printing machines can be transformed into the energy used for plant heating, and heat can be recovered from air-conditioning systems and air compressors as well as heat insulation of the paving tiles was implemented. As a result, less energy resources are required. Replacement of heating pumps in Weilheim In 2018, eight heating pumps in Weilheim plant were changed to replace the old pumps. The new heating pumps are more energy-efficient with 0.5 kWh consumption as opposed to 2 kWh. This improvement also allows better system regulation, as the pumps run in a fluctuating mode, speeding up or slowing down depending on what the system needs at a particular point of time. Switching to LED lighting in California Following the best practices of several plants, such as Heidenheim, the US plant in California has switched to LED lighting. LED being a highly energy-efficient lighting technology is expected to decrease the total energy consumption. The results are to be seen in 2019. Moving to a new facility in France A strategic decision was made during the reporting year that Edelmann’s French facility is moving to a new building in 2019. Among other benefits, the new building has better isolation and is expected to contribute to energy saving. 37 WATER CONSUMPTION AND BIODIVERSITY The human right of water, declared by the UN Global Compact, insists on clean, safe, accessible and affordable water. Edelmann Group supports this notion in addressing this vital natural resource. 2018 has brought the development of a Water Policy, which is an addition to our Environmental Policy. Both water management and biodiversity are regulated by our environmental managers in cooperation with the service providers, such as electricity and gas companies. Water TOTAL WATER CONSUMPTION (IN M³) The nature of Edelmann’s business operations does not require an extensive use of 80.000 70,086 water. Most of the total water consumption comes to sanitary usage, entering the 70.000 66,518 municipal sewage system afterwards. The resource is also utilized for humidification 60.000 to meet the storage conditions for cartonboard and as an additional benefit, keep the 50.000 humidity level sufficient enough to support the health of production employees. Only 10% of the total consumption is process water. 40.000 30.000 The total water consumption has increased in 2018, mainly due to a 23% increase in 20.000 consumption in Heidenheim. However, many plants individually performed very well 10.000 in reduction initiatives and decreased their consumption by: 27.7% in Lindau, 5% in 0 Weilheim, 3.2% in Brazil, 7.8% in Hungary, 3.8% in Mexico, 5.5% in California and 2017 2018 7.8% in Tennessee. No water bodies were affected by the operations of Edelmann Group during the reporting year, therefore bearing no impact upon nationally or internationally protected water areas and related habitat. Biodiversity TOTAL WASTE WATER (IN M³) With our respect to the importance of biodiversity, it does not belong to the mate60.000 55,752 52,849 rial topics, as Edelmann Group does not own, lease or manage any operational sites 50.000 which are within or adjacent to protected areas or areas of high biodiversity value. Consequently, Edelmann Group does not put any risk upon any endangered species of 40.000 flora and fauna at any time, including the period of the reporting year. Additionally, 30.000 Edelmann Group has not received any fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations during the reporting year for all 20.000 environmental indicators, such as water, energy, biodiversity, waste, and emissions. 10.000 0 2017 2018 38 WASTE MANAGEMENT As a responsible packaging manufacturer, Edelmann Group takes care of its waste management system. All production waste is handled by the corresponding waste disposal contractors, while our internal environmental managers ensure that the system in place corresponds to the local regulations. Although country-specific infrastructure represents a diverse range of approaches, recycling remains the leading method for most of the waste categories. 2018 waste overview The reporting year has marked a 0.4% reduction in total generated waste. The leading categories remain paper and cartonboard, metals, and waste from the photographic TYPE OF WASTE CLASSIFICATION 2017 (IN TONS) 2018 (IN TONS) industry. An improvement was achieved due to the decrease in metal waste and waste Paper, cartonboard Nonhazardous 23,249 23,339 from the photographic industry. Generally, the production waste is sorted into the established categories, picked up by the waste disposal contractors who weight the Plastics Nonhazardous 269 234 waste, and later on it enters the local recycling or disposal system. Metals Nonhazardous 124 117 No hazardous waste was imported or exported by or on behalf of Edelmann Group based on the terms of the Basel Convention (Annex I, II, III, and VIII). There were no Household waste Nonhazardous 308 283 significant spills during the reporting year. Compost Nonhazardous 3 4 TOTAL WASTE (IN TONS) Industrial waste Hazardous 199 174 30.000 24,756 24,656 25.000 Waste from the photographic Hazardous 77 76 industry 20.000 15.000 Wood, wooden pallets Non-hazardous 54 56 10.000 Inks Nonhazardous 16 10 5.000 0 Others Nonhazardous 457 363 2017 2018 TOTAL 24,756 24,656 excl. Leverkusen, Wuppertal and Edelmann (Beijing) Pharmaceutical Packaging & Printing, Ltd. 39 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS AND CLIMATE CHANGE Multiple studies have already delivered sufficient evidence that climate change is partly caused by human activities, including the responsibility held by the companies. Mainly, the increase in greenhouse gas emissions (GHGs) caused by numerous factors, such as fuel combustion, manufacturing or transportation, significantly contributes to global warming. Therefore, Edelmann Group takes its initiative to reduce GHG emissions and address the topic of climate change, which is on the current environmental agenda. Since the emissions are directly linked to the energy use, heating, waste, and transportation – these are the main focus areas to work on towards the goal of emissions reduction. Our commitment is transparent through the membership in Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP), where Edelmann Group reports annually on climate change. The result has been consistently improved, with the latest score increase from Cto C in 2018. Being linked to CDP and based on the goals of the current report, Edelmann Group reports on GHG emissions Scope 1, Scope 2, and partially Scope 3. Scope 1: Direct GHG emissions TOTAL SCOPE 1 GHG EMISSIONS (IN TONS OF CO2E) Within the scope of Edelmann Group, Scope 1 GHG emissions arise from stationary combustion. Company-owned vehicles are expected to be included during the next 3.000 2,729 2,593 reporting year. Due to the reduction in energy consumption (gas) in 2018, direct emissions have decreased accordingly by 5%. The emissions were calculated based on the 2.000 calculation guidance developed by Greenhouse Gas Protocol – in conformance with 1.000 GHG Protocol standards. 0 2017 2018 Scope 2: Indirect GHG emissions Indirect GHG emissions refer to the generation of purchased energy, i.e. purchased TOTAL SCOPE 2 GHG electricity and district heating. While the emissions from purchased electricity increaEMISSIONS (IN TONS OF CO2E) sed by 0.9% due to the increase in total consumption, district heating emissions decreased by 10.7% thanks to the reduction in district heating consumption in Poland. 15.000 186 166 Emission levels were calculated through location-based method, i.e. country-speci10.000 fic GHG indices were used according to GHG Protocol standards. Average hydropower 5.000 11,984 12,089 emission rate was taken for renewable electricity sources. 0 Scope 3: Other indirect emissions 2017 2018 Other indirect emissions may arise from the impact that occurs outside the company Electricity District heating itself, but still belongs to the value chain. Currently, only waste treatment is included in the scope of reporting, following GHG Protocol standards. We aim to include further TOTAL SCOPE 3 GHG EMISSIONS reporting categories in the upcoming years. (IN TONS OF CO2E) 600 535 533 400 200 0 2017 2018 40 CO2 REDUCTION AND CO2 COMPENSATION PROJECTS Apart from the efforts to reduce GHG emissions by improving overall energy efficiency, we aim at engaging our customers and suppliers into the process to achieve better results. Combining our knowledge and capabilities, we are able to make a difference and at the same time equally benefit from our initiatives. CO2 reduction initiatives CO2 compensation One of the common ways to address reduction in emissions is the optimization of Edelmann Group is among a few packaging manufacturers who can support customers transportation. Therefore, a central consignment stock was established, linked to one in providing a full overview on the carbon footprint of their products. We use a calof the key customers with the participation of several suppliers, one of which beculation tool developed by an external provider that allows to estimate the amount longs to the major strategic tier. Having analyzed the respective data on the materials, of CO2 caused by the production of a particular order, a separate product line or the potential locations, and participating suppliers, the project was implemented at the whole portfolio. The calculation includes the whole chain from the production of cartest stage. Showing positive results, the concept was proven to be an efficient way to tonboard to the final package, covering all transportation steps, specific tools used optimize deliveries. Among the other benefits, such as increased delivery reliability by and commuting of employees. Once the customers receive a detailed overview, they ensuring lead times, saving of CO2 emissions caused by transportation by almost twomay choose to invest in CO2 neutral projects, thereby compensating their own carbon thirds was realized. As a result, the material is now delivered with full-truck loads, footprint. For this purpose, we collaborate with certified organisation regulating the overall requiring less trucks. This project also highlights a long-term relationship with ongoing projects. both our suppliers and customers. Examples include a project in Mut District, Turkey, where 11 wind turbines generate Continuing on the topic of joint partnerships, it is our common practice to hold proenough clean energy for 50,000 local households or an initiative in Mali, West Africa, jects with our customers aimed at potential sustainability improvements. The main where efficient cook stoves require less fuel consumption and prevent deforestation. idea is to analyse the current portfolio and suggest alternatives that would be more As a result, less carbon dioxide is released, protecting the local area and supporting favourable from a sustainability point of view, mainly covering the environmental the health of the locals. pillar. Lightweight materials, grammage reduction, construction modification, PET alternatives, and transportation optimization are the topics raised annually with our Our customers are always encouraged to participate and compensate their carbon clients. footprint. The ongoing projects contribute to an average of 100,000 tons of CO2 savings, and Edelmann Group is proud to be part of this network. 41 CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY “High Q Packaging” label stands for a promise to deliver standardized, superb quality level at all Edelmann locations around the world. Quality is our firm conviction, proven through ISO 9001 certification, corresponding to the implementation and maintenance of a quality management system across all sites. Additional certification includes ISO 15378 with a reference to Good Manufacturing Practice. While quality is assured throughout the entire production process, we also invest in sustainable product development to meet the needs of our customers and stay proactive on the market. No incidents of non-compliance to the health and safety impacts of products were registered. Therefore, zero cases resulted in fines or penalties, warnings or breaches of company‘s internal voluntary codes. CEeasy – meeting the needs of the elderly population Edelmann Group was among the forerunners in addressing the challenge posed by Pro Carton, a leading association of carton and cartonboard manufacturers. The problem statement referred to ensuring equal capabilities of elderly population to use the packaging without any limitations. Due to the physical changes of the target group, such as eyesight, physical strength and feeling, we took the challenge to design packaging to address equality in the use of our packaging solutions. Collaborating in a team from innovation, structural design and graphic design, a “CEeasy” product line was developed to meet the needs of “Best agers”. Packaging solutions were designed to be functional and consumer-friendly without compromising the main goal. To ensure that the main criteria are met, all “CEeasy” folding boxes were tested with Age Explorer. The test comprises a simulation of physical changes through the use of a special helmet decreasing the ability to see clearly, a suit to limit potential body movements and the gloves to restrict the feeling and mobility of the fingers. In order to pass the certification, the following actions should easily be performed during the test under simulated conditions: easy opening and closing of the box, unobstructed product extraction and ability to read the text on the box. Edelmann’s products received 48 out of 48 points. Upon approval of the designed “CEeasy” product line, we were able to apply these developments towards our customers’ needs. 42 CSR MEMBERSHIPS AND LATEST AWARDS EcoVadis is among the leading sustainaCDP (Carbon Disclosure Project) is an UN Global Compact encourages businSedex is the largest platform for shability ratings, covering reporting on enorganisation aiming to make environesses worldwide to follow sustainable ring responsible sourcing data. Our sites vironment, business ethics, labour and mental reporting and risk management a and socially responsible policies, and to in Heidenheim, Weilheim, Norderstedt, human rights and sustainable procurebusiness norm. Edelmann Group reports report on their implementation. EdelMexico, India, Hungary, Brazil and China ment. Edelmann Group currently holds a on climate change annually with the mann Group commits to the ten princiare Sedex members, reporting either Silver medal in recognition of sustainacurrent score “C”, following a pattern of ples through annual communication on through SMETA audits or self-assessment bility achievements. consistent improvement. progress. questionnaires LATEST AWARDS 2018 German packaging Sustainability Award for a folding box made of 25% grass fibres 2018 Paperboard Packaging Council Excellence Award 2017 German packaging Safety Award 2017 European Carton Excellence Award 2017 German packaging MOVE (Micro-oriented variable effect) Award 43 GRI INDEX GRI Standard Page number and UNGC reference GRI 102 GENERAL 102-1: Name of the organization 5 102-2: Activities, brands, products, and services 5, 7 102-3: Location of headquarters 5 102-4: Location of operations 5 102-5: Ownership and legal form 5 102-6: Markets served 8 102-7: Scale of the organization 6 102-8: Information on employees and other workers 6, 19 102-9: Supply chain 34-35 102-10: Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain 6, 14 102-12: External initiatives 43 102-13: Membership of associations 43 102-14: Statement from senior decision-maker 4, including a statement of UNGC continued support 102-16: Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 9 102-18: Governance structure 10 102-40: List of stakeholder groups 11 102-41: Collective bargaining agreements 23. UNGC Principle 3 102-42: Identifying and selecting stakeholders 11 102-43: Approach to stakeholder engagement 11 102-44: Key topics and concerns raised 14 102-46: Defining report content and topic boundaries 3, 14 102-47: List of material topics 14 102-48: Restatements of information N/A 102-49: Changes in reporting 14 102-50: Reporting period 3 102-51: Date of most recentreport 3 102-52: Reporting cycle 3 102-53: Contact point for questions regarding the report 47 102-54: Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 3 102-55: GRI content index 44-46 GRI 103 MANAGEMENT APPROACH 103-1: Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary At the beginning of each chapter 103-2: The management approach and its components At the beginning of each chapter 103-3: Evaluation of the management approach At the beginning of each chapter GRI 200 ECONOMIC 201-1: Direct economic value generated and distributed 6 202-1: Ratios of standard entry level wage by gender compared to local minimum wage 24 202-2: Proportion of senior management hired from the local community 19 203-1: Infrastructure investments and services supported 27-29 44 GRI INDEX 204-1: Proportion of spending on local suppliers 35 205-1: Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 22. UNGC Principle 10 205-2: Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 20, 22. UNGC Principle 10 205-3: Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 22. UNGC Principle 10 206-1: Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 22. UNGC Principle 10 GRI 300 ENVIRONMENTAL 301-1: Materials used by weight or volume 34, 35. UNGC Principle 7 301-2: Recycled input materials used 34 302-1: Energy consumption within the organization 36. UNGC Principle 7, 9 302-4: Reduction of energy consumption 36-37. UNGC Principle 8, 9 303-1: Interactions with water as a shared resource 38. UNGC Principle 7 303-5: Water consumption 38 304-1: Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas and areas 38 of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 304-2: Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 38 305-1: Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 40. UNGC Principle 7 305-2: Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 40 305-3: Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 40 305-5: Reduction of GHG emissions 41. UNGC Principle 8 306-1: Water discharge by quality and destination 38 306-2: Waste by type and disposal method 39. UNGC Principle 7 306-3: Significant spills 39 306-4:Transport of hazardous waste 39 306-5: Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff 38 307-1: Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 38 308-1: New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 35 308-2: Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 35 GRI 400 SOCIAL 401-1: New employee hires and employee turnover 19 401-2: Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time24-25 employees 401-3: Parental leave 25 402-1: Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes 24 403-1: Occupational health and safety management system 30 403-2: Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 30-31 403-3: Occupational health services 25-26, 30 403-4: Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and 31 safety 403-5: Worker training on occupational health and safety 31 403-6:Promotion of worker health 26 403-7: Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts directly linked by 30 business relationships 403-8: Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management system 30 403-9:Work -related injuries 32 404-1: Average hours of training per year per employee 20 404-2: Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 20 45 GRI INDEX 404-3: Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development 20 reviews 405-1: Diversity of governance bodies and employees 19 405-2: Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men 24 406-1: Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken 22. UNGC Principle 1, 2, 6 407-1: Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective 23. UNGC Principle 1, 2, 3 bargaining may be at risk 408-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour 23, 35. UNGC Principle 1, 2, 4, 5 409-1: Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labour 23, 35. UNGC Principle 1, 2, 4, 5 411-1: Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous people 28. UNGC Principle 1, 2 412-1: Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments N/A 412-2: Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 20. UNGC Principle 1,2 413-1: Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development 27-29 programs 413-2: Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local communities 28 414-1: New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 35 414-2: Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 34-35 416-1: Assessment of the health and safety impacts of product and service categories 42 416-2: Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and 42 services 46 FURTHER INFORMATION AND CONTACTS Further information on sustainability at Edelmann Group is available at: www.edelmann-group.com Questions on Sustainability Report 2018 can be addressed to: Elina Iamsia CSR Coordinator Edelmann Group, Edelmann GmbH Steinheimer Straße 45 89518 Heidenheim, Germany Phone: +49 7321 340 310 E-Mail: elina.iamsia@edelmann-group.com Website: http://www.edelmann-group.com www.edelmann-group.com
