Communication on progress January 2019 Company profile As an established European institutions events contractor with four decades of experience delivering quality and cost-effective results in more than 100 countries, we are ideally placed to successfully provide services to our clients for the organisation all types and size of events. In addition, we have at our disposal all the experience, expertise and personnel to do so. Founded by CEO Stéphan Uhoda 40 years ago, our organisation is a PCO that has the capacity to deliver on all aspects linked to the organisation and management of projects and events such as conferences, seminars, meetings, summits, forum, fairs, etc. Our in-house teams offer a complete range of services, underpinned by comprehensive ISO-certified quality assurance procedures. Cecoforma leads and implements local, national and international events for private companies, governmental institutions and institutional clients including, amongst others, EU institutions and UN agencies. We have organised more than 1.900 events all over the world. Experience working with EU institutions Of the more than 1.900 events and projects we have organised for institutional clients, 98% were carried out on behalf of European institutional clients. Our European institutional clients include amongst others: • The European Commission (DG COMM, DG DEVCO, DG EAC, DG EMPL, DG ENER, DG GROW, DG HOME, DG INFSO, DG JUST, DG MARE, DG MOVE, DG NEAR, DG RTD, DG SANTE, DG TRADE, EEAS/FPI). • EU Delegations and Permanent Representations. • Executive Agencies (EACEA, EASME, EASA, CHAFEA). • The Committee of the Regions. We have a thorough understanding of the working methods of international institutions and their specificities such as standards for translation booths and working conditions of translators, requirements regarding access for people with disabilities, and the rules regarding the reimbursement of travel and accommodation, to give just a few examples. We always ensure that our events are reliable and that they are of tailored quality wherever that may be in the world. We currently manage 14 framework contracts (FWCs) and service contracts in events and conferences, organising services as leader (sole contractor or leader of consortium). Further details can be found at http://cecoforma.com/. 2 Statement of support Cecoforma became a signatory to the n 2017. We are pleased to announce that the company reaffirms its commitment to supporting the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the field of human rights, labour relations, environmental protection and combating corruption. In this report, we outline our efforts to continuously improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, company culture and day-to-day activities. We are also committed to providing this information to our clients and stakeholders through the main communication channels. We continuously strive to improve our environmental and social policies. In the last year, we have re-validated our ISO9001. We have also improved our procedures, which has resulted in a more focused approach to managing out service providers and resources. We support all ten principles of the UN Global Compact and are working hard to actively contribute in all possible areas, particularly principles, as illustrated below. 3 The ten principles Human rights Principles: • Principles 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and • Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. How cecoforma supports these principles: • We provide our teams with safe, workable and sanitary workplaces in our offices located in Brussels and Liège. • We organise over 250 events each year around the world. We are very aware of our wider social and economic obligations, and we conduct our operations in a way which promotes Corporate Social Responsibility in terms of interaction with our workforce, clients and service providers. • We have processes in place for our employees so that they can express any issues that might affect they well-being in the workplace (such as physical harassment, verbal abuse, sexual harassment, psychological pressure, violence or threats on any basis). Measurable results or outcomes: • Cecoforma has never been subject to any investigations, legal cases or incidents involving Human Rights violations. No other issues have been identified. Labour Principles: • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; • Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; • Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and • Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. How cecoforma supports these principles: • We are committed to upholding freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. • Cecoforma complies with Belgian minimum wage rates. • Currently we do not employ any personnel under the age of 18, and we are aware of, and comply with, the Council Directive 94/33/EC covering the protection of young people at work. 4 • All employment posts have formal job descriptions assigned and are advertised internally and to the wider community during the recruitment process. After the interview stage, all successful applicants are offered formal contracts of employment with information on roles and responsibilities, hours of work and conditions of employment clearly stated. • We pay careful attention to pay based on the qualifications of our employees of their experience. We have an equal opportunity employment recruitment policy, which underpins a diverse and gender balanced workforce. • We consider the aspirations, tasks and directions of professional growth in the areas chosen by our employees via regular evaluations. • Employees are encouraged to develop their professional skills through trainings to the mutual benefit of individuals and the company. All managers complete a leadership training. Measurable results or outcomes: • Cecoforma has not been involved in any Health & Safety notices, investigations, legal cases or other relevant events related to the contravention of the Global Compact Labour principles. Environment Principles: • Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; • Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and • Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. How cecoforma supports these principles: making process. This year, we have updated our environmental checklist, which we apply to all events: Event organisation • We ensure our events are in harmony with the host city and that they respect the inhabitants by reducing the inconveniences associated with the organisation of an event (e.g. avoid blocking access to public spaces, such as park, etc. over an extended period of time). • assets, taking environmental and social criteria into account (visits of innovative solutions and places). • Identify and address any religious or cultural sensitivity pertinent to the event, its timing, activities or location. 5 General guidelines for suppliers • Prioritise local suppliers. • Include environmental criteria or green certification in the selection and evaluation process of suppliers in accordance with o the TYPE I Ecolabels for the purchase of goods and material (e.: the EU Ecolabel, Blue Angel, etc. o and for the purchase of services suppliers that have implemented an environmental management system in accordance with the EU Eco-Management and Audit Scheme, ISO 14001 or sectoral and regional environmental management labels. o Ensure that all suppliers respect the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact. (Cecoforma has a list of preferred suppliers with sustainable practices). • Favour suppliers that work with or donate to charities. • Favour suppliers with Circular economy practices. • When hiring event support staff (hostesses, technicians, security agents, interpreters, etc.), recruit locally whenever possible to avoid unnecessary travel and to support the local economy. We make sure that salaries are compliant with local wage standards. Venue/accommodation During selection of a venue, we pay close attention to its environmental and social practices, as it is the venue that usually provides the bulk of the services for an event (ex: catering, hostesses, technical equipment, accommodation). • Favour venues/hotels that have a sustainability label or certificate, such as a Green Key label, EU Ecolabel (nearly 400 hotels in Europe) EMAS (200 accommodations and venues EU wide), or that have robust environmental responsibility guidelines. • Choose event venues/hotels with easy access to public transportation. • Limit the distance between different event locations to reduce transportation needs. Catering • Apply the FLOSS (Fair Local Organic Seasonable Sustainable) principle as much as possible. • Selection of fish and fish produce should avoid products from endangered stocks. In this context, procurement procedures should apply criteria for certified fish (e.g. the independent MSC label). • Choose fair-trade coffees and teas, local juices and provide Tap water in carafes. • Ask participants in the registration form which meals they plan to be present for so that we can anticipate the correct amount and type of food. • attend the event): use a waiting list and remind participants to re-confirm their participation 1 or 2 weeks before the conference and adapt the amount of food ordered to the latest registrations • When serving a buffet meal, avoid putting out too much food to avoid excesses; have the catering team refill platters as necessary to avoid waste. • Avoid decorations made from food. • Avoid individual packages or packaging in general. • Avoid one way / disposable cups, dishes, etc. 6 • Favour caterers with sustainable practices, such as restaurants/catering companies that produce their own products (ex: restaurant with rooftop vegetable gardens or beehives) or catering companies that have their own compost or that have signed charters to combat food waste • Favour circular economy practices e.g. as the reuse of coffee ground to grow mushrooms and using these mushrooms for catering. • Favour caterers that donate leftover food; if this option is not available, leftover donations can be organised by cecoforma team (depending on the laws in each country). In Brussels, several Waste management • In line with the principle of the circular economy, the generation of waste should be minimised. For any waste remaining after all efforts to avoid, reduce, reuse and recycle, Installation • containers throughout the event venue should be used and assure good visibility / communication to make participants aware of the waste separation principles adhered to; • Used roll-ups will be upcycled in goodies and gadgets for the next events. Measurable results or outcomes: • On-going successful evaluation of our environmental management. • Positive staff involvement and awareness. • Measurable less paper, electricity and water usage increase in recycling and awareness. Anti-corruption Principle: • Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. How cecoforma supports these principles: • Corruption in all forms is not acceptable. Measurable results or outcomes: • Cecoforma has not been involved in any legal cases, rulings or other events related to bribery, corruption or extortion. Cecofor ommitments for 2019: In 2019, Cecoforma will continue to support the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in the field of human rights, labour relations, environmental protection and combating corruption. As part of our commitment, cecoforma plans to create a corporate social responsibility (CSR) committee. The CSR committee would be a volunteer-based committee, which would lead and 7 coordinate social projects throughout the year. For each project, anyone at the company will have the opportunity to volunteer to assist the committee. Reasons to set up a CSR committee: • To contribute to making the company a responsible and sustainable business. • To show commitment to the United Nations Global Compact initiative. • To bring together the different teams around a common set of values: sustainability and giving back to the community. 8
