UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 Gebrüder Weiss GmbH UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2017 Company name Gebrüder Weiss GmbH Address Bundesstrasse 110, 6923 Lauterach Country Austria UNGC member since November 3, 2011 Contact name Wolfram Senger-Weiss Contact position Managing Director Sector Industrial Transportation Date December 2017 Portrait of Company Mission Gebrüder Weiss Statement With around 7,000 employees, 150 company“We aim to fill our customers with owned locations and a turnover of 1.55 billion enthusiasm, which is why our daily work is euros in 2017, Gebrüder Weiss ranks among based on an exceptional quality of service.” the leading transport and logistics companies in Europe. Based on its home markets in the Alpine-Danube region as well as Asia and North America, In addition to its core business of land transport, Gebrüder Weiss develops sectorand customerair & sea freight and logistics, the company also specific transport and logistics solutions that operates a number of highly specialised enable the seamless meshing of production, industry solutions and subsidiaries under the business and transport processes. umbrella of Gebrüder Weiss Holding AG, based in Lauterach (Vorarlberg, Austria). This includes For some time now, sustainability has involved logistics consultancy x|vise, tectraxx (industry much more than simply regulating our level of specialist for hi-tech businesses), inet-logistics traffic on the roads. Intelligent logistics begins (software solutions for TMS transport with the analysis of the entire system of management), dicall (telephone service, procurement and distribution processes of our consulting and telemarketing), Railcargo customers. (railway transport) and the Gebrüder Weiss We review existing supply chains and select the parcel service GWP, a shareholder in the appropriate means of transport on an individual Austrian company DPD. This bundling of basis. When logistics chains are optimally services allows us to respond to customer matched with one another, everything works like needs quickly and flexibly. clockwork. Synergies are used, CO2 emissions are reduced and profitability increases. Having implemented a variety of ecological, economic and social initiatives, the familyowned company, which has a history going back 500 years, is considered a pioneer in terms of sustainable business today. Who we are, what we do and what we stand for: watch our corporate film 2|6 The Orange Strategy Added value for customers. As well as goods and data, Gebrüder Weiss We aim to impress with our services and also moves people who come into contact with products, to move our customers. We are aware the orange network, internally or externally. We of our financial and social responsibility as a are moving forward with our customers, with a business and seek environmentally-friendly forward-looking approach and innovative ideas. solutions. As an independent company with a As a logistics specialist, GW controls global good capital base, marginal dependency on supply chains. We offer global solutions through banks and a broad range of services, we will our international network. Our main aim is direct our actions towards sustainability and act Service Excellence. responsibly and economically. The GW vision is rooted in the mentioned independence. We don’t think in quarters, we think in generations. That is why we don’t act with merely short-term goals in mind but, on principle, with our long-term objective before us: we want to be the best, not the largest transport and logistics service provider. Best in class ce Su den st ai n Ind op lity ep er bi e r– k a na r regional p tio na l global net aye ell l exc ence wo Ser t log r a n s p o rt – s t vi c en e istics olution itm E xc s el m le n m ce Co 3|6 Statement of Support Dear Stakeholders, Only a healthy company is able to act in a sustainable manner and to fully live up to its corporate responsibility. The successful business performance achieved strengthens and expands our sound financial position. For us, sustainability means taking active responsibility; this has been the case for generations and remains one of our core values to this day. Today’s global economy is based on the division of labour and relies on the ability to smoothly overcome barriers of distance and time. That is why our business model at Gebrüder Weiss entails optimising the flow of goods and commodities. At the same time, we aim to save resources through intelligent control of the supply chain as well as by indicating and facilitating more resource-efficient transport solutions. At all levels of corporate activity, economic, social and environmental factors are taken into consideration as equally as possible, in order to create long-term values for the company, the environment and society. In our Code of Conduct, we have set down the values we live by and which form the basis for our decisions and business practices. Our staff enjoy the freedom to place an individual emphasis or indicate new potentials, and are encouraged to do so – whether for CSR initiatives or with a view to process improvement. We offer attractive working conditions in a challenging environment and provide our employees with numerous opportunities for personal development. In 2011, Gebrüder Weiss joined the UN Global Compact and we will continue to support this initiative. The ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption correspond with our values and are included in our Code of Conduct. With this Communication on Progress, we like to share our 2017 activities with our stakeholders. We are looking forward to continuous exchange with you. Wolfram Senger-Weiss, MBA Managing Director Gebrüder Weiss GmbH 4|6 Facts and Figures The Gebrüder Weiss Group GW Service Portfolio 15th Century As of 1989 – 2005 – As of 2009 Global Expansion Generationa GW is the l Change Macedonia, oldest CEEC, China, Far Montenegro, Georgia, transportation East, USA, Canada, Turkey, Russia and company in the UAE, and India Kazakhstan world 626,109 m² Logistics area 150 3,500 GW locations Trucks on the road for GW every day 1,546 12.7 Millon euros net Million shipments sales (2016) forwarded worldwide annually 7,000 Employees Certificates within the GW group • Quality Management EN ISO 9001 • TAPA Certificate • Environmental Management ISO 14001 • Certification IFS Logistics • Information Security Management System ISO 27001 • HACCP Certificate • Authorised Economic Operator (AEO) • SQAS-Testat 5|6 Gebrüder Weiss Progress on the UNGC’s Principles in 2017 The principles Our commitment Systems Measures to progress Principle 1 We have stipulated our binding • GW Code of • Groupwide training on the Code Support and respect commitment to international Conduct of Conduct implemented the protection of human rights and human dignity • GW Occupational • Global OHS Strategy and KPI Human rights inter-nationally without exception in our Code of Health and approved proclaimed human Conduct. By integrating the Code Safety System • Works Council active, in countries rights of Conduct into our General • GW HSEQ Policy where compliant with local laws Principle 2 Terms and Conditions, we involve our suppliers in our • Contact points defined, for Make sure that we questions as well as reporting are not complicit in commitment to observe human rights. violations human rights abuses Principle 3 Competent employees are our • GW Code of • Groupwide training on the Code Uphold the freedom success factor. Gebrüder Weiss Conduct of Conduct implemented of association and the advocates freedom of assembly • GW Human • Annual appraisal interviews effective recognition and collective bargaining. Our Resource implemented of the right to cultural diversity is regarded as Developmen t • Active participation in the annual collective bargaining an asset and discrimination • GW payroll collective bargaining for the against individuals or groups of accounting Austrian freight forwarding sector Principle 4 people will not be tolerated. The elimination of all • Provision of a flexible working Gebrüder Weiss strictly forms of forced and hour model Labour condemns child labour and any compulsory labour form of forced or compulsory • Contact points are defined, for Principle 5 labour. questions as well as reporting The effective violations abolition of child labour Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 7 At Gebrüder Weiss, the environ• GW Code of • Only the current highest Support a ment holds a 'very special place', Conduct “EURO” class of heavy goods precautionary and we regularly show this in • GW vehicles is considered for new approach to environthe selection of transport modes Environmental purchases mental challenges and how we carry out our daily Management • Vehicle telematics business. We are committed to System (ISO implemented, to increase fleet Principle 8 Undertake the responsible use of resources 14001 certified) efficiency initiatives to promote and recognise the subject of Environment more environmentally • GW HSEQ Policy • Cooperation with MAN for environ-mental protection as a testing eTrucks friendly technologies long-term challenge and worthy Principle 9 objective for investment. We are • Calculation of greenhouse Encourage the doing our utmost to reduce our gas emissions for transports development and environmen-tal impact, by performed diffu-sion of investing in state-of-the-art • Modernising and increasing environmentally technology, and improving efficiency of facilities friendly technologies infrastructure and processes. • Waste disposal and separation system enlarged due to extension of ISO 14001 certification Principle 10 Gebrüder Weiss adheres to • GW Code of • Groupwide Compliance Online Work against the principles of transparency, Conduct Training implemented corruption in all its responsibility, integrity, solidarity, • GW Compliance • Supplier Relationship Anti-Corruption forms, including civil courage, justice, democracy System Management System extortion and bribery and supremacy of the rule of law. implemented, including • GW Anti-Corruption GW expressly distances itself from Policy compliance screening of any form of corruption, including business partners extortion and bribery. Our emplo• Compliance Office yees and business partners are implemented therefore bound to neither offer nor accept any improper benefits • Contact points are defined, for which could influence commercial reporting violations decisions. 6|6
