Statkraft AS Annual Report 2018 CONTENT 3 Introduction 3 Statkraft at a glance 5 The Board of Directors 7 The Corporate Management 8 Letter from the CEO 10 Report from the Board of Directors 12 Strategy – Powering a green future 15 Financial performance 19 Segments 23 Risk management 28 Corporate Responsibility 29 Management of corporate responsibility 31 Statkraft’s contribution 33 Social disclosures 41 Environmental disclosures 42 Economic disclosures 48 Corporate Governance 57 Statements 57 Group Financial Statements 57 Financial Statements 62 Notes 118 Statkraft AS Financial Statements 118 Financial Statements 122 Notes 140 Auditor’s Statement 145 Corporate Responsibility Statement 160 Auditor’s Statement 162 Key figures and Alternative Performance Measures ABOUT THE REPORT Note that the report from the Board of Directors includes references to other chapters which also are signed by the Board of Directors. POWERING A GREEN FUTURE Statkraft is a leading renewable energy company with activities on three continents within hydro, wind and solar. Through our market activities and production assets we create value for our owner, our customers and the societies we operate in. STATKRAFT at a glance KEY FIGURES EBIT underlying………………………………..…………...NOK 15.0 billion Net profit……………………………………….………….…NOK 13.4 billion Net interest-bearing debt…………………….…………….NOK 12.9 billion Cash flow from operations ………………….…………….NOK 15.3 billion ROACE…………….………………………………..……….14.7% EUROPE’S LARGEST PRODUCER OF RENEWABLE ENERGY 62 TWh 98% renewable Standard & Poor’s Fitch Ratings’ long-term rating long-term rating ABBB+ Outside Norway Europe Investments 7.0 Europe (NOK billion) 3600 5.3 Total recordable injuries per million hours worked employees in 15 One fatal accident related to hydrocountries power construction in Albania 5 The Board of Directors From the left: Vilde Eriksen Bjerknes, Mikael Lundin, Ingelise Arntsen, Asbjørn Sevlejordet, Thorhild Widvey, Peter Mellbye, Bengt Ekenstierna, Hilde Drønen and Thorbjørn Holøs Thorhild Widvey Peter Mellbye Hilde Drønen Born 1956, Norwegian Born 1949, Norwegian Born 1961, Norwegian Chair of the board, member since 2016. Vice Chair of the board, member since 2016. Board member, member since 2014 Chair of the Compensation Committee Member of the Compensation Committee Chair of the Audit Committee Current board positions: Board member: Kværner, Current board positions: Chair: Wellesley petroleum, Current board positions: Board member: DOF Subsea Pacific Lutheran University in Tacoma. Otovo. Board member: TechnipFMC, Qinterra, and various subsidiaries in the DOF ASA Group. Experience: Minister of Culture. Competentia, Halfwave, Resoptima. Experience: DOF ASA: CFO (present). Minister of Petroleum and Energy. Experience: Statoil: EVP. Norwegian Export Council, Bergen Yards AS (today Bergen Group ASA): CFO. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs: State Secretary. Norwegian Ministry of Trade Møgster Group: various positions. The Minister of Fisheries: State Secretary. and Commerce: various positions. Mikael Lundin Bengt Ekenstierna Ingelise Arntsen Born 1966, Swedish Born 1953, Swedish Born 1966, Danish Board member, member since 2018. Board member, member since 2016. Board member, member since 2017. Member of the Audit Committee Current board positions: Chair: Wrams Gunnarstorp Member of the Audit Committee Current board positions: Nacka Energi AB Castle. Current board positions: Chair of the board: Asplan Viak. Experience: Nord Pool: CEO. Vattenfall Power Experience: Beken: Senior advisor (present). Several Board member: Export Credit Norway, Nammo, Berenberg. Consultant: CEO. Vattenfall Poland: CFO. Vattenfall CEO positions within E.ON Group; E.ON ES, E.ON Experience: Aibel: EVP. Sway Turbine: CEO. Statkraft: Europe Trading: CFO. Birka Kraft: Director. Gas, Sydkraft Bredband and Baltic Cable. Sydkraft EVP. Arthur Andersen Business Consulting/ Bearing Point: Elnät: COO. Director: Sogn og Fjordane Energiverk: CEO. Kværner Fjellstrand: CFO and various positions. Vilde Eriksen Bjerknes Thorbjørn Holøs Asbjørn Sevlejordet Born 1975, Norwegian Born 1957, Norwegian Born 1960, Norwegian Employee-elected board member, member since 2014. Employee-elected board member, member since 2002. Employee-elected board member, member since 2014. Employee in Statkraft since: 2001 Member of the Audit Committee Member of the Compensation Committee Current work position: Statkraft: Vendor Manager IT. Employee since: 1976, Skagerak Energi Employee in Statkraft since: 1978 Current board positions: Chair: EL og IT Forbundet Current work position: Statkraft: Head union Vestfold/Telemark. Vice chair: LO/Grenland representative, Mechanical maintenance worker. Current work position: Skagerak Energi: Head union representative. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 6 The refurbishment of Songa and Trolldalen dams in Telemark mainly comprises plastering of downstream dam sides and dam crowns. The construction will be completed in 2020. The Songa reservoir supplies water to four power stations in the waterway; Songa, Vinje, Tokke and Hogga. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 7 The Corporate Management From the left: Jon Vatnaland, Steinar Bysveen, Christian Rynning-Tønnesen, Hallvard Granheim, Hilde Bakken, and Jürgen Tzschoppe. Anne Harris has been appointed new CFO at Statkraft. She will enter her new position in 2019. Thomas Geiran (SVP Financial Reporting and Accounting and Digital Finance) will act as CFO until Anne Harris commences. Christian Rynning-Tønnesen Steinar Bysveen Hallvard Granheim Born 1959, Norwegian Born 1958, Norwegian Born 1976, Norwegian Group management since 2010 Group management since 2010 Group management since 2014 Position: CEO Position: EVP European Wind and Solar Position: EVP Markets and IT With Statkraft in 1992-2005 and since 2010 With Statkraft since 2010 With Statkraft since 2012 Education: MSc NTH, Trondheim Education: MSc NTH, Trondheim. Business studies BI. Education: MSc NHH, Bergen Norwegian Army officer education Former positions: Statkraft: EVP Wind, Technology and Former positions: Statkraft: EVP & CFO, Former positions: Norske Skog: CEO and CFO. Strategy, EVP Production and Industrial Ownership, EVP SVP Financial Reporting, Accounting and Tax. Statkraft: CFO and other executive positions. Corporate Development. Energi Norge: CEO. Industrikraft Deloitte: Director, Advisory & Auditor. McKinsey: Consultant. Midt-Norge: MD. Norske Skog: VP Energy Sourcing & Trading. Esso Norge: Refinery commercial coordinator. Current board positions: Chair: Fosen Vind DA. Current board positions: Board member: Klaveness. Chair: VCOM. Advisory board member: Det Norske Veritas. Hilde Bakken Jon Vatnaland Jürgen Tzschoppe Born 1966, Norwegian Born 1975, Norwegian Born 1968, German Group management since 2010 Group management since 2017 Group management since 2015 Position: EVP Production Position: EVP Corporate Staff and Industrial Ownership Position: EVP International Power With Statkraft since 2000 With Statkraft since 2009 With Statkraft since 2002 Education: MSc NTH, Trondheim and TU Delft, Education: Cand. polit. sociology and Ph.D. innovation Education: Ph.D. Electrical engineering, RWTH Aachen Netherlands studies, UiO. Former positions: Statkraft: EVP Market Operations Former positions: Statkraft: EVP Corporate Staff Former positions: Statkraft: SVP Strategy in Wind and IT, SVP Continental Energy. MD Statkraft Markets and various positions within the Generation and Power and Technologies, MD Statkraft UK ltd, Senior GmbH and Knapsack Power GmbH & Co. KG. Market business. Norsk Hydro: various mgmt. and advisor Corporate Strategy. McKinsey: Engagement mgr. Enron: Power Trading Europe Associate. engineering positions Current board positions: Chair: Skagerak Energi. IAEW Aachen: Chief engineer. Current board positions: Board member: Yara Deputy chair: BKK. Board Member: Agder Energi, Energi International, Oslo Energy Forum. Norge, TIK Centre at UiO. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 8 Letter from the CEO 2018 was characterised by solid operations and very good financial results. Statkraft also launched its new strategy – paving the way for further growth within renewable energy. High standards of Health, Safety, Security and Environment, the completed Performance Improvement Programme, this human rights and business ethics are integral parts of our provides a solid financial position for the company's further strategy and business models and form the basis for growth. interaction with all our business partners. Clearer than ever, UN’s latest climate report shows the large Statkraft's good results in 2018 demonstrate what a leading costs and consequences of temperature increases. The report renewable energy company can achieve in Norway and underlines the urgency in replacing fossil fuels with renewable internationally. The company’s value creation benefits society energy sources. Thanks to our employees, assets and through solid tax payments, dividends and job opportunities. experience, Statkraft is well positioned for this task. Statkraft also helps developing Norwegian renewable energy skills in line with changing energy markets as well as In July, Statkraft presented its new strategy Powering a Green deploying much needed renewable energy production both in Future . A main priority is the existing hydropower portfolio in Europe and in other parts of the world. the Nordics, where optimal operations and large refurbishment and maintenance projects are key tasks. The strategy also 2018 served as a reminder of the unpredictability of nature and sets ambitious growth targets for hydro, wind and solar power the unique qualities and values of hydroelectric power. A cold in Europe, South America and India. Increasing amounts of winter and a record-dry spring and summer period put the intermittent renewable power generation make the task of Norwegian power system's ability to deliver enough energy to ensuring flexibility, managing risk and contributing to efficient the test – a test it passed successfully. Later, a record-wet markets more important than ever. autumn showed how hydropower installations are able to curb flood and reduce damage in an excellent manner. Climate Towards 2025 Statkraft plans to invest around NOK 10 billion change will lead to greater variations and more extreme annually in renewable energy, of which 1.5 billion constitutes weather in the future. The outstanding qualities of our upgrades and maintenance of Nordic hydropower. Further hydropower assets make the Norwegian power system investments are mainly related to onshore wind power, solar unique, with characteristics it is very important to maintain in power and some international hydropower projects. In revision of terms. combination with business developments related to biofuels, electric vehicles charging, data centres and hydrogen, we are The divestment of Statkraft’s offshore wind assets has now well underway to becoming one of the world's leading been completed. The sale process has demonstrated high renewable companies – powering a green future! value creation amounting to NOK 10.7 billion. Together with the long-term dividend expectation from our owner and Christian Rynning-Tønnesen President and CEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 9 In addition to providing renewable energy, hydropower installations can also reduce flooding. In Tyssedal in Western Norway, heavy rain caused extremely high water levels in the midst of October 2018. To avoid damaging floods, more than 50% of the inflow to Ringedalsvatnet hydro reservoir was withheld. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 10 2018 ___________ Report from the Board of Directors ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 11 Report from the Board of Directors Caring for people is at the core of Statkraft’s company culture and everyone should return home safely from work for the company. Despite this commitment, there were one fatal accident and six other serious injuries during 2018. Statkraft is dissatisfied with this. Strengthening the safety culture and the performance across the organisation and among subcontractors is a top priority and has great attention from the corporate management. Statkraft had a strong underlying EBIT of NOK 15 billion in 2018, an increase of 38% from 2017. The increase was mainly driven by higher Nordic power prices. Profit before tax ended at NOK 20.6 billion and net profit at NOK 13.4 billion. Statkraft has a solid financial foundation and is now entering into a new growth phase with an updated strategy. The company’s commitment to act in a safe, ethical and socially responsible manner continues to be a foundation for all activities. VALUES Statkraft contributes to the implementation of several of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and has identified Goal The values shall govern Statkraft’s actions as a business and 7: Affordable and Clean Energy and Goal 13: Climate Action as provide guidance for the employee conduct: being the SDGs to which Statkraft aims at contributing the most.  Competent. Use knowledge and experience to achieve Statkraft’s external reporting on corporate responsibility is based ambitious goals and to be recognised as a leading player. on the Global Reporting Initiative Standards.  Responsible. Create values, whilst showing respect for employees, customers, the environment and society. Achievements and priorities  Innovative. Creative thinking, identify opportunities and Corporate responsibility is an integral part of Statkraft’s strategy develop effective solutions. and decision-making process. The Code of Conduct describes These core values apply to all employees and others who fundamental principles for sustainable, ethical and socially represent Statkraft. responsible behaviour. The Code of Conduct applies to all companies in the Group and to all individuals who work for HIGHLIGHTS OF CORPORATE Statkraft. Statkraft’s business partners are expected to adhere to standards that are consistent with Statkraft’s ethical requirements. RESPONSIBILITY Statkraft’s requirements for suppliers are described in a Supplier Statkraft is committed to act in a safe, ethical and socially Code of Conduct. responsible manner. Statkraft supports a global transition towards Corporate responsibility is an individual, managerial and line a low-carbon, climate-resilient economy by providing renewable responsibility in Statkraft, and systems are in place to provide and sustainable energy solutions. Statkraft’s goal is to have employees and managers with necessary guidance to uphold operations where people, communities, the environment and the desired behaviour. Principles and requirements related to assets are protected. corporate responsibility are included in Statkraft’s management system, which is regularly reviewed and updated in accordance Global initiatives and standards with new expectations and challenges. In order to fulfil its corporate responsibility commitments, Statkraft A number of initiatives have been implemented during 2018 to takes guidance from globally recognised initiatives and standards, ensure continuous improvement in the area of corporate including the OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and responsibility, with further priorities set for 2019, including: the IFC Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability. Statkraft is a member of the UN Global Compact  Implementation of an HSSE improvement programme with a and adheres to its ten principles. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 12 further focus on leadership development identified as a priority Unique and large flexible portfolio for 2019. Statkraft’s unique hydropower portfolio in the Nordics constitutes  Continued focus on climate related initiatives, including work Europe’s largest reservoir capacity and a unique fleet of flexible linked to Statkraft’s Low Emissions Scenario. Statkraft is power plants that enables optimisation of power generation based continuously building expertise on the impact of climate on market needs. The strong competence in optimising profitability changes on river systems in order to ensure safe and with an integrated energy management and operations and profitable operations. maintenance processes, makes Statkraft an excellent owner of  Launch of new Business Ethics Rules, guidance and a new flexible hydropower. training programme for all staff, focusing in 2019 on Strong track record in wind power strengthening resources and capacity to address business Statkraft is the largest owner and operator of onshore wind power ethics risks in new growth activities. assets in the Nordics and has a strong track record with  Completion of the analysis of Statkraft’s current approach to developing, constructing and operating wind power plants. ensuring a responsible supply chain (including the areas of Statkraft is currently constructing the largest onshore wind power health and safety, business ethics, human rights and project in Europe, Fosen Vind in Norway. environment), providing the basis for further improvements in 2019. Deep market understanding Aspects of corporate responsibility performance are monitored The Group possesses deep market understanding across many through the use of scorecards at group, business and staff area markets. The market operations are strong, including securing levels and in business reviews. Corporate responsibility issues are profitable long-term power purchase agreements, energy also included in the Corporate Audit’s scope of work. Statkraft's management and trading and origination. The skill-set, originated Board of Directors follow up the company’s corporate from managing flexible hydropower, currently forms the foundation responsibility work through their meetings. In 2018, the Board for the large market access business of wind and solar power in especially emphasised the establishment of more detailed and many countries. Moreover, Statkraft has long experience with quantitative long-term goals for the corporate responsibility area, large customers, which has been further transformed towards and by following up the corporate responsibility issues in project smaller customers in district heating and smaller power producers activities. in the market access business. More detailed information related to corporate responsibility is Financial solidity presented in the corporate responsibility chapter in this report. Statkraft has a solid financial foundation and demonstrates ability to make solid returns in changing markets. A high share of longterm power contracts has a stabilising effect on revenues and net STRATEGY – “POWERING A GREEN profit. The Performance Improvement Programme will yield cost FUTURE” reductions amounting to NOK 800 million in 2019. Cost reductions amounting to around NOK 625 million have been achieved by the Market development end of 2018. Further savings are expected through 2019 from The world is embracing wind and solar power on a scale that has completed initiatives. This will be followed up by the line never been seen before. This massive growth increases the need organisation. The Corporate-wide Programme is now closed. The for flexibility. Decreasing costs of solar and wind power will move divestments of offshore wind assets have been highly successful the industry away from subsidies and into an energy system with and have strengthened Statkraft’s financial position. new ways of selling power and customers that are taking stronger interest in renewable energy. The access to cheap and clean Competent and solid partner energy makes electrification the most effective solution to the Statkraft has a strong competence base and a commitment to act climate challenge and contributes to lead the world in the direction in an ethically and socially responsible manner. The company is of a low-carbon economy. seen as a solid and attractive partner. All these changes represent challenges as well as huge opportunities. Statkraft’s response to the development is outlined A market-centric approach in a new corporate strategy. Based on the market trends and the competitive position, Statkraft will continue to pursue a market-centric approach. This means building on the company’s deep market understanding to find the Statkraft’s competitive position best opportunities in renewable energy within each market across Statkraft has a solid foundation for further growth. From being a technologies. Statkraft focuses on building scale in the countries supplier of hydropower to Norwegian industry and general where it already has presence, i.e. the Nordics, Europe, South consumption, Statkraft has become Europe’s largest producer of America and India, and will own, develop, acquire and operate renewable energy and with a growing presence in other renewable assets. To further strengthen the position in each international markets. market, Statkraft will grow market operations and customise products and services to the customers’ needs and market demands. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 13 The rapid changes in the energy markets necessitate some to secure revenue streams through auctions and corporate Power flexibility in the targets and opportunities pursued. Statkraft Purchase Agreements (PPAs). The company will use its market continuously monitors the market and technology development to operations to create additional value from corporate PPAs, selling discover business risks and opportunities arising. assets to consumers, financial hedging and energy management. Substantial growth is also expected in battery solutions. Statkraft Strategic priorities will pursue opportunities in batteries together with other business Optimise hydropower and other flexible generation lines, such as hybrid solutions and battery solutions for customers. The need for flexibility increases, which provides a unique starting Grow customer business point for a flexible hydropower player with market expertise. Energy markets are becoming increasingly complex and Statkraft will build on and optimise its strong hydropower portfolio customers are taking a stronger interest in renewable energy. and other flexible generation. The Nordic portfolio is a unique and Statkraft is well-positioned with its deep market expertise, important source of flexible and stable power. Given the age of the renewable assets and long experience dealing with large Nordic hydropower fleet, Statkraft will continue with reinvestments customers. Statkraft will profitably grow its business to business to retain its competitiveness and optimise profitability. Annual customer activities, offering products and services to other power reinvestments of around NOK 1.5 billion are expected for producers and large consumers, district heating and electric Norwegian and Swedish hydropower in the coming years. vehicle (EV) charging. Statkraft will further focus on optimising and protecting the value of its hydropower assets outside the Nordics. By 2025 Statkraft will significantly increase its volumes in market operations, expand the product offering and increase activity also Historically, a significant share of the Nordic portfolio has been in markets outside Europe. Statkraft will be a leading provider of hedged with long-term power purchase agreements with market access services, hedging services to asset owners as well customers. Statkraft is currently working on entering into new as green power supply and hedging services to power intensive contracts. industry and industrial and commercial customers. The focus will Before 2022, 80% of Statkraft’s hydropower production portfolio in be on green investment products for corporate and institutional Norway will be up for revision of the concession terms, targeting investors, bringing wind and solar equity investment opportunities improved environmental conditions. This may reduce production to Statkraft’s customers. and flexibility, decreasing the flood control ability and the For market operations the ability to evaluate and carry risk is profitability of the portfolio. Statkraft keeps a great focus on fundamental. Future growth in these activities requires that understanding the environmental regulations. Statkraft keeps a constant focus on managing risk in an effective Statkraft will seek profitable growth in hydropower through manner. acquisitions and swaps, targeting plants that fit well with the rest Statkraft’s district heating business amounts to an annual of the portfolio. Recent transactions in India and Brazil are good production of around 1 TWh of heating, and is well-positioned with examples. As the competitiveness of new hydropower is good profitability. Statkraft aims to be among the top three players challenged by solar, wind and batteries, very few new hydropower in Norway and Sweden. Focus is on strengthening the core projects will be profitable. Thus, only projects with particular business and secure off-take of heat deliveries. competitive advantages in terms of costs and/or flexibility will be pursued. The market for electric vehicles and related services like EV charging is expected to grow massively. The Norwegian market is In Europe, gas power will be a key to provide the flexibility needed at the forefront of this development, and Statkraft is well and Statkraft will own and operate the existing gas power fleet, but positioned with its 47% direct ownership of Grønn Kontakt, the all further growth will be on renewable energy. second largest EV charging company in Norway. Statkraft will Ramp up wind and solar development expand the Grønn Kontakt business in the Nordics and pursue Solar and onshore wind power are becoming the cheapest way to international expansion. build new power generation, and strong growth is expected in all Develop new business countries in which Statkraft operates. Statkraft has a strong Norway and Europe are early movers in the energy transition, on onshore wind power position and has also successfully delivered decarbonisation overall and on electrification in particular, which solar projects in the Netherlands and India. Statkraft will ramp up gives Statkraft testing ground and early learnings on new business as a wind and solar asset developer, aiming for a total installed opportunities. Based on these advantages, Statkraft aims to capacity of 6 GW of onshore wind and 2 GW of solar power by create new profitable growth opportunities and expand in other 2025. Statkraft will take on a developer role, and partially sell markets. down shares of new assets to financial investors, primarily after completion. The company will look into both organic growth based Currently, the main initiatives are: on existing positions and acquisition of new projects or smaller portfolios to ramp up the business. The recent acquisition of the  Develop attractive sites for data centres and other powerUK and Irish wind development business from Element Power is a intensive industry in Norway, and provide them with its wider good example. As part of this business model, Statkraft will seek energy management services. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 14  Develop biodiesel production from wood residue feedstock, in  The largest hydropower company in Europe and a significant a joint venture with Södra, which can be used for transport player in South America and India segments and countries where combustion engines will  A major wind and solar developer with 8 GW installed capacity remain for the next decades.  A leading provider of market solutions for renewable energy,  Produce hydrogen from water electrolysis, to replace coal and tripling today’s volumes gas in industrial processes and refineries, and for usage in  One of top three district heating players in Norway and heavy-duty transport replacing diesel. Sweden  A developer of 1-2 new commercial and green business areas Moreover, Statkraft is continuously screening new opportunities where existing capabilities and portfolio can give a competitive advantage. Investments Statkraft is planning annual investments of around NOK 10 billion A market integrator in renewable energy in the period 2019-2025. Around 70% of the The four strategic priorities are closely linked. Combining them, investments until 2025 are planned in Europe, with more than a Statkraft will act as an integrator of renewable energy: matching third of the European investments expected to take place in supply and demand of energy, enabling new renewable assets Norway. There will also be substantial growth in markets where into the system and managing existing assets and customer Statkraft is already present, like South America and India. The portfolios. investment programme will be financed through retained earnings from existing operations, external financing and partial Statkraft’s ambition for 2025 divestments of shares in completed solar and wind projects to Statkraft aspires to be a leading renewables company in 2025, financial investors. The investment programme has a large degree with sustainable, ethical and safe operations. The aim is to be: of flexibility and will be adapted to the company's financial capacity, rating target and market opportunities. STRATEGIC TARGETS The Board of Directors has set financial and non-financial targets for the Group. The main targets are listed in the table below. The performance related to several of the targets will be assessed over a longer time horizon. Ambition Target Status HSE AND CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Prevent incidents and be committed to a workplace without injury or harm Zero serious injuries 7 Prevent corruption and unethical practices in all activities Zero serious compliance incidents 0 Deliver climate-friendly, renewable power and taking responsible Zero serious environmental incidents 0 environmental measures FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE Deliver a solid return on capital >7% ROACE1 14.7% VALUE CREATION IN ONGOING BUSINESS >3.5% higher realised prices than the average spot price in Efficient management of energy resources in the Nordic hydropower fleet 3.8% the market GROWTH Grow capacity in renewable energy (hydro-, windand solar power) 9 GW growth by 2025 On track ORGANISATIONAL ENABLERS Develop diversity in background, competence and gender across the Long-term ambition of 40% women in top management 23% company positions 1) See section Alternative Performance Measures at the end of this report for definition. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 15 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE2 underlying operating profit”. All underlying items are alternative performance measures and we refer to the chapter «Alternative An increase in the Nordic power prices led to an improvement in Performance Measures» for purpose, definition and statement for the Group’s underlying operating profit of 38%. The positive effect all items. Elements from the statement of comprehensive income was partly offset by lower contribution from Market Operations and after the operating profit are analysed in accordance with the the deconsolidation of Fjordkraft following the listing of the financial statements. company in March 2018. Gains from divestments impacted the result for the year and 2018 Return on investments ended with a profit before tax of NOK 20 649 million and a net Statkraft achieved a return on average capital employed profit of NOK 13 390 million. At the end of 2018, the Group’s (ROACE)3 of 14.7% in 2018. This was 4.1 percentage points equity was NOK 98 004 million, NOK 6377 million higher than at higher than in 2017, and well above Statkraft’s target of a the end of 2017. minimum of 7%. The improvement was primarily related to higher In the following, the emphasis will be to present the result from the operating profit, mainly due to higher Nordic power prices. The underlying operations for items up to and including the operating average capital employed was on par with 2017. profit. Unrealised value changes from energy derivatives, The return on average equity accounted investments (ROAE)4 gains/losses from divestments of business activities and was 5.9% (-0.5%). The negative return in 2017 was primarily due impairments are explained in the section ”Items excluded from the 3 See section Alternative Performance Measures at the end of this report for definition. 2 Figures in parentheses show comparable figures for 2017. 4 See section Alternative Performance Measures at the end of this report for definition. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 16 to impairments in Chile. Despite the fact that there was an The Industrial Ownership segment still saw a decrease in net improvement year-on-year, the achieved return is still below the operating revenues and other income as the listing and target of a minimum of 7%. subsequent deconsolidation of Fjordkraft led to a negative effect of NOK 741 million year-on-year. Net operating revenues and other income The Market Operations segment had a negative development due to lower contribution from Nordic origination and value reduction of Statkraft’s revenues are generated through spot sales, contractual long-term contracts. The International Power segment had an sales to the industry, market activities, grid activities and district increase in net operating revenues and other income as the Kargi heating. In addition, the group delivers concessionary power. The hydropower plant in Turkey was in full operation in 2018 and fundamental basis for Statkraft’s revenues comprises of power higher generation for the Devoll hydropower plant in Albania prices, energy optimisation and generation. The generation contributed positively. revenues are optimised through financial power trading, and the Group engages in energy related trading activities. Underlying net operating revenues and other income totalled Operating expenses NOK 26 925 million in 2018, 15% higher than in 2017. In total, the Group’s underlying operating expenses decreased by 4% compared with 2017. The decrease was primarily related to The segments European Flexible Generation, Wind Power, the deconsolidation of Fjordkraft and the reduced number of District Heating and Industrial Ownership all benefitted from the employees. higher Nordic power prices. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 17 Items excluded from the underlying Other financial items were primarily related to gain from operating proﬁt divestments. In 2018, this was related to the divestment of the Dudgeon offshore wind farm. Items excluded from the underlying operating proﬁt NOK mill. 2018 2017 Tax expense Unrealised value changes from energy derivatives -789 1289 The recorded tax expense was NOK 7258 million (NOK 3957 Gain/loss from divestments of business activities 1 449 315 million). The tax expense increase was mainly due to higher profit Impairments -167 -500 before tax and higher resource rent tax. The majority of Statkraft’s Total adjustments 493 1 105 tax expense was related to Norway. In total, unrealised value changes from energy derivatives, Income tax payable amounted to NOK 3181 million, an increase of gains/losses from divestments of business activities and NOK 1377 million compared with 2017. Resource rent tax payable impairments had a positive effect in 2018 of NOK 493 million amounted to NOK 3678 million, an increase of NOK 1227 million, (NOK 1105 million). mainly due to higher Nordic power prices and higher tax rate. Unrealised value changes from energy derivatives adjusted for in Cash flow the underlying operating profit amounted to NOK -789 million (NOK 1289 million). The negative effect were due to embedded The Group generated a cash flow from operating activities of derivatives related to long-term power sales agreements NOK 15 286 million in 2018 (NOK 8865 million), while the net denominated in EUR, which had a negative development of cash income5 was NOK 18 285 million (NOK 13 150 million). The NOK 333 million. Derivatives entered into for risk reduction increase was primarily due to higher Nordic power prices. purposes had a negative development of NOK 456 million, Cash flow from investing activities was NOK 5301 million primarily as a result of higher forward UK power prices. (NOK 4634 million). The positive effect was mainly related to Gains/losses from divestments of business activities excluded divestments of NOK 7316 million and repayment of loans from from the underlying operating profit amounted to NOK 1449 million Dudgeon Offshore Wind Ltd. of NOK 3894 million. This was partly in 2018 (NOK 315 million), predominantly related to gain from the offset by investments in property, plant and equipment and listing of Fjordkraft. acquisition of shares. The impairments of NOK 167 million were mainly related to two Cash flow from financing activities amounted to NOK -11 689 hydropower plants in Peru. million (NOK -6556 million) and were mainly related to dividend paid and repurchase and repayment of interest-bearing debt. Financial items At the end of the year, cash and cash equivalents amounted to NOK 23 175 million (NOK 14 217 million). Financial items NOK mill. 2018 2017 Interest income 404 374 Interests expenses -905 -1 234 Net currency effects -464 -2 069 Other financial items 5 377 6 748 Net financial items 4 412 3 818 Net currency effects NOK mill. 2018 2017 Currency hedging contracts and short term currency positions 182 -348 Debt in foreign currency -542 -1 502 Internal loans, joint ventures and associates -104 -219 Net currency effects -464 -2 069 Interest expenses were lower, mainly due to lower average interest rates and repayment of interest-bearing debt. Net currency effects were negative for 2018, predominantly as a result of a weakening of NOK against EUR and USD. 5 See section Alternative Performance Measures at the end of this report for definition. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 18 Net interest-bearing debt repayment plan Financial strength and rating It is important for Statkraft to maintain its credit rating with the two rating agencies Standard & Poor’s and Fitch Ratings. Statkraft AS has a current credit rating of A(stable outlook) from Standard & Poor’s and BBB+ (stable outlook) from Fitch Ratings. See note 6 to the consolidated financial statements for further information. Investments The main objectives of the Group’s capital structure management are to maintain a reasonable balance between solidity and the ability to expand and to maintain a strong credit rating. When new external financing is considered, Statkraft seeks to ensure an evenly distributed repayment profile. In accordance with the Group’s strategy, the project activity level The most important target figure for the Group’s management of has been scaled down in the last couple of years. However, with capital structure is the long-term credit rating. the new strategy in 2018, Statkraft has now entered a new growth cycle and is ramping up its investments. At the end of 2018, net interest-bearing debt6 amounted to NOK 12 921 million (NOK 24 845 million), giving a net interestIn total, Statkraft invested NOK 6981 million in 2018 (NOK 3895 bearing debt-equity ratio7 of 11.6%. million), of which 44% were investments in new generating capacity. Investments in new capacity were predominantly related At the end of the year, Statkraft’s equity totalled NOK 98 004 to the Fosen onshore wind farms in Norway and the Devoll million, compared with NOK 91 627 million at the start of the year. hydropower project in Albania. Maintenance investments were This corresponds to 54% of total assets (54%). primarily made in connection with hydropower in the Nordic region. Investments in shareholdings were mainly related to the 6 acquisition of hydropower plants in Brazil and a wind power See section Alternative Performance Measures at the end of this report for definition. 7 See section Alternative Performance Measures at the end of this report for definition. development company in Ireland. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 19 SEGMENTS Primarily the segment’s revenues stem from sales in the spot market and from long-term contracts, mainly with power intensive The Group’s operating segments are in accordance with how the industries in Norway. The segment also delivers concessionary Chief Executive Officer makes, follows up and evaluates his power. Multi-year reservoirs in Norway and the flexibility of the decisions. The operating segments have been identified on the power plants enable optimisation of the power generation based basis of internal management information that is periodically on the hydrological situation and power prices. Norwegian reviewed by the Corporate Management and used as a basis for hydropower is therefore optimised over longer time periods than resource allocation and key performance review. one year. In order to mitigate risk in relation to uncertainty of The reportable segments are defined as: future prices and generated volumes, Statkraft hedges generation revenues through physical bilateral contracts and financial power European Flexible Generation includes the majority of the trading. The hedged percentage of generation varies with market Group’s hydropower business in Norway, Sweden, Germany and development expectations and generation volumes. the United Kingdom, as well as the gas-fired power plants, the subsea cable Baltic Cable and the biomass power plants in The volume sold in the spot market may vary significantly between Germany. years, depending on the hydrological situation, e.g. inflow and reservoir filling, and generation optimisation decisions. The Market Operations includes trading, origination, market access management of multi-year reservoirs and flexible power plants for smaller producers of renewable energy, as well as revenue normally enables Statkraft to achieve a higher average price for optimisation and risk mitigation activities related to Continental the power generation than what other companies in the Nordics and Nordic power generation. do. How effectively Statkraft manages the Nordic hydropower fleet International Power includes development, ownership and is measured by comparing the volume weighted average price operations of renewable assets in emerging markets. The achieved by Statkraft with the average market prices. For 2018 segment currently operates in Brazil, Peru, Chile, India, Nepal, Statkraft achieved a realised price that was 3.8% higher than the Turkey and Albania. market price. This was above the target of 3.5%. Wind Power includes Statkraft’s development and operation of The management of the Nordic hydropower fleet is further onshore wind power. The segment operates in Norway, Sweden, measured by supporting targets for availability and cost. Ireland and in the United Kingdom. Availability is an important factor in optimising hydropower reveDistrict Heating includes Statkraft’s development and operation nues. Statkraft measures whether its power plants are available of district heating plants in Norway and Sweden. to produce when it is most profitable to do so through a key performance indicator (KPI). The most critical factor affecting Industrial Ownership includes management and development of the KPI and that can be influenced is how effectively plant Norwegian shareholdings within the Group’s core business and maintenance and refurbishments are planned and executed. includes the shareholdings in Skagerak Energi, BKK, Agder Inflow and market prices are important external factors affecting Energi, Fjordkraft and Istad. Skagerak Energi is included in the the results. The long-term ambition for availability is to have a consolidated financial statements, while the other companies are market-adjusted availability8 higher than 95%. In 2018 the reported as equity accounted investments at year-end. Statkraft availability was 96%. has divested Istad and shares in Fjordkraft in 2018. Fjordkraft was consolidated until the divestment in March 2018. After the Production costs for the Nordic hydropower plants are relatively divestment, Fjordkraft was reported as an equity accounted low in comparison with other types of power generation investment. facilities. To ensure that Statkraft maintains its long-term competitiveness, Statkraft has an ambition to balance cost of In addition: operations for the fleet with ensuring availability, completing Other activities includes other small-scale business, group necessary reinvestments and continuously improving cost functions and unallocated assets. efficiency, and thus, Statkraft has a target to keep cost per kWh stable in real terms (~11 NOK øre/ kWh in 2025 nominal). For Group items include eliminations. 2018 the cost per kWh9 was NOK 9.8 øre. Based on the new strategy, Wind Power will change its name to European Wind and Solar from 1 January 2019. There will be no Important events in 2018 changes in the segment’s financial figures. Statkraft entered into new long-term power contracts in Norway with Hydro Energi, Ferroglobe Mangan Norge, Norske Skog European Flexible Generation Skogn and Norske Skog Saugbruks. In total, the contracts have a volume of 42 TWh for the period 2019 to 2038. European Flexible Generation is by far the largest segment measured in terms of installed capacity, assets, net operating revenues Due to the condition of the old turbines and increased efficiency in and other income, as well as results. The assets are generally new turbines, it has been decided to refurbish in total eight flexible with the majority of the capacity related to hydropower in Norway and Sweden. 8 Market adjusted availability: 1-(∑lost productioni [MWh]/∑ installed capacityi [MWh])x(1/reporting period [h]). 9 See section Alternative Performance Measures at the end of this report for definition. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 20 turbines in Rana and Kvilldal hydropower plants in Norway. The  Provide market access for Statkraft’s own assets, as well as to new turbines will increase the annual generation with external generators of renewable energy approximately 120 GWh.  Exploring and developing new business models, primarily targeting customer solutions in the distributed energy market Main works at Storlia hydropower plant in Norway have started. Installed capacity will be 8.5 MW with an expected annual During the past years, the business activities have increased generation of 34 GWh. and have led to a significant geographical expansion with presence in many European countries, Brazil, Peru, USA Financial performance (California) and India. In the new strategy, Statkraft has an Higher Nordic power prices, good energy management and high ambition to be a leading provider of market solutions for availability had a positive impact on the segment’s underlying renewable energy. To reach this ambition, Statkraft’s target is to operating profit which increased by 53% compared with 2017, to grow profitable market access activities for third party NOK 12 943 million. generators and consumers, and build up the market access for flexibility in demand response and batteries by 2025. The segment’s underlying net operating revenues and other Furthermore, the ambition is to grow the customer business by income increased by NOK 4256 million compared with 2017, substantially increase the volumes in profitable renewable despite 3% lower generation. The increase was primarily driven PPAs, sale of power, guarantees of origin and green power by higher Nordic power prices. On average the Nordic system supply by 2025. Statkraft is on track to ramp up these activities. price was 49% higher than in 2017. The segment’s total generation was 48.9 TWh in 2018 Important events in 2018 (50.4 TWh). 46.8 TWh of this was from the Nordic hydropower Statkraft started with market access activities in Spain. Three plants (47.6 TWh). 28.5 TWh, 58% of total generation, was sold Power Purchase Agreements and simultaneously Power Supply in the spot market. A large share of the generation is sold on Agreements with four Spanish industrial customers were signed. long-term contracts and this has a stabilising effect on the Statkraft also entered into the Irish market by signing a Power segment’s revenues. In 2018, contracted volume was Purchase Agreement with Castledockrell. 17.6 TWh, on the same level as in 2017 and corresponding to 36% of the total generation. The remaining volume was In France, a Power Purchase Agreement with Eurowatt was concessionary sales sold at statutory prices. signed. The underlying operating expenses were 4% lower than in In Germany, Statkraft signed a four year supply contract with 2017. The main reason for the decrease was lower salary and Mercedes-Benz Cars to provide green energy supplied by payroll costs due to a lower headcount. German wind farms. This is the first supply contract in Germany that will deliver wind power without support from the EEG The segment had an operating profit/loss (EBIT) IFRS for the subsidy scheme. year of NOK 12 610 million, an increase of NOK 1906 million from 2017. The operating profit was negatively impacted by Financial performance unrealised value changes from energy derivatives stemming The segment’s underlying EBIT of NOK -321 million was from long-term power sales agreements denominated in EUR. NOK 1377 million lower than in 2017. The decrease was mainly The return on average capital employed (ROACE)10 was 23.3% driven by negative contribution from Nordic origination and (15.2%). The increase was primarily a result of the higher value reduction for long-term contracts in Brazil due to currency underlying EBIT. The average capital employed was on the effects. The contribution from dynamic asset management same level as year-end 2017. portfolios and trading improved compared with 2017. The segment’s operating expenses increased by 25% Market Operations compared with 2017, primarily related to higher salary and Market Operations is Statkraft’s interface to markets where energy payroll costs and an extra contribution to Nasdaq’s default fund and energy-related products are traded. The segment is also following loss caused by the close-out of the positions of a responsible for developing new customer-oriented business clearing member. models in Europe and in selected countries where Statkraft owns assets. The main activities of the segment are: The segment had an operating profit/loss (EBIT) IFRS of NOK -761 million (NOK 1173 million). The result was negatively  Trading of standard financial contracts and structured impacted by unrealised value changes from energy derivatives products entered into for risk reduction purposes due to higher forward  Origination, which includes customised agreements for UK power prices. industry and commerce The return on average capital employed (ROACE)11 for the  Dynamic asset management by holding a varying amount of segment is volatile due to large fluctuations in the underlying asset-backed positions to generate profit EBIT. For 2018 the ROACE was -6.9% (27.2%) as a result of 10 See section Alternative Performance Measures at the end of this report for definition. 11 See section Alternative Performance Measures at the end of this report for definition. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 21 the negative underlying EBIT. The average capital employed and for 2018 the return on average capital employed (ROACE)12 was relatively stable compared with 2017. was 2.9% (1.7%). The increase was due to higher underlying EBIT. The average capital employed was relatively stable International Power compared with 2017. International Power operates in markets with anticipated great The return on average equity accounted investments (ROAE)13 growth and an increasing need for more energy. Statkraft is was 7.8% in 2018 (-17.5%). The negative return in 2017 was focusing on selected markets where the company can add value primarily a result of the impairments in Chile. in a clear industrial role. Statkraft aims to expand the portfolio to include more wind and solar power, as well as hydropower. The Wind Power segment has assets in Southeast Europe, South America and The Wind Power segment focuses on onshore wind power and South Asia. Some of the investments are made in collaboration has operational wind farms in Norway, Sweden and in the UK, with local partners or international investors. as well as activities in Ireland. The revenues come from power sales and support schemes. Important events in 2018 Statkraft acquired the 100 MW Tidong hydropower project in Important events in 2018 Himachal Pradesh, India. Under the previous owner, around The construction of the Roan wind farm was completed. The 60% of the works were completed before the project was wind farm is part of the Fosen project portfolio. Roan has an stopped. Construction works have been restarted and are installed capacity of 256 MW and is Norway’s largest wind farm expected to be completed in 2021. to date. Statkraft also acquired eight operational hydropower plants in Statkraft acquired the Irish and UK wind power development Brazil with a total installed capacity of 132 MW. The acquisition business of the Element Power Group, including a 1550 MW increases the installed capacity in Brazil to around 450 MW. onshore wind development portfolio in Ireland and the UK. The These transactions position Statkraft for further growth in these transaction positions Statkraft as a large onshore wind key markets. developer in Ireland. Construction of the Kilathmoy wind farm (23 MW) in South-West of Ireland has been decided. The Financial performance acquisition of the Irish and the UK wind power development The underlying profit was NOK 631 million, an increase of business of the Element Power Group and completion of the NOK 237 million compared with 2017. The main driver for the remaining five wind farms in the 1057 MW Fosen project increase is the fact that the Kargi hydropower plant in Turkey portfolio will strengthen Statkraft’s position as the leading was in full operation in 2018, while it was out of operation for renewable company in Europe. most of 2017. Improved contribution from Brazil and Albania Statkraft divested its 30% shareholding in the Dudgeon offshore further contributed to the improvement. wind farm and recognised a gain of NOK 5106 million. With this The segment's net operating revenues and other income transaction, Statkraft completed its exit from offshore wind in increased by NOK 100 million to NOK 2244 million, mainly due line with the strategy. Overall, Statkraft’s investments in offshore to Kargi being back in operation and improved hydrology for the wind have demonstrated high value creation with gains from the Banja hydropower plant in Albania. sale of the assets and the contribution from the holding period totalling approximately NOK 10.7 billion. The power generation was 4.9 TWh in 2018, an increase of 8% compared with 2017. More than 70% of the generation was sold Financial performance on long-term contracts. The large share of contracted volume The segment had an underlying operating profit of NOK 429 has a stabilising effect on the segment’s revenues. million in 2018, an increase of NOK 562 million compared with The underlying operating expenses were 8% lower than in 2017. This was mainly a result of higher power and el-cert 2017, mainly due to lower headcount and that 2017 was prices. negatively affected by repair costs for the Kargi hydropower The higher prices led to underlying net operating revenues and plant. other income of NOK 1320 million, an increase of 84%. The The segment had an operating profit/loss (EBIT) IFRS for 2018 consolidated generation was 2.2 TWh, on par with 2017. of NOK 471 million (NOK -922 million). The figures in 2018 were Operating expenses increased by 5% compared with 2017, negatively impacted by impairments of NOK 160 million, while mainly due to increased project activity, the new Roan wind the negative impact was NOK 1392 million in 2017. farm and the acquisition part of the Element Power Group. Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments was The segment recorded an operating profit/loss (EBIT IFRS for NOK 143 million (NOK -744 million). The negative result in 2017 the year of NOK 431 million (NOK -61 million). was due to impairments in Chile. The segment’s capital employed is relatively high mainly due to 12 See section Alternative Performance Measures at the end of this report for definition. newly built and acquired assets leading to high carrying values, 13 See section Alternative Performance Measures at the end of this report for definition. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 22 Share of profit from equity accounted investments was NOK 30 Energi, Fjordkraft and Istad. Skagerak Energi is included in the million, a decrease of NOK 183 million. The comparable period consolidated financial statements, while the other companies included positive contributions from divested offshore assets in are reported as equity accounted investments at year-end. the UK. Statkraft divested its shares in Fjordkraft and Istad in 2018. The return on average capital employed (ROACE)14 was 6.3% Skagerak Energi’s activities are concentrated around power in 2018 (-1.9%). The increase was driven by improved results generation, distribution grid operation and district heating from the Nordic wind farms. The average capital employed was operations. stable compared with 2017. Important events in 2018 The return on average equity accounted investments (ROAE)15 Fjordkraft was listed on Oslo Stock Exchange on 21 March was 3.2% in 2018 (9.2%). The decrease was due to the through an Initial Public Offering (IPO), valuing the company at divestment of the UK offshore wind farms. NOK 3.2 billion. The IPO resulted in a gain recognised for Statkraft Group of NOK 1.7 billion, of which NOK 227 million District Heating was recognised as share of profit from BKK. District heating operates in Norway and Sweden and distributes heating and cooling to 13 000 customers. Generally, the Statkraft divested its 49% shareholding in Istad AS to Tussa revenues are influenced by power prices, waste prices, grid Kraft with a gain of NOK 168 million. tariffs and taxes. Waste, biomass, bio oil, electricity and gas Statkraft wants to contribute to a good industrial development of constitute the energy sources in the production of district its partly owned regional Norwegian companies. Statkraft heating. therefore sold 2.05% of the shares in BKK in order to facilitate BKK to use its own shares in the acquisition of Tysnes Kraftlag Important events in 2018 and Etne Elektrisitetslag. Statkraft’s gain from these The construction of the accumulator at Heimdal heat plant was transactions was NOK 175 million. completed and put into production. Estimated additional capacity is approximately 11 GWh per year. Financial performance The segment’s underlying operating profit of NOK 1467 million Financial performance was 7% higher than in 2017. The increase was primarily due to The segment’s underlying operating profit continued the growth higher power prices and generation. This was partly offset by seen over the past few years and ended at NOK 206 million in the deconsolidation of Fjordkraft following the listing of the 2018, an increase of 33% compared with 2017. The increase company. was due to higher volume delivered to customers and better The segment’s consolidated power generation in 2018 was 5.7 prices on both heating and waste handling. This was partly TWh, 6% higher than in 2017. Despite the higher power prices offset by higher energy purchase prices, lower waste volume and generation, the net operating revenues and other income and higher operating expenses. decreased by 9% compared with 2017 to NOK 3284 million. The The delivered district heating volume increased by 5% to reason for the decrease was that net operating revenues and 967 GWh, while the waste handled volume decreased by 8% to other income from Fjordkraft was NOK 741 million lower in 2018 203 000 tonnes. than in 2017 as a result of the deconsolidation of the company in March. Operating expenses were 4% higher than in 2017, primarily related to maintenance costs, expensed project cost and costs Operating expenses decreased by 19% compared with 2017, related to the segment’s strategy process. mainly due to the deconsolidation of Fjordkraft. The segment recorded an operating profit/loss (EBIT) IFRS for The segment recorded an operating profit/loss (EBIT) IFRS for the year of NOK 199 million (NOK 151 million). the year of NOK 2899 million (NOK 1380 million). The return on average capital employed (ROACE)16 was 5.9% Share of profit from equity accounted investments was NOK 635 in 2018 (4.4%). The ROACE was mainly driven by good return million (NOK 473 million). The increase was mainly due to from district heating activities in Trondheim. The average capital higher power prices, partly offset by negative unrealised effects employed was stable compared with 2017. from energy contracts and lower results from grid operations. The return on average capital employed (ROACE)17 was 10.1% Industrial Ownership in 2018 (9.3%). The increase was driven by the higher power Industrial Ownership includes management and development of prices. The average capital employed was on par with 2017. Norwegian shareholdings within the Group’s core business and includes the shareholdings in Skagerak Energi, BKK, Agder The return on average equity accounted investments (ROAE)18 was 6.1% in 2018 (4.9%), mainly driven by higher power prices. 14 See section Alternative Performance Measures at the end of this report for definition. 15 See section Alternative Performance Measures at the end of this report for definition. 17 See section Alternative Performance Measures at the end of this report for definition. 16 See section Alternative Performance Measures at the end of this report for definition. 18 See section Alternative Performance Measures at the end of this report for definition. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 23 PROFIT ALLOCATION external sources of funding to gain a better return on its own research funds. The parent company Statkraft AS had a net profit of NOK 16 992 million in 2018 (NOK 19 538 million). RISK MANAGEMENT Statkraft AS is fully owned by Statkraft SF. The Board of Directors Statkraft is exposed to risks throughout the value chain. The most of Statkraft SF proposes a dividend of NOK 8444 million to its important risks are related to market prices, financing and financial owner. In order to provide Statkraft SF with sufficient ability to risk, project execution and operating activities, and framework disburse dividend, the Board of Statkraft AS proposes the conditions. Growth and increased internationalisation in addition to following allocation of the annual profit in Statkraft AS: fundamental changes in the energy sector emphasise the importance of risk management. Profit allocation Risk management is an integrated part of Statkraft’s governance Amounts in NOK mill. model through a risk-based approach to target setting, Net annual profit in Statkraft AS' company accounts 16 992 prioritisations and follow-up of the business and staff areas. The Appropriation of profit for the year and equity transfers: day to day risk management is a line responsibility. The Group's Allocated dividend from Statkraft AS to Statkraft SF 8 500 overall risks are reviewed and followed up by the Corporate Allocated to other equity 8 492 Management and are reported to the Board of Directors. Statkraft has a central Investment Review Unit that performs an The proposed dividend is deemed to be prudent based on independent quality assessment prior to investments, sales and Statkraft AS’ equity and liquidity. acquisitions. GOING CONCERN Operational risk In accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Act, the Board of All processes throughout the value chain are exposed to Directors confirms that the annual financial statements have been operational risk. The operational risk is highest within prepared on the assumption that the company is a going concern, implementation of our investment projects and operational and that it is appropriate to assume this. activities. This may result in:  Injury to employees, contractors or third parties RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT (R&D)  Harm to the environment The ambition for Statkraft's R&D efforts is to strengthen the  Compliance breaches and weakened reputation company's competitive advantage. The majority of the activity is  Damage and losses related to own and third-party production coordinated and financed through Statkraft's Corporate R&D plants and other assets program.  Financial loss Statkraft's first priority is to act in a sustainable, ethical and Focus areas socially responsible manner and to comply with all applicable As of today, the activity in the program focuses on strategic and legal requirements wherever the company operates. Statkraft operational themes within hydropower and wind power. In 2018, has high attention on executing development activities and the following areas have been prioritised: operations in a responsible manner and to prevent loss. A sound business culture is the foundation of continuously improving a  Flexibility in a future power market robust system of prevention and control. Ensuring that business  Efficient power generation and maintenance development activities are in accordance with international  Develop fact based knowledge to enable good framework standards has high priority. conditions for renewable power generation Operational risk is managed through procedures for all operational activities, by design of technical solutions, Added value of the R&D activity competence development and in various types of contingency By participating in R&D projects both on the Norwegian, plans. Furthermore, Statkraft has a comprehensive system for European and international arena, Statkraft wishes to be a registering and reporting risks, hazardous conditions, leading player in renewable energy. undesirable incidents, damages and injuries. Such cases are As of today, the portfolio of the Corporate R&D programme continuously analysed in order to prevent and limit any negative consists of approximately 30 projects. An important project in consequences, and to ensure that we can follow up causes and 2018 has been “High Head Francis , where the goal is safer implement the necessary measures. operation and extended life of the runners in hydropower plants. All projects in Statkraft carry out systematic risk assessments. The project is a collaboration between NTNU, turbine Larger investments have allocated a risk-based project manufacturers and power producers. Results in terms of contingency and reserve. Major attention is devoted to the increased turbine efficiency and lower likelihood of failure during development of sound systems for learning, establishing barriers start up make this a profitable project. Statkraft actively seeks ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 24 and ensuring compliance to avoid delays, cost overruns and and managed based on a balance between keeping interest cost undesirable incidents during project planning and execution. low over time and contributing to stabilise the Group’s cash Implementing risk management in the early stages of business flows. The Group is exposed to currency risk through: and project development is an important success factor.  Integration between the Nordic and the Continental power The possible financial consequences of the total operational risk, markets as well as significant individual risks, are key drivers to the  Investments and capital expenditures Group's overall risk profile. Statkraft has insurance coverage for  The Group’s energy trading in different currencies all significant cases of operational damages or injuries partly  Funding through the Group’s own captive insurance company Statkraft  Other cash flows related to foreign subsidiaries and Forsikring. associated companies More information about risk related to HSE is presented in the The liquidity risk in Statkraft is related to having insufficient funds corporate responsibility chapter later in the report. to meet the company’s financial commitments in a timely manner. The liquidity risk is managed through cash flow forecasting, Market risk committed credit facilities, access to several funding Statkraft is exposed to significant market risk in relation to the sources/markets, ensuring evenly distributed debt maturity profile generation and trading of power: and maintaining a sufficient liquidity buffer.  Both power prices and generation volumes are impacted by Statkraft is exposed to credit and counterparty risk through energy weather conditions and precipitation volumes plus generation, trading, long-term contracts and investment of surplus liquidity. consumption and transmission conditions in the electricity The credit rating of all counterparties is evaluated before contracts markets. are signed, and exposure vis-à-vis individual counterparties are  Power prices are also affected by fuel prices such as gas, coal limited by mandates based on their credit rating. Market risk in the and oil, in addition to the price of carbon emission quotas, energy markets and other financial risk, as well as exposure in support schemes, demand growth and the introduction of new connection with the issued mandates, are followed up by technologies. independent middle-office functions and regularly reported to management in the business area. A summary is reported District heating operations are also exposed to market risk due annually to the Corporate Management and the Board of to fluctuations in fuel prices and the price to customers. Directors. Statkraft manages market risk in the energy markets by trading See note 9 to the consolidated financial statements for further physical and financial instruments in multiple markets, as well as information about credit and liquidity risk. entering into bilateral long-term power contracts. Increased integration of the energy markets is having a significant impact Regulatory and country risk on business models and risk management. Consequently, Statkraft's activities in Norway are influenced by framework Statkraft places significant emphasis on identifying the conditions such as taxes, fees, concessions, grid regulations, relationships between the various markets. The Group's hedging changes in mandatory minimum water level and other strategies are regulated by defined limits on the positions’ requirements stipulated by the Norwegian Water Resources and volume and value, and by criteria for evaluating new contracts Energy Directorate (NVE). Statkraft puts substantial efforts into against expected revenues and downside risk. The portfolio is the understanding of environmental regulations and climate constantly adjusted in relation to updated perceptions of future change. The risk of flexibility loss due to stricter regulations for prices and the company’s own generation capacity. hydropower generation, the cumulative effect for the Norwegian Statkraft's activities in energy trading and services consist of society and value of flood-damping capabilities are being both trading with standard products on energy exchanges and analysed. In addition, there are general terms and conditions sale of services or products adapted to the individual customer. stipulated for the energy industry that must be adhered to. These Risk is handled through mandates covering energy products, framework conditions may affect Statkraft's generation, costs geographical areas and duration. A risk management function and revenues. ensures objectivity in the assessment and handling of risk. The framework conditions in the individual countries in Europe are results of international processes that will be important for Financial risk Norwegian and other European power plants. With its The central treasury department coordinates and manages the international involvement, Statkraft is also directly exposed to financial risk associated with foreign currencies, interest rates national framework conditions, tax levels, licence terms and and liquidity and funding. public regulations in the countries in which it operates. Statkraft Currency and interest rate risk are regulated by means of therefore emphasises the uncertainty in relation to the future mandates and managed by using hedging instruments such as development of these factors when making investment forward contracts, swaps and debt in foreign currency. decisions. Possible changes in the political landscape are Statkraft’s interest rate exposure is related to its debt portfolio ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 25 considered, and maintaining an open dialogue with decisionOUTLOOK makers in relevant arenas is greatly prioritised. Statkraft has Europe’s largest portfolio of flexible hydropower Statkraft is also exposed to significant country risk, especially in plants and reservoir capacity. The operations of the assets are emerging countries. A common risk assessment process has optimised according to the hydrological situation and expected been implemented across the business areas to ensure a power prices. Statkraft also has a large share of long-term power comprehensive and proactive management of business risk in contracts within the segments European flexible generation and these countries. The risk assessment of the activity in each International power. The contracts have a stabilising effect on revenues and net profit. In 2018, Statkraft has successfully country covers political and regulatory aspects, social extended some of the long-term industry contracts that will expire development, security, compliance, tax regime and corporate in the next couple of years, and will continue to work on new legislation. The exposure to corruption risk is high in several of contracts to keep the position as a large supplier to the industry in these countries. Statkraft has developed standards and Norway. implemented a system to ensure compliance in all activities and has zero tolerance for corruption. Strong underlying operations, the completion of a corporate-wide performance improvement programme and successful divestments provide Statkraft with a solid financial foundation to CORPORATE GOVERNANCE meet the new growth phase that is set out in the strategy. Statkraft adheres to the Norwegian Code of Practice for The ambition is to maintain the position as the largest renewable Corporate Governance (NUES) within the framework company in Europe and grow significantly in South America and established by the company's organisation and ownership. India. The target is to maintain and further grow the hydropower Statkraft follows the Norwegian state’s principles for sound portfolio, develop a portfolio of 8000 MW onshore wind and solar corporate governance, described in the White Paper, Meld. St. power, increase the market activities, develop district heating and 27 (2013-2014) “Et mangfoldig og verdiskapende eierskap” develop new businesses with international potential. Statkraft is planning annual investments of around NOK 10 billion in (“Diverse and value-creating ownership”), and is subject to renewable energy towards 2025. The investments will be financed reporting requirements relating to corporate governance through retained earnings from existing operations, external according to Section 3-3b of the Accounting Act. financing and partial divestments to financial investors. The See separate chapter later in the report for more information investment programme has a large degree of flexibility and will be about corporate governance, including corporate audit, internal adapted to the company's financial capacity and rating target. control of financial reporting and the work of the Board of Statkraft’s commitment to act in a safe, ethical and socially Directors. responsible manner will continue to be a foundation for all activities. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 26 Statkraft is a significant player in international markets where energy and energy-related products are bought and sold Brazil is a key growth market for Statkraft, and in 2018 a cluster of eight operational hydropower plants was acquired. The hydropower plants are located in the state of Espírito Santo in Brazil, and have a total installed capacity of 131.9 MW. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 27 The Moglicë hydropower plant in Albania is expected to be completed early 2020, with an installed capacity of 184 MW. In total, the 256 MW Devoll hydropower project increases the hydropower production capacity of Albania by 17 percent. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 28 2018 ___________ Corporate responsibility ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 29 Corporate responsibility MANAGEMENT OF CORPORATE requirements for its suppliers are described in Statkraft’s Supplier Code of Conduct. RESPONSIBILITY Management of corporate responsibility Responsible business conduct Statkraft’s management system sets ambitions and directions and Statkraft is committed to act in a sustainable, ethical and socially more detailed requirements for a range of areas, including responsible manner. In order to operationalise this fundamental corporate responsibility. The system facilitates a structured and commitment, Statkraft takes guidance from globally recognised coordinated management across the organisation, and is regularly initiatives and standards, including the OECD’s Guidelines for reviewed to tailor it to new expectations and challenges. Multinational Enterprises and the IFC Performance Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability. Corporate responsibility is an individual, managerial and line responsibility in Statkraft, and systems are in place to provide Statkraft is a member of the UN Global Compact and adheres to employees with the necessary guidance and advice to uphold its ten principles on human rights, labour rights, environment and desired behaviour. At the group level, Statkraft has staff units to anti-corruption. Members of the UN Global Compact are obliged to follow up on the company’s work and performance with regard to report annually on progress in relation to UN Global Compact, and corporate responsibility at an overall level. this corporate responsibility chapter functions as Statkraft’s progress report. In 2018, Statkraft became a member of Global Statkraft has a decision gate model for major development Compact Nordic Network in order to share experiences and best projects, mergers and acquisitions that aims at ensuring a unified practice. approach to corporate responsibility from an early development phase to operation. A common project management system for Statkraft contributes to the implementation of several of the 17 UN the Group, regardless of technology or geography, is under Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and has identified Goal development and implementation is planned in 2019. This 7: Affordable and Clean Energy and Goal 13: Climate Action as includes a dedicated focus on corporate responsibility topics at all the SDGs to which Statkraft aims to contribute the most. stages of the project cycle. Statkraft’s assessment and management of climate change Corporate responsibility performance impacts are based on comprehensive analysis, including Statkraft has conducted a materiality analysis with the aim of assessments by the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change identifying the corporate responsibility topics that are most (IPCC) and the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate significant for Statkraft as a company. The analysis was Change (UNFCCC). conducted according to the principles described in the Global Reporting Initiative Standards (GRI Standards), and the following Statkraft does business globally. As a Norwegian entity, Statkraft topics were identified as most significant for Statkraft: complies with Norwegian laws and regulations as well as with  Safety and safeguarding of people applicable laws and regulations of countries where it operates.  Human rights Statkraft’s policy is also to act in accordance with relevant  Water management international conventions and guidelines set by international  Biodiversity organisations. Where differences exist between applicable laws,  Climate change mitigation, adaptation and regulations and Statkraft’s governing documents, the norm which preparedness sets the highest standard of behaviour is followed.  Business ethics and anti-corruption Governance The company has identified Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for Statkraft’s fundamental principles for sustainable, ethical and each businessand staff area and at the group level. These socially responsible behaviour are described in Statkraft’s Code of indicators also cover aspects of corporate responsibility, which are Conduct, which has been adopted by the Board of Directors. The regularly reviewed by Corporate Management and the Board of Code applies to all companies in the Statkraft Group and to all Directors. Statkraft has in 2018 developed new targets for a range individuals who work for Statkraft, regardless of location. of topics, including corporate responsibility areas. Corporate Statkraft’s business partners are expected to adhere to standards responsibility topics are also included in Corporate Audit’s annual that are consistent with Statkraft’s ethical requirements. Statkraft’s plan. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 30 Statkraft has implemented a system for registration and follow-up During 2018 an assessment of Statkraft’s efforts related to of non-compliance and potential improvements. The system ensuring responsible supply chain management was carried out, facilitates structured handling of measures, analysis of incidents and based on the findings improvement areas were identified. and improvements, and learning across the organisation. Statkraft is initiating a project in 2019 in order to address these areas. Reporting on corporate responsibility Statkraft’s corporate responsibility reporting is based on the GRI Reporting of concerns Standards, which include disclosures for a range of topics, as well Statkraft works to ensure transparency surrounding dilemmas and as reporting principles related to the reporting process. ethical issues, and systems are in place to provide all employees with guidance and advice with regard to interpretation of Statkraft believes that the reported disclosures (indicators) capture Statkraft’s Code of Conduct and desired behaviour. the most of the material topics for the company, while also taking into account expectations from our stakeholders. Statkraft’s Statkraft has an established system for reporting of concerns. information about corporate responsibility has been developed in Employees are encouraged to report concerns, and Statkraft’s accordance with the Core option in the GRI Standards. Code of Conduct emphasises that employees have both the right and responsibility to report breaches of legal or ethical obligations Corporate responsibility data is collected from all companies and through the line organisation or Statkraft’s whistleblowing channel projects where Statkraft is the majority owner, and included in the which is managed by Corporate Audit. (Statkraft’s subsidiary statement in its entirety. The statement covers activities and sites Skagerak Energi implemented a separate external whistleblowing in all phases from project planning to operation. channel in 2018). Statkraft has engaged Deloitte AS to conduct a review and Reporting can be made anonymously, and the whistleblowing provide a limited level of assurance on Statkraft’s corporate channel is also available for externals via Statkraft’s website. In responsibility information. 2018, a total number of 55 concerns were reported, where 11 were reported through the whistleblowing channel. In total Stakeholder dialogue Statkraft received 12 anonymously reported concerns. The Statkraft develops its business in a way that adds value to its concerns were mainly related to the areas of human resources, shareholder as well as the countries and local communities in conflict of interest, corruption and other business ethics concerns. which it operates. The ambition is to establish an open dialogue on sustainability issues with all stakeholders that are impacted by The reported concerns are assessed and followed up according to the company’s activities. Important partners in these dialogues the group requirements. Some of the reported concerns are include government officials, local and regional authorities, local closed after an initial evaluation by the line management or by communities, rights holders, employees, customers, suppliers, Corporate Audit, some are followed up further with necessary research institutions, non-governmental organisations, voluntary measures in the relevant line organisation or by Corporate Audit, organisations and the media. and in some cases an internal investigation is needed to clarify the facts. This is decided based on a risk assessment. Corporate Audit is responsible for performing such investigations in Statkraft. Supply chain management In 2018, Corporate Audit initiated three investigations. The The basis for Statkraft’s supply chain management is Statkraft’s investigations concluded in 2018 did not identify material Supplier Code of Conduct. Suppliers are expected to meet these violations of law. requirements throughout their relationship with Statkraft. Statkraft’s suppliers are informed about the Code and other relevant requirements during the procurement process and are legally bound to these by contract. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 31 STATKRAFT’S CONTRIBUTION continues to develop and operate onshore wind farms in the Nordics as well as in the UK and Ireland. Statkraft supports a global transition towards a low-carbon A sharp reduction in the cost of solar panels has made solar economy by offering renewable and sustainable energy solutions, power the fastest-growing energy source in the world. At the and the company’s growth will be solely within renewable energy same time, solar power is becoming commercially viable in an technologies. Renewable energy is key to combating climate increasing number of markets, renewing Statkraft's interest in change, and Statkraft is part of the solution for a cleaner future. solar power investments. Statkraft’s activities contribute in different ways to global, national and local economies through dividends to our shareholder, taxes paid to governments, our global and local procurement activities, direct employment in many countries, R&D and social investments. The company also contribute to the promotion of good business practices through our responsible business conduct and knowledge about climate change. Statkraft’s business In 2018, 97.6% of Statkraft’s power generation was based on renewable energy sources, and 92.7%, or 57.2 TWh, came from hydropower. The carbon intensity of Statkraft’s power generation was 9 kg CO2/MWh in 2018. As an energy technology, hydropower has many advantages, including high efficiency, low operating costs, longevity, high flexibility and low carbon intensity. The large Norwegian water reservoirs enable electricity production Statkraft’s first solar park in Germany was constructed in 2018, next to the hydropower plant in Dörverden. The 750 kW park is a test site for the combination of solar power and even in periods of reduced inflow. This flexibility is particularly batteries. important in order to balance the increasing amounts of intermittent electricity production from wind power and solar In countries where Statkraft is present, the company also power. contributes to more optimal utilisation of energy resources through its services related to market access, remote control of renewable assets and virtual power plants. Statkraft’s non-renewable energy generation includes gas-fired power generation and fossil-based peak and reserve capacity in district heating production. Gas power is considered by many as a transitional technology. This technology generates CO2 emissions, but the emissions are substantially lower than for coal-fired power plants. Like hydropower, gas power contributes to flexibility in the European energy markets. Sustainable Development Goals Statkraft’s business contributes to the implementation of the UN Power generation in Statkraft by technology in 2014-2018. Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Among the 17 goals, Statkraft has identified Goal 7 “Affordable and clean energy” and The development and operation of hydropower plants facilitate Goal 13 “Climate action” as being the goals to which the company multiple uses of watercourses and water regulation structures for contributes most significantly. Statkraft also contributes to the example irrigation, drinking water supply, transportation and realisation of other SDGs, such as Goal 2 “Zero hunger”, Goal 5 recreation. In addition, reservoirs utilised for flood control are an “Gender equality” and Goal 8 “Decent work and economic important safety function of assets in operation. Such use of growth”. installations will be even more important in the future as the consequences of the climate changes become more apparent. Statkraft’s main contribution and core achievements in 2018 related to the UN SDGs are presented in the following table. Wind power is a renewable energy technology with few environmental impacts and next to no emissions. Statkraft ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 32 CORE SDGs FOR STATKRAFT STATKRAFT’S MAIN CONTRIBUTION ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 Renewable energy is key to combating In 2018, Statkraft’s power production amounted 61.7 Ensure access to climate change. Statkraft is part of the TWh and in addition 1.1 TWh district heating. 97.6% affordable, reliable, solution for a cleaner future. All new of the power generation was renewable, and sustainable and modern energy for all investments in Statkraft will be in another 865 MW renewable energy is under renewable energy. Core elements in development. Statkraft’s new strategy include In addition to the broader production delivered, optimisation of the company’s hydropower Statkraft has also completed specific projects to portfolio and other flexible generation and extend access to affordable and clean energy to ramping up as a solar and wind asset rural communities in disadvantaged regions. One developer. example is Statkraft’s efforts to assist the Khimti Take urgent action Through its project development, Statkraft Rural Electricity Cooperative in Nepal in connecting to combat climate also provides electricity to local grids and to the national grid and expanding operations to change and its expands local electricity grids around supply electricity to additional rural communities. As impacts project areas to communities that do not of 2018, 8500 households have been given access have access to electricity. to the electricity grid as a result of this initiative. OTHER SDGs FOR STATKRAFT STATKRAFT’S MAIN CONTRIBUTION ACHIEVEMENTS IN 2018 Statkraft has a number of ongoing programmes to An important target of project development restore livelihoods impacted by the company’s End hunger, achieve projects, including examples in Albania and Turkey. for Statkraft is to ensure that any loss of food security and improved nutrition and land, production or access to resources is Statkraft also has specific initiatives in place to promote sustainable compensated in a sustainable manner, collaborate with local communities to improve food agriculture thereby contributing to future development security, such as the initiative to promote improved of sustainable agriculture. food security in communities impacted by the company’s projects in Peru. Statkraft continued efforts to improve the gender balance in 2018, and work is ongoing to define initiatives tailored to the industry sector and different Statkraft has a clear commitment to gender geographies. Achieve gender equality in all its activities. Zero tolerance As part of project development, Statkraft also equality and empower all women for discrimination, bullying and harassment invests specifically in gender empowerment and girls are core tenets of Statkraft’s people activities in local communities affected by the policies. company’s projects. Such initiatives were for instance undertaken in Peru, Chile, Nepal and India aiming at promoting women’s economic activities, education and institutional capacity building. In 2018 social development programmes were Promote sustained, Statkraft’s approach to mitigating social implemented in project communities in Peru, Brazil inclusive and impacts is framed in the context of and India, either in accordance with permits and sustainable economic growth, full and prodsustainable local and regional economic regulations or as social development programmes. uctive employment and development. Benefit-sharing is an Social development programmes are primarily decent work for all important and integrated part of this work. focusing on agriculture, improved market access and skills training. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 33 SOCIAL DISCLOSURES Health and safety AMBITION TARGET STATUS Prevent incidents and be committed to a workplace without Zero serious injuries 7 injury or harm Protect health and well-being of staff Sick leave < 3.5% 3.3% Supporting initiatives  Managers at all levels providing leadership and driving cultural change  Encourage and measure management and employee engagement  Strengthen the focus on high risk activities and preventative measures  Provide training to build the required competence  Ensure learning from incidents and best practices Comments on performance  The red status reflects the fact that in spite of the high focus and efforts one employee died as a consequence of a work related accident. In addition, six employees and contractors suffered serious injuries.  The Powered by Care programme and the efforts to continually improve health and safety performance and culture have continued as a priority in 2018. Key elements include implementation of the life saving rules for high risk activities, increasing engagement of employees and managers, learning and sharing across the organisation, and roll-out of the Powered by Care e-learning course. Also, a process for safer operation and maintenance activities has been implemented, reducing risks related to energised systems. Health and safety risk Accidents Caring for people is at the core of Statkraft’s culture and we work Tragically, an employee died from injuries sustained following a continuously towards the goal of zero injuries. work related fall accident at the Moglicë Project in Albania on 28 April 2018. The accident has been investigated and mitigating Health and safety risks arise from Statkraft’s activities in actions have been implemented at the project level as well as construction projects, operations and maintenance, and our across Statkraft in order to ensure learning and preventing presence in various geographical locations, as well as in travel recurrence. and other business activities. The predominant high risk areas are related to personal injuries from workplace accidents. Activities In addition, six employees and contractors suffered serious related to driving, working at heights, lifting operations, energised injuries in 2018. A total of 31 accidents and near-accidents were systems, heavy mobile equipment, ground works and working in classified as having high risk potential. Most of these accidents confined spaces are considered to have highest risk. and near-accidents were associated with driving, energised systems, ground works, lifting operations, heavy mobile equipment and working at heights. The Lost Time Injury rate (LTI rate) was 2.9 among Statkraft’s employees while LTI rate among Statkraft’s contractors was 3.0. Correspondingly the Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRI rate) among Statkraft’s employees was 5.4 and 5.2 among Statkraft’s contractors. In total, 107 injuries were recorded for Statkraft’s employees and contractors, whereof 59 were lost-time injuries. Fatalities in Statkraft’s operations (≥20% ownership) in 2014-2018. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 34 CEO’s HSSE Award An HSSE Award scheme is in place to encourage activities that contribute to improved results within this area. This has resulted in great engagement across the organisation. The award for 2018 was given to Markets & IT Peru for their innovative improvements related to safety when measuring river flows. This was earlier considered a high risk activity, but with use of the new Acoustic Doppler Current Profiler technology personnel no longer need to work over water bodies, thus significantly reducing risk. The time required for this work has also been reduced. This new technology has the potential for being shared and for a wider application related to bathymetry and dam inspections. Furthermore, the effort is part of a generally high health and safety focus in Statkraft Peru, with wide engagement through training and campaigns such as “say-no”, safety stops and family days. LTI rate and TRI rate in Statkraft’s operations (20% ownership) in 2014-2018. Other top nominations competing for the award were also Sick leave recognised. These included: Sick leave in Statkraft is at a stable low level and was 3.3% in  The Hammargård district heating plant in Kungsbacka, which 2018, which is within the goal of a sick leave rate not higher than has initiated and completed an initiative to make the plant 3.5%. fossil fuel-free.  The Khimti-I hydropower plant in Nepal, which has put in an Health and safety improvement programme extensive effort to ensure Glacial Lake Outburst Flood In 2015, a step change programme was launched for further (GLOF) preparedness. improvements within health and safety. This improvement  The Maintenance Group Vinje in Region South Norway, programme, entitled “Powered by Care”, continued in 2018 with a which has developed a new solution for safer inspection of focus on the elements listed below. shafts. Leadership and commitment Sharing and learning Statkraft’s Corporate Management clearly demonstrates their Collaboration takes place within and across business areas in commitment to a workplace without injury and harm as order to share and learn from incidents, health and safety communicated through their Powered by Care commitment programmes and best practices. Regular network meetings, as statement. During 2018, management throughout Statkraft has well as an annual conference is arranged to help facilitate this actively engaged and participated in the roll out of the new Life process. An intranet portal has been introduced to help improved Saving Rules. collaboration and more effective use of resources across the organisation. This provides easy access to documents, materials Serious injury mitigation and tools, as well as functionality for finding expertise, having A Serious Incident KPI has been introduced, measuring serious discussions and sharing content independent of organisational or injury rates, as well as focusing on accidents with high potential. geographical boundaries. Serious incidents are subject to investigation in order to identify causes, and lessons learned from such incidents, including Health and safety training identifying possible preventative measures. The results are shared Appropriate competence is a prerequisite for a strong health and across the organisation. Life saving rules with the aim of avoiding safety culture and Statkraft employees are provided with training serious and fatal injuries have been rolled out and implemented. according to their individual needs and working situation. Modular These rules are based on experience of high risk activities in e-learning is made available to effectively reach out and provide fit Statkraft’s operations and global knowledge from similar for purpose training to various target groups. This includes a industries. “Powered by Care” module providing basic training for all, modules to support the Life Saving Rules roll-out, and project Engagement KPIs specific training, such as for the Fosen wind project. Some of the Leading indicators are in place to encourage and measure e-learning is mandatory for employees and/or contractors, employee and management engagement in health and safety. depending on their roles, risks and working situations. These measure activities such as risk observations, improvement proposals, positive observations and Safe Job Dialogues. A positive development of these KPIs has continued since their introduction in 2016. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 35 Third party safety emergency events is a constant priority, and significant Statkraft’s activities have significant interfaces with third parties. improvements have been made over the last two years. A group Dam safety is in the core of the company’s work on caring for requirement on Emergency Response Management was people. introduced in 2017 with the purpose of ensuring a common approach to emergency response across the company. Statkraft’s dam safety measures are carried out according to legal This emergency response requirement is founded on the best and regulatory requirements. Statkraft performs maintenance on practice principles of responsibility, parity, proximity and dams and appurtenant structures within a strict and controlled cooperation. Statkraft emergency response is based on the use of system. The company has developed detailed procedures and dedicated, temporary teams organised in three tiers with different plans and thereby ensure that these structures are not posing a tasks and responsibilities. This approach aims to enable Statkraft threat to life, property or environment. These plans include to simultaneously handle emergencies at local, regional/national periodic inspections and surveillance, main inspections and and strategic levels. reassessment. In 2018 extensive training was conducted across the company to Statkraft assesses, classifies and manages each dam, ensure a uniformed response. Crisis managers have gone through appurtenant structure and waterway according to the downstream a specialist training regime, and Statkraft has in addition consequences. The strictest requirements for construction and strengthened its training on personnel emergency response. supervision are given to the dams with the highest consequences. Statkraft is also working with other companies, non-governmental Emergency preparedness organisations, local law enforcement and fire departments to Events ranging from adverse weather and earthquakes to cyberensure the best possible preparedness in handling emergencies. attacks and political unrest have the potential to negatively affect operations. Statkraft’s capability to handle serious and unwanted Security AMBITION TARGET STATUS Actively prevent harm to people and assets through a Implementation of identified supporting systematic approach initiatives Supporting initiatives  Improve processes and capabilities for security management Comments on performance  The main reasons behind the green status are a more strategic approach to security as a business enabler, proactive handling of security incidents and improved information security awareness. Key achievements in 2018 include improved operational abilities to protect, detect and handle IT security incidents, positive trends in information security awareness, and improved emergency response capabilities.  Key measures planned for 2019 include aligning with new national security regulations, carrying out travel requirement project, and enhancing the security risk assessment process. Security management Statkraft assesses security risk by analysing threats, Statkraft has a comprehensive approach to security topics and vulnerabilities and consequences in accordance with Norwegian follows international good practice for security management. Standard NS-5832. Conducting security risk assessments is a line Security refers to the ability to keep people, operations, responsibility, supported by the Corporate Security & Emergency information and systems secure from intentional harm or damage. Response department and the Corporate Information Security In countries with Statkraft presence or interests, security matters organisation. In 2018, Statkraft started a project to enhance are addressed through a risk based approach. Local, national and security risk assessments in the company. international resources are utilised to create situational awareness regarding security, and Statkraft has a well-established Statkraft uses a wide range of measures to reduce security risks, relationship with both local and global security companies. which are in general divided into physical, personnel, information Statkraft participates in national and international networks, like and IT security. Sudden changes in a security situation will trigger the Norwegian Business and Industry Security Council (NSR), to immediate measures, such as reinforced security and travel ensure an up-to-date understanding of the security risks. restrictions. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 36 Statkraft utilises for the most part unarmed security guards to In 2018, Statkraft executed an information security campaign enforce local security, but in some countries where national addressing risk behaviour focusing on email and phone scams, regulations or the security situation dictates this, armed security is secure sharing of information and the use of secure storage used. This is the case for some operations in Nepal, India and devices. Peru. IT security Statkraft’s security structure is likely to be impacted by changes in Statkraft faces threats from amateur opportunists and professional national regulations in several countries and Statkraft is currently criminals, as well as industrial espionage and foreign states’ working with the different national energy authorities on this intelligence activities. Their attack methods are changing from the matter. traditional networking attacks to targeted attacks on single employees, causing a change in how to manage IT security. Information security Statkraft has continued to improve its operational abilities to In Statkraft, information is a valuable asset owned by the various protect, detect and handle IT security incidents in 2018. business areas. Information security is of the highest priority and Statkraft follows international good practice for information Security incidents security management. The aim is to build and continually improve In 2018, 154 security incidents were reported, and 26 of these a strong information security culture that ensures the were assessed to be serious. Of these incidents, 116 were confidentiality, integrity and availability of Statkraft’s information. handled by the cyber security team, including 22 serious incidents that were detected and blocked at an early stage. The majority of During 2018, Statkraft experienced a positive trend in information the serious incidents related to IT security were related to targeted security awareness. There is a significant increase in the number phishing emails. of security risk assessments (ISRA) and assessments of IT systems and third parties. In addition, there has been a significant One of the serious incidents was related to an illegal occupation of increase in reported suspicious emails. Statkraft’s office in Osorno in Chile in October. The occupants were evicted by the local police. One police officer suffered minor To ensure common awareness and to mitigate behavioural risks, injuries and the office was rampaged. all units in Statkraft are offered awareness workshops and dilemma training related to information security. Human rights AMBITION TARGET STATUS Act according to the United Nations Guiding Principles on Implementation of identified supporting Business and Human Rights initiatives Supporting initiatives  Follow developments related to increasing international and national expectations related to human rights management and improve the practices accordingly, starting with large-scale and international projects.  Ensure adequate implementation of training programs on human rights.  Strengthen and promote grievance mechanisms, including at the project level.  Enhanced follow-up of human rights in the supply chain. Comments on performance  Key achievements in 2018 included awareness training on salient human rights for management teams across the organisation.  During 2018 an assessment of Statkraft’s efforts related to ensuring responsible supply chain management was undertaken, and several improvement areas were identified with regards to follow up on human rights issues.  Key measures planned for 2019 include supporting a strengthened focus on human rights in decisions making processes, particularly related to new capital investments and M&As, and improving the management of human rights issues in the supply chain. Human rights principles adoption in 2009, Statkraft has worked to reflect this commitment Statkraft’s work on human rights is based on the internationally in its governing documents and processes so as to embed it recognised United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and throughout the company. Continuous work on strengthening the Human Rights. Statkraft’s policy commitment on human rights is integration of human rights into governing documents and reflected in Statkraft’s Code of Conduct. This commitment is processes relating to social management, procurement and publicly available and communicated internally and externally to security arrangements are examples. personnel, business partners and other relevant parties. Since its ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 37 In 2018, Statkraft has continued to embed its policy commitment Consultations on human rights in the organisation and has prioritised its efforts In 2018, consultations and engagement with a wide range of local on its salient human rights issues. These comprise local stakeholders, including indigenous peoples, continued to take community acceptance, including by indigenous peoples, labour place. rights, health and safety, and security arrangements. As a result, new governing documents and tools were developed this year on Agreements on mitigating measures and compensation for indigenous people’s rights, on labour rights in the supply chain, additional measures during the construction phase have been land acquisition or land use, as well as on security arrangements. entered into with the two reindeer herding groups in the Fosen Human rights continue to be a salient issue in large-scale wind farm project in Norway. Discussions are proceeding to reach development projects such as Fosen (Norway), Devoll (Albania), an agreement for the operation phase. Los Lagos (Chile) and Tidong (India). Statkraft has wind farms in operations in Sweden close to the The assessment undertaken in 2018 of the current efforts related Sami communities of Ohredahke and Jijnjevaerie, and the to corporate responsibility management in the supply chain points company maintains a regular dialogue with community to a need to further improve the management of human rights representatives as part of its consultation and engagement issues in the supply chain. Work is planned as part of a new initiatives. project in 2019 to undertake updated assessments of human rights risks in the supply chain, and to strengthen the approaches Development initiatives used to manage these risks. Statkraft is engaged in a wide range of community development initiatives in the different countries of operation, a few of which are Human rights training presented below. Statkraft’s training programme continued to be rolled out at senior management and country head levels, as well as for all critical One example is from Peru, where one of the main challenges that functions and geographies. The training components include a communities need to overcome for the implementation of local presentation of external and internal expectation, as well as an development initiatives is the difficult access to governmental introduction to Statkraft’s salient human rights issues and lessons financing sources. To address this, Statkraft Peru launched a learned. training initiative in 2018 to improve project management capacity in communities in the vicinity of the company’s projects. The While the training includes the same basic components, all initiative is part of the newly established “Education and training sessions are tailored to the audience and the particular Awareness” focus area of the corporate responsibility programme potential impact of activities related to respective groups. In in Peru. November 2018, Statkraft arranged a two-day workshop on Business and Human Rights in Chile with the participation of key Another example is from Albania, where Statkraft in 2018 staff from our offices in Peru, Brazil and Chile. External guests to supported an initiative offering free health checks for women in the the activity included representatives of the Chilean office of UN area around our Banjë HPP operations. To date more than 250 High Commissioner for Human Rights. women have benefited from this campaign and a total of more than 400 are invited to participate. Networks Statkraft is a member of the Nordic Business Network for Human Sharing knowledge Rights, a professional network for global companies, which work Statkraft continues to provide expertise for the International with human rights’ impacts on their organisations or supply chains. Centre for Hydropower (ICH) which holds courses on project The Network has an overall focus on capacity building and makes management, dam safety, social, environmental and finance use of both human rights experts and peer-to-peer learning. An themes for government representatives, investors, companies and important objective for the network is to develop applications of other stakeholders from emerging markets. The goal of ICH is to the various human rights frameworks to practical business increase competence, share knowledge and promote good contexts. international standards in the hydropower industry globally. In 2018, Statkraft provided lecturers for courses and workshops held in Trondheim and Oslo, and at regional events in Asia and South America. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 38 Labour practices AMBITION TARGET STATUS Develop diversity in background, competence and gender Long-term target of 40% women in top 23% across the company management positions Supporting initiatives  A recruitment policy that requires diversity among candidates for all leadership positions, with both men and women represented in final evaluations.  A target of 30% female participants in leadership development measures. Comments on performance  In 2018 efforts continued to improve the company’s gender balance. At the end of 2018, 25% of the Group’s employees were women, and the percentage of women in management positions was 21%. 30% of employees attending leadership development programmes in 2018 were women.  To reach the long-term target, Statkraft will increase its efforts to further develop the company’s work related to diversity and inclusion. Some measures have already been initiated, including implementation of unconscious bias training for leaders and an improved organisational survey that will better monitor employee perception over time. Labour rights Training and development Statkraft supports and respects internationally recognised labour Statkraft launched a new onboarding program in 2018. The aim rights including freedom of association and the effective was to develop a more flexible and targeted on-boarding process recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of based on organisational affiliation and individual work tasks. In all forms of forced and compulsory labour, the effective abolition of addition to this, it is mandatory for all new employees to complete child labour, and the elimination of discrimination with respect to training in HSE, anti-corruption and information security within the employment and occupation. Statkraft also works towards the first weeks of employment. In Statkraft’s people performance realisation of these rights as part of our supply chain process, the company’s strategy and targets are cascaded into management. individual target development plans for each employee or team. Developing the organisation Statkraft offers training in core business processes such as Statkraft’s new strategy builds on existing business models and operations and maintenance, energy management and project core capabilities, but also explores new business models that will management, as well as business ethics, safety, and leadership require new organisational capabilities. On 1 October Statkraft’s through the Statkraft Academy. A special effort has been made to organisational structure was adjusted to achieve these new support the continuous strengthening of Statkraft’s emergency strategic priorities. Statkraft’s employee engagement survey was preparedness. Mandatory training on personnel emergency conducted in November 2018 with a response rate of 91%. The response and next-of-kin handling has been developed and survey showed high and stable motivation and satisfaction. The implemented. result on total score for employee engagement was 78%. Diversity and inclusion Labour and management relations Statkraft encourages a culture that capitalises on the diversity of Statkraft has a structured and close collaboration with local its people and the inclusion of ideas and perspectives that employee representatives and trade unions. In addition to challenge norms, drive innovation and help meeting the needs of cooperation at the national level, Statkraft has established the diverse customers and stakeholders. A clear commitment to equal Statkraft European Works Council (SEWC), with employee treatment and zero tolerance for discrimination, bullying and representatives from Norway, Sweden, Germany and the UK. harassment are core tenets of Statkraft’s people policies. Wherever it operates, Statkraft supports and respects At the end of 2018, Statkraft had approximately 3600 employees internationally recognised labour rights. Relevant ILO conventions and 43% are working outside Norway. Statkraft has employees in and EU directives have been included in the SEWC agreement 15 countries, representing 57 nationalities. At the end of 2018, with EPSU (European Federation of Public Service Unions), the 25% of the Group’s employees were women, and the percentage federation for European unions within the energy sector. In of women in management positions was 21%. The percentage of countries not covered by SEWC, Statkraft respects the women in Statkraft’s Board of Directors is 44%. Average service employees’ freedom of association and collaborates with union time in Statkraft is 12 years, while turnover in 2018 was 4.2%. representatives in accordance with collective bargaining agreements, legal requirements, international standards and Statkraft will continue the work to embed diversity into people prevailing industry best-practice for each location. development processes in order to reflect and encourage the value of individual and unique contribution. To build a better understanding of the levers that drive inclusion in Statkraft, monitoring and following up on employee perception over time are seen as essential. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 39 ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES Biodiversity AMBITION TARGET STATUS Deliver climate-friendly, renewable power and taking Zero serious environmental incidents responsible environmental measures Supporting initiatives  Enhanced tracking and communication of performance on the systematic handling of biodiversity, e.g. red-list species, critical habitats and presence in protected areas.  Increased understanding of our impacts on biodiversity, and adequate handling in project development and operation. Comments on performance  Statkraft had no serious environmental incidents in 2018 and undertook a broad range of initiatives, either required by the authorities or voluntarily, aimed at preserving biodiversity. Assessing environmental risks on biodiversity is part of Statkraft’s daily risk management procedures and practices. For this reason the status is marked as green.  Key achievements for 2018 comprise mapping and improvement of habitats for species of particular concern which are affected by Statkraft’s activities. In project areas detailed lists of red-list fauna and flora species are maintained. Initiatives to increase awareness about biodiversity among employees are carried out. During the revision of terms processes in Norway, several studies have been completed to evaluate environmental enhancement measures. First measures in a series of measures have already been implemented.  Key measures planned for 2019 are the monitoring of biodiversity and species of particular interest in project areas, whether mitigation measures are adequate and monitoring levels are sufficient. Management of biodiversity – key issues monitoring particularly birds, such as eagles, and aquatic species Statkraft is active in a variety of countries involving a broad such as salmon, sea trout, eel or fresh water mussels. spectrum of climates and institutional systems. The company’s main energy sources are water and wind. Both hydropower and Improving conditions for aquatic species wind power are renewable and climate-friendly generating Statkraft is the largest operator of wild fish hatcheries in Norway technologies, which help to combat climate change and to with a total of six facilities throughout the country. Together with preserve species threatened by global warming. However, all the Norwegian Environmental Agency Statkraft manages a gene forms of energy production leave a footprint. Statkraft is bank at Bjerka in Northern Norway to preserve the unique genetic committed to manage the negative impacts generated by its material of five different wild salmon species from 188 distinct activities in a responsible manner. sources. Operations are carried out in collaboration with stakeholders. In the river basins of Surna, Suldalslågen, Ulla and While wind turbines may represent a specific challenge for birds Skien, Statkraft has agreements with local fishing associations to and terrestrial ecosystems, hydropower facilities have an impact catch adult salmons ready to spawn so that their roe and milt can especially on aquatic species and ecosystems. Statkraft is hence replenish our hatcheries. Statkraft’s genbank at Bjerka in Northern Norway shelters eight basins of 80 mᶾ each and comprises between 3000 5000 fish. Genitors often live in the genbank 10 years and are ready to spawn after 3 5 years. All fish are registered individually and milt and roe is normally harvested once a year. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 40 Statkraft continuously seeks to enhance living conditions for fish in Biodiversity in Brazil and Chile regulated waterbodies. Historically, stocking of fish was an Brazil is the country with the greatest biodiversity in the world. essential measure to maintain healthy fish populations in Norway, Statkraft’s assets are located in two different biomes, 15 in the until it was discovered that their survival rate is higher when fish Atlantic forest region with a biodiversity similar to the Amazon mature in the river itself rather than in hatcheries. Therefore, forest and with several endemic species,and three in the Caatinga Statkraft has begun to stock more roe and juvenile fish. At the biome in the northeast, which is a biome that is endemic to Brazil same time, improving fish habitat and spawning areas has been with species only to be found there. All environmental prioritised. Efforts are also made to sustain the migration of management and monitoring programs are reviewed every 2-3 anadromous fish by building fish passages, which increase their years as part of a strict permitting and auditing process in Brazil. habitat area. In Norway, the long-term goal is to achieve selfsustaining fish populations, wherever possible. Monitoring studies In Chile, Statkraft is implementing a range of programmes on the conducted in cooperation with the regional authorities have shown Tinguiririca River. These include protecting nesting sites for the that trout populations have become self-sustaining in five Tricahue Parrot and habitats of the Torrent Duck and freshwater reservoirs of the Bjølvo catchment and the Bjoreio River. catfish, as well as reforestation and biodiversity offsets for the Therefore, the stocking of trout from hatcheries is no longer local La Isla Ecological Park. necessary in this area. Wind power and environmental impact In Southern Norway, a particular species of large brown trout lives Wind power is a renewable technology with next to no emissions. in the Tokkeåi River. Statkraft has developed an action plan in In general, it takes only six months for a wind turbine to generate collaboration with authorities, academia, local municipalities and the same amount of energy that it took to produce the turbine local interest organisations to improve spawning grounds and itself, while the lifespan of a wind turbine is normally 25 years. living conditions for this brown trout. Statkraft has during 2017 and 2018 implemented improvement measures such as Noise and landscape aesthetics are the most important landscaping river beds with rocks and gravel, opening up environmental impacts when establishing new wind farms. By tributaries and modifying weirs to ensure adequate water looking for a site with both good wind resources and a reasonable coverage of these habitats. good connection to a grid, one often ends up in rather remote As eels are a seriously threatened species in Europe, Statkraft areas. Building wind farms and the associated infrastructure in has special programmes to manage them in areas where eels remote areas can impact the living conditions of rare plants and have to migrate through the company’s project areas in Sweden animals, directly or indirectly, and may change the conditions for and Germany. To develop appropriate measures facilitating fish grazing animals as well as for recreational activities. Even if the migration, an integrated approach combining specialist actual land use for construction sites, roads and wind turbines competence in fish biology, hydrology and engineering is themselves only amounts to 2-3 percent of the total wind farm necessary. area, the presence of human beings, or the disturbance caused by operations of the wind turbines, such as noise, may affect the Other environmental enhancement measures biological conditions outside the actual wind farm area. To design solutions that consider all these aspects, Statkraft cooperates In Sweden, an environmental mapping of the Lagan, Nätraån and closely with national and local authorities, land owners and other Indalsälvan rivers has been concluded to assess their ecological stakeholders. Some negative impacts can be avoided or status and potential environmental enhancement measures. minimised by good planning and siting, others can be mitigated or Statkraft also participated in a multi-stakeholder research project compensated ecologically through offsets. investigating effective means to improve the riverine ecosystem in the regulated Ume River. Placing large stones along the river’s During the planning, construction and operation of wind farms, shore not only protected it from erosion, but also improved the Statkraft strives to reduce negative environmental impacts. This shoreline vegetation coverage and the habitat for grayling. includes mapping of biodiversity values and sensitive areas early in the planning phase, and compiling information on red-listed bird Hydropower R&D species and their habitats in and around the constructions sites. In Statkraft aims to be a driving force in hydropower R&D. Statkraft some cases no-work zones close to “active territories” for focus cooperates with national and European research institutes, and bird species have been established during the breeding season. participates e.g. in the EU funded FIT Hydro R&D project focusing A lot of research has been carried out on wind farm impacts on on fish friendly innovative technologies for hydropower. The birds over the last decade and Statkraft has participated actively in project focuses on mitigation measures and strategies to develop these R&D activities. The impacts on terrestrial mammals are on cost-efficient environmental solutions and on strategies to avoid the other hand not that well understood. Statkraft is therefore individual fish damage and enhancing population developments. supporting R&D initiatives in Norway, especially focusing on semiStatkraft contributes with a case study about two-way migration domesticated reindeer. This is important as reindeer migratory facilities for fish in Anundsjö in Sweden. routes that pass through or near to wind farms are a core part of the traditional Sami cultural livelihood. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 41 Climate neutrality and GHG emissions AMBITION TARGET STATUS Growth 100% in renewables Emissions from consumption of electricity 100% neutralised with Contribute to the transition to a more climate friendly and guarantees of origin from renewables sustainable energy system, and continuously seek to 100% of remaining unavoidable maintain a low climate footprint from operations greenhouse gas emissions are compensated with Certified Emission Reductions (CERs) Reduction of non-ETS greenhouse gas emissions according to set ambitions Supporting initiatives  Further the understanding of the impact of national and international climate policies on the business and, as appropriate, provide Statkraft’s perspectives, including on carbon pricing, to relevant stakeholders.  Improve the market and strategic analysis in order to incorporate climate change induced changes.  Further common understanding on how climate change affects all assets and continue to evaluate new business opportunities accordingly, based on company-wide climate assumptions.  Contribute to scientific methods for assessing the climate impact of the business. Comments on performance  The power generation capacity based on renewables was increased by 353 MW, to a total of 17 831 MW, and a new strategy with strong growth ambitions within renewables was adapted.  Implementation of the new strategy, with growth in solar, wind and hydro, will be a key focus in 2019. Climate neutrality emissions is related to the company’s gas power plants in Statkraft is a major producer and provider of renewable power and Germany. In 2018 this share was 92% and amounted to 544 000 heat and thus contributes to a cleaner world. Even so, Statkraft tonnes CO2 equivalents. contributes to emissions through its gas power plants and in a minor way in district heating production. The gas power plants can One example of climate related measures in 2018 is the provide flexibility which is required to integrate an increasing and installation of a 5000 m3 accumulator at the Heimdal incineration large share of intermittent renewables in the European power plant in Trondheim, Norway. The accumulator enables the plant to system. As coal still plays a major role in these markets, gas also recover excess heat and replacing 10 GWh/year of fossil-fired contributes to reducing the total carbon intensity. This production peak-load supply with renewable energy. The measure also is compliant under the EU Emission Trading System (EU ETS), enables a more optimised delivery of renewable heat and can and emissions are compensated with European Emission function as a security back-up in case of outages. Allowances (EUAs). Statkraft also contributes to emissions through regular business activities such as travels and construction activities. These activities are constantly being reviewed in order to identify possible reduction measures. Statkraft has signed the Climate Neutral Now Pledge. In line with this, long term emission reduction targets for fuel consumption related to the company’s operations and travel have been established and unavoidable emissions are compensated with UN Certified Emission Reduction Units (CERs). Statkraft’s GHG emissions In 2018, Statkraft’s total emissions of CO2 equivalents amounted to 590 400 tonnes (including Statkraft’s share Herdecke gas GHG emissions for 2014-2018 from gas power (including Statkraft’s share of Herdecke power plant in Germany). This corresponds to a relative emission gas power plant in Germany) and other sources. The significant change from 2015-2016 of CO2 equivalents of 9 kg/MWh. The majority of the GHG reflects the increased operation of gas power plants in Germany. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 42 ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES Water management AMBITION TARGET STATUS Statkraft is recognised as a company with a responsible Implementation of identified supporting water management practice initiatives Supporting initiatives  Ensure proactive, adequate handling and systematic follow-up of water levels, flow limits and hydropeaking requirements in concessions.  Demonstrate responsible water management based on improved understanding of the effects of climate change on water availability (e.g. water scarcity, drought and flood management) in all areas of operations. Comments on performance  A century of energy and water management experience in a mature regulatory context enables Statkraft to optimise water use while continually improving its environmental and economic performances. In the context of climate change adaptation the water storage capacity of hydropower reservoirs contributes to reducing floods and droughts in regulated river basins. Reservoirs can also facilitate other water usage such as increasing the availability of water for irrigation.  Key achievements in 2018 include responsible operations in extreme situations, resulting in the impacts of major flood events in Norway being more than halved. Knowledge and efficiency in integrated water resource management has been constantly advanced.  Key measures planned for 2019 are to preserve the flexibility of Norway’s hydropower generating system, reduce flood and drought damages through well-coordinated reservoir water management as well as continuous knowledge improvement through R&D. Working with nature This can in certain cases increase the plant generation capacity By using water for renewable power generation, Statkraft is between 1% and 5%. playing an important role in managing this common resource. The company is developing and operating hydropower in various Balancing water availability climate zones and in different national framework conditions. Statkraft is managing 261 dams and 161 reservoirs in Norway, Everyday water management is governed through laws and equal to half of Norway’s and close to 25% of Europe’s reservoir concessions taking into account social, economic and environcapacity. In 2018, Norway experienced extreme precipitation mental needs. variations. A dry summer with very little rain was followed by abundant precipitation in autumn. Thanks to large reservoirs and Statkraft makes additional efforts to improve its performance expertise in managing complex water systems, Statkraft through R&D and voluntary initiatives. Hydropower reservoirs can contributed to reducing several major flood episodes in Southern provide unique services to the power system such as flexibility. and Western Norway. In the regions of Hardanger, Upper They also offer water management options which reduce our Telemark and Ulla-Førre, about 70% of the precipitation of a flood vulnerability to extreme weather conditions such as floods and event in the fourth quarter was stored in Statkraft’s reservoirs. droughts. Climate changes are likely to increase such intensive precipitation Optimised water use episodes in Northern Europe, and prognoses indicate more Statkraft is working continuously towards improving the efficiency extreme weather is to come. of the operations to optimise the use of water resources. A wide spectrum of experts ranging from hydrologists and meteorologists, Improved knowledge engineers, production planners and power market analysts to Statkraft aims at being a driving force in hydropower R&D. power traders and infrastructure technicians is working to Statkraft cooperates with national research institutes like maximise the value of water which is stored in Statkraft’s HydroCen in Norway to find innovative ways of generating more reservoirs. Thanks to simulation models and infrastructure such as electricity from the same amount of water and to assist the dams and reservoirs, the stored water can be released when it hydropower sector in adapting to a rapidly changing energy has the highest value, typically when demand is high and other market, while at the same time improving its environmental technologies are less capable. performance. Simultaneously, by modernising its facilities, Statkraft strives towards obtaining more power from the same amount of water. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 43 As part of the HydroCen R&D Program, Statkraft contributes with Operations in Peru a case study on the Nea River (Trøndelag in Norway) to extend In Peru Statkraft’s operations are governed in part by the National the scope of the Environmental Design method for regulated rivers Water Resources Law whose goal is an integrated management for salmon to include also inland trout, biodiversity and of the water resources. In Peru, around 80% of the water recreational interests. consumption is for agriculture, and the National Water Authority (ANA) is the governmental agency responsible for water allocation The EU funded HydroFlex R&D project aims to develop new among the main water users. According to Peruvian law, the technologies permitting highly flexible operations of hydropower agricultural users have priority over energy users and this stations. The project comprises studying the potential for represents a challenge for Statkraft’s operations. significant ramping rates, frequent starts and stops as well as options to provide a large range of system services. Furthermore, Since the end of 2016 a new regulation from ANA dictates the operations must be within suitable environmental and social monthly water discharges from all reservoirs. In order to meet this conditions while being economically competitive compared to challenge, Statkraft Peru has engaged in a constructive dialogue other options. with authorities and been able to reach an agreement on optimal water discharges which still allow maintaining efficient power Operation examples from some countries generation without jeopardizing the interest of agricultural users. Statkraft strives at improving the environment without losing Following this development, Statkraft has implemented an flexibility for future water and energy management needs. The initiative for automatic and real-time monitoring of water following examples describe key issues for Statkraft’s operations discharges in our Surasaca and Cochaquillo reservoirs, which in different countries. both have downstream agricultural users. In this way, agricultural water users and ANA can both monitor in real-time the water Operations in Norway discharges and hence optimize the water distribution among the Norway has long-term hydropower concessions whose terms are multiple users. reviewed and updated by the authorities every 30 years with the main goal of improving the environmental performance. During the Operations in Turkey upcoming decade about 70% of Norway’s hydropower assets and At the Kargi HPP in Turkey a study to measure the benefits of about 80% of Statkraft’s Norwegian hydropower assets will be increased water efficiency downstream on the Kizilirmak river was granted new operating conditions under this process. Currently, completed in 2018. The findings indicate that less water is Statkraft is active in 13 revision of terms processes in Norway. required for irrigation systems than what was originally assumed, Statkraft supports environmental improvements which and this will lead to more water being available for power demonstrate higher environmental benefits than costs related to generation. Statkraft will work closely with downstream irrigators the loss of: and local regulatory bodies to ensure that sufficient water is  renewable and climate-friendly power generation available for rice production and to contribute to maintaining  flexibility required to balance power demand functioning irrigation intake structures on the Kizilirmak river. This  flood management possibilities. study will contribute to significant production increases and is an excellent example of cooperation between environmental, social Statkraft believes that local environmental conditions can be and production teams. enhanced without compromising the robustness of the Norwegian power supply system. Therefore, Statkraft is committed to participating in the revision process with its expertise and experience in order to ensure that authorities and politicians have adequate information at their disposal when determining the updated operating terms in the best interest for the environment, as well as for future power and water management needs. Operations in Sweden In Sweden, environmental legislation for hydropower is undergoing a revision process to enhance the implementation of EU’s Water Framework Directive. A voluntary Hydro Environmental Fund has been established to support the implementation of environmental enhancements. Statkraft is contributing to this fund and is also a member of its board. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 44 Climate change In the future, more extreme weather patterns will put water resources in general under increased stress. This requires new As a leading renewable energy company with mainly renewable coordinated and integrated models for water management. Water power generation (97.6%), Statkraft has a significantly lower will need to be stored and released in times of excess and scarcity carbon intensity (9 kg CO2/MWh) than the sector average. for different purposes, the most urgent being drinking water, irrigation and flood control. Combining the need for water storage The majority of Statkraft’s assets have a high longevity, and the for these purposes with the storage capacities in hydropower company has a long-term perspective in relation to its core opens up new opportunities for multipurpose hydropower plants. activities. Water and wind are other main input parameters, and as The research and analysis required for developing good water natural resources they are exposed to physical climate change. In management and business models are similar to the operational addition, climate policies as well as energy policies define the models for hydropower plants. In the Nordics, Statkraft is regulatory framework for the company’s operations. undertaking significant maintenance and upgrade work on dams, among others, to prepare for changes in precipitation patterns and more extreme weather. Improving hydrological performance Statkraft continuously adapts to climate change in operation and long term planning of its hydro assets. The day-to-day operation in Scenario analysis the Nordics requires evolving an understanding of the changes in Statkraft closely follows national, EU and global climate policy precipitation patterns. developments to assess the possible impact on the business. Likewise, understanding the impacts of cost and technological developments within renewable technologies are a core part of the Statkraft participates in several international and national projects analysis. Statkraft provides direct input to policy processes in in order to improve its understanding of climate change effects on Norway and the EU including an annual “Low Emissions Scenario the hydrological resources for short and long term, both in and Report”. outside of Norway. This aims at assessing future water availability in order to understand the implications of balancing water needs for energy production, flood mitigation, ecosystem services and the environment. During extreme rainfall in October 2018, Statkraft managed to significantly reduce the extent of a major flood incident from a 50-years to a 20-years flood event. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 45 Business ethics AMBITION TARGET STATUS Zero serious compliance incidents Prevent corruption and unethical practices in all activities On schedule implementation of the compliance measures Supporting initiatives  All employees complete trainings in business ethics with a focus on anti-corruption  Continue to strengthen the culture of reporting of concerns and breaches  Continue to ensure adequate corporate-wide handling of anti-corruption and business ethics risks, with particular focus on high risk processes  Improve the adequacy of how business ethics is reflected in requirements and controls for key business processes Comments on performance  The main reasons behind the green status are the on-track roll out of the compliance programme, including implementation of planned measures related to training, culture building and risk mitigation in critical business processes. Key achievements in 2018 include the roll out of training activities to all staff, roll-out of new guidance in all working languages of the group, and development of a new Business Ethics Commitment Statement.  Measures planned for 2019 include increased focus on leadership engagement activities and roll-out of compliance procedures in a new project management system. Framework for business ethics and compliance work portal for easy access. A new business ethics e-learning Statkraft has continued to expand its efforts within the area of programme was also introduced, and Corporate Management business ethics in recent years, with a comprehensive compliance adopted a new Business Ethics Commitment Statement, to clearly programme in place covering the areas of corruption, fraud, communicate the tone from the top companywide. money-laundering, sanctions and export control, as well as personal data protection and competition law. An audit of the The main corruption risks identified for the company relate to compliance programme in the company was conducted in 2018, business development and M&A processes, procurement and with a particular focus on efforts to prevent corruption and fraud payment processes, the use of consultants and intermediaries, across the company. The audit confirmed the existence of a wellgovernment permitting processes, stakeholder management and established and comprehensive compliance programme, adjusted conflicts of interest. The risks typically vary depending on the to the risks of the company, and up to date with the relevant geographical location, technology and type of business activity in developments in external legislation and standards. question. These nuances are reflected in the risk maps of the different business units. The Board of Directors is involved in compliance work through regular discussions on the development of the programme, at The corporate compliance programme is regularly updated to least on a quarterly basis. Last year a new approach was adopted reflect risks identified through risk assessments and through for the Board of Director’s involvement in this work, expanding analysis of concrete cases and investigations. This includes their involvement further. This included a review of the development of new procedures and controls, and adjustments to abovementioned audit and follow-up plans presented by the training activities. administration to address identified improvement areas. Training and communication Compliance programme Statkraft ensures that all employees are familiar with the principles Statkraft conducts regular risk assessments on anti-corruption for set out in the Code of Conduct through orientation programmes the whole company, annually for all business areas. Risks are given when joining the company, training conducted regularly for addressed through dedicated mitigation measures. The risk all staff, and through communication by senior managers. Last management process is more extensive for high risk locations and year training sessions were conducted in all major locations. In projects, and always involves a combination of local expertise and addition specialised training sessions were organised for the central compliance resources. During 2018 a new risk assessment Board of Directors, the Corporate Management, high level methodology was implemented, including incorporating new topics managers, and staff members in different functions. Compliance covered by the compliance agenda. has been included as an important topic in all major leadership and company events conducted through the year. During the course of 2018 work was carried out to update the internal rules and guidance related to business ethics. New Business Ethics Rules were introduced in ten different languages with new printed and digital guidance material, including a new ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 46 Handling of risk related to third parties New guidance and training Statkraft has clear and detailed procedures for the handling of Significant efforts have been made in developing a simplified and risks related to third parties. This includes a policy for how user-friendly set of training guidance and tools in all the background checks are conducted, how contract clauses should operational languages of the company. The new guidance and be formulated, and how monitoring should be conducted for high training is focused on a set of eight core Business Ethics Rules in risk contracts. an effort to ensure that the most fundamental internal rules are well known and easily remembered by all staff. The development All high-risk business partners (including all agents) are checked of this new guidance and its overall focus has been discussed with independently by the Compliance Unit. The integrity reviews the Board of Directors and Corporate Management prior to conducted include an assessment of the ownership structure (incl. finalising and launching the material. beneficial owners), an assessment of connections to politically exposed persons and a broad assessment of reputational risks Tax associated with the counterparty. The level of the analysis is In light of an increased focus globally on tax governance and tax adjusted to the nature of the business partners and agreements. transparency, the Board of Directors decided in 2017 to approve In 2018 additional work was undertaken to further develop and the voluntary disclosure of a global tax strategy detailing the adjust the procedures for third party checks for locations and internal tax policies, practices and procedures embedded in business activity areas of particular risk exposure. There are also Statkraft’s management system. The voluntary publication of the new efforts being made to revise approaches to monitoring of third global tax strategy was done in addition to the mandatory parties throughout the contracting period. publication of a specific UK tax strategy, published in accordance with recent UK legislation. In 2018 work was done to update standard business ethics clauses included in contracts with third parties, to ensure that Statkraft pursues a tax strategy that is principled, transparent and these reflect the developments of legal requirements and the risk sustainable and aligned with Statkraft’s Code of Conduct. Statkraft exposure of different types of contracting processes. is committed to ensuring full compliance with all statutory obligations and full disclosure to tax authorities. Statkraft transacts Internal controls on an arm’s length basis and does not engage in artificial tax In recent years Statkraft has invested in improved controls related arrangements and actively considers all implications of tax to anti-corruption and fraud prevention. There is an ongoing planning. Moreover, all tax planning is subject to robust review collaboration between the Compliance unit and the CFO area for and approval processes and shall: the further development of such controls. Over the last year  support genuine commercial activity significant efforts were invested in the implementation of improved  rely on full disclosure of the facts and circumstances to the controls in core financial processes. relevant tax authority  not use tax regimes considered as “harmful” by the OECD or New initiatives in the compliance area EU In addition to the continuous development of the key areas of work outlined above, several new initiatives were launched in 2018, as Statkraft has an established procedure in place for tax risk described below. management that facilitates appropriate identification, measuring, management and reporting of tax risks. Personal data protection project The Personal Data Protection Project was implemented in 2018. The project aims at bringing Statkraft to the necessary level of maturity of compliance with applicable personal data protection rules, especially the new European General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) that took effect in May 2018. The project is focused on clarifying roles and responsibilities, improving procedures, and increasing awareness of personal data protection. In addition, a comprehensive mapping exercise has been conducted across the whole company to establish detailed records of processing and to address any gaps identified. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 47 Edvard Högner is a Statkraft customer and one of several thousand small scale producers of renewable energy in Germany. Bringing the production to market requires market insights and analysis capabilities. Statkraft is Germany’s largest provider of market access solutions, and is growing similar activities around the world. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 48 2018 ___________ Corporate Governance ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 49 Corporate Governance The corporate governance statement clarifies the distribution of roles between the Norwegian state as owner, the board and the management in the company. Efficient and transparent management and control of the business EQUITY AND DIVIDENDS forms the basis for creating long-term value for the owner, Statkraft AS’ share capital totals NOK 33 600 000 000, divided employees, other stakeholders and society in general, and as a among 200 000 000 shares of NOK 168 each. The company's result, contributes to sustainable and lasting value creation. The shares can only be owned by Statkraft SF. distribution of roles inspires confidence among stakeholders through predictability and credibility. Open and accessible Capital increases are processed through the enterprise meeting of communication from the company ensures that the Group Statkraft SF and the general meeting of shareholders in Statkraft maintains a good relationship with society in general and, in AS. particular, with all stakeholders affected by the company’s activities. The State as the shareholder is free to set the dividend in its wholly owned companies. The provision of the Limited Liability CORPORATE GOVERNANCE STATEMENT Companies Act to the effect that the general meeting cannot adopt a higher dividend than that proposed or accepted by the Board of Statkraft is organised through a state enterprise, Statkraft SF. The Directors, does not apply to wholly owned state companies. activity in Statkraft SF is, for all practical purposes, restricted to owning all shares in Statkraft AS. Statkraft SF and Statkraft AS In 2017, the Norwegian government announced a new dividend have an identical board of directors and management. Statkraft expectation for Statkraft as part of the proposal for the revised AS is the parent company for an underlying Group structure. State budget. The owners dividend expectations is that Statkraft Statkraft adheres to the Norwegian Code of Practice for Corporate pays a dividend of 85 per cent of realised profit from Norwegian Governance (NUES) within the framework established by the hydropower business and 25 per cent of realised profit from other company's organisation and ownership. Statkraft follows the business activities. Realised profit is the profit before tax, minus Norwegian state’s principles for sound corporate governance, payable taxes and adjusted for unrealised effects and minority described in the White Paper, Meld. St. 27 (2013-2014) “Diverse interests. Dividends received from equity accounted investments and value-creating ownership” (“Et mangfoldig og verdiskapende are included in realised profits. The Norwegian hydropower eierskap”), and is subject to reporting requirements relating to business is defined in the notes to the annual report. The Board of corporate governance according to Section 3-3b of the Accounting Directors maintains a continuous focus on adapting the company's Act. objectives, strategy and risk profile to the company's capital situation. Statkraft's investments are financed through a The company's value base is described in Statkraft's Code of combination of retained capital, borrowings and any new equity Conduct, and the guidelines for ethics and corporate responsibility contributed by the owner. See Note 6 in the annual report for more have been designed on the basis of this code. The company's information about the company's capital structure management. annual report includes a statement on corporate responsibility. EQUAL TREATMENT OF SHAREHOLDERS ACTIVITIES AND TRANSACTIONS WITH RELATED The objective of Statkraft AS, alone, or through participation in, or PARTIES cooperation with other companies, is to plan, engineer, construct Statkraft engages in transactions with companies that are closely and operate energy facilities, conduct physical and financial related to Statkraft's shareholder, the Norwegian state. All energy trading, and perform naturally related operations. Statkraft transactions are based on regular commercial terms and AS is registered in Norway and its management structure is based principles. on Norwegian company legislation. Statkraft is also subject to the Norwegian Securities Trading Act and stock exchange regulations The instructions to the Board of Directors state that neither board associated with the company’s debt obligations. members nor the President and CEO may participate in the Objectives and framework for the activities in Statkraft are set out processing or resolution of issues that are of substantial personal in parliamentary documents and resolutions by the Parliament or financial interest to them or closely related parties. Any persons (Stortinget), see www.regjeringen.no and www.stortinget.no. in such a situation must, on their own initiative, disclose any interest they or their closely related parties may have in the ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 50 resolution of an issue. The same follows from the Group’s ethical The Norwegian Parliament (Stortinget) has decided that its guidelines. members should not be appointed to offices in companies that are subject to the Parliament's control. It is also assumed that ministers will resign from such offices when elected into the FREELY NEGOTIABLE SHARES Government and also cannot be selected for new offices. The Shares in Statkraft AS can, according to the Articles of same applies to state secretaries. Association, only be owned by the state-owned enterprise Statkraft SF. There are provisions stipulating that senior officials and civil servants employed in a ministry or the Central Administration in general, who deal with matters concerning the enterprise as part ENTERPRISE MEETINGS AND GENERAL of their job, or that are working in a ministry or other Central MEETINGS Administration agency that regularly processes matters of The Norwegian state exercises its authority as the owner in the significance for the company or the industry sector in question, enterprise meeting of Statkraft SF. In accordance with the Articles cannot be elected to the company's board, see the White Paper, of Association of Statkraft SF, Statkraft SF cannot attend and vote Meld. St. 27 (2013-2014). The President and CEO and senior in a general meeting in Statkraft AS without a preceding decision executives of Statkraft are not members of Statkraft's board. in an enterprise meeting. The enterprise meeting and the following general meeting are held annually by the end of June. The auditor Members of the Board of Directors are normally elected for terms attends the enterprise meeting and the general meeting. of two years and can be re-elected. Before the Board of Directors makes a decision in matters THE WORK OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS assumed to be of significant importance for the purpose of the enterprise/company, or which will significantly change the The Board of Directors usually meets eight to ten times a year. character of the activities, the matter must be put before the The Chair of the Board of Directors will hold board meetings as ministry representing the state's ownership in accordance with the often as is required. The Board of Directors has stipulated board State Enterprise Act. instructions with guidelines for the work and case processing of the board. The instructions also cover the President and CEO. The instructions define the work scope, duties and authorities of NOMINATION COMMITTEE the President and CEO in more detail than follows from the Statkraft SF and Statkraft AS have no nomination committee. The legislation. election of the board members appointed by the owner in Statkraft SF will take place in the enterprise meeting. Statkraft SF and The Board of Directors prepares an annual agenda for its work, Statkraft AS have identical boards. with a special emphasis on goals, strategies and implementation. The Board of Directors holds an annual strategy conference. The President and CEO prepare background material for such CORPORATE ASSEMBLY AND BOARD OF conferences in the form of strategic, economic and financial plans. DIRECTORS: COMPOSITION AND INDEPENDENCE The Board of Directors informs the boards of subsidiaries of matters of potential significance for the subsidiary in question. The State Enterprise Act stipulates that state-owned enterprises The Board of Directors evaluates its own performance and shall be governed by a board and a chief executive officer. expertise annually. Pursuant to the Limited Liability Companies Act, Statkraft AS has entered into an agreement with its employees’ trade unions The Board of Directors has appointed a Compensation Committee stipulating that the company will not have a corporate assembly. consisting of the Board Chair and two of the other board Three of the board's nine members are elected by the employees members. The Compensation Committee prepares the board’s based on the agreement that the company will not have a deliberations on the wages and other benefits paid to the corporate assembly. President and CEO as well as matters of principle related to wage levels, incentive schemes, pension terms, employment The State emphasises competence, capacity and diversity based contracts and similar for the company’s executives. The on the company's distinctive character when the State selects remuneration for the Head of Corporate Audit is stipulated by the people to sit on the companies' boards. The goal is for the board board. of each company, to collectively represent the desired expertise based on the company’s objective, business area, challenges and The board’s Audit Committee comprises four of the Board of the State's ownership goals. Emphasis is e.g. placed on selecting Director’s members. The committee functions as a preparatory representatives with broad-based experience from commerce and body for the board's management and supervision work, and at industry for companies with commercial goals. least one member of the Audit Committee shall have experience in accounts management, financial management or auditing. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 51 An overview of the members' participation in board meetings is risk management framework and monitors Statkraft's overall risks available in Note 36 of the annual report. at Group level. The Group's overall risk profile is concluded upon by the Corporate Management and is reported to the Board of Directors. The Group Risk function reports to the CFO. RISK MANAGEMENT AND INTERNAL CONTROL The internal control concept includes compliance with the Corporate Audit company's value base and guidelines for ethics and corporate Statkraft’s corporate audit function is an independent function responsibility. Important functions to ensure that risk management which assists the Board of Directors and management in and internal control are an integrated part of the activities in assessing whether the group’s most significant risks are Statkraft include the Group's internal auditing, the Compliance sufficiently managed and controlled. The purpose of Corporate function, the Group risk function, the Group's Investment Review Audit is to enhance and protect organisational value by providing unit and the Group’s internal control in connection with financial risk-based and objective assurance, advice, and insight related to reporting. The Investment Review unit (IRU) ensures an the organisation's governance, risk management and internal independent risk assessment in relation to individual investments control. and across the project portfolio. Internal audits are conducted according to an annual rolling plan. Risk management is an integral part of all activities across the The audit work shall be carried out in accordance with the organisation and of the decision making process. It supports the International Standards for Internal Auditing (IIA). The annual decision makers to prioritise their actions. Managers at all levels of corporate audit report is submitted to the Board, which also the organisation are responsible for appropriate risk management. approves the audit plan for the coming year. Corporate Audit also Risk management is regulated by mandates, requirements and presents a semi-annual report to the Audit Committee. The Audit guidelines. Follow-up of risk and risk management are Committee and Corporate Audit hold a minimum of one meeting incorporated in the daily business operations. per year without anyone from the Group’s administration being present. Implementation of the recommendations from Corporate Risk management and internal control are integral parts of the Audit is regularly followed up. Board of Directors work. To ensure that Statkraft has suitable and efficient systems in place for risk management and internal The Head of Corporate Audit is responsible for Statkraft`s system control, the Board of Directors shall: for independent reporting of concerns related to unethical or illegal  Review the Group’s most important risk areas at least once matters. In cases where an investigation is required, this is the a year responsibility of the Head of Corporate Audit.  Ensure that the systems are adequately established, implemented and followed up, e.g. through processing of Internal control of financial reporting reports submitted to the board by the President and CEO The Group's CFO is responsible for the process for Internal and the internal audit function Control in the Financial Reporting (ICFR) in Statkraft. The ICFR  Ensure that risk management and internal control are work is based on the COSO framework for internal control, integrated in the Group's strategy and business plans published by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Furthermore, the Board of Directors shall ensure that the President and CEO have: The ICFR ensures reliable and timely financial information in the  Stipulated instructions and guidelines for how the interim and annual reports. All subsidiaries are required to comply Group's risk management and internal control will be with the ICFR requirements. The same applies for associated carried out in practice companies, joint operations and joint ventures where Statkraft is  Established adequate control processes and functions responsible for the book-keeping and financial reporting. If a third  Ensured that Statkraft's risk management and internal party is responsible for the book-keeping and statutory reporting of control are carried out, documented, monitored and the partly owned company, the responsible segment shall perform followed up in a prudent manner compensating controls. Statkraft's management system, The Statkraft Way , defines the The activities related to ICFR are performed in the Group’s Group's principle rules and ensures a sound control environment Governance, Risk and Compliance (GRC) system, BWise. for fulfilling the management's goals and intentions. The Statkraft Through BWise, the Group is able to efficiently monitor real time Way is based on ISO principles for quality and environmental status on control performance throughout the whole organisation. management systems. Statkraft’s governance model has a risk-based approach to target setting, prioritisations and follow-up of the business and staff areas. The Group's risk function is process owner for the overall ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 52 established on multiple levels in connection with each individual presentation of the accounts. The accounts are prepared in accordance with statutory and regulatory requirements and are presented on the basis of applicable accounting principles and within the deadlines stipulated by the Board of Directors. The drafts of accounts are reviewed by the Corporate Management to ensure that the information reflects the underlying operations. In addition, the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors performs a preparatory review of the quarterly accounts and annual accounts. The external auditor participates in all meetings of the Audit Committee. Fraud Prevention System Statkraft has started to implement a fraud prevention system to prevent and detect fraud in processes related to procurement, accounting, tax and treasury. The system has a risk-based approach and will make use of methodology already in place for the ICFR system. The main elements of the ICFR system are:  Risk assessment and evaluation of control design The Group's ICFR Network performs an annual REMUNERATION OF THE BOARD OF assessment where the financial reporting risks are DIRECTORS identified and assessed. The result of this risk The owner stipulates the remuneration for the Board of Directors. assessment is documented in a financial reporting risk The remuneration is not related to the company's results. map presenting the likelihood and the consequence of risk occurrence. The purpose is to verify whether Shareholder-elected board members normally do not perform any Statkraft has appropriate controls in place to mitigate additional tasks for the company. To the extent that the members these risks sufficiently. of the board perform tasks for the company, this must be clarified  Reporting of ICFR to Audit Committee with the other board members in advance. Board of Directors Twice a year, key elements within the ICFR system are remuneration is described in Note 36 in the annual report. reported to the Audit Committee. The result of the yearly assessment related to control design and operational effectiveness is reported in February. The conclusion of REMUNERATION OF EXECUTIVE the financial reporting risk assessment is reported in PERSONNEL September. Material breach of the ICFR requirements Statkraft adheres to the Norwegian state's guidelines for will be reported to the Audit Committee. employment terms for managers in state enterprises and  Continuous performance and monitoring companies. For each control, it is defined how often the control shall be performed and who is responsible for performing and The Board of Directors will contribute to a moderate, but reviewing the control in BWise. Managers are competitive development of executive remuneration in Statkraft. responsible for compliance with the control descriptions The board’s Compensation Committee prepares the board's and ICFR requirements. Responsible managers perform deliberation of the wages of the President and CEO and the rest an assessment on design and operational effectiveness of the company’s Executive Vice Presidents. The President and of all controls annually. CEO and corporate executives shall receive both a fixed salary  Test of control performance and a variable payment. The variable salary has a maximum Quarterly and on a sample basis, the quality of control disbursement that complies with the owner's guidelines, see Meld. performance and compliance with the control St. 27 (2013-2014) to the Parliament (Stortinget). The entering descriptions are tested. The result of this testing is into pension agreements adheres to the current guidelines issued presented to control performers and reviewers, and by the owner. reported to management. The Board of Directors declaration regarding executive wages and The principle documents for financial reporting and the reporting other remuneration to executive employees can be read in Note instructions, set clear requirements for allocation of responsibilities 36 in the annual report. as regards preparation and assuring the quality of information. In addition, risk assessment and control measures have been ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 53 INFORMATION AND COMMUNICATION AUDITOR The Board of Directors has stipulated guidelines for financial The enterprise meeting appoints the auditor based on the Board reporting and other information. Statkraft SF publishes its annual of Directors proposal, and stipulates the auditor’s fee. Statkraft SF financial statement. Each year, Statkraft AS releases four and Statkraft AS use the same auditor. The auditor serves until a quarterly financial statements and one annual financial statement. new auditor is appointed. The financial calendar, press releases and stock exchange The Board of Directors and the auditor hold at least one meeting notices, investor presentations, quarterly and annual reports and annually where the President and CEO and other Group other relevant information are published on Statkraft's website. executives are not present. The Audit Committee evaluates the external auditor’s independence and has established guidelines Statkraft emphasises transparent communication with all for use of the external auditor for consultancy purposes. stakeholders. The information the company provides to its owner, lenders and the financial markets in general shall provide As part of the ordinary audit, the auditor presents an audit plan to sufficient details to permit an evaluation of the company’s the Audit Committee including a summary of the audit from last underlying values and risk exposure. The owner and the financial year. The auditor reports in writing to Statkraft's Audit Committee markets shall be treated equally, and information shall be concerning the company's internal control, applied accounting communicated in a timely manner. principles, significant estimates in the accounts and any disagreements between the auditor and the administration. The Board of Directors is briefed on the highlights of the auditor's TAKE-OVERS reporting. At the end of the audit the auditor performs a summary The Articles of Association for Statkraft AS state that the shares meeting with the Audit Committee. can only be owned by Statkraft SF. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 54 In September 2018, Statkraft acquired the Tidong hydropower project, located on Tidong River in the state of Himachal Pradesh in India India’s electricity demand is among the fastest growing in the world, and this acquisition positions Statkraft for further growth in the country. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 55 Statkraft is ramping up significantly within onshore wind. In Central-Norway, Europe’s largest onshore wind power project Fosen is being built. Roan wind farm was completed in 2018, as the first of the project’s six wind farms. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 56 2018 ___________ Statements ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 57 Group Financial Statements Statement of Comprehensive Income Statkraft AS Group GROUP NOK million Note 2018 2017 Profit and loss Sales revenues 4, 12, 20 55 350 50 778 Gains/losses from market activities 13, 20 -1 696 2 414 Other operating income 13 2 580 1 325 Gross operating revenues and other income 4 56 233 54 517 Energy purchase 12, 20 -26 808 -28 207 STATKRAFT AS Transmission costs -1 840 -1 326 Net operating revenues and other income 4 27 585 24 984 Salaries and payroll costs 15, 16 -3 615 -3 707 Depreciations and amortisations 22, 23 -3 567 -3 662 Impairments 14, 22, 23 -167 -500 Property tax and licence fees 17 -1 352 -1 341 Other operating expenses 18 -3 439 -3 846 Operating expenses -12 139 -13 056 Operating profit/loss (EBIT) 15 446 11 928 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments 24 790 -79 Interest income 404 374 Interest expenses 19 -905 -1 234 Net currency effects 20 -464 -2 069 Other financial items 5,19, 20 5 377 6 748 Net financial items 4 412 3 818 Profit/loss before tax 20 649 15 668 Tax expense 21 -7 258 -3 957 Net profit/loss 13 390 11 710 Of which non-controlling interest 680 -95 Of which owners of the parent 12 710 11 805 OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME Items in other comprehensive income that recycle over profit/loss: Changes in fair value of financial instruments, net of tax 8 -160 Items recorded in other comprehensive income in equity accounted investments -131 -170 Recycling of financial instruments related to cash flow hedges/net investment hedges, net of tax 1 115 Recycling of currency translation effects related to foreign operations disposed -54 -2 491 Currency translation effects -316 667 Items in other comprehensive income that will not recycle over profit/loss: Changes in fair value of equity instruments, net of tax -27 2 Estimate deviation pensions, net of tax -153 -47 Other comprehensive income -673 -1 084 Comprehensive income 12 717 10 625 Of which non-controlling interest 642 -465 Of which owners of the parent 12 075 11 090 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 58 Statement of Financial Position Statkraft AS Group NOK million Note 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 ASSETS Deferred tax assets 21 676 962 Intangible assets 22 3 909 3 313 Property, plant and equipment 23 105 744 103 193 Equity accounted investments 4, 24 13 105 13 335 Other financial assets 25 3 986 4 368 GROUP Derivatives 10 2 926 4 023 Non-current assets 130 345 129 194 Inventories 26 6 316 2 871 Receivables 27 12 831 15 372 Financial investments 10 604 918 Derivatives 10 9 118 6 537 Cash and cash equivalents (incl. restricted cash) 28 23 175 14 217 Current assets 52 044 39 914 Assets 182 388 169 108 STATKRAFT AS EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Paid-in capital 59 219 59 219 Retained earnings 34 815 28 842 Non-controlling interest 3 970 3 567 Equity 98 004 91 627 Deferred tax 21 9 826 9 792 Pension liability 16 2 655 2 539 Provisions allocated to capital employed 29 2 552 2 894 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Other provisions 29 637 598 Interest-bearing liabilities 30 30 354 36 285 Derivatives 10 1 253 1 101 Non-current liabilities 47 277 53 210 Interest-bearing liabilities 30 6 346 3 694 Taxes payable 21 7 391 4 010 Interest-free liabilities allocated to capital employed 31 9 742 9 086 Other interest-free liabilities 503 593 Derivatives 10 13 124 6 888 Current liabilities 37 107 24 271 Equity and liabilities 182 388 169 108 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 59 Statement of Cash Flow Statkraft AS Group NOK million Note 2018 2017 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Operating profit/loss (EBIT) 15 446 11 928 Depreciations, amortisations and impairments 22, 23 3 734 4 162 Gains/losses from divestments and disposal of assets -1 399 -129 Unrealised effects included in operating profit/loss (EBIT) 20 4 557 940 Dividends from equity accounted investments 24 606 558 GROUP Changes in working capital -2 201 -1 551 Cash effects from foreign exchange derivatives related to operations -451 -260 Taxes paid -3 605 -4 843 Other changes -1 401 -1 939 Cash flow from operating activities A 15 286 8 865 CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 1) -4 713 -3 610 Business divestments, net liquidity inflow 5 7 316 7 309 STATKRAFT AS Acquisition of shares in subsidiaries, net liquidity outflow 5 -1 587 Loans to equity accounted investments -3 -1 258 Repayment of loans from equity accounted investments 2) 3 894 2 291 Interests received from loans to equity accounted investments 2) 102 200 Other investments 292 -298 Cash flow from investing activities B 5 301 4 634 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY New debt 30 759 5 250 Repayment of debt 30 -5 535 -7 647 Interests paid -1 104 -1 231 Interests received from cash and other assets 284 161 Dividend paid to Statkraft SF -6 040 -2 052 Transactions with non-controlling interests -53 -1 037 Cash flow from financing activities C -11 689 -6 556 Net change in cash and cash equivalents A+B+C 8 898 6 943 Currency exchange rate effects on cash and cash equivalents 59 -36 Cash and cash equivalents 01.01 28 14 217 7 308 Cash and cash equivalents 31.12 3) 28 23 175 14 217 Unused committed credit lines 9 189 10 083 Unused overdraft facilities 1 002 2 041 Restricted cash 28 61 70 1) Investments in property, plant and equipment and intangible assets in the cash flow in 2018 are NOK 407 million lower than new capacity, maintenance and other investments in note 4. This is due to capitalised borrowing costs of NOK -119 million, capitalised decommissioning of NOK -36 million and timing differences between capitalisation and payment date of NOK 252 million. 2) Effects from a loan to Dudgeon Offshore Wind Ltd. are included. Dudgeon was divested in 2018. See note 5. 3) Included in cash and cash equivalents are NOK 357 million related to joint operations as of year end 2018. Financing activities Cash effects from interest rate derivatives are SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES presented as a part of interest paid. Cash effects from foreign exchange derivatives related to debt are presented as a part of repayment of debt. The cash flow statement has been prepared using the indirect method. In 2018, the statement of cash flow has changed. Interest payment and cash Operating activities Changes in working capital comprise of inventory, effects from derivatives related to debt are no longer presented as a part of short-term interest-free receivables and short-term interest-free liabilities. operating activities. For 2017, this led to an increase in cash flow from Effects related to capital expenditures, unrealised changes or reclassifications operating activities of NOK 450 million, increase in investing activities of NOK are not included in changes in working capital. Cash effects from cash 325 million and a decrease in financing activities of NOK 775 million. Also, collateral and margin calls are included in other changes. cash flow from operating activities is reconciled from operating profit/loss (EBIT) instead of profit before tax. The comparable figures have been Investing activities Acquisition/divestment of shares include cash and restated. cash equivalents in the investee that are recognised/divested at the transaction date. Hence, this is presented net together with the cash consideration paid or received. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 60 Statement of Changes in Equity Statkraft AS Group Currency Attributable NonPaid-in Other Other translation Retained to owners controlling Total NOK million capital reserves 1) equity effects equity of parent interests equity Balance as of 01.01.2017 as previously reported 58 411 -1 659 12 957 6 063 17 361 75 772 7 747 83 519 Change in accounting principle see note 1 -101 -101 -101 -25 -126 Balance as of 01.01.2017 58 411 -1 659 12 856 6 063 17 260 75 671 7 722 83 393 Net profit/loss 11 805 11 805 11 805 -95 11 710 Items in other comprehensive income that recycles over GROUP profit/loss: Change in fair value of financial instruments, net of tax 2) -161 -161 -161 -160 Items recorded in other comprehensive income in equity -170 -170 -170 -170 accounted investments Recycling of financial instruments related to cash flow hedges/net 1 115 1 115 1 115 1 115 investment hedges, net of tax Recycling of currency translation effects related to foreign -2 491 -2 491 -2 491 -2 491 operations disposed of the year Currency translation effects 1 063 1 063 1 063 -396 667 Items in OCI that will not recycle over profit/loss: STATKRAFT AS Changes in fair value of equity instruments, net of tax 2 2 2 2 Estimate deviation pensions, net of tax -72 -72 -72 25 -47 Total comprehensive income for the period 786 11 733 -1 428 11 090 11 090 -465 10 625 Dividend -1 332 -3 018 -3 018 -4 350 -1 036 -5 386 Change in option recognised in equity 890 890 890 890 Business combinations/divestments -36 -36 Transactions with non-controlling interests 2 620 2 620 2 620 -2 620 Capital increase 3) 2 140 2 140 2 140 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Balance as of 31.12.2017 59 219 -874 25 080 4 635 28 842 88 061 3 567 91 627 Net profit/loss 12 710 12 710 12 710 680 13 390 Items in other comprehensive income that recycles over profit/loss: Changes in fair value of financial instruments, net of tax 4) 8 8 8 8 Items recorded in other comprehensive income in equity -131 -131 -131 -131 accounted investments Recycling of currency translation effects related to foreign -54 -54 -54 -54 operations disposed Currency translation effects -306 -306 -306 -10 -316 Items in OCI that will not recycle over profit/loss: Changes in fair value of equity instruments, net of tax -23 -23 -23 -4 -27 Estimate deviation pensions, net of tax -129 -129 -129 -24 -153 Total comprehensive income for the period -146 12 581 -360 12 075 12 075 642 12 717 Dividend -6 100 -6 100 -6 100 -204 -6 304 Capital injection from non-controlling interest 176 176 Business combinations/divestments -212 -212 Balance as of 31.12.2018 59 219 -1 020 31 561 4 275 34 815 94 035 3 970 98 004 1) Other reserves is mainly related to cash flow hedges and net investment hedges. 2) Financial instruments is related to foreign exchange derivatives and debt denominated in euro. 3) A conversion of loan to share capital of NOK 2140 million from the owner took place in 2017. 4) Financial instruments is related to foreign exchange and interest rate derivatives. GENERAL INFORMATION SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The parent company has a share capital of NOK 33.6 billion, divided into Dividend proposed at the time of approval of the financial statements is 200 million shares, each with a par value of NOK 168. All shares have the classified as equity. Dividends are reclassified to current liabilities once same voting rights and are owned by Statkraft SF, which is a Norwegian they have been approved by the General Assembly. state-owned company, established and domiciled in Norway. Statkraft SF is wholly owned by the Norwegian state, through the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Fisheries. On 21 June 2018 Statkraft’s General Assembly approved a disbursement of NOK 6100 million as dividend to Statkraft SF. For the current year the Board of Directors has proposed to pay a dividend of NOK 8500 million. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 61 Notes Statkraft AS Group Index of notes to the consolidated financial statements General Page Statement of financial position Page Note 1 General information and summary of significant accounting policies 62 Note 22 Intangible assets 98 Note 2 Key accounting estimates and judgements 65 Note 23 Property, plant and equipment 99 Note 3 Subsequent events 65 Note 24 Associates and joint arrangements 102 Note 4 Segment information 66 Note 25 Other non-current financial assets 105 GROUP Note 5 Business combinations and other Note 26 Inventories 105 transactions 70 Note 27 Receivables 106 Note 28 Cash and cash equivalents 106 Financial risk and instruments Note 29 Provisions 107 Note 6 Management of capital structure 73 Note 30 Interest-bearing debt 108 Note 7 Market risk in the Group 74 Note 31 Other interest-free liabilities allocated to CE 108 Note 8 Analysis of market risk 75 Note 9 Credit risk and liquidity risk 76 Note 10 Financial instruments 78 Other information Note 11 Hedge accounting 83 Note 32 Contingencies and disputes 109 Note 33 Pledges, guarantees and obligations 110 STATKRAFT AS Statement of comprehensive income Note 34 Leases 111 Note 12 Sales revenues and energy purchase 85 Note 35 Fees paid to external auditors 111 Note 13 Gains/losses from market activities and Other 88 Note 36 Benefits paid to executive management operating income and the Board of Directors 112 Note 14 Impairments 89 Note 37 Related parties 115 Note 15 Payroll costs and number of full-time 91 Note 38 Consolidated companies 116 equivalents 92 Note 16 Pensions 94 Note 17 Property tax and licence fees 94 Note 18 Other operating expenses 94 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Note 19 Financial items Note 20 Unrealised effects recognised in the income 95 statement Note 21 Income taxes 96 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 62 Note 1 General information and summary of significant accounting policies GENERAL INFORMATION CONSOLIDATION PRINCIPLES Statkraft AS is a Norwegian limited liability company, established and The consolidated financial statements comprise the financial statements of domiciled in Norway. Statkraft AS is wholly owned by Statkraft SF, which in the parent company Statkraft AS and its subsidiaries. A subsidiary is an turn is wholly owned by the Norwegian state, through the Ministry of Trade, entity in which Statkraft has the power to govern the financial and Industry and Fisheries. The company’s head office is located in Oslo and operating policies (control). Control is normally achieved through the company has debt instruments listed on the Oslo Stock Exchange and ownership, directly or indirectly, of more than 50 percent of the voting the London Stock Exchange. power. Currently, Statkraft has more than 50 percent of the voting power in all subsidiaries. Subsidiaries are included from the date control Statkraft’s consolidated financial statements have been prepared in commences until the date control ceases. GROUP accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and interpretations from International Financial Reporting Interpretations If necessary, the subsidiaries’ financial statements are adjusted to correlate Committee (IFRIC) as adopted by the EU and further requirements in with the Group’s accounting policies. Inter-company transactions and interNorwegian Accounting Law (Regnskapsloven). company balances, including internal profits and gains and losses, are eliminated. Subsidiaries are consolidated from the date when the Group The statement of comprehensive income, statement of financial position, achieves control and are excluded from the consolidation when control statement of equity, statement of cash flow and notes provide comparable ceases. information in respect of the previous period. Investments in joint arrangements and associates The consolidated accounts have been prepared on the basis of the historical cost principle, with the exception of certain financial instruments, derivatives Statkraft classifies its investments based on an analysis of the degree of STATKRAFT AS and certain elements of net pension assets measured at fair value at the control and the underlying facts. This includes an assessment of voting balance sheet date. rights, ownership structure and the relative strength, purchase and sale rights controlled by Statkraft and other shareholders. Each individual Historical cost is generally based on fair value of the consideration given investment is assessed. Upon changes in underlying facts and when acquiring assets and services. circumstances a new assessment must be made on how to classify the investment. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market Joint operations are joint arrangements where the participants who have participants at the measurement date. The measurement of fair value is joint control over a business activity have contractual rights to the assets and contingent upon market prices being available or whether other valuation obligations for the liabilities, relating to the operation. In joint operations, CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY techniques have been applied. When determining fair value, the decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the management must apply assumptions that market participants would have parties sharing control. The Group’s share in joint operations is recognised used in a similar valuation. Measurement and presentation of assets and in the consolidated financial statements in accordance with Statkraft’s liabilities measured at fair value when presenting the consolidated accounts interest in the joint operation’s assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. are based on these policies, with the exception of measuring net realisable The proportionate share of realised and unrealised gains and losses arising value in accordance with IAS 2 Inventories and when measuring value in from intragroup transactions between fully consolidated entities and joint use in accordance with IAS 36 Impairment of Assets. operations is eliminated. The accounting policies applied to the consolidated financial statements as Joint ventures are companies where Statkraft has joint control together a whole are described below while the remaining accounting policies are with one or several other investors. In a joint venture company, decisions described in the notes to which they relate. The policies have been applied related to relevant activities must be unanimous between participants which in the same manner in all presented periods, unless otherwise stated. have joint control. The Group’s share in joint ventures is recognised in the consolidated accounts using the equity method and presented as equity The descriptions of accounting policies in the statements and notes form accounted investments under non-current assets. The Group’s share of the part of the overall description of accounting policies: companies’ profit/loss after tax, adjusted for amortisation of excess value and any deviations from accounting policies, is presented as share of  Statement of changes in equity profit/loss in equity accounted investments in the statement of profit and  Statement of cash flow loss.  Segment information Note 4  Business combinations and other transactions Note 5 Associates are companies or entities where Statkraft has significant  Financial instruments Note 10 influence. The Group’s share in associated companies is recognised in the  Hedge accounting Note 11 consolidated accounts using the equity method and presented as equity  Sales revenues Note 12 accounted investments under non-current assets. The Group’s share of the  Government grants Note 13 companies’ profit/loss after tax, adjusted for amortisation of excess value  Impairment Note 14 and any deviations from accounting policies, is presented as share of  Cash generating units (CGU) Note 14 profit/loss in equity accounted investments in the statement of profit and  Pensions Note 16 loss.  Income taxes Note 21  Intangible assets Note 22  Property, plant and equipment Note 23 COMPARABLE FIGURES AND RECLASSIFICATIONS  Inventories Note 26  Cash and cash equivalents Note 28 The statement of comprehensive income, statement of financial position,  Provisions Note 29 statement of equity, cash flow statement and notes provide comparable  Concessionary power Note 29  Leases Note 34 information in respect of the previous period. FOREIGN CURRENCY Subsidiaries prepare their accounts in the company’s functional currency, normally the local currency in the country where the company operates. Statkraft AS uses Norwegian kroner (NOK) as its functional currency, and it is also the presentation currency for the consolidated financial statements. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 63 Note 1 continued When preparing the consolidated financial statements, the local currency of financial position. This includes changes in initial and subsequent the foreign subsidiaries, associated companies and joint ventures are measurement and the expected credit loss model. However, the translated into NOK in accordance with the current exchange rate method. standard had impact on the disclosure requirements in note 10 and 11. Statkraft has implemented the new categories of financial instruments This means that balance sheet items are translated to NOK at the exchange described in note 10. rate prevailing at 31 December; whilst the income statement is translated using monthly weighted average exchange rates throughout the year. Currency translation effects are recognised as other comprehensive income The implementation and adoption of the other items did not have a significant impact on the financial statements of the Group. and recycled to the income statement upon sale or loss of control of shareholdings in foreign companies. The currency translation effects that are recycled are presented as part of the gain or loss of the sale/disposal in the STANDARDS AND AMENDMENTS ISSUED BUT NOT YET EFFECTIVE income statement. The part of the currency translation effects related to noncontrolling interest are not recycled to the income statement. IFRS 16 Leases is effective from 1 January 2019. IFRS 16 replaces IAS GROUP 17 Leases, IFRIC 4 Determining whether an Arrangement contains a Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional currency Lease, SIC-15 Operating Leases-Incentives and SIC-27 Evaluating the using the exchange rates prevailing at the transaction dates. Foreign Substance of Transactions Involving the Legal Form of a Lease. IFRS 16 exchange gains and losses resulting from the settlement of such sets out the principles for the recognition, measurement, presentation transactions and from the translation at year-end exchange rates of and disclosure of leases and requires lessees to account for all leases under a single on-balance sheet model similar to the accounting for monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are finance leases under IAS 17. recognised in the income statement. At the commencement date of a lease, a lessee will recognise a liability at the present value of lease payments with a corresponding asset CLASSIFICATION AS CURRENT/NON-CURRENT representing the right to use the underlying asset during the lease term ( right-of-use asset ). The standard includes a number of optional Items in the statement of financial position are classified as current when practical expedients related to initial application and recognition. Lessees STATKRAFT AS they are expected to be realised within 12 months after the reporting will be required to separately recognise the interest expense on the date. With the exception of the items mentioned below, all other items lease liability and the depreciation expense on the right-of-use asset. are classified as non-current. Derivatives that are hedging instruments in fair value hedge accounting are presented together with the hedged Lessor accounting under IFRS 16 is substantially unchanged from previous accounting under IAS 17. Lessors will continue to classify all item. The first year’s repayments relating to non-current liabilities are leases using the similar classification principle as in IAS 17. presented as current liability. The Group will, with effect from 1 January 2019, adopt IFRS 16 using the modified retrospective approach. Accordingly, comparable information CHANGES IN THE FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND COMPARABLE will not be restated. FIGURES CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Determining whether a contract is or contains a lease under IFRS 16 Compared with 2017, Statkraft has changed the Group’s statement of At the date of initial application of IFRS 16, the Group will recognise a comprehensive income. The effects from implementing IFRS 15 are lease liability for leases previously classified as operating leases under described in note 12. Gains/losses from market activities are separated IAS 17 in accordance with the transition requirements. The Group will from Sales revenues. The line item Gains/losses from market activities measure the lease liabilities at the present value of the remaining lease contains trading, origination, risk reducing energy derivatives and payments, discounted using the incremental borrowing rate at 1 January embedded derivatives. 2019. Statkraft has not been applying the practical expedient to rely on previous assessments of whether a contract is or contains a lease and has therefore performed a reassessment of the contract portfolio. Statkraft’s share of profit and loss in equity accounted investments is Further, will the right-of-use assets on a lease-by-lease basis be from 2018 recognised below the operating profit/loss on a separate measured at the amount equal to the lease liability, adjusted by the financial statement line item in the statement of comprehensive income. amount of any prepaid or accrued lease payments. The amount in 2017 was NOK -79 million. Gains and losses from divestment of equity accounted investments are from 2018 recognised in Statkraft has nearly completed its analysis of the effects of the new Other financial items instead of Other operating income. The amount in standard and concluded on the impact on the financial statement for 2017 was NOK 5166 million. Se note 19. contracts previously accounted for as operating leases: Statkraft’s leases mainly involve the following type of assets: The specification of Net financial items in the statement of The contracts that will largely affect the recognition of the lease liability comprehensive income has changed, however without effect on total Net and right-of-use asset under the new standard are contracts for renting financial items. of office premises. In addition, contracts for lease of land, cars and equipment are identified. The statement of cash flow has changed. The changes are described on the same page as the statement. Power purchase agreements Statkraft is providing market access to renewable energy producers by Comparable figures have been restated. entering into long term power purchase agreements. Some of these agreements were defined as operating leases in accordance with IFRIC 4. ADOPTION OF NEW AND REVISED STANDARDS After transition to IFRS 16 these agreements are considered not to contain a lease. It is concluded that the agreements are in scope of IFRS In 2018 new standards and amendments to existing standards have 9 Financial instruments when such contracts are net settled and not held become effective. This is related to the following standards: for own use. Under IAS 17 the rent paid to the power-producers is presented as energy purchase. When preparing the financial statements  IFRS 9 Financial Instruments for 2019, power purchase agreements assessed to be derivatives will be  IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers, including accounted for at fair value with value changes through profit and loss. clarifications  IFRIC 22 (interpretation) Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance The following practical expedients and recognition exemptions to leases Consideration previously classified as operating leases at the date of initial application are applied:  Annual Improvements to IFRS Standards 2014-2016  Recognition exemption for short-term leases (defined as 12 months or less)  Recognition exemption for low value assets (defined as low value The effects from implementing IFRS 15 are described in note 12 and 24. equipment)  Excluded any initial direct costs from the measurement of the rightof-use asset The implementation of IFRS 9 Financial instruments had no significant impact on the statement of comprehensive income or the statement of ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 64 Note 1 continued  Relied on previous assessment of whether a lease is onerous  Recognition of power purchase agreements at their fair value of applying IAS 37 Provisions, Contingent Liabilities and Contingent approximately NOK 667 million as derivatives under assets. A Assets, and not performed an impairment review. For such leases, similar amount will be recognised as an increase in equity as of 1 the right-of-use assets have been adjusted by the amount of such January 2019. provisions recognised in the statement of financial position.  Annual lease operating expenses will be reduced and impact the  Intangible assets will also be chosen to be excluded from IFRS 16, EBITDA positively with approximately NOK 204 million. hence leased concessions or payments for power production  Annual depreciation will increase by approximately NOK 174 licenses, for instance, will not be treated within IFRS 16. million.  Annual interest expenses will increase by approximately NOK 50 million. Measurement  Annual gains/losses from financial instruments will be recognised. Statkraft has evaluated whether the Group is reasonably certain to  Improved cash flow from operating activities, due to the principal exercise an option to renew a lease, not terminate a lease or to purchase portion of the lease payments being classified as finance activity, the underlying asset. All relevant factors that can create an economic GROUP whereas the whole lease payment was previously classified as incentive for Statkraft to exercise options e.g. contract-, asset-, entityoperating activity (IFRS 16 has no impact on the cash position of and market-based factors are evaluated. Contracts to rent office the Group). premises are not considered to be customised to Statkraft’s use and options to renew leases are not included in the estimated lease liability. Contracts to rent production facilities are in most cases customised to meet Statkraft’s requirements and material expenses will incur if moving In addition to this standard, the following revised IFRSs have been issued, from the existing premises. Hence, such contracts are included in the but are not yet effective, and in some cases have not yet been adopted by estimated lease liability. the EU: A lease liability will be remeasured upon the occurrence of certain events  IFRIC 23 (interpretation) Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments e.g. a change in the lease term, a change in future lease payments  IFRS 9 (amendments) prepayments Features with Negative resulting from a change in an index or rate used to determine those Compensation STATKRAFT AS payments. Generally, the amount of the remeasurement of the lease  IAS 28 (amendment) Long-term interests in Associates and Joint liability will be recognised as an adjustment to the right-of-use asset. Ventures Right-of-use assets and lease liabilities will not be presented separately  IAS 19 (amendment) Plan amendment, Curtailment or Settlement in the statement of financial position but will be disclosed in a separate note.  Conceptual Framework (amendment) References in IFRS Standards  IFRS 3 (amendment) Definition of a Business The incremental borrowing rates are calculated as a sum of currency  IAS 1 and IAS 8 (amendment) Definition of Material dependant market rates and entity specific credit spreads for each  Annual improvements to IFRS Standards 2015-2017 cycle relevant year on an asset-by-asset basis. The incremental borrowing rate applied as discount rate is an average of these yearly borrowing rates for each individual leased asset, depending on the length of each contract. Statkraft does not expect that the adoption of these Standards will have a The weighted average yearly discount rate applied is 3.22% and the material impact on the financial statements of the Group in future periods. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY effect of discounting the nominal values is approximately NOK 427 million. Minimum lease expense recognised in 2018 was NOK 202 million, see note 34. The Financial Statements were resolved by the Board of Directors on 13 February 2019. The estimated impacts on the financial statement and key figures for 2019 considering the current lease contracts are:  Recognition of short-term and long-term lease liabilities of approximately NOK 1.5 billion.  Recognition of right-of-use assets of approximately NOK 1.6 billion, including prepayments on lease contracts of NOK 100 million. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 65 Note 2 Key accounting estimates and judgements INTRODUCTION The Corporate Management is forming its management view by being involved in the process. Corporate Management is invited to provide and The use of reasonable estimates and judgements is a critical element in challenge the input and scenarios applied in the analysis to be used in preparing the financial statements. Due to the level of uncertainties asset valuations and other strategic considerations. Based on the expert inherent in Statkraft’s business activities, management must make certain recommendations, the Corporate Management approves the annual long term price forecasts for power and the view upon related market estimates and judgements that effect the application of accounting development. policies, results of operations, cash flows and financial position as reported in the financial statements. Various sensitivity analyses are disclosed in: Management bases its estimates on historical experience and various  Analysis of market risk Note 8 GROUP other assumptions that are held to be reasonable under the  Financial instruments Note 10 circumstances.  Impairments Note 14 FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENT AREAS OF SIGNIFICANT JUDGEMENT In addition to the above, significant judgement is applied in the valuation of the Group’s long term power purchaseand power salesLONG TERM PRICE FORECAST FOR POWER contracts categorised within level 3 in the fair value hierarchy levels. The One of the key assumptions used by management in making business fair value estimate is based on the amounts for which the assets or decisions is Statkraft’s long term price forecasts for power and the related market developments. In addition, these assumptions are critical input for liabilities could be exchanged at the relevant transaction date on the management related to financial statement processes such as: reporting period end. Where fair value measurement cannot be derived from publicly available information, they are estimated using models and STATKRAFT AS  Allocation of fair value in business Note 5 other valuations methods. To the extent possible, the assumptions and combinations inputs used take into account externally verifiable inputs. However, such  Impairment testing of property, plant and information is by nature subject to uncertainty, particularly where equipment Note 14, 23 comparable market-based transactions do often not exist. In such cases  Impairment testing of intangible assets Note 14, 22 Statkrafts management is required to make market based-assumptions,  Impairment testing of equity accounted see note 10. investments Note 14, 24 OTHER AREAS Statkraft performs an annual update of its long-term price forecasts and the related expected market developments in the geographical areas In addition, significant judgement is applied in estimating the carrying where Statkraft operates. This update is the output from a continuous amounts of: process of monitoring, interpreting and analysing global as well as local CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY trends, which will affect future markets and revenues. The update  Pensions Note 16 provides basis for both strategic decisions as well as the management’s  Deferred tax assets Note 21 expectation for future prices and revenue streams beyond 2025 associated with the assets. A fundamental approach is applied when analysing the markets, considering elements such as: APPLICATION OF ACCOUNTING POLICY  Cost levels of competing technologies and fuels Due to Statkraft’s business activities, management must apply  Future energy balances judgements in determining the appropriate accounting policy in areas  Political regulations where these policies may have a material impact on how amounts are  Technological developments to reduce emissions of climate gases reported in the financial statements. Such areas include; The process is headed and run by a team of experts across the Group. The main results are benchmarked to external references and major  Classification of energy contracts Note 10 deviations are explained. The process aims to ensure consistency, and  Classification of energy revenue Note 12 provide a balanced view of both the markets and expected future power  Classification of investments made together Note 24 prices. with third parties  Classification of power purchase agreements Note 34 Note 3 Subsequent events There have been no significant subsequent events. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 66 Note 4 Segment information The Group reports operating segments in accordance with how the International power includes development, ownership and operations of corporate management makes, follows up and evaluates its decisions. renewable assets in emerging markets. The segment currently operates in The operating segments have been identified on the basis of internal Brazil, Peru, Chile, India, Nepal, Turkey and Albania. management information that is periodically reviewed by the corporate management and used as a basis for resource allocation and key Wind power includes Statkraft’s development and operation of onshore performance review. wind power. The segment currently operates in Norway, Sweden, Ireland and the United Kingdom. The segment reporting is based on underlying figures. The table below reconciles the Group IFRS figures with the Group underlying figures. The District heating includes Statkraft’s development and operation of district rationale for reporting underlying figures are described in the Alternative heating plants in Norway and Sweden. Performance Measures. GROUP Industrial ownership includes management and development of See note 12 for revenues per category and geography. Norwegian shareholdings within the Group’s core business and includes the shareholdings in Skagerak Energi, BKK, Agder Energi, Fjordkraft and The reportable segments are defined as: Istad. Skagerak Energi is included in the consolidated financial statements, while BKK and Agder Energi are reported as equity accounted European flexible generation includes the majority of the Group’s investments. Statkraft has divested shares in Fjordkraft and Istad in 2018. hydropower business in Norway, Sweden, Germany and the United Fjordkraft was consolidated until the divestment in March 2018. After the Kingdom, as well as the gas fired power plants, the subsea cable Baltic divestment, Fjordkraft was reported as an equity accounted investment. Cable and the biomass power plants in Germany. Other activities includes other small-scale business, group functions and Market operations includes trading, origination, market access for unallocated assets. STATKRAFT AS smaller generators of renewable energy, as well as revenue optimisation and risk mitigation activities related to both the Continental and Nordic Group items include eliminations. production. Reconciliation of IFRS versus underlying figures CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2018 2018 2017 2017 NOK million IFRS Adjustments Underlying IFRS Adjustments Underlying Profit and loss Sales revenues 55 350 -676 54 674 50 778 -116 50 662 Gains/losses from market activities -1 696 1 464 -232 2 414 -1 172 1 242 Other operating income 2 580 -1 449 1 131 1 325 -346 979 Gross operating revenues and other income 56 233 -660 55 573 54 517 -1 634 52 883 Energy purchase -26 808 -26 808 -28 207 -28 207 Transmission costs -1 840 -1 840 -1 326 -1 326 Net operating revenues and other income 27 585 -660 26 925 24 984 -1 634 23 350 Salaries and payroll costs -3 615 -3 615 -3 707 -3 707 Depreciations and amortisations -3 567 -3 567 -3 662 -3 662 Impairments -167 167 -500 500 Property tax and licence fees -1 352 -1 352 -1 341 -1 341 Other operating expenses -3 439 -3 439 -3 846 30 -3 816 Operating expenses -12 139 167 -11 972 -13 056 530 -12 526 Operating profit/loss (EBIT) 15 446 -493 14 953 11 928 -1 105 10 824 The underlying adjustments are:  Other operating income: gains from divestment of subsidiaries and  Sales revenues: gains or losses from hedges (IFRS 9) within market joint operations are not included in the underlying figures. access activities (customers) are reclassified from “Gains/losses from  Impairments: related to intangible assets, property, plant and market activities” to “Sales revenues”. Hence, these gains/losses are equipment are excluded from underying figures. not included in Sales revenues for the IFRS figures.  Other operating expenses: losses from divestment of subsidiaries and  Gains/losses from market activities: joint operations are not included in the underlying figures. o Unrealised value changes from embedded derivatives in energy contracts are not included in the underlying figures. o Unrealised gains/losses from certain derivatives entered into for risk reduction purposes are not included in the underlying figures. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 67 Note 4 continued Accounting specification per segment Segments European InterStatkraft flexible Market national Wind District Industrial Other Group NOK million AS Group generation operations power power heating ownership activities items 2018 GROUP Gross operating revenues and other income, external 55 573 21 158 26 007 2 502 399 907 4 537 134 -71 Gross operating revenues and other income, internal 444 -50 139 968 1 94 877 -2 473 Gross operating revenues and other income, underlying 55 573 21 602 25 957 2 641 1 367 908 4 631 1 011 -2 544 Net operating revenues and other income, underlying 26 925 18 765 834 2 244 1 320 650 3 284 1 011 -1 183 Operating profit/loss (EBIT), underlying 14 953 12 943 -321 631 429 206 1 467 -545 142 Unrealised value changes from energy derivatives -789 -333 -456 Gains/losses from divestments of business activities 1 449 15 1 1 432 Impairments -167 -160 -7 Operating profit/loss (EBIT), IFRS 15 446 12 610 -761 471 431 199 2 899 -545 142 Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments 790 2 143 30 635 -20 STATKRAFT AS Assets and capital employed 31.12.18 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 109 653 57 250 85 24 976 8 018 3 461 15 494 369 Equity accounted investments 13 105 25 1 977 879 10 116 108 Loans to equity accounted investments 2 319 1 737 568 15 Other assets 57 311 2 221 11 655 1 447 533 281 988 40 318 -132 Total assets 182 388 59 472 11 765 30 137 9 998 3 741 26 613 40 795 -132 Assets not included in capital employed -56 323 -35 -203 -4 011 -1 461 -10 609 -40 003 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Liabilities included in capital employed -19 685 -2 848 -5 856 -1 481 -293 -212 -1 275 -7 853 132 Capital employed 106 380 56 589 5 706 24 645 8 243 3 529 14 728 -7 061 Return on average capital employed (ROACE) 14.7% 23.3% -6.9% 2.9% 6.3% 5.9% 10.1% n/a n/a Return on average equity accounted investment (ROAE) 5.9% n/a n/a 7.8% 3.2% n/a 6.1% n/a n/a Depreciations, amortisations and impairments -3 734 -1 692 -17 -910 -309 -172 -574 -59 Maintenance investments and other investments 2 067 1 185 10 155 4 9 663 40 Investments in new production capacity 3 053 67 24 894 1 623 134 309 Investments in shares 1 862 39 1 345 381 97 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 68 Note 4 continued Accounting specification per segment Segments European InterStatkraft flexible Market national Wind District Industrial Other Group NOK million AS Group generation operations power power heating ownership activities items 2017 Gross operating revenues and other income, external 52 883 16 908 25 294 2 522 55 788 7 209 134 -28 Gross operating revenues and other income, internal 176 84 108 706 1 53 853 -1 981 Gross operating revenues and other income, underlying 52 883 17 084 25 378 2 630 761 789 7 262 987 -2 009 Net operating revenues and other income, underlying 23 350 14 508 1 983 2 143 716 580 3 602 987 -1 170 GROUP Operating profit/loss (EBIT), underlying 10 824 8 447 1 057 394 -132 155 1 369 -441 -25 Unrealised value changes from energy derivatives 1 289 1 173 116 Gains/losses from divestments of business activities 315 76 258 11 -30 1 Impairments -500 1 084 -1 392 -187 -4 -1 Operating profit/loss (EBIT), IFRS 11 928 10 704 1 173 -922 -61 151 1 380 -471 -25 Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments -79 2 -744 213 473 -23 Assets and capital employed 31.12.17 Property, plant and equipment and intangible assets 106 506 58 329 161 22 634 6 317 3 510 15 188 368 STATKRAFT AS Equity accounted investments 13 335 86 1 821 1 771 9 640 16 Loans to equity accounted investments 6 182 1 640 667 16 3 860 Other assets 43 085 1 895 7 905 1 788 538 258 2 340 29 110 -748 Total assets 169 108 60 224 8 152 27 882 9 293 3 767 27 184 33 354 -748 Assets not included in capital employed -49 197 -29 -206 -3 702 -2 449 -10 125 -32 686 Liabilities included in capital employed -15 990 -3 010 -4 655 -1 633 -358 -197 -2 106 -4 778 748 Capital employed 103 922 57 185 3 292 22 546 6 486 3 571 14 953 -4 111 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Return on average capital employed (ROACE) 10.5% 15.2% 27.2% 1.7% -1.9% 4.4% 9.3% n/a n/a Return on average equity accounted investment (ROAE) -0.5% n/a n/a -17.5% 9.2% n/a 4.9% n/a n/a Depreciations, amortisations and impairments -4 162 -620 -12 -2 160 -553 -175 -575 -66 -1 Maintenance investments and other investments 1 820 1 053 5 173 12 7 566 4 Investments in new production capacity 1 964 117 103 794 500 130 320 Investments in shares 111 91 19 Selected financial figures from “Norwegian hydropower and related “Related business” refers to all activities in the investments in the business” associated regional companies BKK AS, Agder Energi AS and Istad AS. The column Sum “Norwegian hydropower, excluding related business” In the white paper Prop. 40 S (2014-2015) related to revised national represents the totals for the two subsidiaries after elimination of budget, it was stated that Statkraft should disclose information related to intercompany transactions and balances. The figures for Statkraft Energi the Norwegian hydropower activities (“Norwegian hydropower”). AS are extracted from the segments European flexible generation and Market operations, while the figures for Skagerak Kraft Group are The table on the next page includes financial figures for the Norwegian extracted from the segment Industrial ownership. The line “Profit after tax hydropower, which have been extracted from the relevant operational (majority share)” from Skagerak Kraft Group is calculated based on segments. Statkrafts ownership interest of 66.62%. “Norwegian hydropower” includes all activities related to the Norwegian The lines Net financial items and Tax expense show the financial items hydropower assets in the subsidiaries Statkraft Energi AS and Skagerak and tax related to the activities in the definition of “Norwegian Kraft Group, which are subject to resource rent tax. Further, it includes hydropower”. Nordic dynamic asset management portfolio related to the assets defined above and the financial risk reduction portfolio in Statkraft Energi AS. The figures from the equity accounted investments in the associated companies BKK AS, Agder Energi AS and Istad AS have been extracted from the segment Industrial ownership. See note 24. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 69 Note 4 continued Norwegian hydropower Norwegian hydropower from: Sum Norwegian hydropower, excluding Associated Sum Norwegian Statkraft AS Statkraft Energi Skagerak Kraft related regional hydropower and NOK million Group AS Group business companies related business 2018 Gross operating revenues and other income 56 233 17 499 2 118 19 587 19 587 Net operating revenues and other income 27 585 16 185 2 009 18 184 18 184 GROUP Operating profit/loss (EBIT) 15 446 12 045 1 375 13 420 13 420 Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments 790 596 1) 596 Net financial items 4 412 -171 -64 -235 -235 Tax expense -7 258 -6 299 -853 -7 151 -7 151 Profit/loss after tax 13 390 5 576 458 6 034 596 6 630 Profit/loss after tax (majority share) 12 710 5 576 303 5 879 596 6 475 Paid dividend and group contribution to Statkraft 4 499 2) 119 3) 4 618 541 3) 5 159 Assets 31.12.18 STATKRAFT AS Equity accounted investments 13 105 2 2 9 030 1) 9 032 Other assets 169 284 37 754 5 306 43 060 43 060 Total assets 182 388 37 754 5 307 43 062 9 030 52 092 EBITDA 19 180 13 145 1 567 14 712 14 712 Depreciations, amortisations and impairments -3 734 -1 100 -192 -1 292 -1 292 Maintenance investments and other investments 2 067 864 105 969 969 Investments in new production capacity 3 053 62 25 87 87 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Investments in shares 1 862 1) Statkraft's share 2) Dividend and group contribution after tax paid from Statkraft Energi AS 3) Dividend paid to Statkraft Norwegian hydropower Norwegian hydropower from: Sum Norwegian hydropower, excluding Associated Sum Norwegian Statkraft AS Statkraft Energi Skagerak Kraft related regional hydropower and NOK million Group AS Group business companies related business 2017 Gross operating revenues and other income 54 517 15 666 1 651 17 303 17 303 Net operating revenues and other income 24 984 12 943 1 571 14 514 14 514 Operating profit/loss (EBIT) 11 928 9 303 955 10 258 10 258 Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments -79 471 1) 471 Net financial items 3 818 -136 -83 -218 -218 Tax expense -3 957 -4 687 -522 -5 210 -5 210 Profit/loss after tax 11 710 4 480 350 4 830 471 5 301 Profit/loss after tax (majority share) 11 805 4 480 232 4 711 471 5 182 Paid dividend and group contribution to Statkraft 3 758 2) 76 3) 3 834 528 3) 4 362 Assets 31.12.17 Equity accounted investments 13 335 1 1 9 484 1) 9 485 Other assets 155 773 37 930 5 356 43 287 43 287 Total assets 169 108 37 930 5 357 43 288 9 484 52 772 EBITDA 16 090 10 066 1 146 11 212 11 212 Depreciations, amortisations and impairments -4 162 -763 -191 -954 -954 Maintenance investments and other investments 1 820 950 95 1 046 1 046 Investments in new production capacity 1 964 22 4 26 26 Investments in shares 111 1) Statkraft's share 2) Dividend and group contribution after tax paid from Statkraft Energi AS 3) Dividend paid to Statkraft ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 70 Note 5 Business combinations and other transactions Tamar On 21 December, Statkraft acquired 100% of the shares in the two SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES companies Santa Fé Energia S.A. and Tamar Pequenas Centrais Hidroelectricas S.A., consisting of eight operational hydropower plants in The acquisition method is applied in business combinations. The the state of Espírito Santo in Brazil. The shares were acquired from EDP consideration is measured at fair value on the transaction date, which is Energias do Brasil for a total of NOK 1344 million. The portfolio has a total also the date when fair value of identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent installed capacity of 132 MW and will expand Statkraft’s operations in Brazil. liabilities acquired in the transaction are measured. If the accounting of a business combination is incomplete at the end of the reporting period, in which the transaction occurred, the Group will report preliminary values for the assets and liabilities. Preliminary values are adjusted throughout the DIVESTMENT AND RESTRUCTURING OF BUSINESS IN 2018 measuring period of maximum one year in order to reflect new information GROUP obtained about circumstances that existed as of the acquisition date, that if Dudgeon Offshore Wind On 7 March, an agreement to divest Statkraft’s known, would have affected the valuation on that date. Correspondingly, 30% share in the joint venture Dudgeon Offshore Wind Ltd was closed. The new assets and liabilities can be recognised. The transaction date is when counterparty was a consortium led by China Resources Company Limited. risk and control has been transferred and normally coincides with the Net cash inflow from the transaction was NOK 5947 million and resulted in closing date. a gain of NOK 5106 million recognised as Other financial items. A shareholder loan of NOK 317 million from Statkraft UK Ltd provided to Non-controlling interests are recognised either at fair value or the Dudgeon was repaid by the joint venture in the first quarter. Statkraft UK Ltd proportionate share of the identifiable net assets and liabilities. The provided a sponsor loan to Dudgeon of NOK 3534 million. The sponsor loan assessment is done for each transaction. was not part of the transaction and was repaid in the fourth quarter. Any differences between cost and fair value for acquired assets, liabilities Fjordkraft On 21 March, Fjordkraft concluded a successful Initial Public STATKRAFT AS and contingent liabilities are recognised as goodwill or recognised in the Offering (IPO) and was listed on Oslo Stock Exchange at a share price of income statement when the cost is lower. No provisions are recognised for 31 NOK/share. Statkraft has recognised a total gain from the IPO of NOK deferred tax on goodwill. 1659 million of which NOK 1432 million was recognised as Other operating income. BKK, an associated company of Statkraft, also divested some of its Transaction costs are recognised in the income statement when incurred. shareholding in Fjordkraft through the IPO and recognised a gain of NOK 227 million that was presented as Share of profit/loss in equity accounted If business combinations are achieved in stages, the existing ownership investments. Net cash income from the transaction was NOK 673 million. interests is recognised at fair value at the point in time when control is Subsequent of the IPO, Statkraft holds a shareholding of 29.72% in transferred to Statkraft. Such a change in the carrying value of the Fjordkraft and the investment is presented according to the equity method, investment is recognised in the income statement. see note 24. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The principles applied to the recognition of acquisition of associated Of the total gain recognised, NOK 869 million is a true up to fair value on companies and joint ventures are in general the same as those applied to the remaining shares in Fjordkraft held by Statkraft. The excess values the acquisition of subsidiaries. have been analysed and allocated to identifyible intangible assets. NOK 255 million (before tax) are allocated to customer portfolios and will be depreciated over six years. The depreciations will affect share of profit/loss ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS in equity accounted investments. The remaining excess values are allocated to brand name and goodwill, which both have indefinite useful life. Consideration paid in business combinations is allocated to acquired assets The excess values are presented net as a part of equity accounted and liabilities and contingent liabilities based on their estimated fair values. investments in the statement of financial position. For major acquisitions, Statkraft uses independent external advisors to assist in the determination of the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities. BKK On 11 June, an agreement where BKK acquires its own B-shares This type of valuation requires management to make judgements as from Statkraft, corresponding to 1.7% of the company’s total share capital, regards valuation method, estimates and assumptions. Management’s was closed. Net cash inflow from the transaction was NOK 350 million. The estimates of fair value and useful life are based on assumptions supported gain was NOK 141 million and was recognised as Other financial items. by the Group’s experts, and involve inherent uncertainty. As explained in Note 2, Statkraft’s long-term price forecast for power is a critical Istad On 3 September, Statkraft closed the agreement to divest 49% of the assumption used in estimating fair values of relevant assets and liabilities. shares in Istad AS. Net cash inflow from the transaction was NOK 380 million and a gain of NOK 168 million was recognised as Other financial items. BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND TRANSACTIONS IN 2018 Lange Runde On 7 September, Statkraft sold 90% of the shares in the solar park Lange Runde in the Netherlands. The cash inflow from the Tidong On 4 September, Statkraft acquired 100% of the shares in NSL transaction was NOK 130 million, including repayment of a loan. The gain Tidong Power Generation Private Ltd. The shares were acquired from NSL from the sale was NOK 15 million and was recognised as Other operating Renewable Power Private Ltd. The purchase price of the shares was close income. to zero. Tidong is a hydropower project in India with a planned capacity of 100 MW. BKK On 14 September, an agreement where BKK acquires its own Bshares from Statkraft, corresponding to 0.35% of the company’s total share Element Power Group On 2 October, Statkraft acquired 100% of the shares in the Irish and UK wind development business of the Element capital, was closed. BKK has used the acquired shares as consideration Power Group. The shares were acquired from Hudson Clean Energy when acquiring Etne Elektrisitetslag. Net cash inflow from the transaction Partners AIV LP. The purchase price of the shares was NOK 372 was NOK 72 million and a gain of NOK 34 million was recognised as Other million. In addition, loans to former shareholders of a total of NOK 40 million financial items. were repaid in connection with the transaction. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 71 Note 5 continued Allocation of cost price for business combinations in 2018 1) Tidong Element Power Tamar Total Acquisition date 04.09.2018 02.10.2018 21.12.2018 Voting rights/shareholding acquired through the acquisition 100% 100% 100% Total voting rights/shareholding following acquisition 100% 100% 100% Measurement of non-controlling interests n/a n/a n/a Consideration NOK million Cash 372 1 344 1 716 GROUP Total acquisition cost 372 1 344 1 716 Book value of net acquired assets (see table below) -4 252 566 814 Identification of excess value, attributable to: Intangible assets -99 334 235 Property, plant and equipment 4 449 453 Inventory -4 -4 Gross excess value 4 -99 779 684 Deferred tax on excess value -1 -119 -120 Net excess value 3 -99 659 563 STATKRAFT AS Fair value of net acquired assets, excluding goodwill -1 153 1 225 1 377 Of which Controlling interests -1 153 1 225 1 377 Total -1 153 1 225 1 377 Total acquisition cost 372 1 344 1 716 Fair value of net acquired assets, excluding goodwill (controlling interest) -1 153 1 225 1 377 Goodwill 1 219 119 339 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 1) All cost price allocations are based on preliminary assessments, and could be subject to changes within 12 months of each transaction. NOK million Tidong Element Power Tamar Total Book value of net acquired assets Intangible assets 371 6 378 Property, plant and equipment 392 1 727 1 120 Deferred tax assets 2 2 Other non-current assets 34 11 45 Non-current assets 426 372 747 1 545 Cash and cash equivalents 15 150 165 Inventories 12 12 Receivables 1 48 49 Current assets 1 15 210 226 Acquired assets 427 387 957 1 771 Deferred tax 1 1 Interest-bearing liabilities, non-current 342 38 337 717 Interest-bearing liabilities, current 2 19 21 Taxes payable 24 24 Other interest-free liabilities 87 97 10 195 Net value of acquired assets -4 252 566 814 Total acquisition cost 372 1 344 1 716 Non-cash elements of acquisition cost Consideration and cost in cash and cash equivalents 372 1 344 1 716 Cash and cash equivalents in acquired companies 15 150 165 Net cash payments in connection with the acquisitions 357 1 194 1 551 Contribution to gross operating revenue since acquisition date 7 7 Contribution to net profit since acquisition date -8 -15 -23 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 72 Note 5 continued Ltd. The transaction included a loan of NOK 331 million from Statkraft UK BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND TRANSACTIONS IN 2017 provided to the joint venture. Total cash inflow from the transaction was NOK 765 million. The transaction resulted in a gain of NOK 426 million There were no significant business combinations, asset purchases or new recognised as other financial items. joint arrangements in 2017. Scira On 14 December, Statkraft signed an agreement to divest its 40% DIVESTMENTS AND RESTRUCTURING OF BUSINESS IN 2017 share in the joint venture Scira Offshore Energy Ltd. which includes the Sheringham Shoal offshore wind project in the UK. The transaction was closed later in December and included a loan of NOK 1403 million from Forewind Ltd On 23 March, Statkraft divested its shares in the joint Statkraft AS provided to the joint venture. Total cash inflow from the operation Forewind Ltd. which included the Dogger Bank offshore wind transaction was NOK 6192 million. The transaction resulted in a gain of project in the UK. This resulted in a gain of NOK 256 million recognised in NOK 2634 million from sale of shares recognised as other financial items GROUP profit and loss. and a gain of NOK 43 million from settlement of loans recognised as other financial items. Cetin Enerji On 11 July, Statkraft divested its interests in the Cetin hydropower project in Turkey. This resulted in a gain of NOK 76 million, Skagerak Naturgass AS Skagerak Naturgass was previously 100% mainly due to the reclassification of currency translation differences, owned by Skagerak Energi and consolidated as a subsidiary. 51% of the recognised in profit and loss. As part of the sales agreement, there is a shares were divested and the entity was recognised as an equity contingent earn-out. The earn-out will be recognised when payments are accounted investment after the transaction. There were no material effects received. on the financial statements. SN Power On 25 September, an agreement was entered into between Statkraft and Norfund whereby Statkraft acquired the remaining 18.1% Steinsvik AS The subsidiary Steinsvik AS was divested. There were no share in Statkraft IH Invest AS and disposed its 50% share in SN Power material effects on the financial statements. STATKRAFT AS AS. In addition, Statkraft received a cash payment of NOK 1717 million. A gain of NOK 2091 million, which includes a deferred gain from an earlier Vindpark Em AB The subsidiary Vindpark Em AB and the wind farm restructuring and currency effects, was recognised as other financial Tollarpabjär were divested. There were no material effects on the financial items. See note 24. statements. Triton Knoll On 10 October, Statkraft divested its 50% share in the joint venture Triton Knoll Offshore Wind Farms Ltd. to innogy Renewables UK CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 73 Note 6 Management of capital structure The main aims of the Group’s management of its capital structure is to There were no changes in the Group’s targets and guidelines governing the maintain a reasonable balance between the company’s debt/equity ratio, management of capital structure in 2018. and its ability to expand whilst maintaining a strong credit rating. The most important target figure for the Group’s management of capital The tools for long-term management of the capital structure consist structure is long-term credit rating. Statkraft AS has a long-term credit rating primarily of the draw-down and repayment of long-term liabilities and of A(stable outlook) from Standard & Poor’s and BBB+ (stable outlook) payments of share capital from/to the owner. The Group endeavours to from Fitch Ratings. Statkraft’s target is to maintain its current ratings. obtain external financing from various capital markets. The Group is not subject to any external requirements with regard to the management of capital structure other than those relating to the market’s expectations and the owner’s dividend requirements. GROUP Overview of capital included in management of capital structure NOK million Note 2018 2017 Interest-bearing liabilities, non-current 30 30 354 36 285 Interest-bearing liabilities, current 30 6 346 3 694 Financial investments, current -604 -918 Cash and cash equivalents, excluding restricted cash 28 -23 114 -14 147 STATKRAFT AS Net interest-bearing liabilities 12 982 24 915 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 74 Note 7 Market risk in the Group handling volume and imbalance risk. Depending on the price mechanisms RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS in the purchase agreements with the generators, Statkraft may be exposed GENERALLY to a price risk. The price risk is mitigated by entering into financial contracts, mainly forwards and futures, with third parties. Statkraft is engaged in activities that entail risk in many areas and has a unified approach to the Group’s market risks. The Group’s risk management Trading and origination activities The trading activities involve buying policy is based upon assuming the right risk based on the Group’s ability and and selling standardised and liquid products, such as power, gas, oil and willingness to take risks, expertise, financial strength and development plans. CO2 products. The activities also include trading transportation capacity The purpose of risk management is to identify threats and opportunities for across borders. The contracts in the trading portfolio have maturities the Group, and to manage the overall risk level to provide reasonable ranging from 0 to 5 years. The aim is to realise profit on changes in the assurance that the Group’s objectives will be met. market value of energy and energy-related products. The market risk in GROUP these contracts is mainly related to future commodity prices. In Statkraft, market risk will primarily relate to prices of energy and commodities, interest rates and foreign currency. The following section Origination activities include buying and selling both standard and contains a more detailed description of the various types of market risk, and structured products. Structured products are typically environmental how these are managed. certificates or power contracts with tailor made profiles, long-term contracts or power contracts in different currencies. Virtual power plant contracts are also included within the origination activities. Quoted, liquid contracts DESCRIPTION OF MARKET RISK RELATED TO PRICES ON ENERGY pertaining to system price, area prices and foreign currency are primarily AND COMMODITIES used to reduce the risk involved in trading structured products and contracts. The majority of the contracts in the portfolio have a duration of Statkraft is exposed to significant market risk in relation to the generation up to five years, though some contracts run until 2035. and trading of power. Revenues from power generation are exposed to STATKRAFT AS volume and power price risk. The company has an advanced energy Statkraft has various trading and origination portfolios that are managed management process and aims to have production capacity available in independently of the Group’s expected power generation. Statkraft has periods with high demand. Statkraft manages market risk in the energy allocated risk capital to these activities. Clear guidelines have been markets by trading physical and financial instruments in multiple markets. established limiting the types of products that can be traded. The The production revenues are optimised through financial power trading. mandates are adhered to by applying specified limits for value-at-risk and The company is also engaged in other trading activities. profit-at-risk. Both methods calculate the maximum potential loss a portfolio can incur, with a given probability factor over a given period of Risk management in energy trading in Statkraft focuses on total portfolios time. The credit risk and operational risk are also quantified in relation to rather than individual contracts. Internal guidelines controlling the level of the allocated risk capital. market exposure have been established for all portfolios. Responsibility for the continual monitoring of granted mandates and frameworks lies with CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The effects from trading and origination are presented as a part of independent organisational units. The frameworks for trading in both Gains/losses from market activities in the profit and loss statement. financial and physical contracts are continuously monitored. The Group has trading offices located in Oslo, Trondheim, Stockholm, London, Amsterdam, Düsseldorf, Istanbul, Tirana, Rio de Janeiro, San Francisco, DESCRIPTION OF FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND INTEREST RATE RISK New Delhi and Lima. Statkraft is exposed to foreign exchange and interest rate risk. Statkraft A description of the energy portfolios, within the various profit and loss uses interest rate and foreign currency derivatives in addition to debt in categories, can be found below: foreign currency to mitigate these risks. Funding, forwards and swaps in foreign currency together with interest rate swaps are used to achieve the Generation activities Statkraft has entered into bilateral physical power desired currency and interest structure of the company’s debt portfolio. sales agreements with industrial customers. The most significant part is Statkraft’s methods for managing these risks are described below: related to contracts in Norway. These contracts stabilise Statkraft’s revenues as they normally have fixed prices and volume, although with Foreign exchange risk Statkraft incurs currency risk in the form of different durations. A substantial part of the contracted volume is settled in transaction risk, mainly in connection with energy sales revenues, euro, and is therefore subject to a foreign exchange risk. Some of the investments and dividends in foreign currency. Balance sheet risk is contracts are indexed to raw materials. related to shareholdings in foreign subsidiaries, joint operations and equity accounted investments. In addition to bilateral physical contracts, Statkraft enters into financial contracts, normally forwards and futures, in order to hedge prices on a Statkraft’s settlement currency at the Nordic power exchange Nord Pool is certain volume of future spot sales. EUR and all power contracts traded in the Nordic power exchange Nasdaq are denominated in EUR. In addition most of Statkraft’s bilateral power Statkraft has one Nordic and one Continental dynamic asset management purchase agreements in Norway and all power purchase and sales abroad portfolio, managed in Oslo and in Düsseldorf, respectively. The objective of are denominated in foreign currency. The objective of Statkraft’s hedging is these portfolios is to optimise portfolio revenues and reduce the risk levels to secure the NOK value of future cash flows exposed to changes in foreign in Statkraft as a whole. Statkraft performs financial trades in order to currency rates. The currency exposure in Statkraft is treated in accordance generate values in futures and forward markets, in addition to physical with the company’s treasury strategy. Economic hedging is achieved by production and trading. using financial derivatives and debt in foreign currencies as hedging instruments. Few of these hedging relationships fulfil the requirements of Mandates to enter into financial contracts are based on volume thresholds related to available production. The risk is quantified using simulations of hedge accounting. various scenarios for relevant risk factors. The management portfolios consist mainly of financial contracts for power, CO2, coal, gas and oil Interest rate risk Statkraft’s interest rate exposure is related to its debt products. The contracts are traded on energy exchanges and by bilateral portfolio. The management of interest rate risk is based on a balance contracts. In general, the time horizon for these contracts is less than five between keeping interest cost low over time and contributing to stabilise the years. Group’s cash flows with regards to interest rate changes. The interest rate risk is monitored by having duration as measure. Statkraft shall at all times The effects from financial contracts related to power generation, are keep the average duration of its debt portfolio within the range of two to five presented as a part of Gains/losses from market activities in the profit and years. loss statement since hedge accounting is not applied. Compliance with the limit for currency and interest rate risk is followed up Customer activities This revenue category mainly consist of market continuously by the middle-office function. Responsibility for entering into access activities. Statkraft purchases power from smaller energy and following up the various positions has been separated and is allocated generators and sells the power to power exchanges, which includes to separate organisational units. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 75 Note 8 Analysis of market risk Statkraft follows up market risk within energy optimisation, trading and The time period for the calculations is one year. For contracts with origination portfolios, currency and interest rate positions, revenues from exposures beyond one year, only the uncertainty relating to the current grid activities and district heating. year is reflected in the calculations. The Group quantifies risk as deviations from expected net results with a The exposure can take the form of actual exposure or an expected given confidence level (value-at-risk). Market risk is included in these maximum utilisation of the mandates. The analysis also takes into account calculations, which are used both in the follow-up of the business areas correlation, both within the individual areas and between the areas. and business portfolios as well as at Group level as part of reporting to Corporate management and the Board of Directors. Statkraft’s targets for The diversification effect emerges as the difference between total market market risk shall have a 95% probability of covering all potential losses, i.e risk in the specified areas and total market risk, where the correlation deviations from expected results, connected with the market risk of between e.g. power prices, interest rates and currency exchange rates is GROUP positions at the reporting date during the course of a year. Uncertainty in taken into account. the underlying instruments/prices and their interrelatedness is calculated using statistical methods. Specification of market risk NOK million 2018 2017 Market risk in energy optimisation (volume risk, spot price risk and hedging) 2 749 2 336 Market risk in Trading and Origination portfolios 1 659 1 185 Market risk in interest rates and currency positions 35 29 Market risk in distribution grid revenues 30 30 STATKRAFT AS Market risk in end-user activities and district heating 30 50 Total market risk before diversification effects 4 503 3 631 Diversification effects -534 -410 Total market risk 3 969 3 221 Diversification effect as a percentage 12% 11% Specification of debt by currency 1) 2) NOK million 2018 2017 Debt in NOK 4 447 13 284 Debt in EUR 23 790 19 716 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Debt in USD 3 561 763 Debt in GBP 423 2 662 Debt in BRL 1 737 968 Debt in INR 437 Debt in CLP/CLF 501 Total 34 394 37 894 1) Includes long-term interest-bearing liabilities, first-year instalment on long-term interest-bearing debt, certificate loans, the currency effect of allocated forward exchange rate contracts and the currency effect of combined interest rate and currency swaps. Specifications of debt by currency includes effects from allocated forward exchange rate contracts and combined interest rate and currency swaps, since Statkraft uses these derivatives to achieve the desired currency structure for the Group’s debt portfolio. 2) Management of foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk are presented in more detail in note 7. Specification of interest by currency 1) 2) 2018 2017 Nominal average interest rate, NOK 3.30% 4.00% Nominal average interest rate, EUR 2.10% 2.60% Nominal average interest rate, USD 4.10% 5.90% Nominal average interest rate, GBP 0.70% 0.50% Nominal average interest rate, BRL 7.80% 8.10% Nominal average interest rate, INR 8.80% Nominal average interest rate, CLP/CLF 6.00% 1) Includes long-term interest-bearing liabilities, first-year instalment on long-term interest-bearing debt, certificate loans, allocated forward exchange rate contracts, interest rate swaps and combined interest rate and currency swaps. 2) Management of foreign exchange risk and interest rate risk are presented in more detail in note 7. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 76 Note 9 Credit risk and liquidity risk The liquidity portfolio consists of investment grade rated certificates of GENERAL INFORMATION ON CREDIT RISK deposits/commercial paper and short term bonds with fixed or floating coupon rates. The minimum rating requirement is BBB/Ba2 from S&P and Credit risk is the risk that Statkraft incurs losses due to the failure of Fitch Ratings. The limits are stipulated for the individual counterparty using counterparties to honour their financial obligations. Statkraft is facing credit credit rating assigned by one of the main rating agencies. Internal credit risk when entering into transactions with financial institutions and to rating may be used when ratings have not been assigned by the credit providers of clearing services. Credit risk against financial institutions rating agencies. The credit limits are managed by the use of volume limits, arises from cash or current account, deposit, investment of interest duration limits and rating limits. The liquidity portfolio is managed and bearing securities, derivative transactions and incoming guarantees. Credit optimised within the given credit mandate, financial guidelines and internal risk against providers of clearing services arises from margin requirements strategy. Excess liquidity is managed in a conservative manner settled as cash payments. Statkraft also assumes credit risk when considering credit risk, diversification, liquidity and return. Different GROUP providing loans to associates and joint ventures. In addition, Statkraft instruments and counterparties are used to achieve this. assumes credit risk in connection with energy trading and physical sales contracts. The total risk of counterparties not being able to meet their In order to reduce credit risk in connection with energy trading and obligations is considered to be low. Historically, Statkraft’s credit losses physical sales contracts, bank or parent company guarantees are have been limited. sometimes requested when entering into such contracts. The bank which issues the guarantee must be an internationally rated commercial bank Statkraft has entered into agreements under which collateral is posted or which meets minimum rating requirements. When parent company received based on the mark-to-market value of interest rate and foreign guarantees are received, the parent company is assessed by using exchange derivatives between counterparties. Collateral is posted or ordinary internal credit assessments. received on a weekly basis. Counterparty credit risk is significantly mitigated by collateral under these agreements. Similar agreements have The individual counterparty exposure limits are monitored continuously STATKRAFT AS also been established for individual counterparties for financial energy and reported regularly to the management. An overall counterparty contracts. exposure is reported for all relevant units, in addition to being consolidated at Group level and included in the Group risk management. The credit risk for financial energy contracts which are settled through an energy exchange is considered to be very low. For all other energy Statkraft’s gross credit exposure corresponds to the recognised value of contracts entered into, the limits are stipulated for the individual financial assets, which are found in the various notes to the statement of counterparty using an internal credit rating. The counterparties are financial position. The extent, to which relevant and significant collaterals allocated to different categories. have been provided, is presented below. Statkraft has netting agreements with several of its energy trading counterparties. In the event of default, the netting agreements give a right CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY to a final settlement where all future contract positions are netted and settled. If a contractual counterparty experiences payment problems, specific procedures are applied. See note 10 for more information. NOK million Note 2018 2017 Gross exposure credit risk: Other financial assets, non-current 25 3 986 4 368 Derivatives 10 12 044 10 559 Receivables 27 12 831 15 372 Financial investments, current 604 918 Cash and cash equivalents 28 23 175 14 217 Gross exposure credit risk 52 640 45 434 Exposure reduced by cash collateral: Cash collateral 30 -1 510 -1 322 Net exposure credit risk 51 130 44 112 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 77 Note 9 continued Liquidity forecasts are prepared to plan future financing needs as well as GENERAL INFORMATION ON LIQUIDITY RISK the investment of the Group’s surplus liquidity. The Group’s liquidity risk is the risk that the Group has insufficient funds to A separate target figure for short-term liquidity, which reflects Statkraft’s meet its payment obligations. Statkraft assumes a liquidity risk because ability to cover its future obligations, is included in the Group’s balanced the terms of its financial obligations do not coincide with the cash flows scorecard. The objective is to ensure that Statkraft has a satisfactory level generated by its assets. Furthermore, Statkraft assumes liquidity risk in of liquidity sources, consisting of cash and cash equivalents, short-term relation to cash payments for collaterals in connection with trading of financial investments and committed unused credit facilities, to meet its financial power contracts and financial derivatives. Statkraft also uses cash financial obligations. to cover margin calls. The liquidity risk is mitigated through liquidity forecasts, access to different borrowing sources and markets, ensures an evenly distributed debt redemption profile and maintaining a sufficient GROUP liquidity buffer. Maturity schedule, external long-term liabilities NOK million 0-1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years 5 years and later Instalments on debt from Statkraft SF 400 Instalments on bond loans from the Norwegian market 1 000 3 000 800 1 500 750 Instalments on loans raised in non-Norwegian markets 2 795 6 942 4 943 9 885 Instalments on external loans in subsidiaries and other loans 245 175 960 347 322 731 STATKRAFT AS Interest payments 989 673 639 566 289 771 Total maturity schedule 2018 5 429 3 848 2 399 9 355 5 554 12 136 Total maturity schedule 2017 3 264 7 772 3 811 1 687 9 132 18 352 Allocation of non-discounted value of derivatives per period The Group has a significant number of financial derivatives, which are presented as derivatives in the balance sheet. For derivatives with negative market value, where contractual due dates are decisive for the understanding of the timing of the cash flows, the non-discounted values are allocated to the time periods shown in the table below. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY NOK million 0-1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years 5 years and later Energy derivatives 8 794 2 399 902 427 397 1 126 Interest rateand foreign currency derivatives 568 109 60 124 79 318 Total derivatives 2018 9 362 2 508 961 550 475 1 444 Total derivatives 2017 4 490 1 414 663 318 213 1 632 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 78 Note 10 Financial instruments Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive GENERAL INFORMATION income Long-term shares, were Statkraft does not have control or significant Financial instruments account for a significant part of Statkraft’s statement influence, are measured at fair value through other comprehensive income of financial position and are of material importance for the Group’s when this option is applied. The changes in fair value will not be recycled to financial position and results. Most of the financial instruments can be profit and loss. Dividends are recognised in the profit and loss statement as placed into the two main categories; energy trading and financial activities. part of Other financial items. In addition, Statkraft has other financial instruments such as accounts receivable, accounts payable, cash, short-term financial investments and Financial instruments at amortised cost equity investments. Asset debt instruments are classified in this category when the cash flows are solely payments of principal and interest and Statkraft intends to hold the GROUP Financial instruments in energy trading Within energy trading, financial asset to the maturity date. Liability debt instruments are classified in this instruments are used in the trading and origination activities. The trading category unless they are held for trading. The instruments, both assets and and origination activities are managed independently of the Group’s liabilities, are measured at amortised cost using the effective interest rate energy production. Their main objectives are to achieve profit from method, where the effective interest remains the same over the entire term of changes in the market value of energy and energy-related financial the instrument. Credit losses on financial assets are deducted from the products, as well as profit from non-standard contracts. Financial carrying value and recognised in the profit and loss statement. instruments in energy trading mainly consist of financial and physical agreements relating to purchase and sale of power, gas, oil, coal, carbon quotas and environmental certificates ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENT Financial instruments are also used as part of the Group’s financial Statkraft has a significant volume of energy contracts. A characteristic with energy contracts is that they can be accounted for as financial instruments, STATKRAFT AS hedging strategy for continuous optimisation of future revenues from the expected generation from own assets. Derivatives recognised in the leases or as contracts with customers, depending on the terms and statement of financial position are shown as separate items and are conditions. measured at fair value with changes in value recognised in the profit and loss statement. As the Group’s future generation of power does not qualify Leases Judgement is made when determining whether a power purchase for recognition in the statement of financial position, the effect of changes agreement contains a lease. A power purchase agreement contains a lease in value of financial energy derivatives may have major effects on the if its fulfilment depends on a specific asset and the arrangement conveys a profit and loss statement without necessarily reflecting the underlying right to control the use of the underlying asset. Further details on leases are business activities. disclosed in note 34. Financial instruments in financial activities Financial instruments used “Own use” contracts within energy trading Physical energy contracts CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY in financial activities primarily consist of loans, interest rate swaps, are entered into for Statkraft’s own use if the purpose of the receipt or combined interest rate and currency swaps and forward exchange delivery of the power is in accordance with Statkraft’s expected purchase, contracts. Financial derivatives are used as hedging instruments in sale or usage requirements. These contracts do not qualify for recognition accordance with the Group’s financial hedging strategy. The hedging in the statement of financial position. “Own use” contracts will typically have objects are considered to be assets in foreign currency, future cash flows a stable customer base (for example bilateral industry contracts) and are or loan arrangements measured at amortised cost. Hedging is reflected in always settled by physical delivery. the financial statements for selected loan arrangements where the interest rate has been changed from fixed to floating (fair value hedging), hedging Physical energy contracts that are not covered by the “own use” exemption, of some net investments in foreign units and cash flows. Because not all shall be accounted for as derivatives (financial instruments). Management financial hedging relationships are reflected in the financial statements, has reviewed the contracts that are accounted for as financial instruments changes in value for financial instruments may result in volatility in the and those contracts that are not covered by the definition as a result of the profit and loss statement without necessarily reflecting the underlying “own use” exemption. business activities. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Fair value hierarchy The Group classifies fair value measurements by using a fair value hierarchy which reflects the importance of the input used Financial instruments are recognised when Statkraft becomes a party to the in the preparation of the measurements. The fair value hierarchy has the contractual provisions of the instrument. Financial assets and liabilities are following levels: classified on the basis of the nature and purpose of the instruments into the categories “financial instruments at fair value through profit and loss”, Level 1: Non-adjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets “financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income” and or liabilities. “financial instruments at amortised cost”. Initial measurement is at fair value Level 2: Other data than the quoted prices included in Level 1, which are for all categories. The content of the categories and subsequent measurement observable for assets or liabilities either directly, e.g. as prices, or indirectly, are described below. e.g. derived from prices. Level 3: Data for the asset or liability which is not based on observable Financial instruments at fair value through profit and loss market data  Physical power sales contracts which are considered to be ready convertible to cash and are not entered into for own use purposes are Level 3 consists of investments in shares and energy derivatives where measured at fair value. observable data does not cover the whole contract period. Observable data Financial contracts to purchase and sell energy-related products are (quoted futures) for energy derivatives will normally be available for five  classified as derivatives. Both stand-alone derivatives and embedded years ahead of time. If the duration of the contract is longer than the period derivatives that are separated from the host contract are recognised at where observable data exists, the entire contract is a level 3 contract. fair value. Energy contracts within the level 3 category mainly consists of physical and Currency and interest rate derivatives. financial energy contracts and embedded derivatives from bilateral power  Long-term shares, were Statkraft does not have control or significant sales contracts. A significant part of the embedded derivatives consists of  influence, are measured at fair value through profit and loss, unless foreign exchange derivatives. These are not affected by estimated future Statkraft applies the option to recognise changes in fair value through power prices. The discounted cash flow method is used. other comprehensive income. Other short-term financial assets held for trading. Valuation of energy derivatives within level 3 is based on observable market  data for the short-term where this is available. Prices are extrapolated for the subsequent period. For certain contracts, a rebate is included in fair value due to factors such as area prices, contract length and volume. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 79 Note 10 continued Exchange traded contracts are normally discounted with a risk-free rate. Several energy contracts have prices in different currencies. Quoted For most bilateral contracts, a credit spread is included in the discount rate. foreign exchange rates from The European Central Bank (ECB) are used in the valuation of contracts denominated in foreign currency. If there are Valuation of investments in shares within level 3 is based on management’s no quotes for the entire period, then the interest parity is used to calculate best knowledge of market conditions within the relevant industry. Changes exchange rates. in fair value of these investments are not considered to have any material effects on the Group’s financial statements. The market interest rate curve (swap interest rate) is used as the basis for discounting derivatives. The market interest rate curve is stipulated on the Description of contracts and assumptions used basis of the publicised swap interest rates. A credit surcharge is added to the market interest rate curve in cases where the credit risk is relevant. When the fair values of financial assets and financial liabilities that are This applies to all external bilateral contracts classified as assets and recognised in the statement of financial position cannot be measured based liabilities. GROUP on quoted prices in active markets, their fair value is measured using valuation techniques including the discounted cash flow model. The inputs Environmental certificate derivatives to these models are taken from observable markets where possible, but  CO2 contracts are priced based on the forward price of European where this is not feasible, a degree of judgement is required in establishing Union Allowance (EUA) quotas and Certified Emission Reduction fair values. Judgements include considerations of inputs such as liquidity (CER) quotas. risk, credit risk and volatility. Changes in assumptions relating to these  Green certificate derivatives are valued at forward price. factors could affect the reported fair value of financial instruments. Below is a description of assumptions and parameters that have been applied in the Currency and interest rate derivatives The fair value of interest rate determination of fair value. swaps and combined interest rate and currency swaps, is determined by discounting expected future cash flows to present value through the use of Power contracts Energy exchange contracts are valued at official closing observed market interest rates and quoted exchange rates from ECB. The STATKRAFT AS rates on the reporting date. valuation of forward currency exchange contracts is based on quoted exchange rates from which the forward exchange rate is extrapolated. For other bilateral power contracts, the expected cash flow is stipulated on Estimated net present value is subject to a test of reasonableness against the basis of a market price curve on the reporting date. The market price calculations made by the counterparties to the contracts. curve is stipulated on the basis from official closing rates quoted on energy exchanges. Certificates and bonds are valued at listed prices. Several power contracts refer to area prices. These contracts are valued Shares and shareholdings are valued at quoted prices where such are using the official closing rates on energy exchanges, where such exist. available and the securities are liquid. Other securities are valued by Separate models are used for regional prices where official closing prices discounting expected future cash flows. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY are unavailable. Statkraft has energy contracts where the contract price is indexed against raw materials such as metal, gas, petroleum products and coal. These are valued using forward prices from relevant commodity exchanges and major financial institutions. Fair value hierarchy 2018 Fair value measurement at period-end using: NOK million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Derivatives at fair value through profit and loss Energy derivatives, non-current assets 1 315 336 1 651 Energy derivatives, current assets 105 5 204 3 244 8 553 Energy derivatives, non-current liabilities -449 -179 -628 Energy derivatives, current liabilities -237 -8 658 -3 721 -12 616 Energy derivatives, net -132 -2 587 -320 -3 039 Currency and interest rate derivatives, non-current assets 1 275 1 275 Currency and interest rate derivatives, current assets 565 565 Currency and interest rate derivatives, non-current liabilities -625 -625 Currency and interest rate derivatives, current liabilities -509 -509 Currency and interest rate derivatives, net 706 706 Other financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Shares 207 207 Financial investments, current 524 81 604 Money market funds, certificates, promissory notes, bonds 7 880 7 880 Total 8 404 81 207 8 691 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income Shares 109 109 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 80 Note 10 continued 2017 Fair value measurement at period-end using: NOK million Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total Derivatives at fair value through profit and loss Energy derivatives, non-current assets 685 1 396 2 081 Energy derivatives, current assets 437 5 501 5 938 Energy derivatives, non-current liabilities -177 -177 Energy derivatives, current liabilities -85 -3 370 -1 928 -5 383 Energy derivatives, net 352 2 816 -709 2 459 Currency and interest rate derivatives, non-current assets 1 942 1 942 Currency and interest rate derivatives, current assets 598 598 GROUP Currency and interest rate derivatives, non-current liabilities -924 -924 Currency and interest rate derivatives, current liabilities -1 505 -1 505 Currency and interest rate derivatives, net 111 111 Other financial assets at fair value through profit and loss Financial investments, current 918 918 Money market funds, certificates, promissory notes, bonds 3 154 3 154 Total 4 072 4 072 Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income STATKRAFT AS Shares 22 278 299 Assets and liabilities measured at fair value based on Level 3 NOK million Assets Liabilities Total Opening balance 01.01.2018 1 674 -2 105 -431 Unrealised changes in value recognised in profit and loss 1 943 -1 815 128 Changes in value recognised in other comprehensive income -33 -33 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Additions or derecognitions 40 40 Transfers into or out of Level 3 239 64 303 Currency translation effects 33 -44 -11 Closing balance 31.12.2018 3 895 -3 900 -5 Net realised gain (+)/loss (-) recognised in profit and loss 2018 -19 Opening balance 01.01.2017 2 875 -1 787 1 088 Unrealised changes in value recognised in profit and loss -1 365 -137 -1 502 Changes in value recognised in other comprehensive income 4 4 Additions or derecognitions 44 44 Transfers into or out of Level 3 8 -119 -111 Currency translation effects 108 -62 46 Closing balance 31.12.2017 1 674 -2 105 -431 Net realised gain (+)/loss (-) recognised in profit and loss 2017 -82 Sensitivity analysis of factors classified to Level 3 NOK million 10% reduction 10% increase Net effect from power prices -478 434 The effects are not symmetrical due to volume flexibility in the contracts that reduce the downside. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 81 Note 10 continued Assets and liabilities recognised at amortised cost Amortised cost Fair value 1) Amortised cost Fair value 1) NOK million Note 2018 2018 2017 2017 Financial assets at amortised cost Loans to equity accounted investments, non-current 25 2 244 2 223 Bonds and other long-term receivables 25 932 1 366 Accounts receivable 27 7 439 8 201 Loans to equity accounted investments, current 27 75 3 959 Cash collateral and margin calls 27 3 351 1 931 Other receivables 2) 27 917 1 039 Cash and cash deposits 28 15 295 11 062 GROUP Total 30 253 29 781 Financial liabilities at amortised cost Long-term interest-bearing debt to Statkraft SF 30 -400 -445 Bonds issued in the Norwegian market 30 -6 050 -6 192 -7 050 -7 349 Debt issued in non-Norwegian markets 30 -21 770 -22 911 -26 427 -28 156 External debt in subsidiaries and other debt 30 -2 535 -2 468 -2 408 -2 332 Cash collateral 30 -1 510 -1 322 First year’s instalment on long-term debt 30 -4 440 -4 546 -2 172 -2 175 Other interest-bearing short-term debt 30 -397 -201 STATKRAFT AS Accounts payable 31 -1 115 -1 950 Accrued interest-free liabilities 31 -5 658 -4 696 Other -2 364 -2 053 Total -45 837 -48 679 1) Fair value is not disclosed when the carrying amount is a reasonable approximation of fair value. 2) Amount differs from note 27 since prepaid expenses and indirect taxes are not included in note 10. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 82 Note 10 continued NETTING AGREEMENTS 2018 Financial assets Netting agreements Financial Booked not offset in collateral NOK million Gross amount Amount offset amount balance sheet received Net value Energy derivatives 122 807 112 602 10 205 97 10 107 GROUP Currency and interest rate derivatives 1 840 1 840 1 412 427 Total derivatives (current and non-current) 124 646 112 602 12 044 1 510 10 534 Receivables 21 505 8 674 12 831 12 831 Financial liabilities Netting agreements Financial Booked not offset in collateral NOK million Gross amount Amount offset amount balance sheet pledged Net value Energy derivatives -125 846 -112 602 -13 244 -2 834 -10 410 Currency and interest rate derivatives -1 134 -1 134 -518 -616 STATKRAFT AS Total derivatives (current and non-current) -126 979 -112 602 -14 377 -3 351 -11 026 Interest-bearing liabilities, non-current -30 354 -30 354 -15 -30 339 Interest-free liabilities allocated to capital employed -18 416 -8 674 -9 742 -9 742 2017 Financial assets Netting agreements Financial CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Booked not offset in collateral NOK million Gross amount Amount offset amount balance sheet received Net value Energy derivatives 31 547 23 528 8 019 141 7 878 Currency and interest rate derivatives 2 541 2 541 1 181 1 360 Total derivatives (current and non-current) 34 087 23 528 10 559 1 322 9 237 Receivables 21 256 5 884 15 372 15 372 Financial liabilities Netting agreements Financial Booked not offset in collateral NOK million Gross amount Amount offset amount balance sheet pledged Net value Energy derivatives -29 088 -23 528 -5 560 -901 -4 658 Currency and interest rate derivatives -2 430 -2 430 -1 030 -1 400 Total derivatives (current and non-current) -31 517 -23 528 -7 990 -1 931 -6 058 Interest-bearing liabilities, non-current -36 285 -36 285 -151 -36 134 Interest-free liabilities allocated to capital employed -14 969 -5 884 -9 086 -9 086 The tables show a reconciliation of gross amounts, booked amounts and Termination can occur for instance if a party is bankrupt or has defaulted net value (net exposure) of financial instruments where there are netting on the agreement. Such close-out netting does not in itself meet the agreements or similar. criteria of offsetting in the statement of the financial position. A financial asset and a financial liability are presented net in the statement Currency and interest rate derivatives are booked gross for each contract of financial position when Statkraft has a legally enforceable right to offset in the statement of financial position. the asset and the liability, and intends to settle on a net basis or realise the asset and the liability simultaneously. Financial collateral is typically cash collateral and margin payments to/from counterpart, usually a bank or a clearing house. Financial collateral For energy derivatives, futures and spot transactions, Statkraft has can also be cash set a side on a restricted bank account to cover agreements with counterparties based on various types of master forthcoming interest payments and instalments on a loan. agreements setting the standard terms and conditions between the two parties. In general, the master netting agreements permit netting of In the tables, the energy, currency and interest rate derivatives are payments and involve offsetting cash flows between the two parties when separated in assets and liabilities. Cash collaterals received or pledged certain conditions are met, such as same currency and maturity. are booked net per counterpart and presented as current assets/liabilities, regardless of the maturity of the corresponding derivative. The derivatives, The master agreements further serve to mitigate exposure to credit loss by both current and non-current, are therefore presented on the same line allowing set-offs when an agreement is terminated, provided that such item in the table above. offsetting is permitted within the jurisdiction of the counterparty. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 83 Note 11 Hedge accounting recognised in other comprehensive income. Objectives of the economic GENERAL INFORMATION hedging arrangements were to offset the foreign exchange exposures arising from the translation of foreign investments from their functional currency to Refer to note 7 for information about how Statkraft manages interest rate and NOK (foreign exchange risk). foreign exchange risks. Statkraft is exposed to foreign exchange and interest rate risks and enter into financial instruments to mitigate these risks. Statkraft Critical terms of the hedging item and hedging instrument were exactly the often manages the risk on a net basis, where few of the hedging relationships same, and there was no impact in profit and loss resulting from fulfil the requirement of hedge accounting. The main objective of the hedge ineffectiveness. accounting strategy is to reduce the volatility in the profit and loss statement. Fair value hedging Three loan arrangements are treated as fair value GROUP hedges. Issued bonds have been designated as hedging items in the hedging SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES relationships, and the associated interest rate swaps have been designated as hedging instruments. The hedging items are fixed-interest rate bonds with Financial instruments designated as hedging instruments Financial a total nominal value of EUR 850 million. The hedging instruments are interest instruments that are designated as hedging instruments or hedged items in rate swaps with a nominal value of EUR 850 million, entered into with major hedge accounting are identified on the basis of the intention behind the banks as the counterparties. The agreements swap interest rate from fixed to acquisition of the financial instrument. In a fair value hedge the value change floating 3-month EURIBOR. The objective of the economic hedging will meet the corresponding change in value of the hedged item, and arrangements are to hedge the exposure to changes in the fair value of the presented in the same line item in the profit and loss and statement of borrowings, which are issued at a fixed rate (interest rate risk). financial position. Critical terms of the hedging items and hedging instruments are deemed to be The value changes from hedges of net investments in foreign operations are approximately the same and there was no significant impact in profit and loss STATKRAFT AS recognised in other comprehensive income. Gains and losses resulting from resulting from ineffectiveness. changes in exchange rates on debt entered into to hedge net investments in a Hedging of net investments in foreign operation GBP 220 million in foreign entity are recognised directly in other comprehensive income, and synthetic debt in Statkraft AS was designated as hedging of the net recycled to profit and loss upon disposal of the foreign entity. investment in Statkraft UK Ltd. Debt in GBP was synthetically constructed using debt in NOK together with forward exchange rate contracts. The hedging The ineffectiveness from the hedges is recognised in profit and loss. relationship was discontinued in 2018. The currency effects of this debt were CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Hedging instruments Nominal amount Line item in the statement of financial Changes in fair value used for of the hedging Carrying amount of the hedging position where the hedging calculating hedge ineffectiveness instrument instrument 1) instrument is located during the period NOK million Assets Liabilities 2018 Fair value hedges Interest rate risk: Interest rate swaps MEUR 850 172 Interest-bearing liabilties 36 Net investment hedges Foreign exchange risk: Forward exchange rate contracts 47 1) Accrued interest is not a part of the carrying amount. Hedging instruments timing profile NOK million 0-1 year 1-2 years 2-3 years 3-4 years 4-5 years 5 years and later 2018 Fair value hedges Interest rate risk: Interest rate swaps MEUR 100 MEUR 500 MEUR 250 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 84 Note 11 continued Hedged items Line item in the statement of Changes in value Accumulated amount of fair value financial position used for Nominal amount hedge adjustment on the hedged item where in which calculating hedge of the hedged included in the carrying amount of the the hedged item ineffectiveness for Net investment item Carrying amount of the hedged item1) hedged item1) is included the period hedge reserve NOK million Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities 2018 Fair value hedges GROUP Interest rate risk: InterestFixed rate borrowing MEUR 850 -8 593 -177 bearing -33 liabilties Net investment hedges Foreign exchange risk: Discontinued net investments hedges in MGBP 220 -47 -321 foreign operations 1) Accrued interest is not a part of the carrying amount Hedging effectiveness STATKRAFT AS Change in the value of the hedging Amount instrument reclassified from Line item affected recognised in Hedge Line item in profit net investment in profit and loss CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY other ineffectiveness and loss (that hedge reserve to statement comprehensive recogniced in includes hedge profit and loss because of the NOK million income profit and loss ineffectiveness) statement reclassifications 2018 Fair value hedges Interest rate risk: Other financial items Fixed rate borrowing 2 Net investment hedges Foreign exchange risk: Net investments in foreign operations 47 Hedging reserves Foreign NOK million exchange risk 2018 Net investment hedge reserve Balance at 01.01 -368 Hedging gain or loss 47 Balance at 31.12 -321 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 85 Note 12 Sales revenues and energy purchase With regard to district heating, the Group receives monetary contributions GENERAL INFORMATION from customers related to infrastructure assets. Refer to Grid and other revenues for further description. The Group’s sales revenues and energy purchase are divided into four categories: Customers When other parties are involved in providing goods or services to Generation includes sales revenues and energy purchase related to Statkraft’s physical power generating assets and district heating. The Statkraft’s customers, Statkraft has to determine whether its performance category includes spot sales, bilateral industry contracts, concessionary obligation is to provide the good or service itself (i.e. Statkraft is a sales contracts and green certificates. principal) or to arrange for those goods or services to be provided by another party (i.e. Statkraft is an agent). In assessing whether Statkraft is Sale of gas includes gas purchase agreements related to certain gas-fired agent or principal, Statkraft considers its contractual rights to direct the GROUP power plants. Excess volume under these purchase contracts were sold in use of the electricity, balancing risk, discretion prices of the deliveries and the market. These arrangements were terminated in the autumn of 2017. whether Statkraft acts as the primary obligor of the deliveries. If Statkraft is a principal, the remuneration received from the customer is presented Customers include sales revenues and energy purchases related to market access and end-user activities. Market access activities mainly gross as sales revenues. The corresponding energy purchase is relate to the German and British markets. End-user activities include presented gross on a separate line item in the profit and loss statement. If Fjordkraft. Statkraft is an agent, the compensation for the service delivered is presented net as revenues. Grid and other revenues mainly consist of grid activities in Norway and Peru and a subsea interconnector between Sweden and Germany. Grid and other revenues Revenues from grid activities have the same characteristics as those described under Generation. Statkraft applies a practical expedient under STATKRAFT AS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES IFRS 15 whereby the revenues from transportation of power is recognised at the amount to which the entity has a right to invoice. The main principle under IFRS 15 is to recognise revenue at an amount that reflects the consideration to which an entity expects to be entitled in The Group receives monetary contributions from customers in different exchange for transferring goods or services to a customer. To achieve jurisdictions in aid of construction of infrastructure connecting the this, IFRS 15 establishes a five-step model to account for revenues arising customer to the grid for electricity or to district heating. Statkraft owns and from contracts with customers. controls the infrastructure and the total cost should therefore be recognised as assets in line with IAS 16. Statkraft has concluded that Generation contributions to infrastructure assets represent payments which are to be The revenues from Generation bear the characteristic of delivering power evaluated together with pricing of future deliveries by Statkraft to the at a certain price. The performance obligation is to deliver a series of customer (one performance obligation). Revenue is therefore recognised CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY distinct goods (power) and the transaction price is the consideration over time. During 2018 the pattern of revenue recognition has been further Statkraft expects to receive, at either spot price, regulated price or contract discussed, and Statkraft has concluded that it is more appropriate to price. The performance obligation is satisfied over time which entails that recognise the revenue over the expected useful life of the infrastructure. revenue should be recognised for each unit delivered at the transaction Therefore the period over which the contributions from customers are price. Statkraft applies a practical expedient under IFRS 15 whereby the recognised is changed from estimated customer life to the expected useful revenue from power for most of the contracts is recognised at the amount life of the infrastructure. The changes did not have a significant impact on of which the entity has a right to invoice. The right to invoice power arises the financial statement of the Group. when power is produced and delivered and the right to invoice the consideration will normally correspond directly with the value to the Effective 1 January 2017 Statkraft has adopted the requirements of IFRS customer. 15 using the full retrospective method. In arrangements where Statkraft sells power on an exchange (e.g. Nord The impact on the equity as of 01.01.2017 was as follows: Pool), the exchange is determined to be the customer. This is based on  Contribution from customers recognised over time had a negative the fact that Statkraft has enforceable contracts with the exchanges. impact on equity of NOK 126 million, including effects in equity accounted investments. In certain jurisdictions, Statkraft is required by law to cede a share of the power production to counties and municipalities where the power is The impacts to sales revenues income in the 2017 were as follows: produced. Statkraft has concluded that income from delivery of  Contribution from customers recognised over time had a negative impact on Generation revenues of NOK 19 million. concessionary power does not arise from a contract with a customer under  Revenues from market access and end-user activities, presented net IFRS 15. However, Statkraft applies the principles and policies in IFRS 15 after adopting IFRS 15, had a negative impact on Customer by analogy and presents income from sale of concessionary power as revenues of NOK 8826 million. This had a corresponding decrease revenues. in energy purchase.  Net gains from embedded derivatives of NOK 1173 million are no longer presented as sales revenues.  Net gains from trading and origination of NOK 1754 million are no longer presented as sales revenues. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 86 Note 12 Continued Specification per revenue category European Statkraft flexible Market International District Industrial Other NOK million AS Group generation operations power Wind power heating ownership activities Group items 2018 Generation sales revenues 26 973 20 092 185 2 387 1 267 881 2 451 -290 Generation energy purchase -1 334 -925 -167 -166 -258 -47 228 Generation net 25 638 19 167 18 2 221 1 267 623 2 404 -62 GROUP Customers sales revenues 25 896 25 103 1 183 -390 Customers energy purchase -24 556 -24 621 -1 002 1 067 Customers net 1 340 482 181 677 Grid and other sales revenues 2 482 798 319 214 12 1 189 -50 Grid and other energy purchase -917 -739 -45 -156 -23 45 Grid and other net 1 564 59 273 58 12 1 166 -4 Sales revenues total 55 350 20 890 25 607 2 601 1 267 893 4 822 -731 Energy purchase total -26 808 -1 664 -24 834 -322 -258 -1 071 1 340 STATKRAFT AS Sales revenues adjusted for energy purchase 28 542 19 226 774 2 279 1 267 635 3 752 610 2017 Generation sales revenues 20 864 15 429 666 2 376 733 783 1 555 -677 Generation energy purchase -1 408 -922 -625 -291 -209 -32 671 Generation net 19 456 14 507 41 2 085 733 574 1 522 -6 Sale of gas sales revenues 2 763 2 763 Sale of gas energy purchase -2 895 -2 895 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Sale of gas net -133 -133 Customers sales revenues 24 860 20 537 4 322 1 Customers energy purchase -23 138 -19 777 -3 491 130 Customers net 1 722 760 831 131 Grid and other sales revenues 2 291 885 36 181 2 1 225 -38 Grid and other energy purchase -766 -698 -26 -68 26 Grid and other net 1 525 187 10 181 2 1 157 -13 Sales revenues total 50 778 16 314 24 001 2 557 733 785 7 102 -714 Energy purchase total -28 207 -1 620 -23 323 -291 -209 -3 591 826 Sales revenues adjusted for energy purchase 22 571 14 693 679 2 267 733 576 3 511 113 Specification per geographical area External sales revenues are allocated on the basis of the geographical origin of generating assets or activities. Geographical areas Statkraft NOK million AS Group Norway Germany Sweden UK Other 2018 Sales revenues external 55 350 24 371 13 631 3 092 10 780 3 475 Generation 26 973 19 929 1 610 2 881 218 2 335 Customers 25 896 3 264 11 398 19 10 296 920 Grid and other 2 482 1 179 624 192 266 221 2017 Sales revenues external 50 778 22 101 9 575 2 219 13 656 3 226 Generation 20 864 14 538 1 762 2 149 158 2 256 Sale of gas 2 763 280 2 483 Customers 24 860 6 100 4 499 13 489 772 Grid and other 2 291 1 183 831 70 9 198 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 87 Note 12 Continued Further specification of sales revenues for revenue category Generation: Generation sales revenues NOK million 2018 2017 Spot sales 17 257 12 059 Long term contracts 7 470 7 480 Concessionary power 378 373 District heating 987 863 Environmental certificates 881 90 Generation sales revenues 26 973 20 864 GROUP The Customers category mainly relates to market access activities in Europe. Statkraft offers market access services to small producers of renewable energy. These services include wind forecasting, nomination, balancing, settlement and necessary IT systems in order to market the power. A key success factor for Statkraft is to achieve low imbalance costs. The market access business is a low margin activity combined with large scale, where the power is sold through the power exchanges. The most significant revenues are in Germany and the UK, see specification per geographical area on previous page. Further specification of sales revenues for revenue category Grid and other revenues: Grid and other sales revenues NOK million 2018 2017 Distribution grid 1 369 1 244 STATKRAFT AS Subsea cable 798 885 Miscellaneous 314 162 Grid and other sales revenues 2 482 2 291 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 88 Note 13 Gains/losses from market activities and Other operating income GENERAL INFORMATION SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Gains/losses from market activities Derivatives Risk reducing derivatives and most of the contracts within trading and origination are recognised as derivatives at fair value through Risk reducing activities consist of financial power contracts that mitigate profit and loss (see note 10). The gains and losses consist of both realised price risk related to power generation and market access activities. The and unrealised items and are presented net. activities also include the dynamic asset management portfolios. Embedded derivatives The foreign exchange exposure Statkraft takes on Trading activities include buying and selling standardised and liquid by nominating power sale contracts with Norwegian industrial customers in products, such as power, oil and gas contracts. euro is considered to be an embedded derivative. The derivative is GROUP separated from its host contract and recognised at fair value in the Origination activities include buying and selling both standardised and statement of financial position. See note 10. structured energy related products and services. Government grants Environmental certificates, including green Embedded derivatives Most of the embedded derivatives are related to certificates and Renewable Obligation Certificates (ROCs) are considered bilateral power sales agreements with industrial customers in Norway where as government grants and accounted for in accordance with IAS 20 the contracts are nominated in euro. Accounting for Government Grants and Disclosure of Government Assistance. See note 7 for more information on the categories above The government grants are received for each unit of power. At the point of Other operating income production there is a reasonable assurance that Statkraft complies with the STATKRAFT AS conditions related to the government grants and that the grants will be Government grants The government grants are conditional to own received. The grants are closely connected to the production and the production of power from certain technologies. The right to receive the grants income is therefore presented as sales revenues. See note 12. are obtained at the time of production. Environmental certificates from trading, origination and market access activities are not considered as government grants. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Gains/ losses from market activities NOK million 2018 2017 Risk reducing activities -984 172 Trading activities 14 613 Origination activities -394 457 Embedded derivatives in energy contracts -333 1 173 Total -1 696 2 414 Other operating income NOK million Note 2018 2017 Income from rental of power plants 1) 488 362 Gains from divestments of subsidiaries and joint operations 5 1 449 346 Miscellaneous other operating income 643 617 Total 2 580 1 325 1) Income from power plants that are leased to third parties are presented in other operating income, while expenses related to the operations in the power plants are recognised under operating expenses. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 89 Note 14 Impairments  The difference between carrying value and recoverable amount is SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES marginal.  Regulatory environment are unclear or project execution is uncertain. Property, plant, equipment and intangible assets are reviewed for  Structural changes in market conditions that lead to changes in the impairment at the end of every quarter. When there are indicators that expected long-term power prices. future earnings cannot justify the carrying value, the recoverable amount is  Impairment loss has been assessed in earlier periods. calculated to consider whether an allowance for impairment must be made. The recoverable amount is the higher of the asset’s fair value less costs of disposal and its value in use. ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS For the purposes of assessing impairment losses, assets are grouped at Value in use is calculated as future expected cash flows discounted by GROUP the lowest level for which there is separately identifiable cash flows (cashusing a required rate of return equal to the market’s required rate of return generating units (CGUs)). CGUs in Statkraft are identified as follow: for corresponding assets in the same industry. The operating expenses are derived from the current year’s expenses and next year’s budget. Hydropower Power plants sharing the same water flow and/or being Restructuring activities that the Group has not yet committed to or subject to the same infrastructure limitation is managed together to optimise significant future investments that will enhance the asset’s performance in power production. the CGU being tested, is not included. Expected maintenance investments are included for commissioned power plants. Provision for Wind farms The individual wind farm. decommissioning is not usually included in the value in use calculation. Gas power plants A gas power plant normally constitutes a CGU unless When determining the value in use for property, plant and equipment under two or more plants are controlled and optimised together so that revenues construction, remaining investments approved by Statkraft’s management STATKRAFT AS are not independent of each other. are included. District heating Each plant together with associated infrastructure including Assumptions applied when assessing value in use The recoverable transmission lines. amount is sensitive to the long-term price forecast for power, expected production volumes, and the discount rate. Biomass power plants The individual biomass power plants. Power prices: Goodwill Segment is the lowest CGU level used when testing goodwill for  For the short-term period, typically the first five years, observable impairment. market prices are applied as a basis for estimating future revenues.  For the long-term period, typically ten years subsequent of the Equity accounted investments are tested for impairment when there are balance sheet date, estimated revenues are based on Statkraft’s CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY indications of possible loss in value. An impairment loss is recognised if the long-term price forecast for power, as described in note 2. recoverable amount, estimated as the higher of fair value less cost to sell or  For the period between short-term and long-term period the prices are value in use, is below the carrying value. interpolated. Production volumes The production volume used in the discounted cash Previously impaired non-financial assets, except goodwill, are reviewed for flow analyses is the long term expected production volume for any given possible reversal of the impairment at each reporting date. site, taking into account all expected technical, hydrological and wake losses. The volume estimate is a combination of information from turbine suppliers, third-party consultants and Statkraft’s internal estimates. ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS Discount rate Calculated value in use is based on nominal discount rates Indicator assessment In accordance with the ordinary reporting after tax, whereas the tax effects are considered in the calculated cash procedures, impairment of the carrying value of an asset is reviewed on a flows. This means that the recoverable amount calculated is consistent with quarterly basis. Indicators that might give rise to an impairment loss are before-tax calculations. The discount rates applied take into account the analysed and discussed by the segments and group’s specialists. If risk profile of the asset or asset class in the relevant market. indicators are identified, calculations will be made and if carrying value is higher than recoverable amount, an impairment loss is recognised in the Assumptions applied when assessing fair value less cost to sell A fair value less cost to sell approach is applied for assets operating in a market financial statement. Analogue procedures are performed regarding reversal where an active market for comparable assets exists. This is applied for of earlier impairment. The Audit committee is informed of any impairment onshore wind assets in the UK, where the fair value of the CGUs was issues on a quarterly basis. derived from comparable onshore wind transactions in the UK market. The valuation model applied is based on multiples for annual power production. Special attention is given to assets where one or more of the following situations are present: Impairment losses recognised in the profit and loss statement NOK million 2018 2017 Property, plant, equipment and intangible assets 167 1 800 Reversal of impairment on intangible assets, property, plant and equipment -1 300 Total impairment losses in consolidated business 167 500 Equity accounted investments 1 187 Total impairment losses 167 1 687 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 90 Note 14 continued Wind farms in the Nordic Wind projects in Norway and Sweden were IMPAIRMENT IN 2018 impaired by NOK 187 million. The assets are part of the Wind power segment. Hydropower plants in Peru Two hydropower plants in Peru were impaired by NOK 132 million. The assets are part of the International power Hydropower plants and wind farms in Brazil Hydropower plants and segment. wind farms were impaired by NOK 101 million. The assets are part of the The remaining impairment loss of NOK 35 million was related to goodwill International power segment. from previous acquisitions in Brazil and Sweden. Hydropower plant in Peru A hydropower plant was impaired by NOK 66 million. The asset is part of the International power segment. GROUP Other There were other impairments of NOK 30 million. This mainly IMPAIRMENT IN 2017 relates to decommissioning of the gas-fired power plant at Kårstø in Norway. Property, plant, equipment and intangible assets Hydropower plants in Chile The Pilmaiquén investment in Chile, which consists of one operating hydropower plant and two hydropower projects Equity accounted investments under developement, was impaired with NOK 1219 million. The assets are part of the segment International power. The main impairment indicator Hidroelectrica La Higuera S.A (HLH) The investment in HLH in Chile was lower expected long-term prices. Calculated value in use is based on was impaired with NOK 689 million due to lower expected long-term a nominal discount rate after tax of 6.8-7.3% (representing 7.8-9.5% power prices. The asset is part of the International power segment. STATKRAFT AS before tax). Calculated value in use is based on a nominal discount rate after tax of 7.6% (representing 8.7% before tax). The estimated values in use are particularly sensitive to changes in future power prices and cost of capital. A change in the future power price of The estimated values in use are particularly sensitive to changes in future 10% will result in a change of approximately NOK 430 million. A decrease power prices and cost of capital. A change in the future power price of in the discount rate of 1 percentage point (after tax) will result in a change 10% will result in a change of approximately NOK 360 million. A decrease of approximately NOK 1010 million. An increase in the discount rate of 1 in the discount rate of 1 percentage point (after tax) will result in a change percentage point (after tax) will result in a change of approximately NOK of approximately NOK 618 million. An increase in the discount rate of 1 728 million. percentage point (after tax) will result in a change of approximately NOK 462 million. Reversal of impairment on gas-fired power plants in Germany A CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY reversal of impairment loss of NOK 914 million was recognised due to Hidroelectrica La Confluencia S.A (HLC) The investment in HLC in increased need for flexible power generation in the German market and Chile was impaired with NOK 446 million due to lower expected long-term an improved outlook for future gas to power margin. The assets are part of power prices. The asset is a part of the International power segment. the European flexible generation segment. Calculated value in use is Calculated value in use is based on a nominal discount rate after tax of based on a nominal discount rate after tax of 5.6% (representing 7.7% 7.8% (representing 8.6% before tax). before tax). The estimated values in use are particularly sensitive to changes in future The estimated values in use are particularly sensitive to changes in future power prices and cost of capital. A change in the future power price of power prices and cost of capital. An increase in the future power price of 10% will result in a change of approximately NOK 282 million. A decrease 10% will result in a change of approximately NOK 2007 million. A in the discount rate of 1 percentage point (after tax) will result in a change decrease in the future power price of 10% will result in a change of of approximately NOK 478 million. An increase in the discount rate of 1 approximately NOK 1378 million. A decrease in the discount rate of 1 percentage point (after tax) will result in a change of approximately NOK percentage point (after tax) will result in a change of approximately NOK 352 million. 118 million. An increase in the discount rate of 1 percentage point (after tax) will result in a change of approximately NOK 266 million. A shareholder loan from Statkraft was impaired by NOK 117 million and recognised as financial expense. Reversal of impairment on hydropower plants in Norway A verdict in the Supreme Court stated that Statkraft is not the taxable owner of Sønnå Malana and Allain Duhangan Two hydropower plants in India were Høy power plant. This ruling will lead to lower property tax for Statkraft in impaired with a total of NOK 52 million. The assets are part of the the future. A reversal of impairment loss of NOK 386 million was International power segment. recognised due to the verdict and, in addition, the market development. The asset is a part of the European flexible generation segment. Pump-storage hydropower plant A pump-storage hydropower plant in Germany was impaired by NOK 197 million. The asset is part of the European flexible generation segment. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 91 Note 15 Payroll costs and number of full-time equivalents NOK million 2018 2017 Salaries 2 425 2 564 Employers' national insurance contribution 417 445 Pension costs 1) 380 398 Other benefits 393 300 Total 3 615 3 707 1) Pension costs are described in further detail in note 16. 2018 2017 GROUP Average number of full-time equivalents Group 3 270 3 397 Number of full-time equivalents as of 31.12. 3 229 3 310 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 92 Note 16 Pensions Unfunded defined benefit schemes Some Group companies in Norway GENERAL INFORMATION have entered into an additional pension agreement that provides all employees whose pensionable incomes exceed 12G with a retirement and Statkraft’s pension benefit schemes have been established in accordance disability pension equivalent to 66% of that portion of their pensionable with local statutes, and cover both defined contribution schemes and income exceeding 12G. This agreement was closed for new employees defined benefit schemes. 30 April 2012. Defined contribution schemes A defined contribution scheme is a Existing members of the closed agreement who leave before pensionable retirement benefit scheme where the Group pays fixed contributions to a fund age receive a deferred pension entitlement for the scheme above 12G, manager without incurring further obligations once the payment has been based on the accrued share, provided they have at least three years’ made. The payments are expensed as salaries and payroll costs. pension entitlements. Statkraft’s pension scheme for new employees in wholly owned GROUP companies in Norway from 1 January 2014 is a defined contribution SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES scheme. The contributions are 6% of the pensionable salary up to 7.1 of the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (G), and 18% of the The liability recognised in the balance sheet which relates to the defined pensionable salary between 7.1G and 12G. In addition to retirement benefit scheme is the present value of the future retirement benefits that are pensions, the contribution scheme also entails risk coverage. reduced by the fair value of the plan assets. Defined benefit schemes A defined benefit scheme is a retirement benefit Net pension fund assets for overfunded schemes are classified as nonscheme that defines the retirement benefits that an employee will receive on current assets and recognised in the balance sheet at fair value. Net retirement. The retirement benefit is normally set as a percentage of the retirement benefit liabilities for underfunded schemes and non-funded STATKRAFT AS employee’s salary. To be able to receive full retirement benefits, contributions schemes that are covered by operations are classified as long-term liabilities. will normally be required to be paid over a period of between 30 and 40 years. Employees who have not made full contributions will have their retirement Gains and losses attributable to changes in actuarial assumptions or base benefits proportionately reduced. data are recognised in other comprehensive income. Funded defined benefit schemes Norwegian companies in the Group The net retirement benefit cost for the period is included under salaries and have organised their pension schemes in the National Pension Fund other payroll costs, and comprises the total of the retirement benefits accrued (SPK), own pension funds as well as in insurance companies. Employees during the period, the interest on the estimated liability and the projected yield in the Group’s Norwegian companies participate in public service on pension fund assets. occupational pension schemes in accordance with the Norwegian Public Service Pension Fund Act, the Norwegian Public Pension Service Pension CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Fund Transfer Agreement and the regulatory framework governing public ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS service pensions. The calculation of pension liabilities involves the use of judgement and The defined benefit schemes cover retirement, disability and survivor estimates across a range of parameters. Present value of accrued pension pensions. The majority of the companies also offer early retirement from entitlements for defined benefit schemes and present value of accrued the age of 62 under the Norwegian early retirement pension scheme. pension entitlements for the year are calculated using the accrued benefits Pension scheme benefits are coordinated with the benefits provided by the method. Net pension liabilities in the balance sheet are adjusted for Norwegian National Insurance Scheme. At maximum accrual, the expected future salary increases until retirement age. Calculations are retirement schemes provide pension benefits amounting to 66% of based on staff numbers and salary data at the end of the year. pensionable salary, up to 12G. The discount rate The discount rate is based on high-quality corporate Employees who leave before retirement age receive a deferred pension bonds (covered bonds OMF). Statkraft is of the opinion that the market for entitlement provided they have at least three years’ pension entitlements. covered bonds represents a deep and liquid marked with relevant durations that qualify as a reference interest rate in accordance with IAS 19. National Pension Fund (SPK) Companies with schemes in the SPK pay an annual premium and are responsible for the financing of the scheme. Ongoing changes is the public sector pension scheme in Norway A Pension benefits from the SPK are guaranteed by the Norwegian state. proposal for new terms for the public sector pension scheme is expected to be voted on by the Norwegian parliament in 2019. In 2018 new The SPK scheme is not asset-based, but management of the pension fund regulations for how the public benefit schemes shall be coordinated with assets is simulated as though the assets were invested in bonds with 1, 3, the benefits provided by the Norwegian National Insurance Scheme have 5 or 10-year duration. In this simulation it is assumed that the bonds are been partly enforced. held to maturity. Statkraft has not changed the estimated pension liabilities due the above The pension benefit scheme in the National Pension Fund (SPK) was as of 31 December 2018, and is not expecting that any changes in 2019 closed for new employees 1 January 2014. will have a significant impact on the Group’s financial statement. Pension funds and insurance companies The pension funds and Actuarial losses Actuarial losses recognised in other comprehensive insurance companies have placed the pension assets in a diversified income during the year is mainly due to changes in the assumptions for portfolio of Norwegian and foreign interest-bearing securities, Norwegian salary adjustments and adjustments for the National Insurance Scheme’s and foreign shares, secured loans to members, hedge funds and basic amount (G). properties through external asset managers. The following assumptions are used 1) 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Discount rate and projected yield 2.60% 2.40% Salary adjustment 2.75% 2.50% Adjustment of current pensions 1.75% 1.50% Adjustment of the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (G) 2.50% 2.25% Demographic factors for mortality and disability K2013/IR73 K2013/IR73 1) The assumptions apply for Norwegian entities. Foreign entities apply assumptions adapted to local conditions. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 93 Note 16 continued Members of defined benefit schemes 2018 2017 Employees 1 511 1 838 Pensioners and people with deferred entitlements 2 699 2 802 Breakdown of net defined benefit pension liability NOK million 2018 2017 Present value of accrued pension entitlements for funded defined benefit schemes 6 915 6 749 Fair value of pension assets 5 744 5 653 Net pension liability for funded defined benefit schemes 1 171 1 096 Present value of accrued pension entitlements for unfunded defined benefit schemes 694 685 GROUP Employers' national insurance contribution 297 279 Net pension liabilities in the balance sheet 2 161 2 059 Of which net pension asset see note 25 494 480 Of which net pension liability 2 655 2 539 Movement in defined benefit pension liability NOK million 2018 2017 Defined gross benefit pension liabilities 01.01 7 433 6 957 Net change in liabilities due to additions/disposals -243 -6 Present value of accrued pension entitlements for the year 229 250 Interest expenses 165 152 STATKRAFT AS Actuarial gains/losses 199 212 Paid benefits -184 -186 Currency translation effects 10 54 Gross defined benefit pension liabilities 31.12 7 609 7 433 Movement in the fair value of pension assets for defined benefit pension schemes NOK million 2018 2017 Fair value of pension assets 01.01 5 653 5 254 Net change in assets due to additions/disposals -150 -4 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Projected yield on pension assets 127 116 Actuarial gains/losses -13 154 Total contributions 274 254 Paid benefits -151 -148 Currency translation effects 5 27 Fair value of pension assets 31.12 5 744 5 653 Pension assets comprise 2018 2017 Equity instruments 1 303 1 243 Interest-bearing instruments 3 878 3 850 Other 563 559 Fair value of pension assets 31.12 5 744 5 653 Actuarial gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income NOK million 2018 2017 Accumulated actuarial gains and losses recognised in other comprehensive income before tax 31.12 2 604 2 357 Pension cost recognised in the income statement Defined benefit schemes NOK million 2018 2017 Present value of accrued pension entitlements for the year 229 250 Interest expenses 165 152 Projected yield on pension assets -127 -116 Employee contributions -17 -23 Employers' national insurance contribution 47 47 Net pension cost defined benefit schemes 297 310 Defined contribution schemes Employer payments 83 88 Total pension cost see note 15 380 398 Discount rate Salary adjustment Adjustment of G Sensitivity analysis upon changes in assumptions 1% -1 % 1% -1 % 1% -1 % Increase (+)/decrease (-) in net pension cost defined benefit schemes for the period -22% 23% 14% -17% 12% -14% Increase (+)/decrease (-) in gross defined pension liability as of 31.12. -16% 21% 6% -6% 13% -12% ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 94 Note 17 Property tax and licence fees NOK million 2018 2017 Property tax 987 1 024 Licence fees 364 317 Total 1 352 1 341 Note 18 Other operating expenses GROUP NOK million 2018 2017 Purchase of third-party services 1) 1 656 1 353 Materials 362 419 Power plants operated by third parties 287 256 Compensation payments 202 131 IT 335 346 Marketing 67 145 Travel 154 159 STATKRAFT AS Insurance 56 139 Loss on divestments of subsidiaries and joint operations 0 30 Miscellaneuos 319 868 Total 3 439 3 846 1) Purchase of third-party services mainly includes consultants, entrepreneur expenses and other services. Note 19 Financial items CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY NOK million 2018 2017 Interest income 404 374 Interest expenses Interest expenses external debt -969 -1 296 Other interest expenses -55 -14 Capitalised borrowing costs 119 76 Total -905 -1 234 Net currency effects -464 -2 069 Other financial items Unrealised gains/losses on interest rate derivatives and securities 27 -681 Gains/losses from divestments of equity accounted investments 1) 5 449 5 166 Other 2) -98 2 263 Total 5 377 6 748 Net financial items 4 412 3 818 1) Includes divestments of Dudgeon Offshore Wind Ltd, Istad AS and shares in BKK. See note 5 for more details. 2) In 2017, Other includes cumulative currency translation effects from the investment in Statkraft Treasury Centre (STC). The major business activities in STC were transferred to Statkraft AS, and as a result of the transfer NOK 2003 million were reclassifed from other comprehensive income to Other financial items . ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 95 Note 20 Unrealised effects recognised in the profit and loss The table below discloses the effects on the profit and loss from unrealised value changes from inventories and financial instruments measured at fair value and currency gains and losses on financial instruments measured at amortised cost. In 2018 Statkraft reassessed the classification related to variation margin regarding the presentation of realised versus unrealised in the disclosures to the financial statements. Some exchange traded contracts, typically futures, require that the mark-to-market exposure is covered by a variation margin which is paid between Statkraft and a clearing house. Variation margins are paid on a daily basis. In previous years, variation margins payments were classified as realised in the profit and loss. After the reassessment, the variation margin payments are classified as unrealised before delivery of the underlying contract. At the delivery date, the cumulative unrealised gains or losses will be reclassified to realised. Statkraft does GROUP not view variation margin payments as partial settlements. The comparable figures have been restated and the effects on unrealised figures are NOK -1 million on sales revenues for Customers and NOK 561 million for Gains/losses from market activities with opposite effects on realised figures. 2018 2017 NOK million Unrealised Realised Total Unrealised Realised Total Generation 290 26 683 26 973 -150 21 014 20 864 Sale of gas 2 763 2 763 Customers -115 26 010 25 896 44 24 816 24 860 Grid and other revenues 2 482 2 482 2 291 2 291 STATKRAFT AS Total sales revenues 175 55 175 55 350 -106 50 884 50 778 Gains/losses from market activities -4 897 3 201 -1 696 -832 3 247 2 414 Generation -1 334 -1 334 -1 408 -1 408 Purchase of gas -2 895 -2 895 Customers 165 -24 721 -24 556 -1 -23 137 -23 138 Other purchase -917 -917 -766 -766 Total energy purchase 165 -26 973 -26 808 -1 -28 206 -28 207 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Unrealised effects included in EBIT 1) -4 557 -940 Net currency effects 2) 606 -1 070 -464 -109 -1 960 -2 069 Other financial items 27 5 350 5 377 -681 7 430 6 748 Total financial items 633 -791 Total unrealised effects -3 924 -1 730 1) Total sales revenues + Gains/losses from market activities + Total energy purchase. 2) Losses for 2018 from internal loans were NOK -103 million, of which NOK -161 million was realised. The corresponding figures for 2017 were NOK -220 million and NOK -860 million, respectively. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 96 Note 21 Income taxes GENERAL INFORMATION SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Group companies that are engaged in energy generation in Norway are Tax related to items recognised in other comprehensive income is also subject to the special rules for taxation of energy companies. The Group’s recognised in other comprehensive income, while tax related to equity tax expense therefore includes, in addition to ordinary income tax, natural transactions is recognised in equity. resource tax and resource rent tax. Deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets are recognised net Income tax is calculated in accordance with ordinary tax rules and by provided that these are expected to reverse in the same period. The same applying the adopted tax rate. The tax expense in the income statement applies to deferred tax liabilities and deferred tax assets connected with comprises taxes payable and changes in deferred tax liabilities/assets. resource rent tax. Deferred tax positions connected with income tax GROUP Taxes payable are calculated on the basis of the taxable income for the payable cannot be offset against tax positions connected with resource year. Deferred tax liabilities/assets are calculated on the basis of rent tax. temporary differences between the accounting and tax values and the tax effect of losses carried forward. Any natural resource tax that exceeds income tax can be carried forward with interest to subsequent years, and is recognised as prepaid tax. Natural resource tax is a profit-independent tax that is calculated on the basis of the individual power plant’s average output over the past seven The tax-free allowance deductible for resource rent tax is treated as a years. The tax rate is NOK 13/MWh. Income tax can be offset against the permanent difference in the year it is calculated for, and therefore does not natural resource tax paid. affect the calculation of deferred tax connected with resource rent. Resource rent tax is a profit-dependent tax levied on the net resource rent ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS STATKRAFT AS revenue generated by each power plant. Resource rent revenue is calculated on the basis of the individual power plant’s production hour by hour, multiplied by the spot price for the corresponding hour. The actual Recognition of deferred tax assets involves judgment. Deferred tax assets contract price is applied for deliveries of concessionary power and power are recognised to the extent that it is probable that they will be utilised. subject to physical contracts with a term exceeding seven years. Income from green certificates is included in gross resource rent revenue. Actual Deferred tax assets relating to resource rent revenue carryforwards are operating expenses, depreciation and a tax-free allowance are deductible. recognised in the balance sheet with the amount expected to be utilised within a period of ten years. The period over which negative resource rent revenues can be used is estimated on the basis of expectations related to The tax-free allowance is set each year on the basis of the taxable value normal production and price curves. of the power plant’s operating assets, multiplied by a normative interest CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY rate. Other deferred tax assets are recognised in the balance sheet if they are expected to be utilised within a period of five years. Negative resource rent revenues per power plant from the 2006 fiscal year or earlier years can only be carried forward with interest offset against For uncertain tax positions see note 32. future positive resource rent revenues from the same power plant. From 2007 onwards negative resource rent revenues per power plant can be pooled with positive resource rent revenues for other power plants. Nominal Norwegian tax rates in the income statement 2018 2017 Income tax rate 23% 24% Resource rent tax rate 35.7% 34.3% Nominal Norwegian tax rates in the balance sheet statement (deferred tax) 2018 2017 Income tax rate 22% 23% Resource rent tax rate 37.0% 35.7% The tax expense in the income statement NOK million 2018 2017 Income tax payable (including natural resource tax payable) 3 181 1 804 Resource rent tax payable 3 678 2 451 Withholding tax payable 23 21 Previous years payable tax expense 87 -133 Change in deferred tax net of group contributions 289 -186 Tax expense in the income statement 7 258 3 957 Taxes payable in the balance sheet NOK million 2018 2017 Income tax payable 2 443 817 Natural resource tax payable 634 614 Resource rent tax payable 3 678 2 451 Previous years taxes payable 635 128 Taxes payable in the balance sheet 7 391 4 010 Tax included in receivables NOK million 2018 2017 Prepaid tax 107 52 Tax included in receivables see note 27 107 52 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 97 Note 21 continued Reconciliation of nominal Norwegian tax rate and effective tax rate NOK million 2018 2017 Profit before tax 20 649 15 668 Expected tax expense at a nominal rate of 23% (24%) 4 749 3 760 Effect on taxes of Resource rent tax 4 122 2 934 Foreign tax rate differences -245 -107 Change in tax rates -108 -63 Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments -182 19 GROUP Tax-free income 1) -1 392 -1 594 Changes relating to previous years -5 -105 Change in unrecognised deferred tax assets 2) 198 -759 Other permanent differences 3) 121 -129 Tax expense 7 258 3 957 Effective tax rate 35.2% 25.3% 1) Tax free income is mainly related to tax exempt gains from the divestments of the shareholding in Dudgeon offshore wind farm and the listing and subsequent deconsolidation of Fjordkraft. 2) Change in unrecognised deferred tax assets is mainly related to Germany. 3) Other permanent differences are mainly non-deductible expenses and items included in the profit and loss statement without tax effect. Items included in the profit and loss statement STATKRAFT AS without tax effect entail depreciation and impairment on excess values. Breakdown of deferred tax Tax expense Other Acquisitions in the income comprehensive and sale of NOK million 01.01.18 statement income companies 31.12.18 Current assets/current liabilities -173 81 -4 -14 -110 Property, plant and equipment not part of resource rent tax regime 3) 3 794 145 0 93 4 031 Property, plant and equipment part of resource rent tax regime 7 495 167 5 7 667 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Pension liabilities -725 18 -94 24 -776 Derivatives 1 489 -682 4 15 826 Other long-term items 3 -31 -71 32 -66 Tax loss carryforward/compensation 3) -423 202 42 -1 -179 Negative resource rent tax carryforward 4) -2 630 388 -2 241 Total net deferred tax liability 8 830 289 -122 154 9 151 Of which presented as deferred tax assets 962 676 Of which presented as deferred tax liabilities 9 792 9 826 Tax expense Other Acquisitions in the income comprehensive and sale of NOK million 01.01.17 statement income companies 31.12.17 Current assets/current liabilities 2) -105 -74 6 -173 Property, plant and equipment not part of resource rent tax regime 1,3) 4 398 -558 -45 3 794 Property, plant and equipment part of resource rent tax regime 7 275 219 7 495 Pension liabilities -665 -11 -49 -725 Derivatives 2) 713 464 312 1 489 Other long-term items 2) -35 24 14 3 Tax loss carryforward/compensation 3) -296 -152 16 8 -423 Negative resource rent tax carryforward 4) -2 531 -98 -2 630 Total net deferred tax liability 8 753 -186 255 8 8 830 Of which presented as deferred tax assets 675 962 Of which presented as deferred tax liabilities 9 428 9 792 1) Effects from implementing IFRS 15 have reduced deferred taxes with NOK 22 million as of 31.12.2017 (NOK 18 million as of 01.01.2017). 2) Deferred taxes related to derivatives are from 2018 presented separately from current assets/current liabilities and other long term items. 3) The Group also has deferred tax assets not recognised in the balance sheet. This mainly relates to Germany with not recognised deferred tax assets of NOK 1805 million as of 31.12.2018 (NOK 1628 million as of 31.12.2017). 4) The Group also has deferred tax assets not recognised in the balance sheet related to negative to negative resource rent tax carryforward. This amounted to NOK 503 million as of 31.12.2018 (NOK 811 million as of 31.12.2017) Deferred tax recognised in other comprehensive income NOK million 2018 2017 Remeasurement of pension obligations -95 -49 Currency translation effects -36 -10 Changes in fair value of financial instruments 9 313 Total deferred tax recognised in other comprehensive income -122 255 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 98 Note 22 Intangible assets Research and development costs are expensed as incurred. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Development costs are capitalised to the extent that a future economic benefit can be identified from the development of an identifiable intangible Intangible assets are carried at cost less accumulated amortisation and asset. accumulated impairment losses. Costs relating to intangible assets, including goodwill, are recognised in the balance sheet when it is probable that the asset will generate future economic benefits and the costs can be measured reliably. Goodwill and intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are not amortised and are tested annually for impairment. GROUP Nok million Goodwill Other Total 2018 Balance at 01.01 1 051 2 262 3 313 Additions 48 48 Additions from business combinations 339 630 969 Reclassifications -28 -28 Amortisations -143 -143 Impairments -35 -35 Derecognition from divestments -95 -95 STATKRAFT AS Disposals -1 -1 Currency translation effects -5 -115 -120 Balance at 31.12 1 351 2 558 3 909 Cost 31.12 2 299 3 592 5 891 Accumulated amortisation and impairments as of 31.12 -948 -1 034 -1 982 Balance at 31.12 1 351 2 558 3 909 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Nok million Goodwill Other Total 2017 Balance at 01.01 1 453 2 405 3 858 Additions 65 65 Reclassifications 25 25 Amortisations -157 -157 Impairments -333 -2 -335 Reversal of impairments 28 28 Disposals -3 -3 Currency translation effects -69 -99 -168 Balance at 31.12 1 051 2 262 3 313 Cost 31.12 2 042 3 545 5 587 Accumulated amortisation and impairments as of 31.12 -991 -1 283 -2 274 Balance at 31.12 1 051 2 262 3 313 Expected useful life 10–22 years RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT The Group’s research and development activities are focused on investigating potential new energy sources and developing existing plants and technologies. Research activities relating to new energy sources include general research projects. These projects are intended to provide further knowledge on technologies or other areas that could provide a basis for future activities/projects. In order to gain new knowledge and develop new methods within the fields of energy optimisation and preservation, the Group also performs research and development activities in connection with existing plants/energy sources. Research and development activities carried out in 2018 and 2017 are expensed with NOK 36 million and NOK 42 million, respectively. Capitalised development costs in 2018 and 2017 were NOK 10 million and NOK 38 million. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 99 Note 23 Property, plant and equipment calculation of annual depreciation. Periodic maintenance is capitalised SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES over the period until the time when the next maintenance is scheduled. The depreciation period is adapted to the licence period. Expected useful Investments in production facilities and other property, plant and life, depreciation methods and residual values are assessed annually. equipment are recognised at cost less accumulated depreciation and impairment. Depreciation is charged from the time the assets are available Property and waterfall rights are not depreciated, as the assets are for use. The cost of property, plant and equipment includes fees for deemed to have perpetual life if there is no right of reversion to state acquiring or bringing assets into a condition in which they can be used. ownership. Waterfall rights are presented as property, plant and The cost also includes directly attributable borrowing costs. Expenses equipment as Statkraft has perpetual right to utilise the waterfall. incurred after the operating asset has been taken into use, such as ongoing repair and maintenance expenses, are recognised in the profit GROUP and loss statement as incurred, whilst other expenses that are expected to ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS increase future production capacity are capitalised. The estimate of decommissioning obligation is included in the carrying value of the Property, plant and equipment is depreciated over its expected useful life. relevant asset. Expected useful life is estimated based on experience, historical data and accounting judgements, and is adjusted in the event of any changes to the Statkraft starts capitalising costs when it is probable that the asset will expectations. Residual values are estimates that are taken into account generate future economic benefits and the cost can be measured reliably. when calculating depreciation. Estimates of decommissioning obligations, which are included as part of the plant’s carrying amount, are subject to Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the assets’ continuously reviews. expected useful life. Residual values are taken into account in the STATKRAFT AS Properties, mountain halls, Turbines, buildings, roads, Plants Regulation generators Waterfall bridges and under NOK million plants etc. rights quay facilities construction Other Total 2018 Balance at 01.01 28 694 24 183 18 123 14 930 4 813 12 450 103 193 Additions 72 271 5 45 3 713 847 4 953 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Additions from business combinations 323 777 85 420 6 1 611 Capitalised borrowing costs 1) 119 119 Reclassifications -13 5 32 4 28 Transfer between asset classes 534 2 571 -73 -2 229 -803 Depreciation -786 -1 340 -457 -841 -3 424 Impairments -76 -32 -18 -7 -132 Derecognition from divestments -101 -1 -4 -105 Disposals -59 -29 25 -36 -74 -173 Currency translation effects -119 -247 125 -314 267 -38 -325 Balance at 31.12 28 571 26 057 18 253 14 223 7 099 11 541 105 744 Carrying value 31.12 of assets with infinite useful life n/a n/a 18 253 67 n/a 38 18 358 Cost 31.12 43 510 52 376 19 618 21 238 7 815 24 399 168 955 Accumulated depreciation and impairments as of 31.12 -14 939 -26 319 -1 365 -7 015 -716 -12 858 -63 211 Balance at 31.12 28 571 26 057 18 253 14 223 7 099 11 541 105 744 1) The average interest rate applied during the year was 2.55% ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 100 Note 23 continued Properties, mountain halls, Turbines, buildings, roads, Plants Regulation generators Waterfall bridges and under NOK million plants etc. rights quay facilities construction Other Total 2017 Balance at 01.01 24 220 25 590 17 620 19 358 4 639 11 877 103 304 Additions 161 445 56 2 130 850 3 642 Capitalised borrowing costs 1) 76 76 Reclassifications -12 -2 -11 -25 Transfer between asset classes 5 355 -1 280 1 157 -3 926 -2 238 932 GROUP Depreciation -728 -1 239 -533 -1 005 -3 505 Impairments -145 -296 -920 -67 -37 -1 465 Reversal of impairments 1 766 386 119 1 272 Derecognition from divestments -47 -104 -9 -98 -258 Disposals -162 -87 -2 -23 -44 -319 Currency translation effects 4 331 -118 50 217 -14 470 Balance at 31.12 28 694 24 183 18 123 14 930 4 813 12 450 103 193 Carrying value 31.12 of assets with infinite useful life n/a n/a 18 123 67 n/a 40 18 230 STATKRAFT AS Cost 31.12 42 289 49 625 19 433 21 801 7 048 25 093 165 289 Accumulated depreciation and impairments as of 31.12 -13 595 -25 442 -1 310 -6 871 -2 235 -12 643 -62 096 Balance at 31.12 28 694 24 183 18 123 14 930 4 813 12 450 103 193 1) The average interest rate applied during the year was 2.82%. INVESTMENTS IN 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The additions in 2018 of NOK 4953 million in property, plant and equipment (excluding capitalised borrowing costs of NOK 119 million) and of NOK 48 million in intangible assets, consisted of investments in new generating capacity, maintenance investments and other investments. Maintenance investments and other investments amounted to NOK 2067 million (NOK 1820 million). The investments were primarily related to hydropower plants in Norway. Investments in new capacity amounted to NOK 3053 million (NOK 1964 million). The largest projects were a hydropower plant in Albania and wind farms in Norway. ASSETS PLEDGED AS SECURITY TO COUNTERPARTIES Statkraft has pledged property, plant and equipment as security to counterparties. See note 33 for more information. INTANGIBLE ASSETS, PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT PER COUNTRY 2018 2017 NOK million Intangibles PPE Total Intangibles PPE Total Norway 799 58 011 58 810 883 56 386 57 269 Sweden 76 21 353 21 428 87 22 417 22 504 Germany 39 2 508 2 547 46 2 656 2 702 UK 67 1 218 1 285 28 1 248 1 276 Turkey 2 1 294 1 295 3 1 748 1 751 Albania 2 4 999 5 001 2 3 888 3 890 Peru 114 9 231 9 345 85 8 924 9 009 Brazil 1 919 3 612 5 531 1 758 2 898 4 656 Chile 450 2 071 2 521 421 1 984 2 405 Other 443 1 448 1 891 1 043 1 043 Total 3 909 105 744 109 653 3 313 103 193 106 506 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 101 Note 23 continued EXPECTED USEFUL LIFE OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT A more detailed specification of the expected useful life of the various assets is provided below. In 2018 Statkraft has extended the estimated useful life for tunnel systems (from 75 to 90), pipe trenches (from 40 to 75), wind turbines (from 20-22 to 20-25), underground facilities (from 75 to 90), control equipment (from 15 to 20) and operating centre (from 15 to 20). Depreciation period (years) Depreciation period (years) Properties, mountain halls, buildings, Regulation plants roads, bridges etc. riprap dams, concrete dams 75 land perpetual GROUP other dams 30 underground facilities 90 tunnel systems 90 roads, bridges and quays 75 control equipment 20 Turbines, generators etc. operating centre 20 pipe trenches 75 communication equipment 10 generators (turbine, valve) 40 other mechanical installations 15 Other transformer/generator 40 transformer (grid) 35 wind turbines 20-25 switchgear, high voltage (grid) 35-40 STATKRAFT AS gas and steam generators 20-25 buildings 25-50 gas power plant transformers 20-25 other fixed installations 10-20 miscellaneous fixtures 5 Waterfall rights perpetual office and computer equipment 3 furnishings and equipment 5 vehicles 8 construction equipment 12 small watercraft 10 water cooling systems 20-25 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 102 Note 24 Associates and joint arrangements The decisions about relevant activities that significantly affect the return of SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES the investments are the elements that require the highest degree of judgement. In order to conclude on the degree of control, Statkraft has The gain/loss from a transaction where the investment changes from being systematically defined the relevant activities and value drivers for each of its classified as a joint operation to be classified as a joint venture or associated main type of technologies, in addition to an individual assessment per company are recognised in the Group’s consolidated financial statement only investment to reflect other facts and circumstances. to the extent of other parties interest in the joint operation. Hence, the carrying value of Statkraft’s remaining ownership is booked at continuity. In addition For agreements which require unanimous consent from the partners to changed contractual rights and obligations relating to the underlying asset or direct the relevant activities of the investments, and where the other criterias debt and changes in the shareholders agreement might lead to a change in in IFRS 11 are met, the investment is classified as a joint arrangement. the accounting method. For Statkraft, this is expected to apply if the Judgement is required in assessing whether a joint arrangement is a joint GROUP participants are not obliged to off-take the production and are not responsible operation or a joint venture. Rights and obligations arising from a joint for the obligation held by the entity. arrangement, including other facts and circumstances, are evaluated in order to classify the joint arrangement. For investments structured through a legal entity, other facts and circumstances, such as agreements between ACCOUNTING JUDGEMENTS shareholders and agreements between shareholders and the investee, must override its legal form for a joint operation to exist. Entities established to Judgement is required to assess the classification of investments in projects produce power and where the owners are committed to purchase all the with third party owners. The degree of control over the investee is one of the power produced, as well as being responsible for settling of short term and key elements in the assessment to whether the investment should be long term financing of the company, are normally classified as joint accounted for as subsidiary, joint operation, joint venture or associate. To operations. When Statkraft has rights to the net assets of the arrangement, assess the degree of control all facts and circumstances are evaluated. the arrangement is a joint venture. STATKRAFT AS Co-owned power plants in which Statkraft have joint control are recognised as joint operation. Based on size and complexity, the following associated companies and joint ventures are considered material: 2018 Agder Fjordkraft Hidroelectrica La Wind UK NOK million BKK AS Energi AS Holding ASA 1) Higuera S.A 2) Invest Ltd. Other Total Opening balance 01.01. 5 417 3 935 844 876 2 264 13 335 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Additions 1) 108 967 1 075 Divestments 1) -250 -4 -1 066 -1 320 Deconciled -60 -60 Share of profit/loss 730 26 59 43 33 102 993 Depreciation and impairment of excess value -62 -110 -25 -2 -4 -203 Capital increases 111 111 Dividends -258 -276 -24 -49 -607 Currency translation effects -84 -4 53 3 -56 -88 Items recorded in other comprehensive income -45 -97 4 -1 -6 14 -131 Closing balance 31.12. 5 556 3 474 1 001 939 879 1 255 13 105 Excess value 31.12. 1 976 1 803 845 392 44 148 5 208 Of which unamortised waterfall rights 1 711 314 370 2 395 1) See note 5 for more information about the transactions. 2) Hidroelectrica La Higuera S.A was previously included in Other . 2017 Agder SN Scira Offshore Wind UK NOK million BKK AS Energi AS Power AS Energy Ltd. Invest Ltd. Other 4) Total Opening balance 01.01. as previously reported 5 656 4 040 2 930 2 005 853 3 954 19 438 Changes in accounting principle see note 1 -80 11 -69 Balance as of 01.01 5 576 4 052 2 930 2 005 853 3 954 19 369 Additions/divestments 1) -2 853 -2 060 71 -4 842 Share of profit/loss 2) 339 196 230 46 23 326 1 161 Depreciation and impairment of excess value 3) -14 -66 -2 -1 158 -1 240 Capital increases 32 32 Dividends -252 -276 -31 1 -558 Currency translation effects -13 -308 9 40 -145 -416 Items recorded in other comprehensive income -219 29 -6 26 -170 Closing balance 31.12. 5 417 3 935 876 3 108 13 335 Excess value 31.12. 2 168 1 912 46 653 4 779 Of which unamortised waterfall rights 1 818 314 370 2 502 1) See note 5 for more information about the transactions. 2) Due to implementing IFRS 15, share of profit/loss from BKK and Agder Energi has been restated by NOK -16 million and NOK 10 million respectively see note 12. 3) The shares in Hidroelectrica La Confluencia S.A, Hidroelectrica La Higuera S.A and Malana presented in Other have been impaired, see note 14. 4) “Other” includes Statkraft’s 30% ownership share in the wind farm Dudgeon Offshore Wind Ltd. with a carrying value of NOK 895 million. The wind farm was classified as held for sale per 31 December 2017 and was divested in 2018. Due to the relative size of its carrying value the investment was not presented as assets held for sale on a single line item in the statement of financial position. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 103 Note 24 continued DESCRIPTION OF THE ACTIVITIES IN SIGNIFICANT ASSOCIATES AND JOINT VENTURES BKK AS has operations in Western Norway, with its core activities being production, sale and transmission of electric power. BKK also sells consultation and contracting services, and offers customers broadband, district heating and joint metering of electricity. Agder Energi AS has operations in Southern Norway, with its core activities being production, trading and transmission of electric power, as well as other energy-related services. Fjordkraft Holding ASA is a national electricity supplier in Norway, which serves private households and companies with electricity. Hidroelectrica La Higuera S.A has operations in Chile and contains the La Higuera hydropower plant. GROUP Wind UK Invest Ltd. (WUKI) owns the land-based wind farms Alltwalis, Baillie and Berry Burn in the UK. See note 33 Pledges, guarantees and obligations for information regarding bank guarantees and parent company guarantees related to associates and joint arrangements. FINANCIAL INFORMATION FOR SIGNIFICANT ASSOCIATED COMPANIES The following table presents summarised financial information for significant associated companies. The figures apply to 100% of the companies’ operations in accordance with IFRS 12. STATKRAFT AS 2018 Agder Fjordkraft Hidroelectrica Wind UK NOK million BKK AS 1) Energi AS 1) Holding ASA 1) Higuera S.ALa1) Invest Ltd. 1) Current assets 3 270 3 072 2 918 328 265 Non-current assets 20 285 18 283 530 4 350 3 038 Current liabilities 6 588 5 967 2 282 439 206 Non-current liabilities 8 391 11 736 296 3 145 3 302 Gross operating revenues 5 155 13 980 6 721 631 428 Net profit 1 729 57 254 86 64 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Total comprehensive income 1 661 -158 255 84 52 1) Figures are preliminary and unaudited. 2017 Scira Agder Offshore Wind UK NOK million BKK AS 1) Energi AS 1) SN Power AS Energy Ltd. Invest Ltd. Current assets 4 030 2 952 220 Non-current assets 19 067 17 423 3 237 Current liabilities 5 391 4 747 211 Non-current liabilities 10 251 11 172 1 607 Gross operating revenues 4 233 9 371 373 Net profit 850 397 45 Total comprehensive income 806 471 45 1) Figures have been restated to reflect changes after implementing IFRS 15. JOINT VENTURES, JOINT OPERATIONS AND ASSOCIATES Shares in companies classified as joint ventures and associates are recognised using the equity method in the consolidated financial statements. Statkraft recognises its share of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses of companies classified as joint operations on a line-by-line basis in the group financial statements. Name Registered office Shareholding Voting share JOINT VENTURES Allain Duhangan Hydro Power Ltd. New Delhi 43.12% 43.12% Dugar Hydro Power Ltd New Delhi 50.00% 50.00% Hidroelectrica La Confluencia S.A Santiago 50.00% 50.00% Hidroelectrica La Higuera S.A Santiago 50.00% 50.00% KraftCERT AS Bærum 33.33% 33.33% Malana Power Company Ltd. New Delhi 49.00% 49.00% Silva Green Fuel AS Oslo 51.00% 51.00% Vattenkraftens Miljöfond Sverige AB Stockholm 9.06% 9.06% Windpark Kollweiler GmbH & Co Billerbeck 20.00% 20.00% Wind UK Invest Ltd. London 51.00% 51.00% Glencloosgh Energy Ltd Cork 50.00% 50.00% ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 104 Note 24 continued Name Registered office Shareholding Voting share JOINT OPERATIONS Aktieselskabet Tyssefaldene 1) Tyssedal 60.17% 60.17% Fosen Vind DA Oslo 52.10% 52.10% Harrsele AB Vännäs 50.57% 50.57% Kraftwerksgesellschaft Herdecke, GmbH & Co. KG Hagen 50.00% 50.00% Sira-Kvina Kraftselskap DA Sirdal 46.70% 46.70% Aurlandsverkene Aurland 7.00% 7.00% Grytten Rauma 88.00% 88.00% GROUP Gäddede Stockholm 70.00% 70.00% Kobbelv Sørfold 82.50% 82.50% Kraftverkene i Orkla Rennebu 48.60% 48.60% Sima Eidfjord 65.00% 65.00% Solbergfoss 2) Askim 33.33% 33.33% Stegaros Tinn 50.00% 50.00% Svartisen Meløy 70.00% 70.00% Svorka Surnadal 50.00% 50.00% Vikfalli Vik 88.00% 88.00% STATKRAFT AS Volgsjöfors Stockholm 73.10% 73.10% Ulla-Førre Suldal 73.48% 73.48% ASSOCIATES Agder Energi AS Kristiansand 45.50% 45.50% BKK AS Bergen 47.85% 47.85% Fjordkraft Holding ASA Bergen 29.72% 29.72% Nape Kraftverk AS Grimstad 49.00% 49.00% CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Passos Maia Energética S.A. Caçador City 50.00% 50.00% Laugstol AS Porsgrunn 33.40% 33.40% Viking Varme AS Porsgrunn 50.00% 50.00% Røldal-Suldal Kraft AS 3) Suldal 4.79% 4.79% Skagerak Naturgass AS Porsgrunn 49.00% 49.00% Statt-werk GmbH Berlin 25.00% 25.00% enQu GmbH Berlin 50.00% 50.00% Grønn Kontakt AS Kristiansand 47.21% 47.21% 1) Statkraft controls 71.4% of the production from the Tysso II power plant. 2) Statkraft owns 33.3% of Solbergfoss, but controls 35.6% of the production. 3) Statkraft owns 8.74% of the shares in Røldal-Suldal Kraft AS, which in turn owns 54.79% of the Røldal-Suldal plants. Statkraft’s indirect shareholding in the power plant is thus 4.79%. Fjordkraft Holding ASA was listed on Oslo Stock Exchange in March 2018 and consequently has a quoted market price. The share price at 28 December 2018 was NOK 34. The fair value of Statkraft’s ownership share as of 31 December 2018 was NOK 1056 million. Except for Fjordkraft, none of the companies have observable market values in the form of listed market prices or similar. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 105 Note 25 Other non-current financial assets NOK million 2018 2017 Loans to equity accounted investments 2 244 2 223 Bonds and other long-term receivables 932 1 365 Net pension asset 494 480 Other shares and securities 316 299 Total 3 986 4 368 Note 26 Inventories GROUP GENERAL INFORMATION SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Statkraft’s inventories are mainly related to environmental certificates, such as Environmental certificates that are purchased are classified as inventory when green certificates in the Nordics, Renewable Obligation Certificates (ROCs) in they are received and measured at fair value less costs to sell. Changes in fair the UK and emission quotas. Green certificates and ROCs are obtained from value of inventories related to trading activities are presented as Gains/losses trading, origination and market access activities and in addition from own from market activities in the profit and loss statement. generating assets that are eligible for receiving these government grants. Environmental certificates received from own generation are taken to the STATKRAFT AS The most significant part of the environmental certificate inventories is related market by the segment Market operations. Certificates that are not sold to trading, origination and market access activities. externally at the reporting date are recognised as inventory and measured to fair value less costs to sell. Other inventory is recognised at the lowest of cost price and net realisable amount. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2018 2017 NOK million Recognised value Cost price Recognised value Cost price Inventories measured at fair value less costs to sell Environmental certificates 6 111 5 034 2 712 2 695 Total 6 111 5 034 2 712 2 695 Inventories measured at the lower of cost price and net realisable value Spare parts 151 114 Other 54 45 Total 204 159 Total 6 316 2 871 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 106 Note 27 Receivables NOK million 2018 2017 Accounts receivable 7 439 8 201 Loans to equity accounted investments 1) 2) 75 3 959 Prepaid tax 107 52 Cash collateral and margin calls 3 351 1 931 Other receivables 1 859 1 228 Total 12 831 15 372 1) Interest-bearing receivables. 2) In 2017 mainly related to shareholder loan provided to Dudgeon. GROUP Maturity analysis of receivables Receivables overdue by 2018 Less than More than Receivables overdue NOK million Not yet due 90 days 90 days and impaired Total Accounts receivable 7 396 18 89 -65 7 439 Other receivables 5 266 7 119 5 392 Total 12 661 25 209 -65 12 831 STATKRAFT AS Recognised as loss for the year 62 Receivables overdue by 2017 Less than More than Receivables overdue NOK million Not yet due 90 days 90 days and impaired Total Accounts receivable 7 443 567 221 -30 8 201 Other receivables 6 754 435 42 -59 7 171 Total 14 197 1 002 263 -89 15 372 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Recognised as loss for the year 33 Note 28 Cash and cash equivalents daily cash management and holds no bank accounts in the name of SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Statkraft, the cash deposit is classified as other receivables. For other service providers cash deposit is classified as cash and cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents include certificates and bonds which are normally traded within a period of three months. The item also includes restricted cash. Market settlements for derivatives connected with financial activities (cash Classification of cash deposit to cover margin calls, related to trading collateral) are recognised in the statement of financial position as either activities, depends on the characteristics of the exchange clearing service. receivables or liabilities. Bank deposits, cash and similar from joint operations If the service provider is not a financial institution, nor part of Statkraft’s are also presented under this line item. NOK million 2018 2017 Cash and cash deposits 1) 15 295 11 062 Money market funds, certificates, promissory notes, bonds 7 880 3 154 Total 23 175 14 217 1) Includes NOK 357 million and NOK 129 million respectively in 2018 and 2017 from companies reported as joint operations. Book value of cash and cash equivalents pledged as security to counterparties NOK million 2018 2017 Deposit account related to power sales on energy exchanges 54 62 Other restricted cash 7 8 Total 61 70 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 107 Note 29 Provisions SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Concessionary power Each year, concessionary sales are made to local Provisions, contingent assets and contingent liabilities Provisions are authorities at statutory prices stipulated by the Norwegian Parliament. The only recognised when there is an existing obligation as a result of a past supply of concessionary power is recognised as income on an ongoing basis event, and when it is more than 50% probable that an obligation has arisen. It in accordance with the established concessionary price. In the case of certain must also be possible to reliably measure the provision. Provisions are concessionary power contracts, agreements have been made regarding recognised with an amount that is the best estimate of the expenditure financial settlement in which Statkraft is invoiced for the difference between required to settle the present obligation at the reporting date. If the probability the spot price and the concessionary price. Such concessionary contracts are is lower than 50%, the conditions will be stated in note 33 if significant. not included in the financial statements. The capitalised value of future concessionary power obligations is estimated and disclosed in note 33. GROUP Onerous contracts Obligations arising under onerous contracts are recognised and measured as provisions. An onerous contract is considered to Decommissioning Provisions related to decommissioning typically arise exist where the Group has a contract under which the unavoidable costs of when Statkraft has the right to time-limited concessions. meeting the obligations under the contract exceed the economic benefits expected to be received from the contract. NOK million 2018 2017 Provisions allocated to capital employed 1) 2 552 2 894 Other provisions 2) 637 598 Total provisions 3 189 3 492 STATKRAFT AS 1) Mainly related to annual compensations and free power, long-term power agreements and equity instruments. 2) Mainly related to decommissioning of gas-fired power plants and wind farms. Reconciliation of movements during the period NOK million 2018 2017 Carrying value 01.01. 3 492 7 578 Additions during the year 278 173 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Additions due to company acquisitions 80 Provisions used/reversed during the year -485 -4 603 Reclassifications -123 140 Other movements 6 204 Currency translation effects -60 Carrying value 31.12 3 189 3 492 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 108 Note 30 Interest-bearing liabilities NOK million 2018 2017 Interest-bearing liabilities, current First year’s instalment on non-current debt 4 440 2 172 Cash collateral 1 510 1 322 Other short-term debt 397 200 Total 6 346 3 694 Interest-bearing liabilities, non-current Debt to Statkraft SF 400 GROUP Bonds issued in the Norwegian market 6 050 7 050 Debt issued in non-Norwegian markets 21 770 26 427 External debt in subsidiaries and other debt 2 535 2 408 Total 30 354 36 285 Total interest-bearing liabilities 36 700 39 979 NOK million 2018 2017 STATKRAFT AS Cash flows from interest-bearing liabilities Total interest-bearing liabilities 01.01 39 979 40 293 New debt (cash inflow) 759 5 250 Repayment of debt (cash outflow) 1) -5 182 -7 941 Cash collateral (cash in-/outflow) 2) 188 -95 Addition from business combinations (no cash effect) 720 Deconsolidation of entities (no cash effect) -11 Changes in foreign exchange rates (no cash effect) 10 2 119 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Other (no cash effect) 226 364 Total interest-bearing liabilities 31.12 36 700 39 979 1) The difference between the table above and the statement of cash flow is related to cash effects from foreign exchange derivatives which are not included in this note. 2) Part of other changes in the statement of cash flow. Note 31 Interest-free liabilities allocated to capital employed Interest-free liabilities allocated to capital employed NOK million 2018 2017 Accounts payable 1 115 1 950 Indirect taxes payable 1 108 979 Accrued interest-free liabilities 1) 5 658 4 696 Other interest-free liabilities 1 861 1 460 Total 9 742 9 086 1) Mainly related to trading activities, external power producers (market access activities) and subcontractors in construction projects. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 109 Note 32 Contingencies and disputes CONTINGENCIES In distribution grid business, differences can arise between the revenue ceiling determined by the Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate (NVE) and the amount actually invoiced as grid rental charges. If the invoiced amount is lower than the revenue ceiling, a shortfall of revenue arises, and if the invoiced amount is higher than the ceiling, excess revenue arises. Excess/shortfall of revenue will even out over time as the actual invoicing is adjusted. Revenues are recognised in the accounts based on actual invoicing. Accumulated excess/shortfall of revenue is recognised in future periods. DISPUTES The Group is involved in a number of legal proceedings in various forms. Whilst acknowledging the uncertainties of litigation, the Group is of the opinion that based on the information currently available, these matters will be resolved without any adverse material effect, individually or collectively on the Group's financial position. For legal disputes, in which the Group assesses it to be probable (more likely than not) that an economic outflow will be required to settle the GROUP obligation, provisions have been made based on management’s best estimate. Statkraft Treasury Centre SA On 9 October 2017, Statkraft AS received a draft decision of a tax reassessment from the Norwegian tax authorities. The reassessment regards the income tax returns for the fiscal years 2008-2014 related to the investment in the Statkraft Treasury Centre SA (STC) in Belgium. The main issue relates to STC’s capital structure and its compliance with the arm’s length principle. Statkraft strongly disagrees that there is a legal basis for any reassessment, and has made no provisions related to this case. If all arguments from the Norwegian tax authorities would prevail, the financial exposure for the period 2008-2017 is estimated to NOK 4 billion as additional payable tax and interest expenses. STATKRAFT AS On 24 April 2017, the major business activities in STC were transferred to Statkraft AS. All business activities in STC have been closed down. There has been no development in 2018 that has an impact on Statkraft’s assessment. Brazil On 13 July 2015, Statkraft acquired controlling interest in the Brazilian company Desenvix Energias Renováveis S.A. which subsequently changed name to Statkraft Energias Renováveis (SKER). Over the past years, Brazil has experienced several severe corruption cases. On this background, Statkraft initiated an internal investigation related to the subsidiary acquired in 2015. Based on the investigation, the company has contacted Brazilian authorities. It is at this stage not possible to predict if the outcome could have potential negative financial effects. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY The Brazilian Federal Prosecutor has been investigating potential crimes committed by representatives of the four main pension funds in Brazil and representatives of companies in which the pension funds invested, as well as any other individual who may have been involved in the alleged scheme, related to historical investments made by the pension funds, including FUNCEF, which invested in Desenvix (now SKER) in 2009 and 2010, and now owns 18.7% of SKER. The Prosecutor has concluded the investigation in relation to FUNCEF and filed the criminal lawsuit against the individuals, including the shareholders of Jackson and former officers of FUNCEF. In August 2017, the Federal Judge in charge of the criminal investigation issued a resolution stating that no information had been found relating SKER with the alleged illicit activities and therefore decided to release guarantees and other precautionary measures imposed on SKER. Additionally, a civil lawsuit has been filed against the pension funds and companies and individuals related to the pension fund’s investments, including SKER. It is at this stage not possible to predict if the outcome of the case could have potential negative effects on SKER. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 110 Note 33 Pledges, guarantees and obligations PLEDGES Under certain circumstances local authorities and publicly owned energy million. In addition, other subsidiaries have a total of NOK 1604 million in companies are entitled to a share of the output from power plants belonging pledged debt. As of 31 December 2018, the carrying value of the pledged to Statkraft in return for paying a share of the construction costs. To finance assets in Statkraft Energi AS totalled NOK 3922 million, and a total of NOK the acquisition of such rights, the local authorities/companies have been 4532 million in other subsidiaries, mainly in the Statkraft IH Invest Group. granted permission to pledge the power plant as security. The mortgage Pledged assets in Statkraft IH Invest Group consist of property, plant and debt raised by the local authorities under this scheme totals NOK 375 equipment to ensure compliance of long-term debt. GROUP GUARANTEES The Statkraft Group has the following off-balance-sheet guarantees: NOK million 2018 2017 Parent company guarantees on behalf of subsidiaries 1) 16 790 16 306 Parent company guarantees on behalf of associates and joint arrangements 451 2 500 STATKRAFT AS Other 876 1 728 Total guarantees in Statkraft AS 18 118 20 534 1) Whereof the most material guarantees are regarding energy purchase of NOK 15 679 million and liabilities to suppliers of NOK 1026 million. Guarantees issued by subsidiaries 2 710 2 646 Guarantees issued by associates and joint arrangements 158 469 Total guarantees in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements 2 868 3 115 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Total guarantees 20 986 23 649 CONTRACT OBLIGATIONS CONCESSIONARY POWER CONTRACTS The Statkraft Group has the following significant off-balance-sheet The Group recognises concessionary power as normal buying and selling in obligations: accordance with stipulated concessionary power prices upon delivery, regardless of whether the settlement takes place upon physical delivery or  Statkraft is obliged to pay licence fees related to hydropower plants, financial settlement. Concessionary power contracts are normally regarded mainly in Norway. The present value of the Group’s future licence fee as indefinite. The parties can however agree on financial settlement for a obligations, not recognised in the statement of financial position, is period of time. estimated at NOK 9560 million. The estimated amount is based on a regulated discount rate of 3.8%, annual compensation and funds etc. At the end of 2018, the contracts with financial settlement had a total volume In 2017, the corresponding amount was NOK 9056 million with a of around 31.8 GWh and an average price from the Ministry of Petroleum discount rate of 3.5%. and Energy of 11.2 øre/kWh. For the remaining contracts with financial  Future minimum lease payments in relation to non-cancellable leases settlement, the estimated fair value at 31 December 2018 was NOK 399 not recognised in the statement of financial position is NOK 1890 million. million, see note 34.  A power purchase agreement with a 15-year horizon. The purchase obligation is NOK 1438 million.  Obligation regarding service agreements related to gas-fired power plants of NOK 862 million.  A license agreement relating to the development, construction and operation of one hydropower plant which involves a responsibility estimated at NOK 693 million. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 111 Note 34 Leases ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Power purchase agreements Judgement is made when determining Operating leases are mainly recognised as an expense on a straight-line basis whether a power purchase agreement contains a lease. A power purchase over the lease term. For leased production plants where use is closely agreement contains a lease if its fulfilment depends on a specific asset and connected with the production, lease payments are measured by consumption the arrangement conveys a right to control the use of the underlying asset and presented as energy purchases. and Statkraft takes a significant amount of the output at a price that is neither fixed nor equal to the current market price. GROUP The total of future minimum lease payments in relation to non-cancellable leases for each of the following periods is: Within 1 year of Between 1 and 5 years More than 5 years after NOK million the end of the period after the end of the period the end of the period Total Property rental agreements 170 625 1 001 1 797 Vehicles 8 9 17 Other leases 5 33 40 78 Total 183 667 1 041 1 890 STATKRAFT AS Lease-related rent recognised in the period and specified in the following manner: Lease and sublease NOK million Minimum lease expense Variable lease expense income Property rental agreements 184 5 21 Vehicles 7 Other leases 11 Total 202 5 21 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Total future minimum sublease income under non-cancellable subleases is NOK 100 million at 31 December 2018. The majority of Statkraft`s lease expenses and future lease commitments is related to rent of premises and land. Statkraft is offering market access to smaller renewable energy producers. Some of these contracts are defined as operating leases, due to a fixed element in the lease payments, and are presented as energy purchases, see note 12. The lease agreements have durations ranging up to 20 years and the rent paid for 2018 was NOK 10 286 million, whereas the corresponding amount for 2017 was NOK 9446 million. Statkraft has no significant financial lease agreements at the end of 2018. Note 35 Fees paid to external auditors Deloitte AS is the Statkraft Group’s auditor and audits all subsidiaries subject to auditing requirements. The total fees (excluding VAT) paid for auditing and other services were as follows: NOK thousand 2018 2017 Statutory auditing 13 992 15 845 Other attestation services 809 829 Tax consultancy services 1 302 2 349 Other services 1) 6 181 1 669 Total 22 284 20 693 1)The main items in fees for other services in 2018 relate to assistance in a due dilligence process and attestation of the sustainability report. The corresponding figure for 2017 relate to assistance with the listing of Fjordkraft and the attestation of the sustainability report. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 112 Note 36 Benefits paid to executive management and the Board of Directors Statkraft is organised into business units and support functions. The managers of these units report to the Group management, which comprises the executive vice presidents (EVPs) and the President and CEO. Salary and other benefits – executive management 2018 Salaries NOK Salary Bonus 1) Benefits in kind and other benefits Christian Rynning-Tønnesen, President and CEO 5 288 570 664 000 196 054 6 148 623 GROUP Irene Egset, Executive Vice President and CFO 2) 2 569 843 198 239 2 768 082 Hallvard Granheim, Executive Vice President 3 318 523 442 000 199 592 3 960 115 Steinar Bysveen, Executive Vice President 2 812 461 445 000 208 940 3 466 401 Hilde Bakken, Executive Vice President 2 788 684 432 000 206 193 3 426 877 Jürgen Tzschoppe, Executive Vice President 3 553 969 473 000 159 992 4 186 961 Jon Vatnaland, Executive Vice President 2 332 114 429 000 199 025 2 960 139 1) Bonus earned in 2018, but disbursed in 2019. 2) Irene Egset resigned from her position as Executive Vice President and CFO on 31 December 2018. STATKRAFT AS 2017 Salaries NOK Salary Bonus 1) Benefits in kind and other benefits Christian Rynning-Tønnesen, President and CEO 5 144 192 883 000 188 641 6 215 832 Irene Egset, Executive Vice President and CFO 2 417 438 510 000 192 069 3 119 507 Hallvard Granheim, Executive Vice President 3 068 615 550 000 193 024 3 811 639 Steinar Bysveen, Executive Vice President 2 702 892 466 000 214 003 3 382 895 Hilde Bakken, Executive Vice President 2 711 629 473 000 196 970 3 381 599 Jürgen Tzschoppe, Executive Vice President 3 430 575 547 000 142 117 4 119 692 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Jon Vatnaland, Executive Vice President 2) 1 679 588 386 000 89 130 2 154 718 1) Bonus earned in 2017, but disbursed in 2018. 2) Jon Vatnaland was appointed Executive Vice President on 24 January 2017. He also held the position as Managing director for Statkraft UK Ltd. until August 2017 and was on an expatriate agreement in this period. The Group management has not received any compensation or financial benefits from other companies in the same Group other than those shown above. No additional compensation for special services beyond normal managerial functions has been provided, nor have any loans or surety been granted. For 2018, total salaries and other benefits paid to the executive management amounted to NOK 26 917 198. The corresponding amount in 2017 was NOK 26 185 882. Pension costs – executive management NOK 2018 2017 Christian Rynning-Tønnesen, President and CEO 2 495 232 2 384 012 Irene Egset, Executive Vice President and CFO 1) 1 394 708 1 282 081 Hallvard Granheim, Executive Vice President 289 049 273 691 Steinar Bysveen, Executive Vice President 1 203 229 1 145 485 Hilde Bakken, Executive Vice President 1 474 632 1 385 858 Jürgen Tzschoppe, Executive Vice President 140 832 136 896 Jon Vatnaland, Executive Vice President 2) 948 879 822 594 1) Irene Egset resigned from her position as Executive Vice President and CFO on 31 December 2018. 2) Jon Vatnaland was appointed Executive Vice President on 24 January 2017. The year’s accounting cost for the pension scheme reflects the period during which the individual has been an executive employee. For 2018, the total pension costs for executive management were NOK 7 946 561. In 2017 the corresponding amount was NOK 7 430 617. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 113 Note 36 continued Remuneration to the Board, Audit Committee and Compensation Committee as well as participation in Board meetings 2018 Board Audit Compensation Participation in NOK remuneration Committee Committee board meetings Thorhild Widvey, chair 501 000 51 650 9 Peter Mellbye, deputy chair 323 000 32 050 9 Hilde Drønen, director 290 500 83 700 9 Mikael Lundin, director 1) 150 000 36 150 6 Halvor Stenstadvold, director 2) 170 500 46 650 4 Ingelise Arntsen, director 290 500 69 950 9 GROUP Bengt Ekenstierna, director 290 500 9 Vilde Eriksen Bjerknes, employee-elected director 290 500 10 Thorbjørn Holøs, employee-elected director 290 500 69 950 10 Asbjørn Sevlejordet, employee-elected director 290 500 32 050 9 1) Was appointed board member in June 2018. 2) Left the Board in June 2018. 2017 STATKRAFT AS Board Audit Compensation Participation in NOK remuneration Committee Committee board meetings Thorhild Widvey, chair 484 000 49 900 10 Halvor Stenstadvold, deputy chair 341 000 93 300 10 Hilde Drønen, director 281 000 67 600 8 Peter Mellbye, director 281 000 31 000 10 Ingelise Arntsen, director 1) 140 500 33 800 3 Bengt Ekenstierna, director 281 000 10 Thorbjørn Holøs, employee-elected director 281 000 67 600 10 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Vilde Eriksen Bjerknes, employee-elected director 281 000 10 Asbjørn Sevlejordet, employee-elected director 281 000 31 000 10 Helene Biström, director 2) 140 500 33 800 5 1) Was appointed board member in June 2017. 2) Left the Board in June 2017. The Board has no remuneration agreements other than the directors’ fee and remuneration for participation in committee work, nor have any loans or surety been granted to directors of the Board. Total remuneration paid to the Board, Audit Committee and Compensation Committee in 2018 was NOK 2 887 500, NOK 306 400 and NOK 115 750, respectively. The respective amounts in 2017 were NOK 2 792 000, NOK 296 100 and NOK 111 900. Organisation THE BOARD’S STATEMENT REGARDING SALARIES AND OTHER The board of Statkraft has established a separate Compensation REMUNERATIONS TO SENIOR EXECUTIVES – 2018 Committee. The mandate of the committee is as follows: The board of Statkraft will contribute to a moderate, but competitive  Once a year prepare the board’s treatment of items relating to the development of executive pay in Statkraft. The principles and guidelines for CEO’s salary and conditions of employment. executive salary and other remunerations are formed accordingly. There  Prepare the Board’s statement on executive pay and other were no significant policy changes with regard to salaries and other compensation paid to senior executives. remunerations in 2018.  Prepare the Board’s treatment of all the fundamental issues relating to salary, bonus systems, pension and employment agreements and Statkraft AS follows the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Fisheries’s guidance similar for the executive management in Statkraft. for salary and other benefits to corporate management in state owned  Deal with specific issues related to compensation for employees in companies. the Statkraft Group to the extent that the Committee deems that these concern matters of particular importance for the Group’s reputation, Statkraft’s policy is to offer competitive terms, but not take a leading competitiveness and attractiveness as an employer. position. Upon deciding salaries and other remunerations in Statkraft, an  The CEO shall consult the Compensation Committee regarding the external position assessment system that ranks positions according to a salaries for the corporate executives and head of Corporate Audit recognized and widely used methodology is utilised. An annual survey is before they are decided upon. then conducted, evaluating how similarly ranked positions in the Norwegian labour market are compensated. Report on executive remuneration policy The CEO and corporate executives receive both a fixed salary and a This information, together with the general salary development in Statkraft, variable payment. forms the basis for determining compensation. Fixed salary The fixed salary is determined based on an assessment of the specific position and the market – as well as an assessment against Statkraft’s policy of offering competitive terms, but not take a leading position. When deciding the annual salary regulation, the average salary increases of other employees are also considered. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 114 Note 36 continued Variable salary Pension plans Statkraft has a variable remuneration scheme for the senior executives For wholly owned Norwegian subsidiaries, Statkraft has established a based on key performance indicators and individual goals. The purpose is defined contribution plan in Gjensidige Pensjonsforsikring AS and has a to drive operational performance and manage risks to achieve the closed defined benefit plan in the Government Pension Fund (SPK). objectives in the strategy. The CEO, Christian Rynning-Tønnesen, has a retirement age of 67 years, Statkraft has established a performance management process to ensure and will receive a pension of 66% of his annual salary, provided that he has clear relationship between the Group’s overall Strategic platform and been part of SPK during the entire 30-year vesting period. The other defined targets. Performance is reported and followed up through key corporate executives have a retirement age of 65 years at the earliest, with performance indicators (KPIs) in the Group scorecard. The key the right to 66% of their annual salary, provided that they have been part of performance indicators are based on the most relevant value drivers and SPK during the entire 30-year vesting period. strategic ambitions for the group. The targets are set to ensure value creation. Statkraft established a pension scheme funded out of current income for income above 12G in 2003. The scheme included all employees with an GROUP The variable remuneration scheme for Statkraft’s senior executives is annual salary over 12G, including the CEO and corporate executives. This developed to support the performance management process, establishing a scheme was closed to new employees in 2012. There is no established clear link between value-creating activities and individual variable new retirement pension scheme for annual salary over 12G, but an remuneration. additional salary system has been established that can be used for supplementary private pension savings. Additional salary is set at 18% of Below is a description of relevant categories of KPIs included in the variable ordinary salary over 12G. Group disability coverage relating to salaries remuneration scheme. The measurement is weighted on the individual’s over 12G has also been established. area of responsibility: i) Care for people and environment Employees with a salary above 12 G and date of hire prior to April 30 2012 Within this category Statkraft monitors that required legal, kept their pension agreements in the closed pension scheme. This practice environmental, social and ethical standards in the industry are was also applied for internal promotions to corporate management. followed. A main focus is on health, safety and security risks for Members of the closed scheme for income above 12G included in 2018 the STATKRAFT AS employees and reduction of negative environmental impact. CEO and four members of corporate management. Statkraft will for future Common health and safety targets are included for all members of internal promotions assume that the 12G restraint for pension schemes executive management. shall be made applicable for new members of corporate management ii) Financial indicators regardless of hire date in the company. Statkraft’s financial performance from market activities is measured through profitability KPIs, where Statkraft’s added value from energy Position change agreements management and other market activities are measured against the The CEO and one member of corporate management have agreements market. The main focus is to enhance value creation for Statkraft, regarding change of position after the age of 62. These are agreements measured by different KPIs with stretch targets. where, at any time after the employee has reached 62 years of age, the executive or the company has a mutual right to request to resign, or be iii) Operational indicators requested to resign, from his executive position without further justification. There are several KPIs to follow up operational performance. If any of the parties exercise this right, the executive should be offered CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Statkraft measures the utility-adjusted availability of the power another position with a salary of 75% of the executive’s pay – and working plants, i.e. the availability in times where Statkraft benefits from hours of up to 50% until the agreed-upon retirement age. The policy available plants. Moreover Statkraft follows up costs by measuring regarding executive remuneration has been amended and the arrangement the development of the cost base. Also for these indicators, the main is closed to new employees. focus is on enhanced value creation for Statkraft; measured by different KPIs with stretch targets Severance arrangements The mutual period of notice for the CEO is 6 months. For corporate For the CEO and corporate management, the variable remuneration has a executives, there is a mutual notice period of 3 months. After more than 2 maximum potential of 25 per cent of gross base salary. The individual years of employment, the employer’s period of notice is 6 months. bonus achievement may vary from 0 to 100%, based on an evaluation of performance against a defined set of targets. For the CEO, and two members of corporate management, agreements have been signed guaranteeing a special severance pay from the employer For the CEO and corporate management, targets are defined for strategic if notice is given by the employer with a shorter deadline than mentioned objectives as well as financial and operational performance. The CEO’s above. The agreement waives the employee’s rights in the Work variable pay is fully based on these targets while the variable pay for the Environment Act (Arbeidsmiljøloven) for protection against dismissal. If the executive vice presidents has a combined weighting of 70% of these targets employer uses this right of termination, the employee is entitled to a and a 30% weighting of individual targets on leadership and organisational severance payment of up to 12 months’ salary in excess of agreed notice development. period. The amount shall be paid monthly. Other variable elements Severance pay shall be reduced according to established rules if the Other variable elements include arrangements with a company car, employee receives other income within the payment period. These newspapers, phone and coverage of broadband communication in agreements are entered into in accordance with the guidelines for the accordance with established standards. employment conditions of managers in state owned enterprises and companies of 28 June 2004. The policy regarding executive remuneration has been changed, and the arrangement is closed to new employees. Terms for the CEO Fixed salary paid to the CEO for 2019 is NOK 5 309 000, with other terms as set out in this statement. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 115 Note 37 Related parties All subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements stated in note 24 and The individuals stated in note 36 are members of the executive note 38 are related parties of Statkraft. Intercompany balances and management or the Board and are also related parties of Statkraft. transactions between consolidated companies are eliminated in Statkraft’s consolidated financial statements and are not presented in this note. The table below shows transactions with related parties classified as associates or joint ventures that have not been eliminated in the consolidated financial statements. NOK million 2018 2017 Revenues 92 309 GROUP Expenses 314 1 318 Receivables at the end of the period 2 394 5 616 Liabilities at the end of the period 34 24 Significant transactions with the owner and companies controlled by the owner The shares in Statkraft AS are all owned by Statkraft SF, which is a company wholly owned by the Norwegian State. STATKRAFT AS NOK million 2018 2017 Gross operating revenues include: Concessionary sales at statutory prices 378 373 Net operating revenues includes: Energy purchases from Equinor 390 607 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Transmission costs to Statnett 1 498 1 239 Operating expenses include: Property tax and licence fees to Norwegian authorities 1 052 959 Financial expenses include: Interest expenses to Statkraft SF 33 35 Tax expenses include: Taxes payable to Norwegian authorities 6 706 3 577 Dividend and Group contribution from Statkraft AS to Statkraft SF 8 500 6 100 The energy purchase from Equinor shown above includes purchase of gas used either in the Group’s electricity production or resold on the market. Volumes and prices are based on long-term contracts negotiated at commercial terms. Transmission costs to Statnett are mainly grid tariff. The prices in this market are stipulated by the Norwegian Water Resources and Energy Directorate. Other transactions with related parties are conducted at commercial terms and conditions. Except for interest-bearing debt covered in note 30, there are no other significant items between Statkraft AS and Statkraft SF in the statement of financial position. Statkraft also has transactions and balances with other enterprises controlled by the Norwegian state, but their size, neither individually nor combined, have significance for Statkraft’s financial statements. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 116 Note 38 Consolidated companies Shares in consolidated subsidiaries Shareholding and Name Segment 1) Country Registered office Parent company voting share Hitra Vind AS WP Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Kjøllefjord Vind AS WP Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Smøla Vind 2 AS WP Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft Vind Utvikling DA WP Norway Kristiansand Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft European Wind and Solar Holding AS WP Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft Asset Holding AS EF,OA Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Baltic Cable AB EF Sweden Malmö Statkraft Asset Holding AS 100.00% GROUP Statkraft France SAS EF France Lyon Statkraft Asset Holding AS 100.00% Statkraft Markets BV MO Netherlands Amsterdam Statkraft Asset Holding AS 100.00% Statkraft Renewables Albania SHPK IP Albania Tirana Statkraft Markets BV 100.00% Devoll Hydropower Sh.A. IP Albania Tirana Statkraft Markets BV 100.00% Statkraft Solar Solutions Pte Ltd IP India New Delhi Statkraft Markets BV 100.00% Statkraft Sverige AB EF, WP Sweden Stockholm Statkraft Asset Holding AS 100.00% Gidekraft AB EF Sweden Stockholm Statkraft Sverige AB 90.10% Statkraft US Holding AS MO Norway Oslo Statkraft Asset Holding AS 100.00% Statkraft US LLC MO USA San Francisco Statkraft US Holding AS 100.00% Statkraft Värme AB DH Sweden Kungsbacka Statkraft Asset Holding AS 100.00% Statkraft Vind AB WP Sweden Stockholm Statkraft Asset Holding AS 100.00% STATKRAFT AS Statkraft Leasing AB WP Sweden Stockholm Statkraft Vind AB 100.00% Statkraft Sverige Vind AB WP Sweden Stockholm Statkraft Vind AB 100.00% Statkraft Vind Elnät AB WP Sweden Stockholm Statkraft SCA Vind AB 100.00% Statkraft Vind II AB WP Sweden Stockholm Statkraft Vind AB 100.00% Statkraft Ireland Limited WP Ireland Cork Statkraft Asset Holding AS 100.00% Winter Winds Limited WP Ireland Limerick Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Coole Wind Farm Ltd WP Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Greenwire Transmission Pentir Ltd WP Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Greenwire Transmission South Wales Ltd WP Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Jupiter Energy Supply Company Ltd WP Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Moanvane Wind Farm Ltd WP Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% North Kildare Wind Farm Ltd WP Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% North Meath Wind Farm Ltd WP Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Behy Renewables Energy Limited WP Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Fossy Wind Farm Limited WP Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Statkraft Asset Management Ltd WP Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Statkraft Development Projects Ltd WP Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Statkraft Ireland Projects Ltd WP Ireland Cork Statkraft Ireland Limited 100.00% Statkraft Carbon Invest AS MO Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft Elektrik Enerjisi Toptan Satis Ltd. Sti MO Turkey Istanbul Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft Energi AS MO, EF, WP Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft Tofte AS OA Norway Oslo Statkraft Energi AS 100.00% Statkraft Varme AS DH Norway Trondheim Statkraft Energi AS 100.00% Stjørdal Fjernvarme AS DH Norway Trondheim Statkraft Varme AS 85.00% Statkraft Enerji A.S. IP Turkey Istanbul Statkraft AS 100.00% Çakıt Enerji A.S. IP Turkey Istanbul Statkraft Enerji A.S. 100.00% Kargi Kizirlmak Enerji A.S. IP Turkey Istanbul Statkraft Enerji A.S. 100.00% Statkraft Financial Energy AB MO Sweden Stockholm Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft Forsikring AS OA Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft Western Balkan MO Serbia Beograd Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft Germany GmbH MO Germany Düsseldorf Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft Markets GmbH MO, EF Germany Düsseldorf Statkraft Germany GmbH 100.00% Statkraft Holding Herdecke GmbH EF Germany Düsseldorf Statkraft Markets GmbH 100.00% Statkraft Holding Knapsack GmbH EF Germany Düsseldorf Statkraft Markets GmbH 100.00% Knapsack Power GmbH & Co KG EF Germany Düsseldorf Statkraft Holding Knapsack GmbH 100.00% Knapsack Power Verwaltungs GmbH EF Germany Düsseldorf Knapsack Power GmbH & Co KG 100.00% Statkraft Markets Financial Services GmbH MO Germany Düsseldorf Statkraft Markets GmbH 100.00% Statkraft Trading GmbH MO Germany Düsseldorf Statkraft Markets GmbH 100.00% Statkraft Ventures GmbH MO Germany Düsseldorf Statkraft Markets GmbH 100.00% Statkraft Solar Deutschland GmbH MO Germany Düsseldorf Statkraft Germany GmbH 100.00% Wenumse Veld B.V. MO Netherlands Amsterdam Statkraft Germany GmbH 100.00% ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 117 Note 38 continued Shareholding and Name Segment 1) Country Registered office Parent company voting share Statkraft IH Invest AS IP Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft Brasil AS IP Norway Oslo Statkraft IH Invest AS 100.00% Statkraft Investimentos Ltda. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Brasil AS 100.00% Statkraft Energia do Brasil Ltda. IP, MO Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Investimentos Ltda. 100.00% Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Investimentos Ltda. 81.31% Esmeralda S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Enex O&M de Sistemas Elétricos Ltda. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Santa Laura S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Santa Rosa S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% GROUP Moinho S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Macaúbas Energética S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Novo Horizonte Energética S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Seabra Energética S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Energen Energias Renováveis S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 99.99% Monel Monjolinho Energética S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Santa Fé Energia S.A IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Tamar PCH S.A. IP Brazil Florianopolis Statkraft Energias Renováveis S.A. 100.00% Statkraft IH Holding AS IP Norway Oslo Statkraft IH Invest AS 100.00% Statkraft Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd. IP Netherlands Amsterdam Statkraft IH Holding AS 100.00% STATKRAFT AS Himal Power Ltd. IP Nepal Kathmandu Statkraft Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd. 57.07% Statkraft Holding Chile Pte. Ltd. IP Netherlands Amsterdam Statkraft Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd. 100.00% Statkraft Chile Inversiones Electricas Ltd. IP Chile Santiago Statkraft Holding Chile Pte. Ltd. 100.00% Statkraft Market Services Chile S.A. IP Chile Santiago Statkraft Chile Inversiones Electricas Ltd. 100.00% Empresa Eléctrica Pilmaiquén S.A. IP Chile Santiago Statkraft Chile Inversiones Electricas Ltd. 99.39% Empresa Eléctrica Rucatayo S.A. IP Chile Santiago Empresa Eléctrica Pilmaiquén S.A. 100.00% Transrucatayo S.A IP Chile Santiago Empresa Eléctrica Rucatayo S.A. 100.00% Statkraft Chile Tinguiririca SCC IP Chile Santiago Statkraft Chile Inversiones Electricas Ltd. 100.00% Statkraft Holding Peru Pte. Ltd. IP Netherlands Amsterdam Statkraft Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd. 100.00% Statkraft Peru Holding S.A.C. IP Peru Lima Statkraft Holding Peru Pte. Ltd. 100.00% CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Statkraft Peru S.A. IP Peru Lima Statkraft Peru Holding S.AC. 100.00% Inversiones Shaqsa S.A.C. IP Peru Lima Statkraft Peru S.A. 100.00% Tidong Power Generation Private Ltd IP India Shimla Statkraft IH Holding AS 100.00% Statkraft India Pvt. Ltd. IP India New Delhi Statkraft Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd. 100.00% Statkraft Markets Pvt. Ltd. MO India New Delhi Statkraft Holding Singapore Pte. Ltd. 100.00% Statkraft Industrial Holding AS IO Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% Skagerak Energi AS IO Norway Porsgrunn Statkraft Industrial Holding AS 66.62% Skagerak Kraft AS IO Norway Porsgrunn Skagerak Energi AS 100.00% Grunnåi Kraftverk AS IO Norway Porsgrunn Skagerak Kraft AS 55.00% Sauland Kraftverk AS IO Norway Hjartdal Skagerak Kraft AS 67.00% Skagerak Nett AS IO Norway Porsgrunn Skagerak Energi AS 100.00% Skagerak Varme AS IO Norway Porsgrunn Skagerak Energi AS 100.00% Skien Fjernvarme AS IO Norway Skien Skagerak Varme AS 51.00% Statkraft Brussel Sprl OA Belgium Brussels Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft Treasury Centre SA OA Belgium Brussels Statkraft AS 100.00% Statkraft UK Ltd. WP, MO United Kingdom London Statkraft AS 100.00% Lluest Y Gwynt Ltd WP United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 79.00% Slickly Wind Ltd WP United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% LyG SPV Ltd WP United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Ackron Wind Farm Ltd WP United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Windy Rig Wind Farm Ltd WP United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Keith Storage Solutions Ltd WP United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Twentyshilling Ltd WP United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Andershaw Wind Power Ltd. WP United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Statkraft Energy Ltd. EF United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 100.00% Rheidol 2008 Trustees Ltd. EF United Kingdom London Statkraft Energy Ltd. 100.00% Statkraft Pure Energy Ltd. MO United Kingdom London Statkraft UK Ltd. 95.00% Bryt Energy Storage MO United Kingdom London Statkraft Pure Energy 100.00% Bryt Energy Ltd MO United Kingdom London Statkraft Pure Energy 100.00% Statkraft Vind Holding AS WP Norway Oslo Statkraft AS 100.00% 1) EF: European flexible generation, MO: Market operations, IP: International power, WP: Wind power, DH: District heating, IO: Industrial ownership, OA: Other activities. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 118 Statkraft AS Financial Statements Income statement Statkraft AS parent company GROUP NOK million Note 2018 2017 Operating revenues 23 1 009 1 055 Salaries and payroll cost 5, 6 -797 -787 Depreciation 10 -48 -56 Other operating expenses 7, 20, 23 -805 -688 Operating expenses -1 650 -1 531 STATKRAFT AS Operating profit (EBIT) -641 -476 Revenues from investments in subsidiaries and associates 8, 23 17 674 22 148 Financial income 8, 23 850 1 019 Financial costs 8, 23 -969 -1 151 Net realised and unrealised securities 8, 23 704 1 158 Net realised and unrealised currency and derivatives 8 -465 -2 897 Net financial items 17 794 20 277 Profit before tax 17 153 19 801 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Tax expense 9 -161 -263 Profit for the year 16 992 19 538 Appropriation of profit for the year and equity transfers Dividends payable 15 8 500 6 100 Transfer to/from retained earnings 15 8 492 13 438 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 119 Statement of Financial Position Statkraft AS parent company NOK million Note 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Assets Deferred tax asset 9 424 540 Property, plant and equipment 10 222 250 Investments in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements 11 92 828 78 973 Derivatives 19, 23 12 9 GROUP Other non-current financial assets 12, 23 15 654 15 794 Non-current assets 109 140 95 566 Receivables 13, 23 10 451 26 290 Derivatives 19, 23 301 754 Cash and cash equivalents 14 19 954 11 985 Current assets 30 706 39 029 Assets 139 846 134 595 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES STATKRAFT AS Paid-in capital 15 56 402 56 402 Retained earnings 15 21 794 13 375 Equity 78 196 69 777 Provisions 16 995 886 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 3, 17, 23 27 822 33 887 Derivatives 19, 23 472 718 Non-current liabilities 29 289 35 491 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Short-term interest-bearing liabilities 3, 17, 23 22 494 20 909 Taxes payable 9 20 Derivatives 19, 23 700 1 602 Other interest-free liabilities 18, 23 9 147 6 816 Current liabilities 32 361 29 327 Equity and liabilities 139 846 134 595 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 120 Statement of Cash Flow Statkraft AS parent company NOK million Note 2018 2017 CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES Profit before tax 17 153 19 801 Gain/loss on sale of property, plant and equipment -5 Depreciation 10 48 56 Write-downs/reversal of write-downs from previous years 8 -708 -1 178 GROUP Gain/loss on sale of shares 5 80 Unrealised changes in value -698 -866 Changes in long-term items 18 452 Changes in other short-term items 701 1 653 Booked income from dividend and group contribution with no cash effects -8 162 -21 891 Group contribution and dividend received 12 259 10 248 Taxes paid -7 -45 Cash flow from operating activities A 20 609 8 306 STATKRAFT AS CASH FLOW FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES Investments in property, plant and equipment -20 -8 Proceeds from sale of property, plant and equipment 7 Loans to subsidiaries and associates -3 400 -26 Repayment of loans from subsidiaries and associates 15 262 7 624 Investments in subsidiaries and associates -13 992 -9 150 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Capital reduction in subsidiaries and associates 67 2 641 Divestments of shares 360 86 Cash flow from investing activities B -1 723 1 174 CASH FLOW FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES Changes in cash pool -1 074 1 802 New debt 358 5 247 Repayment of debt -4 161 -7 693 Dividend and Group contribution paid -6 040 -2 052 Cash flow from financing activities C -10 917 -2 696 Net change in cash and cash equivalents A+B+C 7 969 6 784 Cash and cash equivalents 01.01 14 11 985 5 201 Cash and cash equivalents 31.12 14 19 954 11 985 Unused commited credit lines 9 167 10 080 Unused overdraft facilities 1 000 1 000 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The cash flow statement has been prepared using the indirect method. The statement starts with the company’s result for the year in order to show cash flow generated by regular operating, investing and financing activities respectively. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 121 Notes Statkraft AS parent company Index of notes to Statkraft AS parent company financial statement Page Page Note 1 Significant accounting policies 122 Note 13 Receivables 132 Note 2 Market risk 123 Note 14 Cash and cash equivalents 133 Note 3 Analysis of market risk 124 Note 15 Equity 133 Note 4 Hedge accounting 125 Note 16 Provisions 133 GROUP Note 5 Payroll costs and number of full-time equivalents 125 Note 17 Interest-bearing liabilities 134 Note 6 Pensions 126 Note 18 Other interest-free liabilities 134 Note 7 Other operating expenses 127 Note 19 Derivatives 135 Note 8 Financial items 128 Note 20 Fees paid to external auditors 136 Note 9 Income Taxes 129 Note 21 Obligations and guarantees 136 Note 10 Property, plant and equipment 130 Note 22 Disputes 136 Note 11 Shares in subsidiaries, associates and Note 23 Related parties 136 joint arrangements 131 Note 24 Transactions 139 Note 12 Other non-current financial assets 132 Note 25 Subsequent events 139 STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 122 Note 1 Significant accounting policies Gains/losses from sale of property, plant and equipment are treated as GENERAL INFORMATION operating revenues or expenses. The annual accounts for Statkraft AS have been prepared in accordance Classification and valuation of assets and debt Assets intended for with the Accounting Act and generally accepted accounting principles in lasting ownership or use are classified as fixed assets. Other assets are Norway (Norwegian GAAP). classified as current assets. Receivables that will be repaid within 12 months are classified as current assets. Corresponding criterias are used The descriptions of accounting policies in the statements and notes form part to classify current and long-term liabilities. of the overall description of accounting policies: Fixed assets are valued at cost, but are impaired when the reduction in  Statement of cash flow value is not expected to be transitory. Impairment is reversed when the  Pensions Note 6 GROUP Research and development costs Note 7 basis for the impairment no longer exists. Fixed assets with limited useful   Income taxes Note 9 economic life are depreciated according to schedule.  Property, plant and equipment Note 10  Investments in subsidiaries, associates and Note 11 Current assets are valued at the lower of cost and fair value. Short-term joint arrangements loans are recognised in the balance sheet at the nominal received amount  Other non-current financial assets Note 12 at the time of establishment.  Receivables Note 13  Cash and cash equivalents Note 14 Contingent liabilities Contingent liabilities are recognised if settlement is  Long-term liabilities Note 17 more likely than not. Best estimates are used when calculating settlement value. VALUATION AND CLASSIFICATION PRINCIPLES Foreign currency Money items denominated in foreign currency are STATKRAFT AS valued at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Realised and Uncertainties in estimates The accounts are based on assumptions and unrealised currency effects are presented as net in the financial estimates that affect the book value of assets, liabilities, income and costs. statements. Transactions denominated in foreign currency are translated The best estimate at the time when the accounts are rendered form the using the exchange rate at the transaction date. basis, but the actual figures may deviate from the initial estimates. Principles for recognition of income and expensing of costs Recognition of revenues from sale of goods and services takes place when earned, whilst expensing of costs takes place in accordance with the accrual principle. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 123 Note 2 Market risk RISK AND RISK MANAGEMENT OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS IN LIQUIDITY RISK GENERAL Statkraft AS assumes a liquidity risk because the terms of its financial The risk management policy is based upon assuming the right risk based on obligations are not matched to the cash flows generated by its assets. the Group’s ability and willingness to take risks, expertise, financial strength Statkraft AS has good borrowing opportunities from the Norwegian and and development plans. The purpose of risk management policy is to international money markets and from the banking market. Credit lines and identify threats and opportunities for the Group, and to manage the risk overdraft facilities have been established to secure access to short-term within an acceptable level. The central treasury function in Statkraft AS financing. coordinates and manages the financial risks relating to currency, interest rates, credit and liquidity of the Group. A more detailed explanation of how Liquidity forecasts are prepared as an important part of the daily liquidity GROUP these are managed will be provided in the following. management and for planning future financing requirements. The liquidity reserve is a tool for risk management and functions as a buffer in relation to the liquidity forecast. FOREIGN EXCHANGE AND INTEREST RATE RISK Statkraft is exposed to foreign exchange and interest rate risk. Statkraft CREDIT RISK uses interest rate and foreign currency derivatives in addition to debt in foreign currency to mitigate these risks. Funding, forwards and swaps in Credit risk is the risk of a party to a financial instrument inflicting a financial foreign currency together with interest rate swaps are used to achieve the loss on the other party by not fulfilling its obligations. Statkraft AS assumes desired currency and interest structure of the company’s debt portfolio. credit risk when placing surplus liquidity and when trading in financial instruments. Statkraft’s methods for managing these risks are described below: STATKRAFT AS The liquidity portfolio consists of investment grade rated certificates of Foreign exchange risk Statkraft AS manages the Group’s currency risk. deposits/commercial paper and short term bonds with fixed or floating Statkraft incurs currency risk in the form of transaction risk, mainly in coupon rates. The minimum rating requirement is BBB/Ba2 from S&P and connection with energy sales revenues, investments and dividends. Moody’s. The limits are stipulated for the individual counterparty using Balance sheet risk is related to shareholdings in foreign subsidiaries, credit rating assigned by one of the main rating agencies. Internal credit associates and joint operations. rating may be used when ratings have not been assigned by the credit rating agencies. The credit limits are managed by the use of volume limits, Statkraft’s settlement currency at the Nordic power exchange Nord Pool is duration limits and rating limits. The liquidity portfolio is managed and EUR, and all power contracts traded in the Nordic power exchange Nasdaq optimised within the given credit mandate, financial guidelines and internal are denominated in EUR. In addition most of Statkraft’s bilateral power strategy. Excess liquidity is managed in a conservative manner purchase agreements in Norway and all power purchase and sales abroad considering credit risk, diversification, liquidity and return. Different CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY are denominated in foreign currency. The objective of Statkraft’s hedging is instruments and counterparties are used to achieve this. to secure the NOK value of future cash flows exposed to changes in foreign currency rates. The currency exposure in Statkraft is treated in accordance Statkraft AS has entered into agreements under which collateral is with the company’s treasury strategy. Economic hedging is achieved by transferred or received based on the mark-to-market value of interest rate using financial derivatives and debt in foreign currencies as hedging and foreign exchange derivatives between counterparties. Collateral is instruments. Few of these hedging relationships fulfil the requirements of transferred or received on a weekly basis. Counterparty credit risk is hedge accounting. significantly mitigated by collateral under these agreements. Interest rate risk Statkraft’s interest rate exposure is related to its debt portfolio. The management of interest rate risk is based on a balance of keeping interest cost low over time and contributing to stabilise the Group’s cash flows with regards to interest rate changes. The interest rate risk is monitored by having duration as the measure. Statkraft shall at all times keep the average duration of its debt portfolio within the range of 2 to 5 years. Compliance with the limit for currency and interest rate risk is followed up continuously by the middle-office function. Responsibility for entering into and following up the various positions has been delegated and allocated to separate organisational units. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 124 Note 3 Analysis of market risk Specification of debt by currency 1) NOK million 2018 2017 Debt in NOK 4 253 13 018 Debt in EUR 23 635 19 545 Debt in USD 2 824 Debt in BRL 361 Debt in GBP 423 2 662 Total 31 496 35 225 GROUP 1)The specification includes long-term interest-bearing liabilities, the first-year instalment on long-term interest-bearing debt, certificate loans, the currency effect of allocated forward exchange rate contracts and the currency effects of combined interest rate and currency swaps. Specifications of debt by currency includes effects from allocated forward exchange rate contracts and combined interest rate and currency swaps, since Statkraft uses these derivatives to achieve the desired currency structure for the company's debt portfolio. Specification of interest by currency 2018 2017 Nominal average interest rate, NOK 3.30% 4.00% Nominal average interest rate, EUR 2.10% 2.60% Nominal average interest rate, USD 3.30% Nominal average interest rate, BRL 8.50% STATKRAFT AS Nominal average interest rate, GBP 0.70% 0.50% Fixed interest rate debt portfolio 1) Future interest rate adjustments NOK million 0-1 year 1–3 years 3–5 years 5 years and later Total Debt in NOK -668 -1 329 6 250 4 253 Debt in EUR 13 754 2 537 -53 7 398 23 636 Debt in USD 2 824 2 824 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Debt in BRL 361 361 Debt in GBP 423 423 Total fixed interest 2018 16 694 1 208 -53 13 648 31 496 Total fixed interest 2017 15 395 5 733 573 13 524 35 225 1)The specification includes long-term interest-bearing liabilities, first-year instalment on long-term interest-bearing debt, certificate loans, the currency effect of allocated forward exchange rate contracts and the currency effect of combined interest rate and currency swaps. The split between years also take into account maturity of allocated forward exchange rate contracts, interest rate adjustments in interest rate swaps and combined interest rate and currency swaps. Negative figures reflect that Statkraft receives fixed interest from interest rate swaps. Repayment schedule NOK million 0-1 year 1–2 years 2–3 years 3–4 years 4–5 years 5 years and later Total Instalments on debt to Statkraft SF (back-to400 400 back agreement) Bonds issued in the Norwegian market 1 000 3 000 800 1 500 750 7 050 Debt issued in non-Norwegian markets 2 795 6 942 4 943 9 885 24 565 Other debt 1 1 2 Currency effect of allocated forward exchange rate contracts and currency effects of -164 36 72 -464 -520 combined interest rate and currency swaps Total repayment schedule 2018 4 031 3 037 872 7 979 4 943 10 635 31 496 Total repayment schedule 2017 2 136 5 965 3 000 800 7 920 15 404 35 225 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 125 Note 4 Hedge accounting object and hedging instrument are deemed to be approximately the same. GENERAL INFORMATION The inefficiency is recognised in the income statement. The hedges expire during the period 2019-2022. Fair value hedging Statkraft AS treats some loan arrangements as fair value hedges. Issued bond have been designated as hedging objects in the hedging relationships, and the associated interest rate swaps have been SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES designated as hedging instruments. Hedging The accounting treatment of financial derivatives designated as The hedging objects are issued fixed-interest bonds with a total nominal hedging instruments is recorded in line with the principles for fair value value of EUR 180 million and NOK 2900 million. The hedging instruments hedging. In the event of hedging of assets or liabilities in the balance are interest rate swaps with a nominal value of respectively EUR 180 million sheet, the derivative is recognised at fair value. GROUP and NOK 2900 million, entered into with major banks as the counterparties. The agreements swap interest rate from fixed to floating 3-month and 6The carrying value of the hedged asset or liability is adjusted for the value month EURIBOR or NIBOR. The critical terms of the hedging of the financial derivative’s change in value which is related to hedged risk. Fair value of hedging instruments NOK million 2018 2017 Hedging instruments used in fair value hedging 185 365 STATKRAFT AS Other information on fair value hedging NOK million 2018 2017 Net gain (+)/loss (-) in income statement on hedging instruments -260 -932 Net gain (+)/loss (-) in income statement on hedging objects, in relation to the hedged risk 261 934 Hedge inefficiency 1 2 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Note 5 Payroll costs and number of full-time equivalents NOK million 2018 2017 Salaries 495 510 Employers' national insurance contribution 100 93 Pension costs 1) 113 106 Other benefits 89 78 Total 797 787 1) Pension costs are described in further detail in note 6. Remuneration to the Chairman and the Board of Directors are disclosed in note 36 in the Group accounts. 2018 2017 Average number of full-time equivalents 455 462 Number of full-time equivalents as of 31.12 458 453 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 126 Note 6 Pensions Unfunded defined benefit schemes In addition to the above, Statkraft GENERAL INFORMATION AS has entered into an additional pension agreement that provides all employees whose pensionable incomes exceed 12G with a retirement and Statkraft AS is obligated to and fulfills the requirements of the act disability pension equivalent to 66% of that portion of their pensionable regarding mandatory occupational pension scheme (“Lov om obligatorisk income exceeding 12G. The agreement was closed 30 April 2012. tjenestepensjon”). Existing members of the closed agreement who leave the company before Defined contribution schemes A defined contribution scheme is a pensionable age receive a deferred pension entitlement for the scheme retirement benefit scheme where Statkraft AS pays fixed contributions to a above 12G, provided they have at least three years’ pension entitlements. fund manager without incurring further obligations for the company once the payment has been made. The payments are expensed as salaries and GROUP payroll costs. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Statkraft AS’ pension scheme for new employees from 1 January 2014 is a The liability recognised in the balance sheet which relates to the defined defined contribution scheme. The contributions are 6% of the pensionable benefit scheme is the present value of the future retirement benefits that salary up to 7.1 of the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (G), and are reduced by the fair value of the plan assets. 18% of the pensionable salary between 7.1G and 12G. In addition to Net pension fund assets for overfunded schemes are classified as nonretirement pensions, the contribution scheme also entails risk covers. current assets and recognised in the balance sheet at fair value. Net retirement benefit liabilities for underfunded schemes and non-funded Defined benefit schemes A defined benefit scheme is a retirement schemes that are covered by operations are classified as long-term benefit scheme that defines the retirement benefits that an employee will liabilities. receive on retirement. The retirement benefit is normally set as a STATKRAFT AS percentage of the employee’s salary. To be able to receive full retirement Gains and losses attributable to changes in actuarial assumptions or base benefits, contributions will normally be required to be paid over a period of data are recognised directly against equity. between 30 and 40 years. Employees who have not made full contributions will have their retirement benefits proportionately reduced. The net retirement benefit cost for the period is included under salaries and payroll costs, and comprises the total of the retirement benefits Funded defined benefit schemes Statkraft AS has organised their accrued during the period, the interest on the estimated liability and the defined benefit scheme in the National Pension Fund (SPK). The defined projected yield on pension fund assets. benefit schemes cover retirement, disability and survivor pensions. The retirement schemes provide pension benefits amounting to 66% of ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS pensionable income, up to 12G, with maximum accrual. Statkraft AS also offers early retirement from the age of 62 under the Norwegian early CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Present value of accrued pension entitlements for defined benefit schemes retirement pension scheme. and present value of accrued pension entitlements for the year are calculated using the accrued benefits method. Net pension liabilities in the Statkraft AS pays an annual premium and is responsible for the financing balance sheet are adjusted for expected future salary increases until of the scheme in the National Pension Fund (SPK). Pension benefits from retirement age. Calculations are based on staff numbers and salary data the SPK are guaranteed by the Norwegian state (Section 1 of the Pension at the end of the year. The discount rate is based on high-quality corporate Act). The SPK scheme is not asset based, but management of the pension bonds (covered bonds – OMF). fund assets is simulated as though the assets were invested in Norwegian The actuarial gain recognised directly in equity during the year is mainly government bonds. In simulations it is assumed that bonds are held to due to changes in assumptions for discount rate and salary adjustments. maturity. The pension benefit scheme in SPK was closed for new employees 1 January 2014. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 127 Note 6 continued The following assumptions are used 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Discount rate and projected yield 2.60% 2.40% Salary adjustment 2.75% 2.50% Adjustment of current pensions 1.75% 1.50% Adjustment of the National Insurance Scheme’s basic amount (G) 2.50% 2.25% Demographic factors for mortality and disability K2013/IR73 K2013/IR73 Members of defined benefit schemes 2018 2017 GROUP Employees 285 305 Pensioners and people with deferred entitlements 459 447 Pension cost recognised in the income statement Defined benefit schemes NOK million 2018 2017 Present value of accrued pension entitlements for the year 69 68 Interest costs 36 31 Projected yield on pension assets -18 -16 STATKRAFT AS Employee contributions -5 -5 Employers' national insurance contribution 12 11 Net pension cost defined benefit schemes 94 89 Defined contribution schemes Employers payments 19 17 Total pension costs 113 106 Breakdown of net defined benefit pension liability CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY NOK million 2018 2017 Present value of accrued pension entitlements for funded defined benefit schemes 1 270 1 146 Fair value of pension assets 827 799 Net pension liability for funded defined benefit schemes 443 347 Present value of accrued pension entitlements for unfunded defined benefit schemes 412 403 Employers' national insurance contribution 121 106 Net pension liabilities 976 855 Actuarial gains and losses recognised directly in equity NOK million 2018 2017 Accumulated actuarial gains and losses recognised directly in equity before tax 31.12 352 261 Note 7 Other operating expenses SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Principles for expensing of costs Expensing of costs takes place in accordance with the accrual principle, whilst own research and development expenses are expensed as incurred. NOK million 2018 2017 Purchase of third-party services 1) 379 272 Materials 17 15 Rent 103 126 IT expenses 150 143 Marketing 12 18 Travel expenses 31 32 Insurance 10 5 Miscellaneous expenses 103 77 Total 805 688 1) Purchase of third-party services mainly includes consultants and other services. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 128 Note 8 Financial items Revenues from investments in subsidiaries and associates NOK million 2018 2017 Dividend from group companies 15 874 17 861 Group contribution 1 800 4 287 Total 17 674 22 148 Financial income NOK million 2018 2017 Interest income from group companies 607 761 GROUP Interest income 170 144 Other financial income 73 114 Total 850 1 019 Financial costs NOK million 2018 2017 Interest expense to group companies -158 -107 Interest expenses external debt -792 -957 Other financial costs -19 -87 STATKRAFT AS Total -969 -1 151 Net realised and unrealised securities NOK million 2018 2017 Write-downs/reversal of write-downs from previous years 1) 708 1 178 Gains and losses on securities, realised and unrealised -4 -20 Total 704 1 158 1)The reversal of write-downs from previous years are related to the shares in Statkraft Germany GmbH and Statkraft Enerji A.S. The write-down is related to Statkraft Vind Utvikling DA CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY (previously SAE Vind DA). Based on an assessment of impairment considerations of German gas-fired power plants, valuation of trading activities and currency effects, previous years write-downs of NOK 270 million have been reversed in 2018. In 2017, an assessment of the same parameters concluded with a reversal of previous years write-downs with NOK 1178 million. Previous years write-downs of shares in Statkraft Enerji A.S. have been reversed in 2018 with NOK 522 million due to currency effects and increased valuation of underlying assets. The shares in Statkraft Vind Utvikling DA has been impaired with NOK 85 million based on a valuation of the assets in the company. Net realised and unrealised currency and derivatives NOK million 2018 2017 Currency gains and losses, realised -1 073 -2 072 Currency gains and losses, unrealised 439 -1 798 Gains and losses derivatives, realised 2) -54 -79 Gains and losses derivatives, unrealised 223 1 052 Total -465 -2 897 2) Prepayment of EUR 219 million debt (bonds), resulted in NOK 148 million loss. Novation of loans to equity accounted investments and novation of interest rate swaps, resulted in NOK 90 million gain. Net financial items 17 794 20 277 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 129 Note 9 Income taxes Deferred tax liabilities/assets are calculated on the basis of temporary SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES differences between the accounting and tax values and the tax effect of losses carried forward. Deferred tax assets are only recognised in the Statkraft AS is subject to tax on profits that is calculated in accordance balance sheet to the extent it is probable that the assets will be realised in with ordinary tax rules. The tax charge in the income statement comprises the future. Tax related to equity transactions is recognised in equity. taxes payable and changes in deferred tax liabilities/assets. Taxes payable are calculated on the basis of the taxable income for the year. GROUP The tax expense in the income statement NOK million 2018 2017 Income tax payable 9 Withholding tax 7 1 Previous years payable tax expense 11 -3 Change in deferred tax 134 265 Tax expense in the income statement 161 263 Taxes payable in the balance sheet STATKRAFT AS NOK million 2018 2017 Income tax payable on profit for the year 9 Previous years taxes payable 11 Taxes payable in the balance sheet 20 Reconciliation of nominal tax rate and effective tax rate NOK million 2018 2017 Profit before tax 17 153 19 801 Expected tax expense at a nominal rate of 23% (24%) 3 945 4 752 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Effect on taxes of Tax-free income -3 651 -4 287 Changes relating to previous years 1 -3 Withholding tax 7 1 Impairment/reversal of impairment previous years -182 -283 Changes in tax rates 15 20 Other permanent differences, net 26 63 Tax expense 161 263 Effective tax rate 1% 1% Breakdown of deferred tax NOK million 2018 2017 Current assets/current liabilities -406 -598 Derivatives -463 -932 Other long-term items 15 94 Property, plant and equipment -98 -58 Pension liabilities -976 -855 Total temporary differences and tax loss carry forward -1 928 -2 349 Total deferred tax (+)/deferred tax asset (-) -424 -540 Applied tax rate 22% 23% Deferred tax (+)/deferred tax asset (-) as of 01.01 -540 -790 Recognised in income 134 265 Recognised directly in equity -18 -15 Deferred tax (+)/deferred tax asset (-) as of 31.12 -424 -540 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 130 Note 10 Property, plant and equipment SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Property, plant and equipment are recognised in the balance sheet and depreciated on a straight-line basis from the time the property, plant or equipment starts regular operations. The acquisition cost consists solely of directly attributable costs. Indirect administration costs are excluded when recognising own hours in the balance sheet. GROUP Buildings, office Assets under NOK million equipment and other construction Total Balance at 01.01 247 4 250 Additions 11 9 20 Transferred from assets under construction 3 -3 Disposals -1 -1 Depreciation and impairment -48 -48 Balance at 31.12 212 10 222 Cost 31.12 569 10 579 STATKRAFT AS Accumulated depreciation and impairment as of 31.12 -357 -357 Balance at 31.12 212 10 222 Period of depreciation 3–75 years CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 131 Note 11 Shares in subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements The investment is valued at cost for the shares unless impairment has SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES been necessary. Impairment is done when the reduction in value is due to reasons that cannot be considered transitory. Impairment is reversed Investment in subsidiaries, associated companies and joint when the basis for the impairment no longer exists. arrangements Subsidiaries are companies where Statkraft AS has controlling influence over financial and operational principles. Controlling Dividends and group contributions received are recognised as income in influence is normally achieved when the company owns more than 50% of the same year as allocated by the subsidiary, while dividends from other the voting shares. Associated companies are companies where Statkraft companies are recognised in accordance with the cash principle. If the AS has significant influence. Significant influence is normally deemed to dividend exceeds the share of retained profits after the purchase, the exist where the company owns or controls from 20 to 50% of the voting excess part represents repayment of invested capital and the shares. Joint arrangements are where Statkraft shares control of a disbursements received are deducted from the value of the investment in GROUP company together with another party. the balance sheet. Shareholding and NOK million Registered office voting share Equity 31.12.2018 1) Net profit 2018 1) Carrying value Shares in subsidiaries Hitra Vind AS Oslo 100.00% 112 5 95 Kjøllefjord Vind AS Oslo 100.00% 106 15 102 Renewable Energies and Photovoltaics Spain S.L. Malaga 70.00% STATKRAFT AS Smøla Vind 2 AS Oslo 100.00% 243 34 150 Statkraft Asset Holding AS Oslo 100.00% 29 868 1 216 24 248 Statkraft Brussels SPRL Brussels 99.90% 2 -3 1 Statkraft Carbon Invest AS Oslo 100.00% 5 1 4 Statkraft Elektrik Enerjisi Toptan Satıs¸ Ltd. Sirketi Istanbul 100.00% 13 -2 44 Statkraft Energi AS Oslo 100.00% 15 149 5 886 14 295 Statkraft Enerji A.S. Istanbul 100.00% 1 839 47 2 652 Statkraft European Wind and Solar Holding AS Oslo 100.00% 1 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Statkraft Financial Energy AB Stockholm 100.00% 22 4 1 Statkraft Forsikring AS Oslo 100.00% 405 13 80 Statkraft Germany GmbH Düsseldorf 100.00% 7 431 -104 7 690 Statkraft IH Invest AS Oslo 100.00% 15 362 171 16 963 Statkraft Industrial Holding AS Oslo 100.00% 13 623 1 096 17 938 Statkraft Treasury Centre SA Brussels 100.00% 25 3 1 Statkraft UK Ltd. London 100.00% 7 302 5 407 5 759 Statkraft Vind Holding AS Oslo 100.00% 2 981 27 2 725 Statkraft Vind Utvikling DA2) Oslo 62.00% 2 -1 2 Statkraft Western Balkans d.o.o. Belgrade 100.00% 15 28 Total subsidiaries 92 776 Associates and joint arrangements Grønn Kontakt AS Kristiansand 47.50% 48 -25 52 Total associates and joint arrangements 52 Total 92 828 1) Based on preliminary unaudited financial statements 2018. 2) Statkraft Asset Holding AS bought the remaining 38 % of the shares from Agder Energi AS in 2018. The name was changed from Statkraft Agder Energi Vind DA to Statkraft Vind Utvikling DA. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 132 Note 12 Other non-current financial assets SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Long-term share investments and shareholdings All long-term investments are treated in accordance with the lowest value principle. NOK million 2018 2017 Loans to group companies 15 632 15 199 Loans to associates and joint ventures 562 GROUP Other shares and securities 22 33 Total 15 654 15 794 Note 13 Receivables STATKRAFT AS SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Accounts receivable and other receivables are recognised at nominal value after the deduction of expected loss. Loss allocations are made on the basis of individual evaluations of each receivable. NOK million 2018 2017 Accounts receivable 11 7 Receivables related to cash collateral 518 1 030 Group cash pooling receivable 15 1 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Short-term receivables from group companies 1) 9 775 25 048 Other receivables 132 204 Total 10 451 26 290 1) Short-term receivables from group companies comprise short-term loans, dividends and group contribution from subsidiaries. As of 31 December 2018 no provision for bad debt has been identified. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 133 Note 14 Cash and cash equivalents SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES The line item cash and cash equivalents also includes certificates and bonds with short residual terms at the time of acquisition. Cash pool deposits and loans to subsidiaries are reported as net values, and the corresponding items are classified gross either as cash pool receivable or cash pool debt (note 13 and 17). NOK million 2018 2017 Cash and cash deposits 12 074 8 831 Money market funds, certificates 7 880 3 154 GROUP Total 19 954 11 985 Statkraft AS has unused committed credit lines of NOK 9167 million and unused overdraft facilities of NOK 1000 million. Note 15 Equity STATKRAFT AS Paid-in capital Share premium Retained Total NOK million Share capital account earnings equity Equity as of 01.01.17 33 400 20 862 54 261 Profit for 2017 19 538 19 538 Actuarial gains/losses pensions -63 -63 Dividends 2017 -6 100 -6 100 Capital contribution 1) 200 1 940 2 140 Equity as of 31.12.17 33 600 22 802 13 375 69 777 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Profit for 2018 16 992 16 992 Actuarial gains/losses pensions -74 -74 Dividends 2018 -8 500 -8 500 Equity as of 31.12.18 33 600 22 802 21 794 78 196 1) The capital contribution was carried out as conversion of debt to equity. The parent company has a share capital of NOK 33.6 billion, divided into 200 million shares, each with a par value of NOK 168. All shares have the same voting rights and are owned by Statkraft SF, which is a Norwegian state-owned company, established and domiciled in Norway. Statkraft SF is wholly owned by the Norwegian state, through the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Fisheries. Note 16 Provisions NOK million 2018 2017 Pension liabilities 1) 975 855 Other provisions 20 31 Total 995 886 1) Pension liabilities are described in further detail in note 6. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 134 Note 17 Interest-bearing liabilities SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES Long-term liabilities Funding costs and early redemption penalty or discount are recognised in accordance with the effective interest rate method (amortised cost) for fixed interest debt. The first year’s repayments relating to long-term debt are presented as short-term liabilities. Short-term liabilities Market settlements for derivatives connected with financial activities (cash collateral) are recognised in the balance sheet as receivable or short-term liabilities. Cash collateral is a payment to/from counterparties as security for the net unrealised gains and losses that Statkraft AS has on interest rate swaps, combined interest rate and currency swaps and forward exchange contracts (see also note 13). GROUP Repurchase of debt Repurchase of issued bonds are recognised as repayment of debt and any gain or loss is recognised up front in the net financial items. NOK million 2018 2017 Short-term interest-bearing liabilities First year’s instalment of long-term debt 1) 4 195 1 968 Group cash pooling debt 16 528 17 588 Debt related to cash collateral 1 412 1 181 Other short term debt 359 172 Total 22 494 20 909 STATKRAFT AS Long-term interest-bearing liabilities Debt to Statkraft SF (back-to-back agreement) 400 Bonds issued in the Norwegian market 6 050 7 050 Debt issued in non-Norwegian markets 21 770 26 427 Other debt 2 9 Total 27 822 33 887 Total interest-bearing liabilities 50 316 54 796 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 1) Includes NOK 400 million debt to Statkraft SF (back-to-back agreement). Note 18 Other interest-free liabilities NOK million 2018 2017 Accounts payable 76 69 Indirect taxes payable 44 41 Dividends payable 8 500 6 100 Debt to group companies 26 16 Other interest-free liabilities 501 590 Total 9 147 6 816 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 135 Note 19 Derivatives Currency derivatives In order to hedge against fluctuations in the foreign GENERAL INFORMATION currency rates, Statkraft AS uses currency derivatives in line with approved financial policy. Forward exchange rate contracts are valued at Statkraft AS trades in financial derivatives for different purposes, and fair value. Changes in value are recorded in the income statement as net accounts will depend on the purpose as described below. realised and unrealised currency and derivatives. Combined interest rate and currency swaps are recorded in accordance with the lowest value SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES principle. Interest rate derivatives Statkraft AS uses interest rate derivatives to ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS balance interest rate exposure to the Group’s debt portfolio. Recognition of gains and losses depends on whether the interest rate derivative has been GROUP The fair value of interest rate swaps, as well as combined interest rate and classified as a hedging instrument. Interest rate derivatives that are not currency swaps, is determined by discounting expected future cash flows hedging instruments are recorded in accordance with the lowest value to present value through use of observed market interest rates and quoted principle. Unrealised losses or gains are included in the net financial items. exchange rates from ECB. The valuation of forward currency exchange Interest rate derivatives that are defined as hedging instruments are contracts is based on quoted exchange rates, from which the forward accrued in the same way as interest on hedged debts or receivables. exchange rate is extrapolated. Estimated present value is subject to a test Interest rate derivatives are classified as non-current assets or long-term of reasonableness against calculations made by the counterparties to the liabilities if the remaining term is longer than one year. Gains and losses contracts. are recognised in the income statement when settling loans before maturity. Any interest rate derivatives connected to loans that have been The interest rate swaps, including the interest portion of combined interest repaid are normally cancelled. Gains and losses from cancelled interest rate and currency swaps, are part of risk management and are accounted rate swaps, are accrued together with the underlying loans. STATKRAFT AS for as hedging or at the lowest value principle, depending on whether the requirements for hedge accounting are achieved. Currency and interest rate agreements Carrying value and fair value of currency and interest rate derivatives: 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Derivatives – non-current assets Carrying Fair Carrying Fair CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY NOK million Value value 1) Value value 1) Currency and interest rate derivatives 1 Interest rate swaps 735 702 Forward exchange rate contracts 12 12 9 9 Combined interest rate and currency swaps 527 866 Total 12 1 274 9 1 577 Derivatives – current assets NOK million Currency and interest rate derivatives Interest rate swaps 5 Forward exchange rate contracts 301 301 754 754 Combined interest rate and currency swaps 408 90 Total 301 709 754 849 Derivatives – non-current liabilities NOK million Currency and interest rate derivatives Interest rate swaps 328 328 571 571 Forward exchange rate contracts 91 91 100 100 Combined interest rate and currency swaps 53 53 47 47 Total 472 472 718 718 Derivatives – current liabilities NOK million Currency and interest rate derivatives Interest rate swaps 27 27 12 12 Forward exchange rate contracts 673 673 1 590 1 590 Total 700 700 1 602 1 602 1) Fair value does not include accrued interests. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 136 Note 20 Fees paid to external auditors Deloitte AS is the Statkraft Group’s auditor. The total fees paid for auditing and other services for Statkraft AS (excluding VAT) were as follows: NOK thousand 2018 2017 Statutory auditing 2 109 2 316 Other attestation services 196 187 Tax consultancy services 758 488 Other services 1) 6 143 543 Total 9 206 3 534 1) The main items in the fees for other services in 2018 relate to assistance in a due dilligence process and the attestation of the sutainability report. The corresponding figure for 2017 GROUP relates to the attestation of the sustainability report. Note 21 Obligations and guarantees Statkraft AS has guarantees and off-balance-sheet obligations totaling NOK 18118 million. Of this, NOK 17241 million concerns parent company guarantees. STATKRAFT AS Statkraft AS leases office buildings in Lilleakerveien 4 and 6 in Oslo and Sluppenveien 17B in Trondheim. The lessors are Mustad Eiendom AS and Sluppenvegen 15 AS respectively. The lease agreements in Oslo expire in 2028 with an option to prolong for ten plus ten years. The annual lease totals NOK 100 million for the Oslo premises. The lease agreement in Trondheim expires in 2030 with an option to prolong for 5 years. The annual lease totals NOK 8 million for the Trondheim premises. Note 22 Disputes CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Statkraft AS received in 2017 a draft decision of a tax reassessment from the Norwegian tax authorities, regarding reassessment of income tax returns for the fiscal years 2008-2014 related to the investment in the Statkraft Treasury Centre SA (STC) in Belgium. See note 32 in the Group accounts for further information. There has been no development in 2018 that has an impact on Statkraft’s assessment. Note 23 Related parties The Company’s related parties are considered to be:  Directly owned subsidiaries, see specification in note 11  Other group companies, see specification in note 24 and 38 to the Consolidated Financial Statements  The parent company of the Group, Statkraft SF  Associated companies and joint arrangements, see specification in note 11  Group management and the board of directors, see specification in note 36 to the Consolidated Financial Statements Transactions with subsidiaries, associated companies and joint arrangements mainly relate to the following:  Statkraft AS sells intra-group services from centralised service centres  Dividends and group contributions are accrued through Statkraft AS’ own shareholdings  Statkraft AS is also the borrower for the majority of the Group’s external debts and is the owner of the cash pooling facilities. The central treasury function in Statkraft AS coordinates and manages the financial risks relating to currency, interest rates and liquidity of the Group.  Statkraft AS finances subsidiaries, associates and joint arrangements through loans. All intra-group transactions are conducted at market terms. Guarantees related to group companies are listed in note 21. The share capital of Statkraft Enerji A. S. was in 2018 reduced by TRY 50 million and thereby reducing the cost price of the shares in the company. On 24 April 2017, Statkraft AS bought the lending portfolio from Statkraft Treasury Centre SA at market value and transferred all operations to Statkraft AS. Statkraft AS has received dividends of NOK 14910 million in 2017. The share capital of Statkraft Treasury Centre SA was in 2017 reduced by NOK 2641 million and thereby reducing the cost price of the shares in the company. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 137 Note 23 continued Transactions and balances within the Group are presented below: Income statement NOK million 2018 2017 Operating revenues Statkraft Energi AS 467 491 Fosen Vind DA 90 62 Statkraft Markets GmbH 67 48 Statkraft Peru S.A. 45 44 Statkraft Sverige AB 36 35 Statkraft UK Ltd. 20 42 GROUP Other 229 223 Total 955 945 Other operating expenses Statkraft Energi AS 48 66 Statkraft Markets GmbH 11 4 Other 18 1 Total 77 71 STATKRAFT AS Dividend and group contribution from group companies (recognised as financial income) Statkraft UK Ltd. 9 233 Statkraft Energi AS 5 783 5 139 Statkraft Asset Holding AS 1 220 1 840 Statkraft Industrial Holding AS 1 090 Statkraft Treasury Centre SA 14 910 Statkraft IH Invest AS 210 Other 348 49 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Total 17 674 22 148 Financial income from group companies Statkraft Energi AS 232 239 Statkraft Asset Holding AS 169 175 Skagerak Energi AS 140 162 Statkraft Markets GmbH 54 113 Kargi Kizirilmak Enerji A.Ş 29 137 Other 53 46 Total 677 872 Financial costs to group companies Statkraft SF 33 35 Statkraft Energi AS 30 9 Statkraft Asset Holding AS 28 18 Statkraft UK Ltd. 21 2 Statkraft IH Invest AS 11 27 Other 37 18 Total 160 109 Balance sheet NOK million 2018 2017 Non-current assets Loan to Statkraft Energi AS 10 800 7 800 Loan to Skagerak Energi AS 3 350 4 175 Loan to Statkraft Varme AS 1 016 1 116 Baltic Cable AB 398 410 Other 2 260 Other non-current financial assets 15 564 15 761 Statkraft Energi AS 5 9 Statkraft Markets GmbH 106 Derivatives 111 9 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 138 Note 23 continued Current assets Statkraft Varme AS 11 Baltic Cable AB 4 Statkraft Brasil AS 1 Group cash pooling receivable 15 1 Statkraft Energi AS 5 874 8 225 Statkraft Industrial Holding AS 1 701 752 Statkraft Asset Holding AS 1 357 13 151 Skagerak Energi AS 557 638 GROUP Other 287 2 282 Short-term receivables group companies 9 776 25 048 Statkraft IH Invest AS 146 Statkraft Markets GmbH 238 128 Statkraft Energi AS 31 25 Derivatives 269 299 Long-term liabilities STATKRAFT AS Debt to Statkraft SF (back-to-back agreement) 400 Long-term interest-bearing liabilities 400 Statkraft Markets GmbH 97 81 Statkraft Energi AS -9 14 Derivatives 88 95 Current liabilities Statkraft UK Ltd 4 482 5 191 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Statkraft Asset Holding AS 1 064 4 330 Statkraft IH Invest AS 410 1 946 Statkraft Markets GmbH 2 088 1 008 Statkraft Sverige AB 540 780 Statkraft Energi AS 3 441 527 Other 4 503 3 806 Group cash pooling debt 16 528 17 588 Debt to Statkraft SF 618 158 Current interest-bearing liabilities to group companies 618 158 Statkraft Markets GmbH 11 99 Statkraft Energi AS 2 37 Derivatives 13 136 Statkraft SF 8 502 6 102 Other 24 14 Current interest-free liabilities to group companies 8 526 6 116 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 139 Note 24 Transactions 2018: Naturkraft AS that was 50% owned by Statkraft AS has been liquidated in 2018. The remaining cash of NOK 354 million has been distributed to Statkraft AS with a gain of NOK 279 million booked as dividend. 2017: In September Statkraft AS bought the remaining of the shares in Statkraft IH Invest AS (18.1%) from Norfund via Statkraft Asset Holding AS in a swap with 50% of the shares in SN Power AS. Statkraft AS has paid NOK 2 828 million for the shares. For information about the transfer of the lending portfolio from Statkraft Treasury Centre SA, see note 23. In January Statkraft AS sold its shares in the subsidiary Steinsvik Kraft AS. The loss from the transaction was NOK 14 million and was booked as a financial item. GROUP Note 25 Subsequent events There are no significant subsequent events. STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 140 Auditor’s Report GROUP STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STATKRAFT AS GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 141 | STATKRAFT AS GROUP STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STATKRAFT AS | 142 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STATKRAFT AS GROUP ANNUAL REPORT 2018 143 | STATKRAFT AS GROUP STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY STATKRAFT AS | 144 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 145 Corporate responsibility statement Social disclosures Health and safety GROUP Fatalities Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Consolidated operations 1) Employees Number 1 0 0 Contractors Number 0 0 1 Third party Number 0 0 0 Associates 2) Employees Number 0 0 0 Contractors Number 0 0 0 STATKRAFT AS Third party Number 0 0 0 1) Activities where Statkraft has > 50% ownership. 2) Activities where Statkraft has 20 50% ownership The fatal accident 2018 occurred 28 April at the Moglicë Project in Albania. Serious incidents 1), 2) Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Serious injuries Number 7 4 5 Incidents with, or with potential for, serious consequences Number 31 48 40 1) Includes activities where Statkraft has ≥ 20% ownership. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 2) Incidents include accidents and near misses. Injuries 1) Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Employees Lost-time injuries (LTI) 2) Number 30 40 42 Lost-time injuries per million hours worked LTI rate 2.9 3.4 3.3 Total recordable injuries (TRI) 3) Number 57 78 71 Total recordable injuries per million hours worked TRI rate 5.4 6.6 5.6 Contractors Lost-time injuries (LTI) 2) Number 29 27 39 Lost-time injuries per million hours worked LTI rate 3.0 2.2 2.8 Total recordable injuries (TRI) 3) Number 50 46 57 Total recordable injuries per million hours worked TRI rate 5.2 3.8 4.2 Third parties Injuries 4) Number 0 0 0 Statkraft, total Lost-time injuries per million hours worked LTI rate 2.9 2.8 3.1 Total recordable injuries per million hours worked TRI rate 5.3 5.2 4.9 1) Includesactivities where Statkraft has ≥ 20% ownership. 2) Work-related injuries which have resulted in absence extending beyond the day of the injury. 3) Work-related injuries, with and without absence. Includes injuries which resulted in absence, medical treatment or need for alternative work assignments. 4) Recorded injuries requiring treatment by a doctor. Sick leave 1) Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Sick leave, total % 3.3 3.5 3.0 Of which short-term absence (16 days or less) % 1.5 1.5 1.5 Of which long-term absence (more than 16 days) % 1.8 2.0 1.5 1) Sick leave due to illness or injuries, as percentage of normal working hours. Judicial sanctions and fines, health and safety Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Cases where judicial or administrative sanctions have been applied due to material Number 1 1 0 non-compliance with health and safety legislation Judicial fines applied due to material non-compliance with health and safety NOK million 0 0 0 legislation Administrative fines applied due to material non-compliance with health and safety NOK million 0.02 1) 0.05 2) 0 legislation 1) Fine to Devoll Hydropower Moglicë related to fatal accident in 2018. 2) Fine to District Heating related to safety incident. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 146 Labour practices Employees Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Employees 31.12 Number 3 557 3 593 3 804 Of which in Norway Number 2 040 2 241 2 297 Of which in other Nordic countries Number 212 213 224 Of which in other European countries Number 713 661 732 Of which in the rest of the world Number 592 478 551 Full-time employees 31.12 % 95 96 96 Staff turnover rate 1) % 4.2 5.7 6.6 Service time Average service time Years 11.6 12.0 11.6 Average service time for employees resigned or dismissed 1) Years 12.4 8.3 9.7 GROUP Apprentices employed 31.12 Number 77 77 59 Trainees employed 31.12 Number 3 7 15 Nationalities represented among Statkraft's employees Number 57 51 43 1) Excluding retirements, and not including ENEX in Brazil (2016). Gender equality Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Percentage of women Total % 25 25 25 STATKRAFT AS In Norway % 25 27 27 In other Nordic countries % 18 19 20 In other European countries % 24 23 24 In the rest of the world % 25 22 19 In management positions % 21 22 22 In Norway % 25 26 25 In other Nordic countries % 11 9 12 In other European countries % 18 18 19 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY In the rest of the world % 17 18 18 In Corporate Management % 29 29 29 In Statkraft's Board of Directors % 44 44 44 Among employees recruited in the reporting year % 31 22 24 Among managers recruited in the reporting year % 24 20 19 Among full-time employees % 23 23 23 Among part-time employees % 53 57 70 Equal salary Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Salary ratio among employees 1) Ratio 0.94 0.93 0.90 In Norway Ratio 0.97 0.97 0.93 In other Nordic countries Ratio 1.03 1.00 0.96 In other European countries Ratio 0.85 0.81 0.76 In the rest of the world Ratio 0.88 0.92 0.94 Salary ratio among managers 1) Ratio 0.87 0.92 0.90 In Norway Ratio 0.95 0.99 0.97 In other Nordic countries Ratio 0.83 0.90 0.84 In other European countries Ratio 0.78 0.74 0.73 In the rest of the world Ratio 0.83 1.04 0.93 1) Average salary for women in relation to average salary for men. Statkraft as employer Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Organisation and leadership evaluation 1) Employee engagement Scale 0-100 78 72 2) Response rate % 91 92 2) Employees who have completed the performance and career development review % 87 97 Ranking as preferred employer 3) among Business students Ranking 65 58 60 Engineering students Ranking 11 6 6 Business professionals Ranking 45 22 31 Engineering professionals Ranking 10 13 6 1) From Statkraft’s internal annual organisation and leadership evaluation survey. Statkraft’s score can be compared with the Global Employee and Leadership Index Norway 2018 result of 70. 2) Evaluation postponed to 2017. 3) Ranking among final-year students and professionals, as defined and measured in the annual Universum Graduate Survey for Norway and the Universum Professional Survey for Norway. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 147 Human rights Training on human rights 1), 2) Unit of measurement 2018 2017 Number of hours devoted to training on human rights in the last two years Hours 300 200 Employees that have received training on human rights in the last two years % 13 13 Senior management that have received training on human rights in the last two % 100 100 years 1) These indicators were introduced in 2017. 2)Human rights training considered here is a specific human rights training and awareness. This number does not cover trainings on human rights aspects such as health and safety, or our report of concern procedures (that are part of our implementation of Pillar 3 of the UN Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights) for which 100% of employees received training. Consultations with indigenous peoples Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 GROUP Number of projects with ongoing consultations involving rights of indigenous Number 14 8 10 peoples Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples 1) Unit of measurement 2018 2017 Total number of confirmed incidents of violations involving the rights of indigenous Number 0 0 peoples during the reporting period 1) This indicator was introduced in 2017. Judicial sanctions and fines, human rights 1) Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Cases where judicial or administrative sanctions have been applied due to material Number 0 0 0 non-compliance with human rights legislation STATKRAFT AS Judicial fines applied due to material non-compliance with human rights legislation NOK million 0 0 0 Administrative fines applied due to material non-compliance with human rights NOK million 0 0 0 legislation 1) Material judicial sanctions for discrimination, forced labour, child labour or violations of the freedom of association, indigenous peoples rights or labour rights. Environmental disclosures CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Climate Greenhouse gas emissions Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Emissions of CO2 eqivalents, consolidated activities 1) Tonnes 485 400 818 000 773 400 Of which from gas power plants (scope 1) Tonnes 439 000 763 900 722 700 Of which from district heating plants 2) (scope 1) Tonnes 28 500 23 500 24 900 Of which from SF6 emissions (scope 1) Tonnes 200 900 2 700 Of which halon emissions (scope 1) Tonnes 0 0 1 000 Of which from fuel consumption 3) (scope 1) Tonnes 14 900 26 900 19 100 Of which from electricity consumption 4) (scope 2) Tonnes 0 0 Of which from business travel 5) (scope 3) Tonnes 2 800 2 800 3 000 Emissions of CO2 equivalents from affiliated gas power plants 6) (scope 1) Tonnes 105 000 94 500 85 600 Emissions of CO2 equivalents from Heimdal incineration plant 2) Tonnes 74 400 79 800 79 000 Emissions of biogenic CO2 from district heating plants Tonnes 306 500 317 300 SF6 emissions kg 28 40 120 Halon emissions kg 0 0 140 1) Statkraft’s ownership is >50%. 2) Emissions of CO2 from Heimdal incineration plant is not included in Statkraft's total CO2 statement, according to established reporting practice for the district heating industry. 3) CO2 from fuel consumption from the Group’s machinery and vehicles. 4) 100% of Statkraft'selectricity consumption is certified renewable. 5) Comprises travel by air and car in the Norwegian operations. 6) Statkraft’s share. Greenhouse gas emissions per scope 1) Unit of measurement 2018 2017 Scope 1: Direct emissions 2) Tonnes 587 600 909 700 Scope 2: Indirect emissions, related to electricity consumption Tonnes 0 0 Scope 3: Other indirect emissions Tonnes 2 800 2 800 1) Reporting of greenhouse gas emissions per scope was introduced in 2017. 2) Includes Statkraft’s share of emissions of CO2 in the jointly controlled power plant Herdecke (Germany). Relative greenhouse gas emissions Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 CO2-equivalent emissions per MWh power generation, total 1) kg/MWh 9 14 12 CO2-equivalent emissions per MWh power generation, gas power 1) kg/MWh 363 390 367 CO2-equivalent emissions per MWh district heating production 2) kg/MWh 26 19 23 1) Includes Statkraft’s share of production and emissions of CO2 in the jointly controlled power plant Herdecke (Germany). 2) Emissions of CO2 from Heimdal incineration plant is not included in Statkraft's total CO2 statement, according to established reporting practice for the district heating industry. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 148 Biodiversity and impact on nature Impact on watercourses 1), 2) Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Impacted river courses with: Anadromous fish Number 47 46 46 Catadromous fish Number 8 6 5 Impacted national salmon rivers Number 13 13 13 Impacted protected rivers Number 8 8 8 1) Impact entails change of waterflow, water levels or other living conditions for fish. 2) More detailed information related to impact on watercourses is presented in the table Impact on watercourses . Fish cultivation Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Restocking of fish and smolt 1) Number 658 900 2 188 400 916 700 GROUP Of which in Norway Number 325 200 1 614 700 485 400 Of which in other Nordic countries Number 323 000 543 700 403 300 Of which in other European countries Number 10 700 30 000 28 000 Restocking of juveniles 2), 3) Number 1 168 800 Of which in Norway Number 923 900 Of which in other Nordic countries Number 244 900 Stocking of fish roe 4) Number 1 332 800 568 200 471 800 1) Includes salmon, inland trout, sea trout, grayling and eel. 2) Includes salmon, inland trout, sea trout, grayling and eel. Juveniles is defined as startfed fry, one-year old fry and two-summer old fry. 3) Reporting on restocking of juveniles was introduced in 2018. STATKRAFT AS 4) Includes salmon in Norway and eel in Sweden. Red list species (fauna) 1), 2) Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Red list species with habitat in areas impacted by Statkraft's operations in: Norway Number 33 32 33 Other Nordic countries Number 6 6 6 Other European countries Number 13 13 2 Rest of the world Number 83 83 3) 23 1) More detailed information on red list species is presented in the table Red list species (fauna) . 2) Includes species defined as red list species by either International Union for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) or national authorities. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 3) The increase in red list species is mainly due to the inclusion of Brazil in the statement. Operational sites in, or adjacent to, protected areas 1) Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Operational sites in, or adjacent to, protected areas Number 29 27 21 Of which in Norway Number 18 16 16 Of which in other Nordic countries Number 6 6 4 Of which in other European countries Number 5 5 1 1) Limited to natural parks and nature or wildlife reserves. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 149 Consumption Electricity consumption Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Electricity consumption GWh 1 067 944 918 Of which pumped-storage power GWh 709 633 566 Of which electric boilers for district heating GWh 89 65 63 Of which other operations GWh 269 246 289 Fuel consumption Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Fossil fuel consumption Natural gas, gas power plants Mill. Nm3 258 354 349 Fuel gas, district heating plants Tonnes 7 918 5 750 6 722 GROUP Fuel oil, district heating plants Tonnes 1 674 1 813 1 556 Engine fuel 1) Tonnes 4 707 8 493 6 039 Other fuel consumption Waste for district heating plants Tonnes 206 800 221 800 219 400 Waste for bio power plants Tonnes 262 300 265 400 279 200 Bio fuel Tonnes 188 500 183 900 207 700 1) Includes consumption of fuel for vehicles and machinery (for example generators). Use of water 1) Unit of measurement 2018 2017 STATKRAFT AS Cooling water, gas power plants m3 1 731 000 1 900 000 Process water 2) m3 177 800 251 000 Of which used in gas power plants m3 32 000 185 000 Of which used in bio power plants m3 83 300 Of which used in district heating plants m3 62 500 66 000 District heating pipe leakages m3 30 200 24 600 1) This indicator was introduced in 2017. 2) Used for treatment of gas emissions. CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Waste Waste Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Hazardous waste Tonnes 21 200 15 400 17 000 Of which from waste incineration plants 1) Tonnes 4 500 6 900 6 800 Of which from bio power plants Tonnes 15 800 7 900 9 400 Of which other hazardous waste Tonnes 900 600 900 Non-hazardous waste Tonnes 46 400 51 400 50 000 Of which non-hazardous waste separated at source Tonnes 45 100 49 800 48 600 Of which non-hazardous waste from biopower plants Tonnes 800 Of which non-hazardous waste from waste incineration plants Tonnes 36 500 Of which residual non-hazardous waste Tonnes 1 300 1 600 1 300 1) Consists of filter dust and filter cake. Environmental incidents Environmental incidents Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Serious environmental incidents 1) Number 0 0 0 Less serious environmental incidents 2) Number 283 187 233 1) An incident that causes serious or irreversible environmental impact on critical or protected resources. 2) An incident that causes minor or moderate negative environmental impact. Most of the less serious envoronmental incidents in 2018 were related to minor breaches of emission regulations for biomass plants and minor oil spills to water and ground with little or no impact on the environment. Judicial sanctions and fines, environment Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Cases where judicial or administrative sanctions have been applied due to material Number 4 1 0 non-compliance with environmental legislation Judicial fines applied due to material non-compliance with environmental legislation NOK million 0 0 0 Administrative fines applied due to material non-compliance with environmental NOK million 0.2 1) 0,2 2) 0 legislation 1) Breach of concession terms at four hydropower plants in Sweden (occurred in the period 2015-2017). 2) Breach of the concessional terms at Alta hydropower plant. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 150 Economic disclosures Power generation and district heating production Installed capacity per technology and geography Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Installed capacity power generation MW 17 831 17 478 17 418 Of which hydropower MW 14 190 14 099 14 075 Of which wind power MW 1 203 947 703 Of which gas power 1) MW 2 390 2 390 2 600 Of which other 2) MW 49 43 40 Installed capacity, district heating MW 836 835 820 GROUP Installed capacity per geography, power generation Norway MW 12 127 11 857 12 041 Other Nordic countries MW 1 813 1 813 1 606 Other European countries MW 2 974 2 974 2 971 Rest of the world MW 917 834 800 Installed capacity per geography, district heating Norway MW 673 671 657 Other Nordic countries MW 164 164 164 STATKRAFT AS Installed capacity per technology and geography Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Installed capacity per technology, power generation Hydropower % 79.6 80.7 80.8 Wind power % 6.7 5.4 4.0 Gas power 1) % 13.4 13.7 14.9 Other 2) % 0.3 0.2 0.2 Installed capacity per geography, power generation Norway % 68.0 67.8 69.1 Other Nordic countries % 10.2 10.4 9.2 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Other European countries % 16.7 17.0 17.1 Rest of the world % 5.1 4.8 4.6 Installed capacity per geography, district heating Norway % 80.5 80.4 80.1 Other Nordic countries % 19.6 19.6 19.9 Capacity under development per technology and geography 3) Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Capacity under development, power generation MW 865 718 729 Of which hydropower MW 292 184 207 4) Of which wind power 5) MW 574 520 522 Of which solar power MW 0 14 0 Capacity under development, district heating MW 0 0 0 Capacity under development per geography, power generation Norway 5) MW 559 520 545 Other Nordic countries MW 0 0 0 Other European countries MW 23 198 184 4) Rest of the world MW 282 0 0 Capacity under development per geography, district heating MW 0 0 0 Capacity under development per technology and geography 3) Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Capacity under development per technology, power generation Hydropower % 33.7 25.6 28,4 4) Wind power 5) % 66.3 72.4 71.6 Solar power % 0 1.9 0 Capacity under development per geography, power generation Norway 5) % 64.6 72.4 74.8 Other Nordic countries % 0 0 0 Other European countries % 2.7 27.6 25,2 4) Rest of the world % 32.7 0 0 ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 151 Power generation and district heating production per technology and geography Enhet 2018 2017 2016 Power generation, total TWh 61.7 62.6 66.0 Of which hydropower TWh 57.2 57.4 61.2 Of which wind power TWh 2.7 2.7 2.3 Of which gas power 1) TWh 1.5 2.2 2.2 Of which other 2) TWh 0.3 0.3 0.3 District heating TWh 1.1 1.1 1.1 Renewable power generation 6) % 97.6 96.5 96.7 Renewable district heating 6) % 89.2 91.6 91.8 Power generation per geography Norway TWh 48.6 48.6 52.8 Other Nordic countries TWh 6.0 6.6 6.1 Other European countries TWh 2.8 3.2 3.2 GROUP Rest of the world TWh 4.3 4.2 3.9 District heating per geography Norway TWh 0.9 0.9 0.9 Other Nordic countries TWh 0.2 0.2 0.2 Power generation and district heating production per technology and geography Enhet 2018 2017 2016 Power generation per technology Hydropower % 92.7 91.7 92.7 Wind power % 4.4 4.3 3.5 STATKRAFT AS Gas power 1) % 2.4 3.6 3.3 Other 2) % 0.5 0.4 0.5 Power generation per geography Norway % 78.8 77.6 80 Other Nordic countries % 9.7 10.5 9.2 Other European countries % 4.5 5.1 4.8 Rest of the world % 7.0 6.8 5.9 District heating per geography CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Norway % 81.8 79.5 81.8 Other Nordic countries % 18.2 20.5 18.2 1) Includes Statkraft's share of the jointly controlled Herdecke (Germany) power plant. 2) Includes bio power and solar power. 3) Includes projects with an investment decision. 4) The Cetin project is no longer included in the figures, as it was divested in 2017. 5) Includes Statkraft's share of the Fosen project. 6) Non-renewable production consists of gas power and share of district heating based on fossil fuel. Production at Heimdal, the incineration plant in Trondheim, is counted as 100% renewable district heating production (alligned with SSB, Statistics Norway, reporting practice). Contribution to society Value creation 1) Unit of measurement 2018 2017 Gross operating revenues NOK million 55 573 52 883 Unrealised changes in the value of energy contracts NOK million -789 1 289 Paid to suppliers for goods and services 2) NOK million 32 087 33 349 Gross value added NOK million 22 698 20 823 Depreciation, amortisation and impairment NOK million 3 734 4 162 Net value added NOK million 18 964 16 661 Gain or loss from divestments NOK million 5 781 7 122 Financial income NOK million 1 449 315 Share of profit from associates NOK million 790 -79 Minority interests NOK million 680 -94 Values for distibution NOK million 26 303 24 113 1) New reporting format for value creation from 2017 due to changed income statement format. 2) Includes energy purchases, transmission costs and operating expenses. Distribution of value created 1) Unit of measurement 2018 2017 Employees Gross salaries and benefits NOK million 3 198 3 262 Lenders/owners Interest NOK million 1 369 3 303 Dividend 2) NOK million 8 500 6 100 Taxes 3) NOK million 9 027 5 743 The company Change in equity NOK million 4 210 5 705 Total wealth distributed NOK million 26 303 24 113 1) New reporting format for distribution of value created from 2017 due to changed income statement format. 2) Includes dividend and Group contribution from Statkraft AS to Statkraft SF. 3) Includes taxes, property tax, licence fees and employers’ contribution. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 152 Taxes 1) Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Total NOK million 7 391 4 010 4 764 Of which in Norway NOK million 6 857 3 603 4 366 Of which in other Nordic countries NOK million 113 50 8 Of which in other European countries NOK million 364 333 293 Of which in the rest of the world NOK million 57 23 97 1) Taxes payable in the statement of financial position. Business ethics and anti-corruption Training on anti-corruption 1) Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 GROUP Employees that have received training on anti-corruption in the last three years Percentage 100 100 100 Employees in senior management positions that have received training on antiPercentage 100 100 100 corruption in the last two years Statkraft's Board members have received training on anti-corruption in the last two Yes/No Yes Yes Yes years 1) This indicator covers the Group, excluding Skagerak Energi. Incidents of corruption 1) Unit of measurement 2018 STATKRAFT AS Confirmed breaches of Statkraft's Code of Conduct related to corruption Number 0 Public legal cases regarding corruption 2) Number 0 1) This indicator was introduced in 2018. 2) Cases brought against the organisation or its employees. Judicial sanctions and fines, business ethics 1) Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Cases where judicial or administrative sanctions have been applied due to material Number 0 0 0 non-compliance with business ethics legislation Judicial fines applied due to material non-compliance with business ethics NOK million 0 0 0 legislation CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Administrative fines applied due to material non-compliance with business ethics NOK million 0 0 0 legislation 1) Material judicial sanctions for accounting fraud, corruption, anti-competetive behaviour, anti-trust and monopoly practices. Reported concerns covering the scope of the Code of Conduct Reported concerns (whistleblowing) 1) Unit of measurement 2018 2017 2016 Total number of reported concerns Number 55 57 46 Of which related to business ethics and anti-corruption Number 32 40 23 Of which related to discrimination 2) Number 2 Investigations initiated by Corporate Audit in the reporting year Number 3 5 4 1) The scope of the whistleblowing procedures relates to the full scope of Statkraft's Code of Conduct, e.g. human rights, environment, health and safety, business ethics and anticorruption. 2) This indicator was introduced in 2018. When a reported concern is received, a risk assessment is done in order to decide how to follow up the concern. Most of the reported concerns are handled by the respective business areas according to Statkraft’s procedures for handling of reported concerns. Concerns with potentially high consequences for the Statkraft Group are handled by Corporate Audit. In cases where a formal investigation is required, this is the responsibility of the Head of Corporate Audit. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 153 Impact on watercourses Protected rivers and rivers with migrating fish impacted by Statkraft's activities River with eel River with population National salmon NORWAY anadromous fish (catadromous fish) river Protected river Region North Norway & South America Altaelva X X Beiarelva X X Bjerkaelva X Engabrevassdraget X Kobbelvvassdraget X Målselvvassdraget X X X Ranaelva X X Røssåga X GROUP Skjoma X Vefsna X X Glomdalselva X Region Mid Norway Auravassdraget X Bævra X Daleelva X Dalselva X Hopra X Indredalselva X STATKRAFT AS Isa/Glutra X Jostedalselva X Litledalselva X Nærøydalselva X X Rauma X X X Surna X X Vikja X X Ytredalselva X Nidelva X X X Region South Norway CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Austdøla/Norddøla X Austrepollelva X Bondhuselva X Førreåna X Eio/Bjoreio X Jondalselva X Sima X Suldalslågen X X X Ulla X Øyreselva X Årdalselva X Klebastølåi X Gaularvassdraget X Eidselva X Numedalsågen X X X Austbygdåi X Dagali X Skagerak Energi AS Daleelven X Kragerøvassdraget X Skienselva X X SWEDEN Skellefteåälven X Gideälven X Moälven X Nätraälven X Lagan X X Nissan X X Ljungan X GERMANY Weser X X UK Rheidol X ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 154 Red list species (fauna) Red list species (fauna) with habitat in areas affected by Statkraft’s activitities Vulnerability Level of vulnerability: Level of vulnerability: Red list species not known IUCN list National list Critically EndanVulneNear Least Critically EndanVulneNear Least NORWAY endangered gered rable threatened concern endangered gered rable threatened concern Eagle owl X X Goshawk X X Red-throated diver X X Black-throated diver X X Willow grouse X X Rough-legged buzzard X X Eel X X GROUP Pearl mussel X X Osprey X X Mycetochara obscura (beetle) X Arctic warbler X X Stagetus borealis (beetle) X Dolichocis laricinus (beetle) X Mycetophagus multipunctatus (beetle) X Acerbia alpina (moth) X Exodontha dubia (fly) X Trypophloeus alni (beetle) X Phiaris heinrichana (butterfly) X STATKRAFT AS Dune tiger beetle X Hypnoidus consobrinus (beetle) X Denticollis borealis (beetle) X Fleutiauxellus maritimus (beetle) X Bledius denticollis (beetle) X Hare X X Little bunting X X Great snipe X X Common reed bunting X X Northern lapwing X X CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Northern shoveler X X Black-headed gull X X Sand martin X X Gyrfalcon X X Crayfish X SWEDEN Sea lamprey X X Crayfish X X Otter X X Golden eagle X X Eel X X Pearl mussel X X GERMANY Eel X Pearl mussel X UK Red kite X TURKEY Dalmatian pelican X Wild Goat X Lesser horseshoe bat X Mediterranean Horseshoe Bat X Egyptian vulture X Greek tortoise X Euphrates softshell turtle X Central Anatolian Spined Loach X Orontes Spotted Bleak X European sea or Atlantic sturgeon X ALBANIA Dalmatian pelican X NEPAL Chinese pangolin X Asian small-clawed otter X East Himalayan Yew X Himalayan Musk Deer X Western Tragopan X PERU Sechuran fox or zorro X BRAZIL Puma, Mountain Lion X Araucaria Tit-spinetail X Azure Jay X ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 155 Red list species (fauna) with habitat in areas affected by Statkraft’s activitities (continued) Vulnerability Level of vulnerability: Level of vulnerability: Red list species not known IUCN list National list Near Critically EndanVulneLeast Critically EndanVulneNear Least threate endangered gered rable concern endangered gered rable threatened concern BRAZIL ned Black Spiny-necked Swamp Turtle Brazilian Dwarf Brocket X Brazilian Three-banded Armadillo X Canebrake Groundcreeper X Green-throated Euphonia X Helmeted Woodpecker X Black-fronted Piping-guan or Jacutinga X Jaguar X Margay X Neotropical Otter X Ochre-breasted Pipit X GROUP Northern Tiger Cat or Oncilla X Pampas Deer X Red Myotis X Sharp-tailed Tyrant X Southern Bristle-tyrant X Southern Long-Nosed Armadillo X Southern Tiger Cat X Straight-billed Reedhaunter X Swallow-tailed Cotinga X Vinaceous-breasted Parrot X White-browed Guan X STATKRAFT AS Wild Common Carp X William’s South-American Side-necked X Turtle Yellow-browed Woodpecker X Yellow-legged Timanou X Mottled Piculet X Black-capped Piprites X Pinheiro-bravo X Creamy-bellied Gnatcatcher X Argintine Horned Frog (Sapo-de-chifres) X Bare-throated Bellbird X Mantled Hawk X CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Saffron Toucanet X Black-horned Capuchin X Coypu or Rato-do-banhado X Marsh Tapaculo X Ornate Hawk-eagle X Sporophila melanogaster X Rusty Barred Owl (Strix hylophila) X Solitary Tinamou X Saffron-cowled Blackbird X Black-and-white Monjita X CHILE Puye Chico / Inanga X Pejerrey Cauque X Bagre Pintado X Tollo de Agua Dulce X Puye X Pocha del Sur X Pouched Lamprey X Carmelita Común X Peladilla X Perca Trucha X Brown Trout X Atlantic Salmon X Chiloe Island Ground Frog X Rosy Ground Frog X Grey Wood Frog X Chile Four-eyed Frog X Yellow-billed Pintail X Chiloé wigeon X Great White Egret X Cocoi Heron X Churrete X Chacoan Peccary or Tagua X Amazon Kingfisher or Martin Pescador X Neotropic Cormorant or Pato Yeco X Great Grebe or Huala X Pied-billed Grebe or Picurio X White-tufted Grebe or Pimpollo /Hualita X Tollo, Bagre, Tollo de Agua Dulce X Torrent Duck X Andean condor X Guanaco X Puma, Mountain Lion X ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 156 Statkraft’s GRI index The GRI Standards represent the global best practice for sustainability reporting. The standards comprise both general disclosures, as well as economic, environmental and social disclosures. Companies can report according to two reporting levels Core or Comprehensive. Statkraft’s corporate responsibility reporting is based on the GRI Standards, at reporting level Core. Statkraft has engaged Deloitte AS to conduct a review to provide a limited level of assurance on the company’s corporate responsibility information in Statkraft’s Annual Report 2018. The review is based on the assurance standard ISAE 3000, and the auditor’s conclusion is presented in the Auditor’s report. Explanations for the GRI index Reported = The disclosure is reported according to the GRI Standards. Partly = The disclosure is partly reported according to the GRI Standards. GRI alignment in process = A reporting process aligned with the GRI Standards is under development. GROUP EU = Specific disclosure for the energy utilities sector. DISCLOSURES REFERENCE / RESPONSE STATUS GENERAL DISCLOSURES: ORGANISATIONAL PROFILE 102-1 Name of the organisation Statkraft AS Reported 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Statkraft at a glance Reported Report from the Board of Directors 102-3 Location of headquarters Oslo, Norway Reported 102-4 Location of operations Statkraft at a glance Reported 102-5 Ownership and legal form State-owned limited company Reported STATKRAFT AS 102-6 Markets served Statkraft at a glance Reported Report from the Board of Directors 102-7 Scale of the organisation Key figures Reported Statkraft at a glance 102-8 Information on employees and other workers CR statement: Labour practices Reported 102-9 Supply chain Management of corporate responsibility Reported 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its supply chain Report from the Board of Directors Reported Note 5: Business combinations and other transactions 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Management of corporate responsibility Reported CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Economic disclosures: Water management Economic disclosures: Climate change 102-12 External initiatives Corporate governance Reported Management of corporate responsibility 102-13 Membership of associations Management of corporate responsibility Reported GENERAL DISCLOSURES: STRATEGY 102-14 Status from senior decision-maker Letter from the CEO Reported Report from the Board of Directors GENERAL DISCLOSURES: ETHICS AND INTEGRITY 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour Report from the Board of Directors Reported Corporate governance Management of corporate responsibility Economic disclosures: Business ethics GENERAL DISCLOSURES: GOVERNANCE 102-18 Governance structure Corporate governance Reported GENERAL DISCLOSURES: STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Management of corporate responsibility Reported 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Social disclosures: Labour practices Reported 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Management of corporate responsibility Reported 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Management of corporate responsibility Reported 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Management of corporate responsibility Reported Social disclosures: Human rights GENERAL DISCLOSURES: REPORTING PRACTICE 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Note 38: Consolidated companies Reported 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries Management of corporate responsibility Reported 102-47 List of material topics Management of corporate responsibility Reported 102-48 Restatements of information Corporate responsibility statement Reported 102-49 Changes in reporting Corporate responsibility statement Reported 102-50 Reporting period 2018 Reported 102-51 Date of most recent report Statkraft’s corporate responsibility report Reported 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual Reported 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report info@statkraft.com Reported 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards The corporate responsibility information Reported has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option 102-55 GRI content index Statkraft’s GRI index Reported 102-56 External assurance Management of corporate responsibility Reported Auditor’s statement ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 157 GRI G4 GUIDELINES: UTILITIES SECTOR G4-EU1 Installed capacity CR statement: Power generation and Reported district heating production G4-EU2 Net energy output CR statement: Power generation and Reported district heating production G4-EU3 Number of different customer accounts See customer related information under: Partly www.statkraft.com www.skagerakenergi.no www.statkraftvarme.no G4-EU25 Injuries and fatalities to the public involving company assets CR statement: Health and safety Reported ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 103: 1-3 Management approach for economic disclosures Report from the Board of Directors Reported Corporate governance Management of corporate responsibility GROUP 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed CR statement: Contribution to society Reported 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate Report from the Board of Directors Reported change Economic disclosures: Climate change Economic disclosures: Water management 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans Note 16: Pensions Reported ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported Social disclosures: Human rights Partly 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Statkraft’s contribution Partly ECONOMIC DISCLOSURES: ANTI-CORRUPTION STATKRAFT AS 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption Economic disclosures: Business ethics Reported 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures Economic disclosures: Business ethics Reported CR statement: Business ethics and anticorruption 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Economic disclosures: Business ethics Reported CR statement: Business ethics and anticorruption ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: ENERGY 103: 1-3 Management approach for environmental disclosures Report from the Board of Directors Reported Management of corporate responsibility CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation CR statement: Consumption Reported ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: WATER WITHDRAWAL BY SOURCE 303-1 Water withdrawal by source CR statement: Consumption Partly 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Economic disclosures: Water Reported management CR statement: Biodiversity and impact on nature CR statement: Impact on watercourses ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: BIODIVERSITY 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected CR statement: Biodiversity and impact on Reported areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas nature 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity Environmental disclosures: Biodiversity Reported Economic disclosures: Water management CR statement: Biodiversity and impact on nature 304-4 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats in CR statement: Biodiversity and impact on Reported areas affected by operations nature CR statement: Red list species (fauna) ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: EMISSIONS 305-1 Direct GHG emissions (scope 1) CR statement: Climate Reported 305-2 Energy indirect GHG emissions (scope 2) CR statement: Climate Reported 305-3 Other indirect GHG emissions (scope 3) CR statement: Climate Reported 305-4 GHG emissions intensity CR statement: Climate Reported ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method CR statement: Waste Reported 306-3 Significant spills CR statement: Environmental incidents Reported ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: COMPLIANCE 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations CR statement: Environmental incidents Reported ENVIRONMENTAL DISCLOSURES: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criterias Management of corporate responsibility Reported SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: EMPLOYMENT 103: 1-3 Management approach on social disclosures Report from the Board of Directors Reported Management of corporate responsibility Social disclosures: Health and safety Social disclosures: Security Social disclosures: Human rights Social disclosures: Labour practices 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover CR statement: Labour practices Reported ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 158 SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management-worker heath and safety Social disclosures: Health and safety Partly committees Social disclosures: Labour practices 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, and Social disclosures: Health and safety Reported absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities CR statement: Health and safety SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: TRAINING AND EDUCATION 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs Social disclosures: Labour practices Partly 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career Social disclosures: Labour practices Reported development reviews CR statement: Labour practices SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees CR statement: Labour practices Reported 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men CR statement: Labour practices Reported SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: NON-DISCRIMINATION GROUP 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken Management of corporate responsibility Reported CR statement: Reported concerns covering the scope of the Code of Conduct SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: FREEDOM OF ASSICIATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and Management of corporate responsibility GRI alignment collective bargaining may be at risk Social disclosures: Labour practices in process SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: CHILD LABOUR 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labour Management of corporate responsibility GRI alignment in process STATKRAFT AS SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOUR 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or Management of corporate responsibility GRI alignment compulsory labour Social disclosures: Labour practices in process SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: RIGHTS OF INDIGENOUS PEOPLES 411-1 Incidents of violations involving rights of indigenous peoples Social disclosures: Human rights Reported CR statement: Human rights SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact Management of corporate responsibility Partly assessments Social disclosures: Human rights CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies and procedures Social disclosures: Human rights Reported CR statement: Human rights 412-3 Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights Management of corporate responsibility Partly clauses or that underwent human rights screening Social disclosures: Human rights SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: LOCAL COMMUNITIES 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments and Social disclosures: Human rights Partly development programs Economic disclosures: Water management 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative impacts on local Social disclosures: Human rights Partly communities Economic disclosures: Water management SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Management of corporate responsibility Reported SOCIAL DISCLOSURES: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the socioeconomic area CR statement: Business ethics and antiReported corruption CR statement: Human rights ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 159 Statkraft’s Global Compact index Global Compact comprises ten fundamental principles relating to human rights, labour rights, protection of the environment and combating corruption. Companies that endorse Global Compact commit to support and respect the principles and report their performance in the various areas annually. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE 1 Business should support and respect the protection of Report from the Board of Directors internationally proclaimed human rights, and Management of corporate responsibility Social disclosures, Human rights 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Management of corporate responsibility GROUP Social disclosures, Human rights LABOUR PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE 3 Business should uphold the freedom association and the Management of corporate responsibility effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, Social disclosures, Labour practices 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour, Management of corporate responsibility Social disclosures, Labour practices 5 the effective abolition of child labour, and Management of corporate responsibility STATKRAFT AS Social disclosures, Labour practices 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and Management of corporate responsibility occupation. Social disclosures, Labour practices ENVIRONMENT PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE 7 Business should support a precautionary approach to Report from the Board of Directors environmental challenges, Management of corporate responsibility CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY Environmental disclosures, Biodiversity Economic disclosures, Water management Economic disclosures, Climate change 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Environmental disclosures, Biodiversity responsibility, and Economic disclosures, Water management Economic disclosures, Climate change 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Statkraft’s contribution friendly technologies. Environmental disclosures, Biodiversity Economic disclosures, Water management Economic disclosures, Climate change ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLE DESCRIPTION REFERENCE 10 Business should work against corruption in all its forms, including Report from the Board of Directors extortion and bribery. Management of corporate responsibility Economic disclosures, Business ethics ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 160 Auditor’s statement GROUP STATKRAFT AS CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS The market for solar power comes in many sizes from small private plants on rooftops to huge commercial parks. Statkraft’s ambitions within solar power are high, and as a first step into this market the solar park Lange Runde in the Netherlands was developed. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 2018 ___________ Declaration ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS In 2018 Statkraft acquired the Irish and UK wind development businesses of the Element Power Group, and decided to start construction of the 23 MW Kilathmoy wind farm in Ireland. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 164 Declaration from the Board of Directors and the President and CEO We confirm to the best of our knowledge that:  the consolidated financial statements for 2018 have been prepared in accordance with IFRS as adopted by the EU, as well as additional information requirements in accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Act,  the financial statements for the parent company for 2018 have been prepared in accordance with the Norwegian Accounting Act and generally accepted accounting practice in Norway,  the information presented in the financial statements gives a true and fair view of the company’s and group’s assets, liabilities, financial position and result for the period viewed in their entirety,  the board of directors report, the chapters on corporate governance and corporate responsibility including the corporate responsibility statement, gives a true and fair view of the development, performance and financial position of the company and group, and includes a description of the key risks and uncertainties the companies are faced with. The Board of Directors of Statkraft AS Oslo, 13 February 2019 Thorhild Widvey Peter Mellbye Hilde Drønen Chair of the Board Deputy chair Director Mikael Lundin Ingelise Arntsen Bengt Ekenstierna Director Director Director Vilde Eriksen Bjerknes Thorbjørn Holøs Asbjørn Sevlejordet Director Director Director Christian Rynning-Tønnesen President and CEO ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 165 District heating based on renewable energy sources has a positive environmental effect. Oslo Airport is dependent on energy deliveries 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. Statkraft’s district heating plant is situated nearby the airport providing heating solutions, as well as critical deliveries to the de-icing of aircrafts. Photo: Avinor / Sune Eriksen ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 166 2018 Key figures and Alternative Performance Measures ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 167 Key Figures FINANCIAL KEY FIGURES Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Income statement Gross operating revenues and other income underlying NOK mill 55 573 52 883 50 987 53 777 52 915 Net operating revenues and other income underlying NOK mill 26 925 23 350 20 621 20 773 26 466 Operating profit/loss(EBIT) underlying NOK mill 14 953 10 824 n/a n/a n/a Operating profit/loss(EBIT) IFRS NOK mill 15 446 11 928 n/a n/a n/a Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments NOK mill 790 -79 474 683 661 Net financial items NOK mill 4 412 3 818 2 137 -5 318 -6 283 Profit/loss before tax NOK mill 20 649 15 668 5 223 -821 7 937 Net profit/loss NOK mill 13 390 11 710 -179 -2 369 3 892 Items excluded from underlying business Unrealised value changes from energy derivatives* NOK mill -789 1 289 -1 270 n/a n/a Gains/losses from divestments of business activities* NOK mill 1 449 315 16 n/a n/a Impairments* NOK mill -167 -500 -4 808 n/a n/a Balance sheet Property, plant & equipment and intangible assets NOK mill 110 328 107 469 107 836 117 029 102 638 Equity accounted investments NOK mill 13 105 13 335 19 438 19 388 19 027 Other assets NOK mill 58 955 48 305 39 357 40 488 46 152 Total assets NOK mill 182 388 169 108 166 630 176 905 167 817 Equity NOK mill 98 004 91 627 83 519 88 340 88 059 Cash flow Cash flow from operating activities NOK mill 15 286 8 865 8 371 8 639 6 898 Dividend paid to owners (incl. non-controlling interests) NOK mill 6 093 3 089 -226 5 157 74 Cash and cash equivalents (incl. restricted cash) NOK mill 23 175 14 217 7 308 9 056 12 663 Investments Maintenance investments 1) NOK mill 2 067 1 820 1 763 1 970 2 368 Investments in increased capacity, fixed assets 2) NOK mill 3 053 1 964 3 736 7 797 7 525 Investments in shareholdings 3) NOK mill 1 862 111 158 3 790 1 287 Financial metrics ROACE 4) % 14.7 10.5 n/a n/a n/a ROAE 5) % 5.9 -0.5 n/a n/a n/a Ratio/Rating Net Interest-bearing debt ratio 6) % 11.6 21.3 28.0 28.4 28.5 Equity ratio 7) % 53.7 54.2 50.1 49.9 52.5 Long-term rating Standard & Poor’s A/ Stable AAAALong-term rating Fitch Ratings BBB+ / Stable n/a n/a n/a n/a Statkraft has amended the definitions of its underlying operating profit and capital employed with effect from 2017. * See section regarding Alternative Performance Measures (APM) 1) Book value of maintenance investments to sustain current generating capacity. 2) Book value of investments to expand generating capacity. 3) Purchase of shares as well as equity increase in other companies. 4) Operating profit/loss (EBIT) underlying (rolling 12 months) * 100 Average capital employed (rolling 12 months) 5) Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments (rolling 12 months) * 100 Average equity accounted investments (rolling 12 months) 6) Net interest-bearing debt * 100 Net interest-bearing debt + equity 7) Total equity * 100 Total assets ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 168 POWER GENERATION AND DISTRICT HEATING PRODUCTION Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Installed capacity, power generation MW 17 831 17 478 17 418 16 778 16 401 Of which hydropower MW 14 190 14 099 14 075 13 464 13 273 Of which wind power MW 1 203 947 703 647 488 Of which gas power 1) MW 2 390 2 390 2 600 2 600 2 600 Of which other 2) MW 49 43 40 67 40 Installed capacity, district heating MW 834 835 820 838 760 Capacity under development, power generation 3) MW 865 718 729 909 1 262 Of which hydropower MW 292 184 207 873 1 016 Of which wind power 4) MW 574 520 522 36 247 Of which solar power MW 0 14 0 0 0 Capacity under development, district heating 3) MW 0 0 0 21 23 Production capacity 5) TWh 59.6 61.9 61.3 58.7 53.7 Power generation, actual TWh 61.7 62.6 66.0 56.3 56.0 Of which hydropower TWh 57.2 57.4 61.2 53.1 53.4 Of which wind power TWh 2.7 2.7 2.3 2.5 1.7 Of which gas power 1) TWh 1.5 2.2 2.2 0.5 0.5 Of which other 2) TWh 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 District heating production TWh 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.0 Renewable power generation 6) % 97.6 96.5 96.7 99.1 99.1 Renewable district heating 6) % 89.2 91.6 91.8 94.7 83.6 1) Includes Statkraft's share of the jointly controlled Herdecke (Germany) power plant. 2) Includes biopower and solar power. 3) Includes projects with an investment decision. 4) Includes Statkraft's share of the Fosen project. 5) Excluding gas-fired power and district heating. Annual mean generation. 6) Non-renewable production consists of gas power and share of district heating based on fossil fuel. Production at Heimdal, the incineration plant in Trondheim, is counted as 100% renewable district heating production (alligned with SSB, Statistics Norway, reporting practice). EMISSIONS AND ENVIRONMENTAL INCIDENTS Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Emissions of CO2 equivalents, consolidated activities Tonnes 485 400 818 000 773 400 258 600 313 300 Greenhouse gas emissions per scope 1) Scope 1: Direct emissions 2) Tonnes 587 600 909 700 Scope 2: Indirect emissions, related to electricity consumption Tonnes 0 0 Scope 3: Other indirect emissions Tonnes 2 800 2 800 Relative greenhouse gas emissions CO2-equivalent emissions per MWh power generation, total 2) kg/ MWh 9 14 12 5 6 CO2-equivalent emissions per MWh district heating production 3) kg/ MWh 26 19 23 12 64 Environmental incidents Serious environmental incidents Number 0 0 0 0 0 Less serious environmental incidents Number 283 187 233 228 159 1) Reporting of greenhouse gas emissions per scope was introduced in 2017. 2) Includes Statkraft’s share of production and emissions of CO2 in the jointly controlled power plant Herdecke (Germany). 3) Emissions of CO2 from Heimdal incineration plant is not included in Statkraft's total CO2 statement, according to established reporting practice for the district heating industry. CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY Unit 2018 2017 Distribution of value created 1) Dividend 2) NOK mill 8 500 6 100 Taxes 3) NOK mill 9 027 5 743 Interest NOK mill 1 369 3 303 Employees NOK mill 3 198 3 262 The company NOK mill 4 210 5 705 1) New reporting format for distribution of value created from 2017 due to changed income statement format. 2) Includes dividend and Group contribution from Statkraft AS to Statkraft SF. 3) Includes taxes, property tax, licence fees and employer's contribution. REPORTED CONCERNS COVERING THE SCOPE OF THE CODE OF CONDUCT Unit 2018 2017 2016 Total number of reported concerns (whistleblowing) 1), 2) Number 55 57 46 Of which related to business ethics and anti-corruption Number 32 40 23 Of which related to discrimination Number 2 1) The scope of the whistleblowing procedures relates to the full scope of Statkraft's Code of Conduct, e.g. human rights, environment, health and safety, business ethics and anti-corruption. 2) The format for this indicator was changed in 2016, but historical data related to whistleblowing is available and has been published in Statkraft's annual reports since 2008. The indicator for discrimination was introduced in 2018. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 169 EMPLOYEES AND GENDER EQUALITY Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Employees per 31.12 Number 3 557 3 593 3 804 4 119 3 731 Percentage of women Total % 25 25 25 23 24 In management positions % 21 22 22 23 22 Among new employees % 31 22 24 26 25 HEALTH AND SAFETY Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Fatalities, consolidated operations 1) Employees Number 1 0 0 0 0 Contractors Number 0 0 1 0 3 Third parties Number 0 0 0 0 0 Fatal accidents, associated activities 2) Employees Number 0 0 0 0 0 Contractors Number 0 0 0 0 1 Third parties Number 0 0 0 0 0 Seious incidents 3), 4), 5) Serious injuries Number 7 4 5 6 Incidents with, or with potential for, serious consequences Number 31 48 40 12 Total recordable injuries per million hours worked 3) TRI rate 5.3 5.2 4.9 5.9 5.5 Absence due to illness % 3.3 3.5 3.0 3.0 2.8 1) Activities where Statkraft has > 50% ownership. 2) Activities where Statkraft has 20-50% ownership. 3) Includes activities where Statkraft has ≥ 20% ownership. 4) This indicator was introduced in 2015. 5) Incidents include accidents and near misses. MARKET VARIABLES Unit 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 System price, Nord Pool EUR/MWh 44.0 29.4 26.9 21.0 29.6 Spot price, European Energy Exchange EUR/MWh 44.4 34.2 29.0 31.7 32.8 Electricity consumption in the Nordic market TWh 395 388 386 379 375 Electricity generated in the Nordic market, actual TWh 397 397 389 394 385 Statkraft's share of Nordic electricity production % 13.8 13.9 15.1 13.1 13.5 Pro-rata1) Consolidated plants POWER PLANTS No. of plants Capacity (MW) No. of plants Capacity (MW) Hydropower 334 15 722 270 14 190 Norway 226 12 855 170 11 627 Sweden 59 1 268 59 1 268 Germany 10 262 10 262 UK 3 49 3 49 Albania 1 72 1 72 Turkey 2 122 2 122 Brazil 18 269 14 232 Peru 9 442 9 442 Chile 3 213 1 57 Nepal 1 34 1 60 India 2 136 Wind power 16 1 125 13 1 203 Norway 4 378 4 500 Sweden 4 546 4 546 Brazil 4 98 4 120 UK 4 104 1 36 Solar power 2 6 2 6 India 2 6 2 6 Gas 5 2 390 5 2 390 Germany 5 2 390 5 2 390 Bio 2 43 2 43 Germany 2 43 2 43 Total, power generation 359 19 285 292 17 831 Pro-rata1) Consolidated plants DISTRICT HEATING PLANTS No. of locations Capacity (MW) No. of locations Capacity (MW) Norway 24 626 24 673 Sweden 4 161 4 161 Total, district heating 28 787 28 834 1) Statkraft equity share in all power plants (pro-rata share of direct and indirect ownership), including those in partly-owned companies ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 170 Alternative Performance Measures As defined in ESMAs guideline on alternative performance measures (APM), an APM is understood as a financial measure of historical or future financial performance, financial position, or cash flows, other than a financial measure defined or specified in the applicable financial reporting framework. From 2018, ROACE and ROAE are disclosed on segment level. Previously, Statkraft had only disclosed ROACE on Group level. For other changes in the financial statements, see note 1 in the Group financial statements. Statkraft uses the following APMs: EBITDA underlying is defined as underlying operating profit/loss before depreciation and amortisation. The APM is used to measure performance from operational activities. EBITDA underlying should not be considered as an alternative to operating profit/loss and profit/loss before tax as an indicator of the company’s operations in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Nor is EBITDA underlying an alternative to cash flow from operating activities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. Operating profit/loss (EBIT) underlying is an APM used to measure performance from operational activities. Items excluded from Operaint profit/loss (EBIT) underlying: Statkraft adjusts for the following three items when reporting operating profit/loss (EBIT) underlying: 1. Unrealised value changes from energy derivatives Embedded derivatives are excluded from underlying operating profit/loss since they only represent part of an energy contract and the other parts of these energy contracts are not reported based on fair market values. Derivatives entered into for risk reduction purposes are excluded. This is done where the related item is carried at cost or not recognised in the statement of financial position. 2. Impairments are excluded from underlying operating profit/loss since they affect the economics of an asset for the useful life of that asset; not only the period in which it is impaired or the impairment is reversed. 3. Gains/losses from divestments of business activities are eliminated from the measure since the gains or losses do not give an indication of future performance or periodic performance from operating activities. Such gains or losses are related to the cumulative value creation from the time the asset is acquired until it is sold. The same items as above are also excluded from Gross operating revenues and other income underlying and Net operating revenues and other income underlying, see note 4 in the Group financial statements. ROACE is defined as Operating profit/loss (EBIT) underlying divided by capital employed. ROACE is calculated on a rolling 12 month average and is used to measure return from the operational activities as well as benchmarking performance. ROAE is defined as share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments, divided by the average book value of the Group’s equity accounted investments. ROAE is calculated on a rolling 12 month average. The financial metric is used to measure return from the Group’s equity accounted investments as well as benchmarking performance. Capital employed is the capital allocated to perform operational activities and is presented in a table on the next page. Net interest-bearing debt is used to measure indebtedness. The components are presented in a table on the next page. Net cash income is defined as cash flow from operating activities excluding taxes paid and cash effects from equity accounted investments. This is used to measure cash flow from operations from consolidated business in the Group. Net interest-bearing debt-equity ratio is calculated as net interest-bearing debt relative to the sum of net interestbearing debt and equity. Operating profit/loss (EBIT) margin underlying (%) is calculated as Operating profit/loss (EBIT) underlying relative to gross operating revenues and other income underlying. Cost of operations, Nordic hydropower generation (øre/kWh) is an APM that is used to measure the cost of operations per kWh for Nordic hydropower assets in the segment European flexible generation. Total operating expenses for these assets are divided by the sevenyear average output from Nordic hydropower plants under own management in the segment. Total operating expenses include salaries and payroll costs, depreciation and amortisation, property tax and licence fees and other operating expenses. Net financial items and taxes related to these assets are not included. In addition, the costs related to both hydropower assets outside the Nordics and other technologies in the segment are not included in this APM. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 171 ALTERNATIVE PERFORMANCE MEASURES NOK million 2018 2017 RECONCILIATION OF OPERAING PROFIT/LOSS (EBIT) UNDERLYING TO EBITDA UNDERLYING Operating profit/loss (EBIT) underlying, see note 4 in the Group Financial Statements 14 953 10 824 Depreciation and amortisation 3 567 3 662 EBITDA underlying 18 520 14 486 Operating profit/loss (EBIT) margin underlying (%) 26.9 20.5 RECONCILIATION OF CASH FLOW FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES TO NET CASH INCOME Cash flow from operating activities 15 286 8 865 Taxes paid 3 605 4 843 Dividend from equity accounted investments -606 -558 Net cash income 18 285 13 150 FINANCIAL STATEMENT LINE ITEMS INCLUDED IN CAPITAL EMPLOYED Intangible assets 3 909 3 313 Property, plant and equipment 105 744 103 193 Other non-current financial assets 3 986 4 368 Loans to equity accounted investments 1) -2 244 -2 223 Bonds and other long-term investments 1) -232 -299 Pension assets 1) -494 -480 Other shares and shareholdings 1) -316 -299 Inventories 6 316 2 871 Receivables 12 831 15 372 Receivables related to cash collateral 2) -3 351 -1 931 Short-term loans to equity accounted investments 2) -75 -3 959 Other receivables not part of capital employed 2) -8 -15 Provisions allocated to capital employed -2 552 -2 894 Taxes payable -7 391 -4 010 Interest-free liabilities allocated to capital employed -9 742 -9 086 Capital employed 106 380 103 922 Average capital employed 3) 102 020 102 726 RECONCILIATION OF CAPITAL EMPLOYED TO TOTAL ASSETS Capital employed 106 380 103 922 Deferred tax assets 676 962 Equity accounted investments 13 105 13 335 Other non-current financial assets 1) 3 286 3 301 Derivatives, long term 2 926 4 023 Receivables 2) 3 434 5 905 Short-term financial investments 604 918 Derivatives, short term 9 118 6 537 Cash and cash equivalents (incl. restricted cash) 23 175 14 217 Liabilities allocated to capital employed, see table above 19 685 15 990 Total assets as of the statement of financial position 182 388 169 108 RETURN ON AVERAGE CAPITAL EMPLOYED (ROACE) Operating profit/loss (EBIT) underlying, rolling 12 months 14 953 10 824 Average capital employed 102 020 102 726 ROACE 14.7% 10.5% RETURN ON AVERAGE EQUITY ACCOUNTED INVESTMENTS (ROAE) Share of profit/loss in equity accounted investments, rolling 12 months 790 -79 Average equity accounted investments 3) 13 359 16 339 ROAE 5.9% -0.5% NET INTEREST-BEARING DEBT Long-term interest bearing liabilities 30 354 36 285 Short-term interest bearing liabilities 6 346 3 694 Cash and cash equivalents (incl. restricted cash) -23 175 -14 217 Short-term financial investments -604 -918 Net interest-bearing debt 12 921 24 845 NET INTEREST-BEARING DEBT-EQUITY RATIO Net interest-bearing debt 12 921 24 845 Equity 98 004 91 627 Net interest-bearing debt equity ratio 11.6% 21.3% ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS 172 COST OF OPERATIONS, NORDIC HYDROPOWER GENERATION IN SEGMENT EUROPEAN FLEXIBLE GENERATION (EF) Net operating revenues and other income underlying 18 765 14 508 operating profit/loss (EBIT) underlying 12 943 8 447 Operating expenses, underlying 5 822 6 062 items in EF not related to Nordic hydropower generation 4) 1 180 1 077 = Cost of operations, Nordic hydropower generation (EF) 4 642 4 985 7 year average generation Nordic hydropower (GWh) 47 165 46 833 = Cost of operations, Nordic hydropower generation in EF (øre/kWh) 9.8 10.6 1) The item is a part of other non-current financial assets in the statement of financial position, but not a part of capital employed. 2) The item is a part of receivables in the statement of financial position, but not a part of capital employed. 3) Average capital employed and average equity accounted investments are based on the average for the last four quarters. 4) Includes all operating expenses related to hydropower generation outside the Nordics and other technologies. ANNUAL REPORT 2018 | STATKRAFT AS Annual Report 2018 Statkraft AS Statkraft AS PO Box 200 Lilleaker NO-0216 Oslo Tel: +47 24 06 70 00 Visiting address: Lilleakerveien 6 Organisation no: Statkraft AS: 987 059 699 www.statkraft.com
