Sustainability Report SNC-Lavalin 2018 SNC-Lavalin Sustainability Report 2018 1. INTRODUCTION 1.1. Message from our Interim President and CEO We are currently undertaking a wide range of Decarbonization is essential to address climate change. initiatives and projects which have a positive This year we progressed with the $1.093 billion replacement IAN L. EDWARDS impact on society, the environment, and global of the ageing John Hart Generating Station on Vancouver Island in British Columbia. This hydroelectric project will create a and local economies around the world. Our more reliable, environmentally friendly power station with an business has to respond to increasing amounts installed capacity of 132MW of clean power and will supply of change in the countries we operate in be it power to approximately 80,000 homes in the province. We have in relation to climate change, political instability, finished the life extension project, which will allow Argentina’s Embalse Nuclear Station to continue producing safe, reliable, the scarcity of resources or the expansion of the low-carbon power for up to another 30 years. The Embalse global population and increasing urbanization. CANDU® 6 reactor began commercial operation in January 1984 and the, single-unit has a gross output of 648 MWe. Our offshore To respond to these changes, we are putting Sustainability capabilities include the provision of a complete range of services at the heart of our business strategy and have developed our including the feasibility of fixed and floating wind turbines and Sustainability Policy and our Sustainable Business Strategy tidal energy installations. Our specialist teams worked with the which is based around the United Nations (UN) Sustainable Swedish company Hexicon as an engineering partner to design Development Goals (SDGs) as our route map to a future facing the world’s first multi-turbine offshore wind floating platform. business. Our Sustainability Policy and our Sustainable Business Strategy governs the social, environmental and economic impacts Across our infrastructure businesses our New Champlain of our business activities worldwide. In establishing our policy and Bridge Corridor Project received an Envision platinum award strategy governance structure, our goal is to reduce the impact for sustainable infrastructure and we completed the first stage that our operations have on society and to respond to global of the Crossrail project in London. Crossrail is a joint venture environmental and societal trends and changes worldwide. delivering 42 kilometres of new tunnels and 10 new stations. It is the first project of this scale to incorporate sustainability We have set out the future-facing role we want our business to from the beginning and embed sustainable thinking into its take and have developed our Sustainable Business Strategy to decision making. An additional venture we completed that set long-term targets and measure the impact that our business further reduces atmospheric pollution, is the $1billion Clear operations our project activities and corporate initiatives have AER project, which successfully achieved an 85% reduction on society. in previous sulphur dioxide emissions, a 40% reduction in metal particulate emissions and a 50% reduction in natural gas consumption. 6 SNC-Lavalin Sustainability Report 2018 Working closely with stakeholders within local communities is We have further strengthened our commitment to diversity and an essential component of project delivery. We have particularly inclusion. In 2018, we released our UK Gender Pay Gap report and strengthened our approach to indigenous relations and have included diversity as a key focus area defined in our sustainable confirmed our commitment to a company-wide certification business strategy. To deliver our ambitions and grow a more with the PAR (Progressive Aboriginal Relations) Process, an diverse and equal workforce we have appointed senior leadership initiative run by the Canadian Council for Aboriginal Business. team diversity sponsors across each of our key sectors who Our recent project to restore the land polluted by the will work to develop clear action plans to further improve our Bralorne-Takla mercury mine involved close collaboration performance moving forward. with the Takla Lake First Nation and our recent Jimmie Creek Our commitment to sustainability is important to our clients, Hydroelectric Project in British Columbia resulted in new investors, colleagues and communities we work with worldemployment and contracting opportunities for the Klahoose wide. It is our responsibility to deliver positive change in First Nation and adjacent local communities. accordance with the UN Sustainable Development Goals and Our responsibility for sustainability includes renewing our develop new ways to address the global environmental and commitment as a signatory of the United Nations Global societal changes our business faces. We will deliver positive Compact in 2018 and engaging in projects that promote the outcomes and foster collaboration through our projects and UN's broader development goals. Our 2018 Sustainability corporate initiatives to deliver innovative solutions for our Report serves as our Communication on Progress (CoP) in business globally. terms of implementing these principles. WORKING CLOSELY WITH STAKEHOLDERS WITHIN LOCAL COMMUNITIES IS AN ESSENTIAL COMPONENT OF PROJECT DELIVERY. WE ARE WORKING CLOSELY WITH 90 PARTNER ORGANIZATIONS AND HAVE SIGNED AND COMMITTED TO THE PACI PRINCIPLES WORLDWIDE. 7 SNC-Lavalin Sustainability Report 2018 SECTION 2 OUR SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS STRATEGY Éléonore Gold Project Photo Credit : Goldcorp Éléonore Eeyou Istchee James Bay, Québec, Canada 8 SNC-Lavalin Sustainability Report 2018 2. OUR SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS STRATEGY 2.1. Putting Sustainability at the Heart of Our Business Strategy SUSTAINABILITY IS VITALLY We are putting sustainability at the heart of our business IMPORTANT TO OUR BUSINESS ACTIVITIES AS WE PREPARE TO SARAH-JANE strategy. We are undertaking business activities in a way that is beneficial to the environment, society and global and local COPE WITH INCREASES IN THE STEWART economies, allowing us to be a future facing business. Our Sustainable Business Strategy is aligned with the UN Sustainable GLOBAL POPULATION, TRANSITION TO A LOW CARBON SOCIETY Development Goals and is based on evaluating our performance AND DEVELOP WAYS TO ADAPT against a set of high-level, science-based targets. This gives us a broader perspective on how we define which sustainability AND MITIGATE TO REDUCE THE issues are material to our business activities. Our strategy EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE. recognizes the importance of advancing the triple bottom line of environmental, social and economic sustainability. Sarah Jane Stewart Our Sustainable Business Strategy leverages the unique Global Head of Sustainability experience we have gained over the years in helping clients address the global and local, social, environmental and economic impacts, opportunities and risks associated with large infrastructure, energy and industrial development projects. Delivering change will not just relate to our activities as a business in terms of property, resource use and procurement, but help to deliver positive change across all our business activities, including the projects we deliver and the activity of our corporate departments. 9 SNC-Lavalin Sustainability Report 2018 SECTION 4 OUR PROGRESS TOWARDS UN AGENDA 2030 14 SNC-Lavalin Sustainability Report 2018 4. OUR PROGRESS TOWARDS UN AGENDA 2030 4.1. Introduction to the UN Sustainable 4.2. Business Strategy – 5-Year Plan Development Goals (SDGs) SNC-Lavalin has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact We are currently contributing to all 17 of the UN Sustainable responding to Agenda 2030 since 2015, progressing corporate Development Goals. We have selected three goals on which and project initiatives across all of the goals. It is important we will focus our improvement activities over the next five to recognize the link between sustainable development and years. These are the goals we consider to be most material other relevant ongoing processes in the economic, social both to our business strategy and activities but also in relation and environmental ﬁelds. We have the potential to create to our stakeholders. signiﬁcant positive change across all our activities globally and have assessed the goals in terms of signiﬁcance to our business operations. Our business is already addressing relevant strategic, economic, social and environmental topics through our corporate initiatives and our project execution. It was essential for us to use the UN SDGs as a framework for assessing which topics had become signiﬁcantly important to our stakeholders. The assessment of the issues which matter most is a key component of our Sustainable Business Strategy and our overall business strategy going forward. Addressing the UN SDGs through identiﬁed material topics has enabled us to better integrate sustainability and strengthen our economic incentives for operating more efﬁciently. We have assessed the UN SDGs in order of signiﬁcance. Higher signiﬁcance goals includes those which are material to our current business strategy and our 5-year plan. Goals with medium signiﬁcance are those we are already actively pursuing and will continue to pursue in forthcoming years. Goals with lower signiﬁcance are those we are already pursuing but that are not signiﬁcantly material to our business strategy. We have outlined the UN SDGs in order of signiﬁcance below and have included an example of our current progress towards UN Agenda 2030. 15 SNC-Lavalin Sustainability Report 2018 UN GOALS WHERE OUR BUSINESS CAN HAVE A HIGHER IMPACT 16 SNC-Lavalin Sustainability Report 2018 4.3. UN goals where our business can have a higher impact The following UN goals are considered to be of higher significance to our business activities. Higher significance goals are significantly material to our current business strategy and our 5-year plan business strategy and our 5-year plan. 4.3.1. UN SDG3 – 4.3.2. UN SDG5 – 4.3.3. UN SDG6 – 4.3.4. UN SDG7 – 4.3.5. UN SDG10 – 4.3.6. UN SDG11 – Good Health Gender Equality Clean Water Affordable and Reduced Sustainable and Well-being and Sanitation Clean Energy Inequalities Cities and Communities Our teams have developed We are proud to support We produced a report following The Jimmie Creek We believe that diversity is We applied a “Future Proofing a human-centred design tool the Seize Your Future (SYF), an assessment of the resilience Hydroelectric Project serves essential for business. We Cities” framework to identify which uses an innovative leadership programme of UK water supplies. The the BC Hydro grid by providing support the Conference and prioritize practical actions engagement process that supporting women aged report considered the impact 170 GWh of clean, renewable of Minority Transportation to enable Lagos state puts well-being at the heart 15-20 in Greater Montréal, of climate change, population energy every year. The project Officials (COMTO), National stakeholders to make progress of the design process. We Canada, who will carry out growth and environmental consists of a run-of-river hydro Organization of Minority in addressing the energy needs believe that the future of community projects while factors in strengthening the generation facility on Jimmie Architects, Women’s of the city. sustainable design lies benefiting from the guidance resilience of water supplies Creek in the Toba Valley near Transportation Seminar within an approach that puts of a female mentor and for users across the UK while Powell River, British Columbia. (WTS), National Society of the health and well-being, leadership training. protecting the environment. Black Engineers, Women in physical or mental, of Nuclear and the Society for individuals and society, Women Engineers. at its heart. 17 SNC-Lavalin Sustainability Report 2018 4.3.7. UN SDG12 – 4.3.8. UN SDG13 – 4.3.9. UN SDG16 – Responsible Climate Action Peace Justice Consumption and Strong and Production Institutions 99.7% of excavated material Working with the Global As the co-chair of the from our Crossrail joint Climate Adaptation Partnering Against Corruption venture project was beneficially Partnership (GCAP) we Initiative (PACI), a CEO-led reused to develop new nature developed the pioneering anti-corruption initiative led reserves, recreational facilities, Climate Safeguards System, by the World Economic agricultural and industrial land. a set of decision-making tools Forum, we work alongside 80% of this was transported and guides, to enable the international organizations, by rail and water, significantly African Development Bank academics and government reducing lorry journeys (AfDB) to screen projects institutions to develop industry across London. for climate change risks practices which rebuild and and identify appropriate foster trust. mitigation measures. 18 SNC-Lavalin Sustainability Report 2018 UN GOALS WHERE OUR BUSINESS CAN HAVE A MEDIUM IMPACT 19 SNC-Lavalin Sustainability Report 2018 4.4. UN goals where our business can have a medium impact The following UN goals are of medium significance to our business activities. Goals with medium significance are those we are already actively pursuing and will continue to pursue in forthcoming years. 4.4.1. UN SDG4 – 4.4.2. UN SDG8 – 4.4.3. UN SDG9 – 4.4.4. UN SDG14 – 4.4.5. UN SDG15 – Quality Decent Work Industry Life below water Life on Land Education and Economic Innovation and Growth Infrastructure We launched the Engineering Our Local Resources Our long history of growth We are providing an integrated We collaborated closely Graduate Programme in South Development Initiative (LRDI™) has made us one of the approach to river basin with the province of British Africa to attract graduates focuses on creating shared world’s biggest nuclear management, pollution Columbia and the Takla Lake and enrol them in a 12-month value between our projects service providers. We connect prevention and water First Nation to restore the land training programme covering and local rights-holders, innovation with excellence resources management. polluted by the Bralorne-Takla Technical Support Services governments and other to develop cutting-edge We will protect life below mercury mine. We designed (TSS), as well as Construction community stakeholders. technologies for nuclear water by alleviating water a landfill which allowed a Support. The programme It makes the economic and waste management as well stress, quality and forested ecosystem to return provides the technical social development of host as a full suite of advanced environmental issues in and flourish following initial expertise required to develop communities a key priority. robotic tooling and nuclearprojects in such areas as the planting with native species. graduates’ skills in their Since 1997, we’ve trained grade products. Yangtze River and Yellow River chosen field. 17,000 residents worldwide. Basins in China. 20 SNC-Lavalin Sustainability Report 2018 UN GOALS WHERE OUR BUSINESS CAN HAVE A LOWER IMPACT 21 SNC-Lavalin Sustainability Report 2018 4.5. UN goals where our business can have a lower impact The following UN goals are considered to be of lower significance to our business activities. Goals with lower significance are those which we are already pursuing but are not significantly material to our business strategy. 4.5.1. UN SDG1 – 4.5.2. UN SDG2 – 4.5.3. UN SDG17 – No Poverty No Hunger Partnership for the Goals We have supported United As a contractor for the Federal We have set up a partnership Way for nearly 30 years. The Emergency Management with the Canadian Council for United Way/Centraide Canada Agency (FEMA) following Aboriginal Business (CCAB) is a non-profit organization that Hurricanes Irma and Maria, and have confirmed our raises funds across the country our key accomplishment in commitment to undertake for local groups, addressing Puerto Rico was to alleviate company-wide certification community issues such as hunger through the using the PAR (Progressive unemployment, affordable management, production Aboriginal Relations) process housing and shelters. and shipment of 400,000 administered by the CCAB. meals a day for 57 days. 22
