Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 The better shopping experience Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 1 Content About HL Display.................................................................................... 2 Creating the better shopping experience................................................ 3 Our customer promise ........................................................................... 4 Message from the CEO........................................................................... 5 Highlights 2018....................................................................................... 6 Trends shaping the retail world................................................................ 8 Our strategy............................................................................................ 9 Managing Corporate Responsibility at HL............................................. 10 Corporate Responsibility Policy and management................................ 11 Stakeholder engagement...................................................................... 11 Materiality review and Corporate Responsibility focus areas ................ 12 Our Corporate Responsibility focus areas............................................. 13 Helping customers to reduce waste...................................................... 14 Bio-based resources replace PVC plastic ............................................ 17 Creating the best workplace................................................................. 18 Continuous improvement in operations................................................. 22 Ensuring responsibility throughout the supply chain.............................. 26 About the report.................................................................................... 30 About HL Display HL Display is an international supplier of store solutions for HL Display AB has its headquarters in Stockholm, Sweden, improved customer experience, profitability and sustainability. and sales companies in 26 countries in Europe, the Middle HL's offer includes products within store communication and East and Asia. Our production facilities are located in Sweden, merchandising solutions as well as lighting systems, secondary Poland, UK and China, and handle a variety of industrial prodisplays and bespoke store solutions and services. cesses, including plastics and metal fabrication, printing and HL’s biggest markets today are Sweden, UK, and France, assembly. but our solutions are installed in more than 295,000 stores in The company has 1,085 employees, net sales of SEK more than 70 markets around the world. The three customer 1,554m and a total capitalisation of SEK 621m. HL is a wholly segments are retail food, brand manufacturers and retail owned subsidiary of the listed Swedish investment company non-food. Ratos. 2018 key figures 295,000 70+ 1,085 1,554 stores markets employees MSEK net sales 2 Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 n HL sales companies n HL Partners and export markets Creating the better shopping experience HL helps customers around the world Passion for retail Our solutions are installed in 295 000 stores to create attractive and profitable inaround the world and we are proud to be trusted suppliers to the biggest brands. store environments that strengthen the Global mindset consumer’s shopping experience. We design products and services with superior functionality and always act in accordance with fair social and labour values. Strong family roots Our committed family of co-workers embody the entrepreneurial spirit that founded our company. Industrial leadership With presence in more than 70 markets and certified production in four countries, we can ensure a fast and flexible process wherever you are. Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 3 Our customer promise Solutions and services with superior functionality that enable retailers and brands to: ■■ Drive sales ■■ Create differentiation Research shows that more than 70 percent of Our experience from working with the world’s leading repurchasing decisions are made in store. Optimising tailers and brands has taught us how to create solutions categories, improving product presentation and reducing which drive differentiation to succeed in today’s competitive out-of-stock-situations have a vital effect on sales. landscape. ■■ Save labour cost ■■ Reduce waste Physical stores are looking to offer new services to earn Waste is both costly and, to a large degree, avoidable. the shopper's visit. Streamlining repetitive tasks such as Efforts to reduce food waste, material usage in packaging re-stocking, fronting products and organising shelves and to avoid theft all carry great societal and financial frees up staff to spend more time engaging with shoppers. benefit. 4 Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Message from the CEO When it comes to where and how to buy groceries, shoppers have more choice than ever before. Alongside the growth of online retailing, HL’s customers operating physical stores are reinventing themselves and finding new ways to become even more efficient, sustainable and attractive for shoppers. We are proud to be part of their journey. Our mission as a company is to help make retail an experiThat means listening to our customers and stakeholders to ence, not just a transaction. We pursue this mission guided deliver the right value, the right product, and the right service. by our vision: to be the preferred supplier in our industry and That is why we in 2018 decided to launch HL Sustainable lead the development in creating innovative and sustainable Choice, a growing range of both recycled plastics, and biosolutions for a better shopping experience around the world. based, compostable plastics. This was a momentous step Our vision brings into focus the innovation required to make for HL and an exciting addition to our market leading offer for retail an experience, as well as the efforts required to create our customers. And as this offer is expanded, it provides an a more sustainable store. everyday reminder to both employees and stakeholders that In 2010, HL signed the UN Global Compact, confirming we are committed to our vision and to our role as a responsible that we support the UN’s fundamental values and the ten employer and partner. principles on human rights, labour, environment and antiI am pleased to confirm our continued support for the UN corruption, and that we are committed to make them part Global Compact and renew our ongoing commitment to the of our strategy, culture and day-to-day business. initiative and its ten principles. We are now well on our way to drive the implementation and deliver the commercial output that brings our commitment and our vision to life. We strive to make it visible to employees Stockholm, 7 May 2019 every day: through the HL Code of Conduct which all employees sign upon joining, and as of 2019 also review every year; through our Corporate Responsibility Policy which is reviewed, updated and affirmed by our Board of Directors every year. And perhaps most tangible of all, through our company rallying cry Nina Jönsson, of becoming the preferred supplier in our industry. President and CEO, HL Display Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 5 Highlights 2018 Two years ago, HL formulated a vision to lead the development in creating innovative and sustainable solutions for a better shopping experience around the world. We are committed to our vision and our journey has continued in 2018. Helping customers to reduce waste 33% by 2019 Launch of HL Sustainable Choice A range of merchandising solutions made of bio-based or recycled materials was launched during the year. HL aims to offer a Sustainable Choice solution on one third of the assortment by the end of 2019. Creating the best workplace 100% Equal opportunities and non-discrimination HL is a multicultural company with operations in many countries around the world. The overall gender distribution is 45 percent women and 55 percent men. 94% Measuring employee engagement Health and safety In 2018 the response rate for HL's annual employee All employees of HL's production engagement survey was a record high 94 percent, facilities have undergone relevant reflecting how willing employees are to contribute. health and safety training in 2018. 6 Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Driving continuous improvement in operations 97.1% 44% Recycling production Renewable energy waste In 2018, 44 percent of HL's energy We aim to recycle 100 percent consumption came from renewable of our production waste and sources. HL’s Sundsvall factory, as use recycled plastics when an example, runs entirely on hydroquality and supply chain generated electricity. permit it. In 2018, 97.1 percent 10% of the total waste from our Reducing carbon footprint from production was recycled, transports including 1,390 tonnes of By re-locating the logistics centre for plastic. Nordic markets to reduce transport distances we achieved a 10 percent 50% Reducing waste reduction of CO2 emissions from Over the past 4-5 years PVC transports. scrap has been reduced by 50 percent. The total production waste reduction in 2018 was 72 tonnes. Ensuring responsibility throughout the supply chain 100% Sustainability screening Code of Conduct All new significant business partners and All HL employees sign the Code suppliers have undergone sustainability of Conduct upon joining, and as screening in 2018. of 2019, review it every year. Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 7 Trends shaping the retail world Circular economy Digitalisation Climate change Population growth As retail is evolving fast, responding to changing shopper needs and expectations is essential. Consumers are looking for convenience, expecting experiences and demanding commitments to sustainability. Megatrends shaping retail Convenient and inspiring Helping shoppers to live Megatrends like urbanisation, populashopping experiences more sustainably tion growth and an aging population With consumer behaviour evolving and As shoppers demand action, retailers support retailers in strengthening their technological advancements impacting and brands can do much to advance investments in physical stores and retail at a fast pace, the grocery retail their ways of working and reduce their neighbourhood services. Other megaindustry will continue to see change. environmental footprint. But besides trends like climate change and overuse The demand for convenience is instriving to reduce their own environof natural resources are pushing both creasing. Physical stores need to earn mental impact, retailers are increasingly retailers and consumers to mitigate the shopper’s visit, to create convenient offering shoppers opportunities to conglobal warming and measure and reand inspiring experiences that make it sume more sustainably, for example by duce their environmental footprints, with worth the trip. Therefore, retailers are offering packaging-free products and stores focusing on renewable energy investing in fresh food which is resilient switching to reusable packaging. Some and energy efficiency. Promoting circuto e-commerce and also in store cafés, retailers go a step further, informing lar economy is increasingly on retailers’ food courts or even cooking classes – shoppers of the carbon emissions of agenda and not least within plastics turning stores more into meeting places their purchases and providing lower– initiatives for recycling, reducing and and emphasising the social aspects of impact alternatives to help shoppers to avoiding the use of plastics altogether shopping. make more sustainable choices. are increasing. 8 Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Our strategy Our mission: To make retail an experience, not just a transaction Our vision: To be the preferred supplier in our industry, and lead the development in creating innovative and sustainable solutions for a better shopping experience around the world. Best in class Customer Service Industry leading Innovation & One HL Team To become the preferred supplier, HL Sustainability To make our mission and vision come is improving the way we service our HL has a long-standing reputation to life, we are pulling together our customers. Key to this is a decentralised for innovation and quality. We drive diverse work force as one HL team and sales organisation with Regional innovation both on existing assortment invest continuously to recruit, retain and Distribution Centres located closer to and through innovating new solutions develop talent. Our shared values are customers, which reduces lead times and services. In our existing portfolio, fundamental to the company’s ability to and transportation distances. Efforts we focus on continuous improvements deliver on our ambitions: to digitalise our customer interfaces through simplification of the offer, for ■■ Ownership and offer more choice in terms of example by reducing material usage. ■■ Speed order fulfilment from a sustainability Innovation resources are focused on ■■ One HL Team perspective is being investigated categories that help retailers drive Our sustainability work is proving pivotal with the aim of future trials. experience, automation and sustainability. in driving pride in HL as a place to work We develop both in-house and with and attractiveness as employer. R&D partners. Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 9 Managing Corporate Responsibility at HL Our commitment to creating better shopping experiences is also a commitment to sustainability. We aspire to be the leader in our industry. 10 Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Corporate Responsibility Policy and management HL’s operations are based on the principles on human rights, labour, envisustainability efforts with the support of company’s values, vision and mission. ronment and anti-corruption have been other members of Group Management. We outline our approach to corporate an integral part of company’s strategy, The local entities have a high level of reresponsibility in our Corporate Reculture and day-to-day operations. sponsibility for day-to-day sustainability sponsibility Policy, Code of Conduct The Corporate Responsibility Policy work, particularly regarding environand Purchasing Policy (https://www. is discussed and approved annually by mental and health and safety aspects hl-display.com/siteassets/documents/ HL’s Board of Directors and it outlines at the production facilities. The effechl-display-cr-policy.pdf). the company’s corporate responsibility tiveness of the corporate responsibility Since 2010, HL has been a member ambitions. performance is evaluated and reported of the United Nations Global Compact. HL’s Group Marketing Director has externally by Group Management. The UN’s fundamental values and ten overall responsibility for the Group’s Stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Engagement Sustainability topics raised and results 2018 Customers Customer engagement through regular meetings, Reducing packaging, food waste and plastic waste and newly established customer satisfaction survey, has been confirmed to be essential for ambitious conducted for the first time in 2018 in the Nordics retailers. with plans to expand into other markets. Shoppers Shopper engagement through day-to-day usage of HL solutions are installed in more than 295,000 stores HL’s products in stores. around the world. Employees Employee engagement through the annual employee Response rate for the 2018 annual engagement survey, performance appraisals, CEO award, day-to survey was 94 percent. Results indicate that day management and dialogue. employees feel they can combine work and private life, they can get support from their colleagues, that their workload is on an acceptable level, and that they have equal opportunities. Suppliers Supplier engagement through regular audits and In 2018, HL conducted 17 audits of important ongoing dialogue. suppliers and screened all significant new suppliers in line with our Purchasing Policy. Academia Active cooperation and partnerships in research Launch of the new product range, HL Sustainable projects related to bio-based materials. Choice, produced with bio-based or recycled materials. Owners and Owners are represented on the Board of Directors, HL’s Corporate Responsibility Policy is reviewed financiers active in discussions and steering the company and annually by the Board of Directors. its sustainability agenda. Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 11 Materiality review and Corporate Responsibility focus areas In 2017 HL conducted a materiality review during workshops arranged and facilitated by HL’s owner Ratos. In this exercise S U P P LIE R S HL’s impact on sustainable development was categorised and PR prioritised. In 2018 the analysis has been updated to reflect changes in HL’s vision and strategy. In this analysis, both IGN OD stakeholder interest, and HL’s biggest impacts have been UC considered. As a result HL focuses its corporate responsibility DES The better TIO N efforts in four areas: shopping ■■ ■■ Helping customers to reduce waste Creating the best workplace SHO experience T POR ■■ ■■ Driving continuous improvement in operations Ensuring responsibility throughout the supply chain PP NS ER S RA T C U S TO M E R S 12 Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Our Corporate Responsibility focus areas Helping customers to reduce waste Creating the best workplace ■■ We offer products that are resource-efficient – not only in ■■ We create a workplace where people live our values manufacturing, but also in transportation and installation ■■ We streamline our processes to ensure same quality ■■ We commit to give sufficient information for end-of-life of employee experience to all employees treatment of products ■■ We develop and measure employee engagement ■■ We aim to offer our customers a Sustainable Choice ■■ We attract and retain talent solution on one third of the assortment by the end of 2019 Driving continuous improvement in operations Ensuring responsibility throughout the supply chain ■■ We aim to recycle 100 percent of our production waste ■■ We aim for all suppliers serving HL to sign our ■■ We strive to use electricity from renewable sources Purchasing Policy ■■ We minimise our water consumption ■■ We secure freedom of association, anti-discrimination, ■■ We aim to have all our factories and distribution centres anti-corruption and workplace safety through a continuous ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified by 2020 pursuit of the objectives set out in our policies ■■ We actively pursue projects with our partners in order to ■■ We ensure all our employees sign and adhere to our reduce the carbon footprint of our transports Code of Conduct Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 13 Helping customers to reduce waste Aims ■■ We offer products that are resource-efficient, not only in manufacturing but also in transportation and installation ■■ We commit to give sufficient information for end-of-life treatment of products ■■ We aim to offer a Sustainable Choice solution on one third of the assortment by the end of 2019 14 Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 HL provides retailers and brand manufacturers with solutions that drive sales, save labour cost, create differentiation and reduce waste. From store communication, merchandising and secondary Helping customers to reduce waste displays to bespoke design and services, HL focuses on HL can help customers to reduce their environmental footimproving the shopping experience whilst its solutions are print in several ways. Food waste is reduced for example by increasing clients’ cost efficiency and improving their environsolutions that showcase a greater variety of products with mental footprint. smaller inventory. Energy efficiency improvements are gained Furthermore, HL’s growing range of sustainable merchanby cooling systems with shorter times for restocking and dising solutions made of recycled or bioplastics help HL’s customers can reduce packaging waste by using bins for bulk customers on their journey to a more sustainable store. merchandising. Customers also have the choice of moving to products made of bio-based or recycled materials. HL’s solutions, like Sigma™, RotoShelf™ and bulk merchandising solutions are supporting retailers in creating a better shopping experience. Reducing Reducing Reducing Sustainable Choice food waste energy waste packaging waste Sigma™ is a modular merchandising system tailored to create stunning visual displays and abundant presentations “The results have been successful because to showcase a greater variety of produce without the need the food waste has been reduced notably. for large inventory. The shelving and racking units are made This is because now we sell more of the of anodised aluminium that will never rust, peel, chip or flake. Aluminium is one of the best conductors of temperature, produce with a lot lower amount lost.” drawing out and dissipating heat quicker than steel, which Tero Turkia, Store Owner at K-Supermarket Valtari, Finland ensures effective cooler circulation and maximises refrigeration air flow. Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 15 Bins for packaging-free merchandising New solutions made of bio-based or recycled Bulk merchandising is growing in popularity across multiple materials markets and categories. From speciality stores to grocery More and more retailers and brands pledge their ambition to chains, this trend has seen more retailers display and reduce plastic usage and waste dramatically. Both recycled dispense loose products in solutions such as bulk bins at and bio-based plastics play an important role in the journey to unprecedented speed. And with good reason: bulk mera more sustainable store. Recycled plastics reduce the envichandising offers the opportunity to create differentiation, ronmental footprint by significantly reducing virgin plastic usreduce waste, and drive higher margins. Bulk merchandising age while bio-based plastics made from renewable resources delivers a more authentic and engaging shopping experience, such as sugarcane and corn mean avoiding fossil-based allowing shoppers to pick their favourites and buy exactly the plastic altogether. amount they need, while helping to reduce packaging waste. In 2018, HL took a big step forward with the launch of HL Sustainable Choice, a range of merchandising solutions made of bio-based or recycled materials developed in collaboration with academic research institutions. “When we implemented HL’s bins they were HL partnered with KTH Royal Institute of Technology well received by our customers because they in Stockholm and IVL (Swedish Environmental Research save packaging material.” Institute) to develop products made of bio-based materials. While IVL provided in-depth insights on environmental impact Ricardo Eric Rabago, Product Purchasing Manager at Coop Basel, Switzerland throughout the entire life cycle of products, HL worked with KTH to find the right bioplastic – bio-based, degradable and with the right material properties – to produce a high-quality product. The result of this work is HL Sustainable Choice, a growing range of sustainable merchandising solutions made of biobased or recycled materials which complements our original assortment. Starting with datastrips and shelftalkers, our ambition is to offer our customers a sustainable choice on one third of the assortment by 2019. 16 Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Interview: Bio-based resources replace PVC plastic In a successful example of academia and industry collaboration, HL’s partnership with KTH Royal Institute of Technology and IVL (Swedish Environmental Research Institute) brings more sustainable choices to HL’s customers. The collaboration with KTH and IVL began in 2017 as part of towards traceable material flows, minimised waste and reHL’s ambition to be at the forefront in creating innovative and cycled materials. Their customers now have the opportunity sustainable solutions for a better shopping experience. to select from a range of products that resulted from our In 2018, the partnership resulted in the development of collaboration: HL Sustainable Choice. datastrips made of bioplastic based on sugarcane and corn, They are both certain that a fossil-free society hinges on reducing the use of fossil-based plastic. IVL investigated how collaborations between the academic world, research institutes a datastrip affects the environment during its entire life cycle, and the industry. from extraction of raw materials to end-of-life management. We would never be where we are without input from KTH provided knowledge and insights on bio-based materials science and research. At the same time, the research has with the right properties to produce high quality products. to be implemented and adapted to the needs of the market. We need to reduce our dependency on fossil-based The link between the different perspectives is where we find materials, include circularity in the business model and move sustainable solutions , Sebastian says. towards a bio-based economy. It’s not just a question of reA clear vision coupled with a solutions-oriented mindset placing a PVC based material. We need to consider the whole and a willingness to think outside the box. That is key. life cycle of alternative materials and alternative processes. I see Everyone at HL, from the factory floors in Sundsvall, Poland HL as pioneers in this area, they are committed to get truly and China to management, is working towards the same sustainable solutions to the market , says Emma Strömberg, goal. I think the fact that they have such a strong shared Associate Professor for Fiber and Polymer Technology at KTH. vision is attributable to a very genuine commitment. We are Sebastian Welling, Project Manager at IVL agrees: happy to be part of the journey , Emma says. It is inspiring to work with a company with such high ambitions as HL. They have a strategy and work goal-oriented The better shopping experience Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 17 Creating the best workplace Aims ■■ We create a workplace where people live our values ■■ We streamline our processes to ensure same quality of employee experience to all employees ■■ We develop and measure employee engagement ■■ We attract and retain talent 18 Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 HL invests continuously in developing the best workplace, with the aim of ensuring that employees value their work, appreciate their employer and are highly motivated. Creating a culture where people Streamlining processes to ensure live HL’s values best employee experience To further promote HL’s values – ownerHL has invested in creating systematic conveys the message that people are ship, speed and one HL team – a CEO HR processes to ensure all its employtruly valued and respected. In 2018, yet award is given out every quarter to an ees are treated with the same quality another step for streamlining and providindividual or a team that embodies our standards. Streamlined processes ing employees with quality management values and contributes to company include salaryand recruitment processtools was taken when a common project culture, be it through innovation or by es, performance management and also management model was created. All excelling in team work. Anyone can systematic procedures like conducting managers and project leaders have renominate candidates and the number of exit interviews if a person decides to ceived training based on the model and nominations has increased significantly leave HL. Through the exit interviews are expected to use it, and the model is since the launch of this initiative in 2017. HL gains important feedback but also available to all employees. CEO award − Who should be awarded? Ownership Speed One team Someone who... Someone who... Someone who... ■■ is proactive, constantly working to deliver ■■ is customer-focused in her/his way of ■■ succeeds by making others succeed, a better way of operating working acts as a true enabler for others ■■ sees something that is broken, and fixes ■■ is eager to deliver and display a clear ■■ wins by making things easy for those it, not just walks by sense of urgency around her/him, not only for herself/ ■■ makes innovation happen ■■ contributes to taking informed decisions himself ■■ carries out implementation and does not ■■ takes extra steps to reach out across stop half way through functional and or geographical boarders Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 19 Total emloyees working full time Female: Male: 93% 89% 96% full time full time Equal opportunities and non-discrimination Attracting and developing talent HL is a multicultural company with world-wide operations. HL has a well-established annual performance review We strive to give all employees equal opportunities for profesprocess, which forms the basis for individual employee sional development, promotion and pay growth, regardless of development. The process consists of annual performance background, gender, ethnicity or age. Zero-tolerance applies appraisals, in which employees receive constructive feedback to all forms of discrimination and women and men with comon their work, together with clear goals defined jointly by the parable qualifications and work tasks should have the same employee and their immediate supervisor. This also includes opportunities and working conditions. Salary is to be based a development plan, including training needs, with future upon level of difficulty and achievement and all employees development steps to be taken, and career planning. A midshould have the same opportunities for promotion, developyear review takes place after every six months, in which the ment and training. individual goals and development plan are followed up. The overall gender distribution is 45 percent women and Based on the employee survey, 86,4 percent of employees 55 percent men (2017: 46 percent women, 54 percent men). had performance appraisal in 2018, while some employees Some of the functions within the company are well balanced were newly hired and had not yet gone through the process. with a fairly equal distribution of men and women. In other HL works continuously on further training for employees to areas, more remains to be done. The positions where women ensure they are well-equipped for success in their work. As and men are fairly balanced include procurement specialists, an example, HL offers continuous product training for sales factory managers and production operators. personnel where the company’s product managers organise HL is working on several long-term initiatives to increase local training for the sales force as well as operations teams gender equality in recruitment and career development. Rearound the world. In addition, global sales trainings for key cruitment ads aim to be inclusive and encourage applicants account managers and account executives are held twice of both genders. The goal is to seek the best candidates for a year. the job and increase opportunities for those who are less In order to secure alignment and commitment to company represented within the company. HL business partners are strategy, HL has also set up a Leadership Forum, which is a qualified in using tests to evaluate candidates’ ability, behaviour cross-function meeting held twice a year. It is aimed primarily and personality, to ensure an unbiased and well-founded at the company’s top managers, such as regional and factory decision based on merits. managers. Employees by employment contract Women Men Total Permanent employees 435 557 992 Temporary employees 53 40 93 Total 488 597 1,085 Nordic Rest of Europe Asia Total Women Men Women Men Women Men Permanent employees 63 140 318 365 54 52 992 Temporary employees 7 6 43 32 3 2 93 Total 70 146 361 397 57 54 1,085 20 Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Measuring employee engagement be differences across functions or locations, overall people HL conducts an annual employee engagement survey, called feel work life balance is at an acceptable level, and that they HighLight Engagement Survey, covering all of its employees. have equal opportunities. There are no significant differences In 2018, the response rate was a record high 94 percent, between how men and women responded. reflecting the high level of engagement HL employees show. Based on the feedback obtained through the survey, The survey is closely linked to the company strategy and HL prioritises and implements improvements that strengthen covers four areas: Efficiency, Leadership, Engagement and the company’s position as an employer. In addition to aggreSustainable work life. Ever since the launch of the survey in gate results at company level, results are shared with, and 2016, an important part of the study has been to discover owned by each local manager. There are about 100 managers how sustainable the working culture at HL is. The results have that receive results for their teams allowing them to take shown a steady positive increase in this area. While there can measures to improve their business. Ensuring health and safety of employees Health and safety risks at HL are mainly associated with production. HL aims to ensure safe workplaces with a good working environment by carrying out preventive work, including regular updates of safety procedures and examination of different risk factors. 90 percent of all employees have their workplace controlled by a formal joint management-worker health and safety committee. In 2018, all factory employees at HL’s production facilities have undergone health and safety training. The number of workplace accidents leading to absence or sick leave in 2018 was 9 (2017: 7) and no fatal accidents occurred (2017: 0). HL is keen to follow collective agreements in countries where such agreements are in place. 29 percent (2017: 17) of employees are covered by formal collective agreements. Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 21 Continuous improvement in operations with a focus on efficient use of resources Aims ■■ We aim to recycle 100 percent of our production waste and use recycled plastics when quality and supply chain permit it ■■ We strive to use electricity from renewable sources ■■ We minimise our water consumption ■■ We aim to have all our factories and distribution centres ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified ■■ We actively pursue projects with our partners in order to reduce the carbon footprint of our transports 22 Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 HL strives to improve environmental performance by complying with policies and standards and placing continuous efforts to reduce the environmental impact of its production. Responsible production means running factories in an ■■ Harlow in the UK for metal, injection moulding, efficient and environmentally responsible way. The company's heat bending and printing management systems and policies for quality, work and ■■ Suzhou in China for extrusion and injection conduct ensure minimal waste and the highest standards of moulding of plastics safety during production. HL’s biggest environmental impacts are caused by the use All factories certified or under certification of raw materials, mainly plastics, consumption of water and Continuous improvement of operations and environmental energy in production as well as waste and transportation of and quality management of HL’s factories are based on intergoods and people. nationally recognised standards. The majority of the products in HL’s portfolio are produced All four factories are compliant with the ISO 9001 quality at the company’s own factories. HL has production in four standard. HL aims to have all factories and distribution cenfactories: tres ISO 14001 and OHSAS 18001 certified. Today, 75 percent of factories are ISO 14001 certified, with Sundsvall, Suzhou ■■ Sundsvall in Sweden for extrusion of plastics and Gliwice being certified and Harlow under certification. ■■ Gliwice in Poland for injection moulding, heat Factories in Sundsvall, Gliwice and Suzhou also comply with bending and printing the health and safety standard OHSAS 18001, and the Harlow factory is under certification. HL's biggest environmental impacts Use of plastic Use of energy and Plastic waste Transportation raw materials water in production Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 23 Production waste management 2018 (metric tonnes) Packaging Mixed Other safe Total safe Hazardous Plastic Metal material material waste waste waste Recycled/granulated in-house for own production 342 – – – – 342 – Recycled externally 1,048 342 250 21 244 1,905 1 Recycled for heating – – – 304 – 304 – Deposit/non-recycled – – – – 65 65 12 Aiming to reuse all plastic waste in production HL's ambition is to recycle all production waste and to use HL’s main raw material is plastic, notably PVC. In 2018, howall plastic waste in the production of new products. In 2018, ever, HL began producing products made of plastics that are 97.1 percent (2017: 90.2) of the total waste from our production starch-based instead of oil-based and thereby biodegradable, was recycled. The last 4-5 years have seen tremendous proso-called PLA-materials. gress, with a reduction of 50 percent in PVC scrap. In 2018, Still, the waste generated at HL’s factories consists largely we recycled 1,390 tonnes of plastic, and the total waste of plastics. HL addresses the problem of waste in producreduction in 2018 was 72 tonnes. tion in two ways – reduce and reuse. Firstly, by continuously When manufacturing and sourcing new materials, HL streamlining production processes we strive to reduce plastic complies with REACH, the EU’s chemicals legislation. Suppliers waste generated. Secondly, we recycle plastic and other must also guarantee compliance with all applicable environwaste as far as possible. mental laws and sign a written undertaking regarding REACH. The biggest impacts with regards to reducing raw material In 2018, several initiatives were taken to reduce the usage consumption is linked to our work to enhance production of chemicals. In HL's factory in Gliwice, the maintenance processes. The aim is to produce less scrap and increase department changed supplier of chemicals, which allowed capacity for using recycled material. This work accelerated them to reduce the chemical use by 30 percent and reduce and took several steps in 2018. the number of substances from 26 to 15. Raw materials and input goods in percent 2018 (2017) n PVC 35.4 (31.7) n PET 18.7 (15.6) n Polystyrene 4.4 (3.2) n ABS 4.0 (2.9) n Other plastic material 4.2 (7.7) n Packaging material 8.8 (10.6) n Aluminium, steel, wire 18.6 (15.9) n Other material 5.8 (12.4) 24 Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Improvements in water and energy consumption ■■ Improvement of dryer tank to reduce power consumption HL’s direct electricity consumption in production was of injection line by 30 percent (Suzhou) 25.6 MWh (2017: 25.8 MWh). 44 percent of HL’s energy ■■ Process efficiency improvements in order to reduce consumption comes from renewable sources and, as an number of production lines (Gliwice, Sundsvall) example, HL’s Sundsvall factory runs entirely on hydrogen■■ Phase out old machine equipment (Harlow, Sundsvall, erated electricity. Various measures for reducing electricity Gliwice, Suzhou) consumption are being implemented at the factories. These range from heating the premises using waste heat from Water usage is part of the production process when cooling machinery to installing time-controlled lighting. extruded and injection-moulded plastic products. In 2018, Examples of the energy efficiency improvements in our 365,631 m3 of water (from municipal water supplies) was used factories in 2018: at the company's production facilities (2017: 367,499 m3). HL’s factory in Gliwice, Poland uses a closed cooling water ■■ Replacement of lighting to LED-energy to reduce power system to reduce water consumption, while work is underway consumption by 50 percent (Gliwice, Harlow, Suzhou) to significantly reduce water consumption at the Sundsvall ■■ Prolonged the hydraulic oil of injection machines usage factory in Sweden. In 2019, the Sundsvall factory will have a life by filtering the oil to reduce 1900 l oil annually well of its own for process water consumption, meaning so (Suzhou) called drinkable water will no longer be used in the production ■■ Injection machines’ motors were improved to achieve process. power energy saving of about 30 percent 11,185 8,117 6,279 Green electricity (MWh) Regular electricity (MWh) Gas (MWh) Efficiency improvements in logistics to reduce distribution centres, and from the distribution centres to the CO2 emissions customers. Sea transport is the primary shipping method for HL improves transport efficiency by continuous efforts to ready-made goods from Asia and the US, as well as for tools increase the number of products per package and eliminate bought in Asia for use in the European factories. Projects are unnecessary packaging material. How efficiently a product actively pursued with partners to continuously find more effican be packaged is factored into the product development cient way to distribute products, in order to further reduce the phase. In 2018, a bigger structural change in the distribution carbon footprint of both inbound and outbound transports. set-up to the Nordic countries was made to reduce transport EuroVI – Environmental class – is required for all new freight distances and CO2 emissions. The distribution centre for the forward suppliers starting from 2018. Nordic countries was moved from Poland to Sweden reducing transport distances and resulting in 10 percent reduction The company’s fleet of vehicles of CO2 emissions. It is HL’s ambition to gradually reduce CO2 emissions from our fleet of vehicles. The company has four different categories EuroVI – Environmental class for all new freight of vehicles and there are limits on CO2 emissions for each forward suppliers category. These limits are reviewed every 12-18 months to HL requires all its transport suppliers to have environmental see if they can be lowered. The upper limit for CO2 emissions programmes in place. The majority of shipments are made by is currently 125 g/km. truck, for example from the European factories to the European Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 25 Ensuring responsibility throughout the supply chain Aims ■■ We aim for all suppliers serving HL to sign our Purchasing Policy ■■ We secure freedom of association, anti-discrimination, anti-corruption and workplace safety through a continuous pursuit of the objectives set out in our policies ■■ We ensure all our employees sign and adhere to our Code of Conduct 26 Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 HL's Code of Conduct demonstrates the company's strong position against corruption, ensuring employees and stakeholders practice honesty, integrity and responsibility. Code of Conduct – strong commitment to antiPurchasing Policy ensuring same standards corruption and safeguarding human rights from suppliers HL supports and respects the protection of internationally HL has about 2,300 suppliers of production inputs supplyproclaimed human rights and makes sure that the company ing one factory in Asia and 3 factories in Europe. Finished is not complicit in human rights abuses. products are also sourced from about 150 suppliers through With a zero-tolerance stance on bribery, extortion or distribution centres. corruption, strict adherence to regulatory requirements and It is of great importance to HL that all suppliers adhere to a third-party whistleblowing service, the Code of Conduct the same standards as HL. We have clear requirements for clearly defines the fundamental principles that every company our suppliers outlined in the Purchasing Policy. HL has an onrepresentative and partner should follow. going campaign to increase the share of significant suppliers All HL employees sign the Code of Conduct upon joining, signing the Purchasing Policy. This is followed up in quarterly and as of 2019, review it annually. HL did not have any purchasing reviews. corruption-related incidents that led to disciplinary action in 2018 (2017: 0). Steps to ensure responsibility in supply chain: 1 All new suppliers must sign Purchasing Policy 2 Important suppliers audited once in 2 years 3 Risk Assessment 4 Continuous cooperation 5 Whistleblowing Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 27 28 Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 By signing the document suppliers agree to meet defined requirements in accordance with the Purchasing Policy. requirements in several areas including compliance with ILO The second part relates to the production organisation. (International Labour Organisation) conventions and other Representatives from HL perform a review of the site based international guidelines related to human rights and labour. In on several predefined criteria, making sure that the producaddition, there are clear guidelines on business ethics (cortion site is aligned with the requirements to produce for HL. ruption) and environment. Should non-compliances with the The result of the review is a rating ranging from A, which is Purchasing Policy be detected corrective action and cooperathe rating of a top supplier, to D, which leads to immediate tion with the supplier is always prioritised. Ultimately however, termination of the contract. The B and C ratings imply that the failure to comply with the policy can lead to the contract improvements are needed to various extent. being terminated. No violations of the Code of Conduct or the Purchasing Policy were reported in 2018. Whistleblowing A whistleblowing function has been in operation at HL since Main Requirements of HL’s Purchasing Policy 2013. The whistleblowing channel in use is called Whistle■■ Human and Labour Rights blowing Centre, which is part of TripleB, an external Swedish ■■ Business Ethics sustainability consultancy. By using the whistleblowing ■■ Sustainable Growth site, employees are guaranteed anonymity when reporting ■■ Environmental Care malpractice. Reports made through the system go directly to ■■ Supply Chain Responsibility the Group Marketing Director who is responsible for HL’s sustainability work, the Group HR Director, and simultaneously to Audits and site visits the principal owner Ratos’ representative on the Board of DiHL regularly makes site visits and audits, with the most imrectors. Examples of malpractice that HL wants to be brought portant suppliers being audited once every other year. During to attention include possible non-compliance with local laws 2018, HL conducted 17 such audits of important suppliers or breaches of HL’s Code of Conduct in areas such as human and all significant new suppliers in 2018 were screened in-line rights, labour and anti-corruption. Reports that come through with the Purchasing Policy. the whistleblowing channel are investigated centrally. If the The audit is made up of two parts. The first part is inmalpractice report proves to be well-founded and correct, it tended to ensure suppliers fully understand and apply HL’s will result in disciplinary and, where applicable, legal action. In 2018, no reports were made through the whistleblowing system (2017: 1). Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 29 About the report This report has been prepared in accordance with GRI HL Display Group, i.e. HL Display Holding AB and all its subStandards Core option. It constitutes HL’s Communication ordinate legal entities. Operations beyond HL’s direct control, on Progress as part of the company’s commitment to the UN such as suppliers, are not included in the report. The presented Global Compact. The report covers the global activities of the information has not been assured by an external party. General Disclosures Disclosure Page reference/URL Comment Organisational 102-1 Name of the Organisation 2 Profile 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 2, hl-display.com 102-3 Location of headquarters 2 102-4 Location of operations 2-3 102-5 Ownership and legal form 2 102-6 Markets served 2-3, hl-display.com 102-7 Scale of the organisation 2 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 20 102-9 Supply chain 27 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its – No significant change supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 23-24 102-12 External initiatives – UN Global Compact 102-13 Membership of associations – UN Global Compact plus various trade organisations in the markets where HL operates Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 5 Ethics and 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behaviour 4, 9, 11, 27 Integrity Governance 102-18 Governance structure 11, hl-display.com Stakeholder 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 11 engagement 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 21 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 11-12 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 11-12 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 11 Reporting 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements – HL Display Holding AB and all practice subordinate legal entities 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries – GRI’s reporting principles have been taken into consideration 102-47 List of material topics 12 102-48 Restatements of information – None 102-49 Changes in reporting 12 102-50 Reporting period – 2018 102-51 Date of most recent report – June 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle – Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report – Peder Clason, Group Marketing Director, HL 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 30 102-55 GRI content index 30-31 102-56 External assurance 30 30 Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 Material Topics Disclosure Page reference/URL Comment Economic Anti-corruption 103-1/2/3 Management approach 11-12, 26-27, 29 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken 27 Environmental Materials 103-1/2/3 Management approach 9, 11-12, 14-17, 22-24 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume 24 Energy 103-1/2/3 Management approach 11-12, 14-17, 22-23, 25 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 25 Water 103-1/2/3 Management approach 11-12, 22-23, 25 303-3 Water withdrawal 25 Effluents and 103-1/2/3 Management approach 11-12, 14-17, 22-24 Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 24 Social Occupational 103-1/2/3 Management approach 11-12, 21-23 Health and Safety 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint management-worker 21 health and safety committees Own disclosure: Number of workplace accidents leading to 21 absence or sick leave Supplier Social 103-1/2/3 Management approach 11-12, 26-27, 29 Assessment 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 29 Corporate Responsibility Report 2018 31 The better shopping experience HL DISPLAY AB (publ) Box 1118, Cylindervägen 18 SE-131 26 Nacka Strand Sweden Phone: +46 8 683 73 00 info@hl-display.com www.hl-display.com 32 Corporate Responsibility Report 2018
