Sustainability Report 2018 /19 1 A snapshot from our crafting facility in Lamphun, Northern Thailand Wide roofing gives a cooling shade Contents Energy efficient air conditioning systems 01/ 05/ Letter from CFO and COO 4 Planet 20 Pandora Planet in Brief 22 02/ Rain water used to flush toilets during rain season Minimising Our Environmental Impact 23 Case: Empowerment Through Organic Farming 26 About Pandora 5 06/ 03/ Cooling shade Efficient water recycling from halo system in production People 28 Product 8 Pandora People in Brief 30 Pandora Product in Brief 10 Ensuring Proper Working Conditions 31 Crafting Our Products with Integrity 11 Focus on Thailand 33 Certified for Our Responsible Case: An Ethical, Fashionable Future 36 Production – Again 13 04/ 07/ Key Performance Indicators 38 Silver, Gold & Stones 14 Solar panels supply Green plants renewable energy 08/ ensure Silver and Gold 16 biodiversity Environmental Benefits 16 Stones 18 Our Journey 40 Pandora contributes to progress on many of the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development Goals. We focus on the seven goals where we believe our business can have the largest positive, as well as adverse, impact. S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 / 1 9 3 High Ethical Standards About Pandora and Quality Jewellery 112 DKK 22.8 Pandora has a particularly strong capability to enforce and maintain high standards as we operate across the full value chain, which spans design, raw material procurement, crafting, marketing, stores and eSTOREs. We work closely with our suppliers and partners to ensure MILLION BILLION IN high ethical standards, and we communicate our efforts and PI EC E S O F J E W ELLERY REVENUE CR A F T ED performance externally to inspire others. Almost 13,000 pieces of jewellery every hour of every day 2018 Highlights Pandora’s Sustainability Programme is integrated into our business through policies, guidelines and tools. In 2018 our work focused on production start-up at our second green crafting facility in Bangkok, Thailand – gold certified to the highest standard of Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED). We are very proud to craft our products in green facilities of such a high standard. Complementing ~14,0 0 0 this, our comprehensive Responsible Supplier Programme continued CR AF TSPEOPLE to ensure that the high standards are also honoured by our suppliers. IN T H A IL A ND At the heart of Pandora’s business is the We also successfully extended our global Responsible Jewellery belief that high ethical standards and highCouncil (RJC) certification to 2021, and were for the second year Bringing their skills, their vision and their running the highest ranking company in Morgan Stanley Capital hearts and minds to work each day quality jewellery go hand in hand. We want International’s annual Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) L A M PHUN women to be able to express themselves rating of the fashion industry. with jewellery made from ethically sourced Finally, to make sure that all employees are up to date with our materials and crafted responsibly – because 7,70 0 expectations for the behaviour of our company, we once again we care about our planet and our people. provided a global Code of Conduct e-learning course which all BANGKO K We are committed signatories of the United employees completed. POINTS OF SALE Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and With this Sustainability Report, we share with you our efforts to craft >2,70 0 O F T H E S E A R E ~32,0 0 0 acknowledge our responsibilities in the areas Pandora jewellery with integrity, provide proper working conditions PA ND O R A CO N C EP T S TO R E S of human rights, labour, environment and for our employees and minimise our environmental impact. anti-corruption. This report is our annual We hope you will enjoy it. PEOPLE GLOBALLY OUR CR AF TING Communication on Progress to the UNGC. FACILITIES IN THAIL AND Anders Boyer CFO Jeremy Schwartz COO 13 HUBS O F INN OVAT I O N A ND EFFI CI EN C Y, EN SUR IN G O UR 14.8 MILLION A BILI T Y TO M A IN TA IN A ND MILLION PA ND O R A CLUB M E M BER S D E V ELO P H I GH E T H I C AL FAC EB O O K F O LLOW ER S S TA NDA R D S 4 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 / 1 9 5 NAME OF CHAPTER Our Value Chain We control the majority of our value chain, from design and raw material procurement, through crafting to marketing and sales of our jewellery. and Potential We always aim to minimise potential adverse social and environmental impacts, through Sustainability Issues continuous assessment and collaborative efforts. MINING OF RAW METAL REFINERY >85% IN-HOUSE JEWELLERY PACKAGING TRANSPORTATION DISTRIBUTION PANDORA STORES THE PANDORA MATERIAL & MAN-MADE STONE MANUFACTURING & JEWELLERY OF GOODS CENTRES/STORAGE CUSTOMER PRODUCTION PARTS SUPPLIERS ISSUES Energy consumption Energy use Water & energy consumption Labour standards Waste footprint Fossil fuel usage Energy consumption Energy consumption Land depletion Health & safety Water & energy Waste management Health & safety consumption Labour standards 6 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 / 1 9 7 Product Pandora jewellery is designed and crafted with great attention to sustainability. Here is a snapshot of how we make a difference in the industry, on the high street, and to the environment in which we operate. Recycled silver and environmentally friendly man-made stones are some of our preferred materials. 8 PRODUCT Pandora Product Crafting Our Products with Integrity in Brief 1.7 Design Every Pandora product starts its journey with our in-house Design Responsible Supplier Programme All suppliers for our jewellery crafting and store materials are subject BILLION team. As new pieces of jewellery evolve, our designers will make to our Responsible Supplier Programme and are required to sign and S TO N E S S PA R K LIN G O N choices regarding which materials to use. Whenever new materials comply with our Suppliers’ Code of Conduct. The comprehensive O UR J E W ELLERY or suppliers are introduced, our Sustainability team is consulted in supplier programme we have developed supports them in achieving order to discuss potential environmental or social impacts. Such compliance. Our Sustainability team works extensively with suppliers 99.96% were man-made stones, that early collaboration helps to ensure that Pandora is aware of potential all over the world to enable them to live up to our requirements, and often exhibit the same basic crystal problems related to materials or suppliers and enables us to choose to inspire them to implement more sustainable solutions. We regularly structure as natural stones the best possible solutions. visit key suppliers and evaluate them in four areas: labour standards, health and safety, environmental management, and business ethics. Our designers work closely with our crafting colleagues in Thailand We follow up on all issues of non-compliance. to ensure that designs and crafting techniques are a match. Our Innovation Centre in Bangkok incorporates the latest technology in jewellery crafting and design – and makes an important contribution In 2018 we introduced to maintaining Thailand’s position as a global hub in the jewellery our Pandora Shine collection: 30 88% industry. 18k gold-plated sterling silver jewellery PAIR S OF HANDS R EC YCLED S ILV ER G R A IN S O N AV ER AG E CO N T R IBU T E TO CR E AT IN G O N E PI EC E O F J E W ELLERY 10 0% R EC YCLED G O LD G R A IN S 8 >85% OUT OF 10 0% OF OUR TOTAL 10 WOMEN CERTIFIED SOURCING VALUE K N OW PA ND O R A IN S ILV ER A ND G O LD C A M E FRO M SUPPLI ER S A sketch from the Pandora Spring 2018 KEY MARKETS G R A IN SUPPLI ER S AUD I T ED BY E X T ER NA L E XP ERT S collection comes to life 10 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 / 1 9 11 PRODUCT PRODUCT CASE STORY Supplier audits Certified for Our Responsible Responsible Production – Again In 2018 we reached our target, stipulating that 85% of our total sourcing value of direct spend must come from suppliers who have either been audited by our external auditing company, are certified Supplier Programme members of the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC), or are otherwise covering all our requirements through internationally recognised SUPPLIERS’ CODE OF CONDUCT certification standards. This means that they have been audited All suppliers must sign up and commit to this against the broadest and strictest standards within the jewellery In 2018 Pandora was recertified by the industry. The majority of non-compliance cases identified during Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC), proving the independent supplier audits involved either health and safety SCREENING AND Since joining RJC, Pandora has been an standards or working conditions. CATEGORISING our ongoing commitment to sustainability active participant in our organisation’s and responsibility throughout all areas of our Pandora’s crafting facilities in Thailand have worked diligently to efforts to define and shape the standards SUPPLIER TRAINING business and value chain. achieve high standards as well as expertise within both areas. Thus, for our industry. It is commendable to we seek to transfer our knowledge and expertise to our suppliers, to help them raise safety levels, job satisfaction and commitment – and see their efforts in good working condithereby increase attraction, retention, productivity and profitability. PANDORA AUDITS CORRECTIVE Ethical partnership tions, responsible sourcing of jewellery ACTIONS AS REQUIRED Pandora has been an active member of the RJC since 2010 and a materials and community initiatives that THIRD-PARTY AUDITS certified member since 2012. During this time we have implemented Suppliers and contributed to the RJC Code of Practices (COP), which addresses give back to the local community.” Suppliers are audited on a two-year cycle must remedy identified issues business ethics, human rights, labour rights, environmental impact, NON-COMPLIANCE ISSUES IDENTIFIED mining practices, product disclosure and many other important – Andrew Bone, Executive Director, RJC PREFERRED SUPPLIERS topics. As a certified member we pledge to positively impact and AT AUDITED SUPPLIERS IN 2018 Long-term, high-achieving suppliers may be influence the industry. granted status as preferred suppliers. These 1% Disciplinary practice enjoy preferential terms, focusing on Extensive audit 3% Discrimination integration and trust over audit and control 2% Freedom of association To be certified by the RJC, companies have to pass an extensive audit 3% Insufficient child/forced every three years. During this audit, 120 aspects of our business are labour procedures thoroughly examined, from the sourcing of raw materials through to the sale of jewellery to consumers, involving offices and operations About the RJC 9% Environment located all over the world. The RJC is an international not-for-profit standards and certification organisation. It has more than 10% Compensation & beneﬁts 1,000 member companies that span the jewellery supply chain from mine to retail. 11% Working hours 61% Health & safety PRODUCT 0000 1424 A S P I R AT I O N S To c r a f t o u r p r o d u c t s with integrit y In 2018 we launched Pandora Reflexions, our new bracelet concept 12 13 Silver, Gold & Stones Sterling silver is the world’s most popular silver alloy. It consists of 92.5% pure silver and 7.5% other metals – mainly copper to improve durability. S I LV E R , G O L D & S T O N E S Silver, Gold & Stones Silver and Gold Environmental benefits In addition to the alluring look and fantastic crafting potential, using RJC Code of The foundation of the majority of our jewellery is silver and gold. Mining and processing of precious metals and gemstones can be gold and silver can also have environmental benefits. Unlike most other materials, gold and silver can be perpetually recycled without Practices (COP) associated with adverse social and environmental impacts, and as their quality being diminished. Standard a jewellery industry leader, we recognise our ability and responsibility to help develop a more responsible supply chain for core jewellery All the gold and 88% of the silver used at our crafting facilities in The COP defines responsible materials. 2018 originated from recycled sources. The remaining 12% of silver ethical, human rights, social originated from virgin materials supplied by RJC/LBMA-certified and environmental practices for All gold grains entering Pandora’s crafting facilities were sourced refiners. businesses in the jewellery industry. from reputable refining companies, certified according to the Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC) Code of Practices (COP). A study conducted for Pandora by environmental cost experts Furthermore, all gold must be certified conflict-free according to the calculated the cost to society of environmental damage from various London Bullion Market Association (LBMA) “Good Delivery List” or materials and crafting methods, e.g. health costs associated with the RJC Chain-of-Custody Standard for gold. emissions. The study revealed that using recycled precious metals and man-made stones significantly reduces the environmental cost In 2019 the RJC will expand its scope and integrate silver into the compared with mined materials. Recycling silver and gold reduces COP standard. Pandora fully supports this initiative and has actively the environmental cost by more than 95% compared to mined metals. The vast majority of the silver participated in the development of the standard. Today, all of our silver grain suppliers are RJC/LBMA-certified refiners. Additionally, and gold used by Pandora comes Pandora cooperates with a number of highly specialised manufacturers from recycled sources of semi-finished gold and silver parts. These partners must deliver auditable proof that the gold and silver used in their products is also sourced from RJC/LBMA-certified refiners. ORIGIN OF PRECIOUS METALS 100% Recycled 88% Recycled 12% Mined Taking top spot for responsible sourcing For the second year running, Pandora was the highest ranking company in Morgan Stanley Capital International’s annual Environmental, Social and Governance (ESG) rating of the fashion industry. In September, Pandora was commended for its focus on the responsible sourcing of gold and silver and our good working conditions. Origin of gold Origin of silver 100% RJC-certified suppliers 100% RJCor LBMA-certified suppliers 100% pure silver grains being 100% certified conflict free measured for a mould 16 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 / 1 9 17 S I LV E R , G O L D & S T O N E S Stones Man-made stones, diamonds and natural, semi-precious gemstones are all Diamonds We only accept diamond suppliers who are included in our assortment. Man-made stones make up the largest part, and in When buying diamonds we only accept suppliers who are members of the RJC and who can certify 2018 we used around 1.7 billion stones, of which 99.96% were man-made. members of the RJC and who can certify compliance with the compliance with the System of Warranties System of Warranties, established by the World Diamond Council for diamond sourcing. Since 2012, diamonds have only been used on a few popular charms from past collections and the annual limited edition Pandora Club Charm, a collector’s item. 99.96% The diamonds on the Pandora Club Charms were all recycled from discontinued Pandora jewellery from 2012 until 2018, when our stock of recycled diamonds ran out and we went of all stones Pandora used in back to buying from certified suppliers. 2018 were man-made White diamonds used on Pandora Man-made stones jewellery have round brilliant cuts. Man-made stones can be identical to their natural gemstone This cut was invented especially for diamonds counterparts in almost every way, and will often exhibit the same basic crystal structure. The origin of man-made stones is fully traceable, and the ability to grow stones with fewer variations in 0.04% colour and quality considerably reduces material waste. The risk of contributing to adverse human rights impacts is minimal and the environmental cost is significantly lower compared with mined stones. In a study carried out for Pandora by external environmental Only a skilled diamond cutter can transform a newly mined rough of the stones we used cost experts, the environmental cost of man-made cubic zirconia diamond into a sparkling faceted gemstone in 2018 were natural stones is is more than 99% lower when it comes to greenhouse gas gemstones emissions and air pollutants compared to mined diamonds. Natural, semi-precious gemstones The purple colour variety of quartz is known as amethyst The mining and processing of gemstones and semi-precious stones can be associated with adverse social and environmental impacts. Less than 0.04% of the stones we used in 2018 were mined natural, semi-precious gemstones, all from reputable suppliers that comply with the standards in our Responsible Stone setting is just one of the ancient jewellery techniques Supplier Programme. mastered by our craftspeople 18 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 / 1 9 19 The halo design feature in our crafting facility in Lamphun, Northern Thailand provides a nice large shaded area in this sunny environment. Planet At Pandora, we see waste as resources that can be reused and shared with other industries. We continuously work to reduce the emissions from our operations, while increasing efficiency and improving our sustainability. 20 21 PLANET Pandora Planet Minimising Our At our Lamphun facility which has now been running for a couple of years, we recycled 60% of water in 2018. We will continuously Environmental transfer experience and knowledge from Lamphun to our facilities in Bangkok, to drive further improvements of our total water usage. in Brief Impact Waste The crafting of our jewellery generates four main types of process waste: gypsum, glass, rubber and wax. Gypsum waste is recycled Crafting in the construction sector, glass waste is recycled into various glass Reflecting our increasingly advanced jewellery designs and a widening products, rubber waste is made into plastic products or used as fuel portfolio of jewellery, our use of energy and water increased from by the cement industry, and wax waste is used to make candles or 2017 to 2018. Our 2018 collections featured greater complexity with as a moulding material for other manufacturers. We sell some types more elements per piece of jewellery and with more extensive use of waste and we pay to have other types recycled. of plating. Additionally, we continued to broaden our product 95% assortment beyond charms and bracelets to include more new rings, earrings and necklaces, which involved more resource-intensive In 2018 we managed to recycle or reuse 100% of wax, rubber and glass and 99% of gypsum. At the start of 2018, we were not able to EN V I RO N M EN TA L SAV IN G processes. find a vendor to recycle the gypsum waste from our new facility in for every kg of recycled gold used Lamphun, and this unfortunately resulted in some gypsum not being Thanks to our LEED certified crafting facilities, our consumption of recycled. We now have a vendor in place and expect 100% recycling/ 95% energy and especially water is considered very efficient and well below the average in the luxury, apparel and accessories sectors. reuse of all four primary waste categories in 2019. EN V I RO N M EN TA L SAV IN G REC YCLING for every kg of recycled silver used 89% Energy O F WA S T E The majority of our energy consumption takes place at our crafting OF JE WELLERY was recycled at our crafting facilities facilities in Thailand. Energy used there increased from 45,689 MWh CR AF TING WA STE in 2017 to 59,021 MWh in 2018. Ovens used in the crafting process and the extensive use of chillers to ensure a comfortable working 99% environment throughout our facilities consume a considerable amount of energy. However, in our new green crafting facilities, innovative air conditioning and ventilation can reduce energy loss from chilled GY P SUM WA S T E air leaving the building by up to 80%; for instance, by making sure 99% is reused in the construction sector that the cold exhaust air helps to cool down the fresh warm air Silver “scrap” from our production is remelted coming in from the outside. This simple approach is highly effective. and used again 10 0% EN V I RO N M EN TA L SAV IN G for every kg of cubic zirconia used At our green facility in Northern Thailand, more than 8,500 m² of CRAFTING WASTE GL A S S WA S T E solar cells on the building supplies 10% of the power to the facility. is recycled into new glass products Due to Thai energy regulations, we are currently not able to expand our solar energy production at this facility, but are exploring 10 0% opportunities to use more renewable energy in Thailand. 9.4% 89.5% Reused/ General waste recycled waste RUBBER WA S T E Water 0.1% Hazardous waste is reused in plastics or as fuel Water consumption at our crafting facilities increased from 826,289 10 0% 10 0% m³ in 2017 to 967,046 m³ in 2018. The disposal of waste water is 1.0% WA X WA S T E 150+ PA P ER BAG S & G I F T W R A PPIN G PA P ER subject to control by both our own Safety, Health and Environment (SHE) team and local authorities, and is audited by external experts. Our new LEED Gold certified crafting facilities are designed to reduce Industrial waste FUEL EFFI CI EN T BUS E S is reused for candles or by D ROV E O UR T H A I CO LLE AGUE S originate from wood from water usage. figurine manufacturers TO A ND FRO M WO R K sustainable forestry S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 / 1 9 23 PLANET Safe and environmentally friendly bus transportation for our employees in Thailand Logistics Bus services Pandora jewellery is sold in more than 100 countries around the In Thailand, road traffic accidents represent the second highest cause world, and Pandora uses a variety of transport providers to move of death, and the pollution stemming from traffic weighs heavily on our goods via rail, sea, road and air. We always seek to use the the environment, especially in the Bangkok area. We offer our transport mode with the lowest emissions possible, while respecting employees safe and environmentally friendly bus transportation to the needs of our business. This often results in sales material being and from work, which totalled almost 86,000 round trips and more moved at a slower pace by sea and new collections of jewellery than 1.7 million kilometres in 2018. By year end, more than 5,600 being transported by air. In 2018 the estimated transport emissions employees regularly made use of this service. Bus companies are were 9,562 tonnes of CO₂; down from 12,700 tonnes in 2017. It is subject to regular controls by government agencies and our in-house encouraging that the dialogue with our transport providers, all global Safety, Health & Environment (SHE) team. With 50 passengers per leaders in their industries, shows a dedication towards lowering their bus and buses in good condition, this option is very efficient compared emissions. In 2019 we will continue the dialogue, but still place the to other feasible means of transportation. majority of our focus on our crafting facilities, as they account for the biggest part of our environmental footprint. Stores Pandora jewellery is sold in more than 2,700 Pandora concept stores around the world, of which more than 1,300 are owned and operated by Pandora. The remaining stores are operated by our retail partners. Our current store design, Evolution, is designed for a low environmental impact in several ways. It is very durable and it is possible to replace smaller parts over time to lengthen the lifetime of the fixtures and furniture. We have reduced energy consumption in an average Pandora concept store by 50% by using energy efficient lighting. The efficient lights also create less heat and thus reduce the need for energy to power air conditioning. As of 2018, around 80% of all The pretty pond at our crafting Pandora concept stores have switched to the Evolution store design. facility in Lamphun, Northern Thailand also acts as a water reservoir during the rainy season PLANET A S P I R AT I O N S To m i n i m i s e o u r environment al impac t Reducing energy consumption for lights in our stores has also resulted in a lower need for air conditioning since the lights produce less heat 24 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 / 1 9 25 PLANET PLANET CASE STORY Empowerment Through Organic Farming Pandora and Thailand have forged a strong bond and respect over Quality of life the years. We share a belief in finding new ways to make positive Sangkaew from Chiang Mai in Northern Thailand is a member of “Every week I visit local farmers to teach and support them impacts on people and the planet while we are busy crafting Pandora the centre. As a person with disabilities, the centre has changed his in how to run a chicken farm. While I provide training, I jewellery. life. Before becoming a member, Sangkaew was struggling to make feel great because I can share my knowledge with others.” ends meet, with no job and little monetary support. Now he is Thai Law states that companies should help people with disabilities self-sufficient, and his confidence is back. Sangkaew lives and works – Sangkaew, Organic Farm & Learning to be involved in work, earn wages and be contributing community at the centre with other people with disabilities – with room for more Centre member members. Pandora is committed well beyond these obligations, to move in soon. Here he grows crops and educates local farmers empowering people with disabilities both in the community and and students in self-sufficient organic farming, honing his skills and 2018 at our own crafting facilities. passing new skills on to others. “Outstanding In 2018 a new initiative blossomed. In Chiang Mai in Northern Sowing future harvest Disability Thailand, not far from our Lamphun crafting facility, lies the Organic Farm & Learning Centre, which is supported by Pandora. The centre The centre has set itself a goal: to grow enough food by 2020 to Empowerment is an educational hub set up around sustainable farming, that become one of the suppliers for canteens at local businesses, including Organisation” supports the local community with a focus on empowering people Pandora, and to expand the training to local farmers so they can do with disabilities. In 2016 we decided to help build teaching facilities. the same. Pandora was recognised by At the time, the centre covered just 400 square metres of land. Thailand’s Ministry of Social Today, it occupies 3,072 square metres and consists of three Development and Human Security buildings – including eight rooms for accommodation, a canteen for the second time. It acknowledges and a two-storey activity and training centre – all built with funds our commitment to empowering donated by Pandora and the hard work of more than 100 Pandora The Organic Farming & Learning Centre is people with disabilities. volunteers. part of the Pandora Big Heart Spirit project: a series of volunteer initiatives where Pandora Spreading positivity forward colleagues in Thailand donate their time to Much of the sustainable farmland around the centre is dedicated to their local community rice production and lies fallow between active growth seasons. One of the purposes of the centre is to show farmers how these fallow periods can be utilised. The Organic Farm & Learning Centre is an inspirational and educational centre for the local community. They Rathee Chaiyapornpathana host courses in sustainable farming for local farmers to improve their founded the centre in 2016 livelihood. For instance, how to use organic agriculture and crop to follow his passion of rotation to grow other crops they can eat or sell. empowering others through education around sustainable farming. 26 27 Employees at our crafting facility in Lamphun, Northern Thailand performing one of the many quality checks. People People are the heartbeat of Pandora and our future. Our dedicated employees collaborate to create and bring to life something really special: responsibly crafted hand-finished jewellery celebrating women’s self-expression. We are committed to taking care of our people and empowering their talents. 28 29 PEOPLE Pandora People Ensuring Proper Working in Brief Conditions Code of Conduct The Pandora Code of Conduct stipulates our ethical aspirations as a company and our expectations to the behaviour of our employees. The Code of Conduct covers areas such as human rights, working 30% conditions, environmental footprint and anti-corruption. Building on our ethics policies, the Code offers colleagues one common point O F O UR S EN I O R of reference for ethical dilemmas, backed by training modules M A NAG E M EN T A R E WO M EN spanning hiring procedures, workplace ethics, anti-harassment, fraud, gift giving and the misuse of company assets. Code of Conduct training forms part of our onboarding process and, in 2018, all 272,0 0 0 colleagues participated in this training as a refreshment exercise. ELE A R N IN G M O DULE S SPECIAL To support the Code, our employees are encouraged to raise ethical CO M PLE T ED 5,0 0 0 concerns with local management or HR, Legal or Compliance teams. Should employees believe that their concerns are not properly N E W J O BS AT PA ND O R A WO R LDW ID E That is almost 800 modules every day in 2018 BENEFITS addressed, or if they are not comfortable with raising their concerns through these channels, they can choose to use Pandora’s externally F O R PR EGNA N T E M PLOY EE S administered multilingual Whistleblower function. Working in a Pandora shop requires knowledge of hundreds of different 5.2 jewellery pieces and all the styling and cross-selling possibilities H O UR S O F T R A IN IN G Training Our extensive training programmes span face-to-face training, An important connection between Pandora and our customers is coaching and digital learning. The scope is broad and entails training Every crafting colleague received established and nurtured by over 49,000 sales associates, who are in Pandora’s values, ethics, identity and history, jewellery and this amount of classroom training passionate about selling our jewellery in more than 100 countries materials, crafting processes, and professional sales skills and on average in 2018 around the world. Sales associates in Pandora stores (owned either techniques. Our comprehensive digital learning programmes are by Pandora or franchisees) handle a large amount of information available in 23 languages. In 2018 our employees completed almost 6,0 0 0 covering the entire Pandora universe, and hold in-depth understanding of more than 700 different pieces of jewellery. We continuously provide the necessary training for our sales colleagues, both in our 272,000 online training sessions. B O O K S AVA IL A BLE AT O UR LIBR A R I E S IN T H A IL A ND own stores and at the points of sale operated by our partners. Diversity The most popular books in the employee We strive to achieve an equal gender representation among our 29,50 0 libraries are in the self-improvement, employees and have a gender split target: 40-60% of each gender. computer science and fiction genres To support the Code of Conduct, We acknowledge that within some areas this level will have to be reached over time. On store level, the nature of Pandora’s products V I S I T S TO O UR our employees are encouraged EDU TA IN M EN T C EN T R E and primary target group attract a very high proportion of female to always raise ethical concerns 7.7% applicants (around 90%). Here, an equal gender distribution is Our Thai crafting facilities provide currently not realistic, albeit desirable nonetheless. Pandora does free access to PCs, library services E M PLOY EE T UR N OV ER encourage and welcome male store staff applicants. and training resources IN T H A IL A ND 30 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 / 1 9 31 PEOPLE – FOCUS ON THAILAND Employees in their characteristic red shirts, enjoying the shaded outdoor area Gender diversity in management G E N D E R S P L I T, G R O U P & M A N A G E M E N T We believe that our company benefits from a diverse management team. We have a number of gender diversity objectives and we A human rights Male Female review progress once a year. Our goals in this area are: Board of Directors 57% 43% perspective • At least 40% of the members of the Board of Directors should Senior Management 70% 30% Ensuring human rights throughout a be of the underrepresented sex. At the end of 2018, women Directors and Managers 39% 61% value chain is a complex matter for all made up 43% of Board of Directors (3 out of 7), compared with Store Managers 9% 91% companies. This is why Pandora engages 33% in 2017 (3 out of 9), which places Pandora well above the Total Management 21% 79% in dialogue with external stakeholders, average of 16% for Danish listed companies. Total Group 25% 75% such as the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), the RJC and the • At least 40% of senior management (members of the Management Danish Business Network for Human Board, general managers and vice presidents) should be of the Rights. The Danish Business Network underrepresented sex. At the end of 2018, 30% of senior for Human Rights offer members the management were women, a decline compared with 39% in opportunity to discuss their company’s 2017. Pandora will continue to strive for a better gender balance challenges and dilemmas with peers in senior management. who represent different sectors and • The gender balance on Pandora’s leadership programmes should Human and labour rights approaches to responsible business practices, mirror the balance among vice presidents and directors. In 2018, Pandora’s Human Rights Policy stipulates our commitment to the providing valuable insights. 45% of vice presidents and directors and 49% of leadership United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, programme participants were women. and the core conventions of the International Labour Organization (ILO). The policy further instructs us to advance human rights within our sphere of influence. To ensure this, Pandora is checked against and certified according to the Responsible Jewellery Council’s (RJC’s) Code of Practices (COP). The RJC COP has been developed to assess, identify and mitigate human rights risks in the jewellery supply chain. Moreover, we regularly assess potential human rights and environmental risks in our own value chain. The main human and labour rights risks are to be found among our suppliers. By sourcing Focus on Thailand our core jewellery materials from certified responsible suppliers, and AGE SPLIT, GROUP by enrolling our suppliers in Pandora’s Responsible Supplier Programme, we seek to lower the risks of causing or becoming Our modern crafting facilities in Thailand, placed in Bangkok and complicit in human rights infringements. Lamphun (Northern Thailand), provide safe, healthy, developing and engaging working conditions for more than 14,000 people. Their 30% 18-25 skills, commitment and flair for aesthetics are a major part of the For our statements on the UK Modern Slavery Act and foundation of our company. > The California Transparency in Supply Chains Act, please visit www.Pandoragroup.com/csr. Social impact study 1% <18 We constantly work to prevent and, when necessary, mitigate negative We consider our crafting facilities in Thailand to be significant and ONE PANDORA 4% 46+ impacts of our activities. Even if overtime at our crafting facilities in positive contributors to the surrounding Thai communities and the 54% 26-35 CRAFTING EMPLOYEE’S Thailand is always voluntary, compliant with Thai law, remunerated country in general. This was verified by a social impact study 11% 36-45 at premium rates, and seen as a benefit by our Thai colleagues, we conducted by external experts in 2017. The study showed that the SALARY sustains one still strive to keep the weekly working hours below ILO standards. average salary for a Pandora crafting employee is above the industry average household Weekly working hours in 2018 periodically and to a minor extent average, and that it can sustain the livelihood of an average-sized exceeded 60 hours. In order to mitigate this we introduced night household (around three people). Furthermore, the study showed Headcount as of 31 December 2018 shifts in 2018. In 2019 we will look deeper into which tools we can that for each Pandora job, an additional 1.7 jobs were created in use to keep the working hours within our standards. Thailand, due to the effect of money spent with our Thai suppliers and the spending power of our employees. 32 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 / 1 9 33 PEOPLE – FOCUS ON THAILAND Communication Social events We want to provide up-to-date and relevant information to our Our colleagues’ commitment to Pandora is also clearly visible during employees so everyone understands the context of their work, and our social events. At the annual year-end parties in Bangkok and has a clear picture of Pandora’s global performance. To this end, we Lamphun, some of Thailand’s greatest stars appeared on stage, making share company news through both our in-house Pandora Radio (with sure that over 14,000 colleagues had a great time. Early 2018 over employee-elected DJs) and LINE – a very popular Thai social media 3,000 colleagues attended the Family Day Party – an event that began platform. The Pandora self-service app provides easy access to news as a small company outing to the beach around twenty years ago. and relevant employee data, such as working hours, holidays and the ordering of staff uniforms. Free internet access on the premises supports the use of the app. For HR-related questions, our HR Services team sets up mobile consultation centres in canteens and locker rooms during lunch breaks on a regular basis. This allows employees to ask questions or PEOPLE seek assistance for issues, such as pay, benefits or employee relations On-site banking assistance is A S P I R AT I O N S offered during lunch breaks at a time and place convenient for them. several times each month To ensure our people have a safe, developing workplace Benefits Employee benefits at our crafting facilities Training and development include affordable and healthy meals, The scope of our training and development programmes goes beyond maternity classes, extensive professional technical skills and work processes. Our ambitious Jewellery Skills and personal development training, annual Academy drives technical development for specific jewellery making outings, scholarships, an employee-operated skills, from beginner to expert levels, while additional training covers radio channel, and free bus transportation to safety, health, leadership and life skills, such as motherhood and and from work. private economy. Recognising that access to education is a challenge in Thailand, we have established Edutainment Centres in both Bangkok and Lamphun, which feature contemporary e-learning and internet facilities, and a library. This provides our colleagues with a comfortable and inspiring environment where they can relax and learn. During 2018 the libraries in Bangkok and Lamphun had more than 29,500 Health and safety visits and more than 6,000 books were available throughout the To make sure our crafting facilities perform according to Pandora’s year; the most popular ones included fiction and books on selfsafety, health and environmental standards, we have established a improvement and computer science. Safety, Health & Environment (SHE) Committee comprising senior management and elected employee representatives. Together with external experts, the elected representatives assume the responsibility Employee dialogue of checking SHE conditions, while SHE professionals are responsible For many years, the dialogue with our colleagues in Thailand has for continuously improving standards and correcting cases of nonA wide variety of food options from external been served by an employee-elected welfare committee. In 2018 compliance. SHE professionals are, for instance, involved in all new suppliers are available Pandora Thailand was approached by a workers union for the first production setups to make safety a priority from the start. As a result for lunch on-site time. Respecting our colleagues’ right to associate, we have signed of our ongoing focus on improving safety and health standards, there a collective agreement for 2019. This means that the work of the were only two work-related accidents with absence in 2018 among Welfare Committee has been passed over to the workers union more than 14,000 production employees (resulting in a total of eight representatives. lost working days). 34 35 PRODUCT CASE STORY An Ethical, Fashionable Future As the world’s biggest jewellery brand, we are always looking for fresh viewpoints on how to make even greater strides towards sustainability. In 2018 Pandora partnered with the Youth Fashion Summit, an initiative spearheaded by the United Nations Global Compact. The summit challenges students from all over the world to create a framework for the fashion industry on how to reach two of the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), namely SDG 3 (good health and well-being) and SDG 5 (gender equality). In May 2018 over 100 top fashion and business students from around the world met at Pandora’s Global Office in Copenhagen. They joined representatives from the UN Global Compact, H&M, Pandora and other leading companies to collaborate and develop ideas for a more sustainable future. The students were able to elaborate and receive feedback on their proposals before presenting them at the Copenhagen Fashion Summit, Photo credit: Youth Fashion Summit the world’s largest conference on fashion and sustainability. In 2019 Pandora and the Youth Fashion Summit will join forces again. Students engaging in dialogue during the 2018 Youth Fashion Summit Photo credit: Youth Fashion Summit UN Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) Youth Fashion SDG 3 Summit Ensure healthy lives and promote A sustainability education and well-being for all at all ages idea-generation platform, giving Photo credit: Youth Fashion Summit students moving into the fashion SDG 5 industry a platform, tools and the Achieve gender equality and opportunity to influence the decisions that will be made today empower all women and girls and felt tomorrow. 36 37 Sustainability Performance Indicators Product Planet Reflecting our continued focus on advanced In addition, we continued to broaden our product 2018 2017 2016 2015 jewellery designs and a widening portfolio of assortment beyond charms and bracelets to jewellery, our use of energy and water increased include more rings, earrings and necklaces which Sourcing suppliers subject to Pandora’s “Responsible 100 100 100 100 from 2017 to 2018. Our 2018 collections were involves a more resource intensive process. Supplier Programme”, % more complex with more elements per piece of However, thanks to our LEED certified crafting Total sourcing value audited by external CSR experts, % >85 >85 >85 >80 jewellery and with more extensive use of plating. facilities, our consumption of energy and water Silver and gold grain suppliers certified by the RJC/LBMA, % 100 100 100 100 is very efficient and well below the average in the luxury, apparel and accessories sectors. m³ MWh 1,000,000 100,000 800,000 80,000 600,000 60,000 People 400,000 40,000 200,000 16.7 20.3 22.8 22.8 20,000 DKK DKK DKK DKK In 2018, turnover among employees at our facilities have gone down due to optimisation of 0 0 crafting facilities has risen to 7.7% reflecting hours spent on classroom training. Job training 2015 2016 2017 2018 different organisational changes, but still well comes on top of this and is not included in this Revenue, DKK billion Energy consumption, MWh Water consumption, m3 below the industry level of more than 15%. number. Our global incident rate remains well Training hours per employee at our crafting below average industry levels. 2018 2017 2016 2015 Water consumption at crafting facilities, m³ 967,046 826,289 584,108 483,000 2018 2017 2016 2015 Energy consumption at crafting facilities, MWh 59,021 45,689 35,907 29,472 Craftspeople turnover, % 7.70 4.20 3.20 3.30 Global transport emissions, tonnes of CO2 9,562 12,734 8,665 5,435 Global incident rate (OSHA standard) 0.45 0.30 0.30 0.18 Recycled silver/gold grains used at our crafting facilities, % 88/100 97/74 91/86 83/96 Training hours per employee at our crafting facilities 5.20 8.20 14.20 14.50 Recycled crafting waste, % 89 80 86 83 38 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 / 1 9 39 Our Journey 2016 New LEED-certified Global Office opened in Copenhagen, Denmark 10th “My School” local community project 2011 Launched Responsible Supplier Programme Signatory of UN Global Compact 2014 2015 New energy efficient RJC recertified against 2018 their 120 provisions store concept launched Globally recertified by the RJC 2013 Partnership with 2010 Pandora inaugurates new LEED Disney established 2017 Gold certified crafting facility in Bangkok, Thailand Pandora’s Sustainability 100% of silver and All paper bags labelled with Forest Stewardship Pandora engaged in setting team established gold grain suppliers are Council (FSC) trademarks new RJC Chain of Custody RJC/LBMA-certified standard for gold 2012 Responsible Supplier Programme enhanced Pandora’s production facility in Lamphun, Thailand becomes Certified member of the LEED Gold certified Responsible Jewellery Council (RJC) Pandora Ethics Compliance Programme launched 40 S U S TA I N A B I L I T Y R E P O R T 2 0 1 8 / 1 9 41 Cradle-to-Cradle This Sustainability Report is a cradle-to-cradle certified product. This means that each page is 100% biological, decomposable and totally free of any toxic chemicals and heavy metals report. It also means that in producing this Sustainability Report, we have reused the resources of the earth in a natural circular process, leaving no harmful waste materials that are poisonous for people or the environment. A true inspiration for our own journey towards an even more sustainable setup and future. 0000 1424 FTSE Russell confirms that Pandora A/S has been independently assessed according to the FTSE4Good criteria, and has satisfied the requirements to become a constituent of the FTSE4Good Index Series. 42 43 PANDORA A/S Havneholmen 17-19 DK-1561 Copenhagen V Denmark Phone: +45 3672 0044 CVR nr.: 28505116 www.pandoragroup.com
