Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 2017 Sus tainabilit y Repor t Welcome PCH is guided by the principle of transparency and accountability. Operating sustainably is key to the peace of mind we provide our customers. To deliver the best products and customer experience in a sustainable way, we must build strong and mutually beneficial relationships with suppliers and customers, as well as educate our people. Our future success depends on embedding sustainability into our business and demonstrating the benefits to our stakeholders. Because we are experts in developing, making and delivering sophisticated and innovative products, we can inform and influence our customers about where sustainability is most possible in the supply chain. We choose to openly share our sustainability goals, findings, progress and indeed, our shortcomings. We are not perfect, but we seek to be the best in our industry and to lead where we can. This report discusses sustainability activities in 2017. In addition to informing our stakeholders about our practices, this report helps us measure against our sustainability goals and anticipate challenges to our business that may arise. It also helps guide the strategic direction of the company. PCH is a privately held company with headquarters in Cork, Ireland, and Innovation Hubs in San Francisco and Shenzhen, China. Cover: Courtney Cavanaugh Ariel Briner and Doug Zom Table of Contents Our Purpose Operations Supply Network Looking Ahead Message from 4 Where We Operate 32 Partnering with Our 58 Our Sustainability 86 Liam Casey PCH Operations in China 33 Suppliers Progress in 2017 Sustainability Vision 8 PCH Operations in 34 Audit Discoveries 64 2018 Sustainability 87 and Strategy San Francisco Health and Safety 66 Goals Sustainability Initiatives 36 in Supplier Facilities About PCH About This Report Our Environmental Impact 38 What We Do 14 Product Our Reporting 90 The PCH Platform 15 Lifecycle Analysis 70 Guidelines People Inventory Management 22 Our Policy on Conflict 75 Information in 91 About Our People 42 this Report PCH Flo: Tracking in 26 Minerals Worker Health and 44 Glossary of Terms 92 Real Time Safety at PCH in China Managing Chemicals 76 Our Customer Base 27 Safely GRI Index 94 Career Enhancement 46 Highway1 28 Opportunities Materiality Developing and 48 and Stakeholder Engaging Our People Management Diversity 50 Materiality Matrix 80 Overtime 52 How We Communicate 81 Grievances 54 with Stakeholders Sustainability 83 Governance Message from Liam Casey Sustainability Vision and Strategy 2 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Our Purpose Developing Partnerships, Delivering Peace of Mind Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 3 Message from Liam Casey Chief Executive Officer 2017 marked another milestone year for PCH. We continued to partner with some of the world’s best global brands – from Fortune 500 companies to innovative startups – to help them bring the next generation of sophisticated, design-led products to market. PCH returned to revenue growth in 2017. This was a result of completing strategic initiatives to diversify our customer portfolio and to focus on profitable growth. Today we are a stronger, more efficient, more agile and sustainable company, poised for long-term profitable growth. While supporting seasoned technology companies and hardware startups, we also grew our customer portfolio of large global brands and medium-sized businesses and expanded our reach geographically. Many companies in industries such as beauty, health and agriculture, are new to hardware and are responding to changes in consumer demand. Liam Casey 4 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report In 2017, PCH successfully completed the merger of our engineering teams in San Francisco and Shenzhen, China and consolidated branding “Sustainability is a deeply held commitment under the PCH name. These changes enhance our seamless work at PCH and part of the peace of mind we across our global operations. In late 2017, we decided to relocate our hardware accelerator, Highway1, to Shenzhen. This allows us to provide our partners. We believe it is not support more advanced startups that are ready to expand production. We are pleased to report that about a third of our Highway1 startups only the right thing to do, but the right are working to solve social or environmental problems. thing for our business.” In recent years, changes in the global business environment have – Liam Casey brought about increased investment in product development and innovation. Companies we partner with are driving new investments to stay ahead of the curve in technology, consumer preferences, regulatory requirements and markets. We expect this trend to accelerate in the coming years supported by U.S. corporate tax relief and incentives to invest in innovation. Our operations continue to evolve to stay ahead of key business and technology trends. Our expertise across the entire product journey differentiates us and our solutions. Many of our customers utilize our seamless platform, while others choose custom solutions at different phases of the product journey. Our services range from product development, to new product introduction, to mass production, supply chain management and logistics (see page 15). We are partnering with customers in consumer electronics, consumer health and wellness, fashion, beauty, entertainment, transportation and more. Our customers choose PCH for our expertise and our focus on accelerated time-to-market, quality and sustainability — the hallmarks of our business. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 5 In terms of our operations in China, where we have been for over 21 years, we have more than 1,000 valued suppliers in our 2017 Trends Across network that we utilize when selecting the right manufacturing partner for our clients. We are located within the Futian Free Our Business Trade Zone in Shenzhen, a key location for our manufacturing, pack out, fulfillment and distribution services to global markets. We help our customers understand and comply with complex >> Changes in U.S. corporate tax rate (both the 21% flat regulations and laws pertaining to the assembly and export tax rate and lowered tax on repatriated foreign earnings) of finished goods, and we expect that the demand for this will result in new investments in R&D and innovation expertise will grow in the coming years. >> New U.S. tariffs on goods produced in China will add to Sustainability remains a deeply held commitment at PCH and supply chain complexity and put pressure on companies part of the peace of mind we offer our partners. We believe manufacturing in China operating sustainably is not only the right thing to do, but the >> UK political uncertainty and supply chain disruption right thing for our business. We integrate sustainability in all caused by Brexit areas and at all levels of our organization. We are proud of our >> Growing hardware development opportunities among strong, measurable record in sustainability as told in this and UK and other European companies other annual reports. >> Growing importance of corporate partnerships to achieve We aspire to lead the industry in sustainability. To do this, competitive edge we collaborate with our customers and suppliers on continuous >> Rapid technology changes putting pressure on supply improvements. We are a trusted partner who works to influence chain models our customers’ sustainability solutions and helps them deliver on their brand promise. Because of our commitment >> Real-time data driving supply chain efficiency, to sustainability, we can make a difference, and we relish transparency and reduced inventory the opportunity. >> Growth of new industries entering the hardware market >> Increased demand for high mix/low volume Thank you for your interest in our 2017 Report. manufacturing solutions >> Focus on sustainable manufacturing to reduce cost and optimize efficiency Liam Casey Chief Executive Officer 6 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Philipe Manoux Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 7 Sustainability Our Responsibility We have the responsibility to protect and enhance the well-being of our employees (both people who work for us directly and at supplier factories), Vision and and to reduce our environmental footprint (emissions, energy and water). We are also responsible for helping our clients and suppliers make new products in the most environmentally and socially responsible manner. Strategy We seek to lead the industry by steadfastly observing and often exceeding industry standards when it comes to corporate social responsibility, health and safety, supplier qualification and audits and protecting the environment. There are a variety of decisions our clients make that we can influence by discussing sustainability early in the product development process when it is most cost-effective to make changes. These decisions can involve: material selection, eco-friendly packaging, chemical management and At PCH we are deeply committed to sustainability. replacement of harmful chemicals, inventory management (to reduce overproduction and waste) and product lifecycle management. Our key focus is looking after the people who work As a company, we seek to reduce our CO2 emissions, water consumption at PCH and with our suppliers. We place the utmost and energy use by tracking and monitoring these factors on a constant priority on their health, safety and well-being. basis. This allows us to catch problems early and make corrections that Because our greatest sustainability challenges reduce our environmental impact. occur in China, where we and our suppliers have the greatest footprint, we focus many of our Our Strategy programs there. We make sustainability our business because we believe it is the right way to do business and results in positive shortand long-term performance. We measure the economic, environmental and social impact of our business and set yearly goals. Our strategy falls into three main categories that will be discussed in this report: 1) People, 2) Suppliers and 3) Products. 8 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Sustainability at PCH People Supply Network Products Our highest priority is looking after Our purpose is developing partnerships We take products from concept to consumer, balancing cost, those who work for PCH, both delivering peace of mind; collaborating quality and sustainability at directly and indirectly. Our people with our supply network partners is every step. are key to our success. key to delivering on this promise. Focus areas Focus areas Focus areas Employee development Chemical and safety Chemicals and engagement management Materials Diversity Energy management Manufacturing Supplier qualification processes Health and safety and development Sustainable product Waste minimization and packaging design End of life Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 9 PCH in 2017 Global workforce Engineers globally (at Dec. 31, 2017) 125 516 Organizational changes Consolidated Percentage of workforce in China San Francisco and Shenzhen 75% engineering teams Announced Highway1 hardware accelerator move to China 10 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Size Sizeofofoperations operations Supplierstransacted Suppliers transactedwith withglobally globally 419,118 419,118sq sqftft ftft2 2 Total Total Highway1 Highway1 companies companies 162 162 Suppliers Suppliersin in ourour network network 1,000+ 1,000+ 78 78 44 Units Units shipped shipped 2.02M 2.02M in 2017 in 2017 Total Total between between 2013-2017 2013-2017 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 11 What We Do PCH Flo: Tracking in Real Time The PCH Platform Our Customer Base Inventory Management Highway1 Kong Xiaoling and Qiu Haiyan 12 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report About PCH PCH helps companies innovate and deliver new products to market on time and on budget. We have unparalleled experience and expertise in taking products from concept to market including product development, new product introduction, mass production, supply chain management and logistics. Our company goals are to: 1. Continue to be a world-class innovator and leader in product development, new product introduction, post production and supply chain management. 2. Provide superior customer service and deliver peace of mind to all our customers. 3. Stay focused on results and retain our can-do attitude. 4. Remain a special, progressive and rewarding place to work. 5. Increase diversity within our employee base. 6. Operate profitably and sustainably. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 13 What We Do PCH is an industry leader in bringing premium products to market globally. We identify and reduce risk for our customers, providing a smooth path to market. Our expertise spans the entire product lifecycle from development to production to supply chain management to logistics. We continually strive to keep time-to-market, quality and sustainability at the forefront of all our solutions. Companies seek out PCH at all stages of the product realization lifecycle. Many of our clients are new to hardware and therefore value our transparent and collaborative culture in addition to our deep experience bringing products to market efficiently. Additionally, many of our clients are creating innovative products (products that have never been realized before) and come to PCH because we are uniquely able to develop specialized solutions to meet their needs. Like us, our customers are passionate about design, brand and the consumer experience. At PCH, we always keep these values top-of-mind. When engaged early, we work with our clients, and many times their industrial design partners, to explore, define, architect and prototype solutions that are optimized for manufacturing, post production services and the end-user, out-of-the-box experience. “We continually evaluate our best practices to help lead the industry in sustainability.” – Alan Cuddihy, country manager, Greater China 14 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report The PCH Platform Product New Product Mass Production, Development Introduction Supply Chain & Logistics Manufacturing Validation and Market Release Supply Chain Selection Sustainability Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 15 The PCH Platform: Taking Products from Concept to Consumer Phase I: Product Development Define, Explore, Architect, Prototype In the development phase, we scope engineering and material cost Because we work with our partners at the earliest estimates to bring products from the concept phase to prototypes stages of product development, PCH can identify designed and ready for manufacturing. sustainability opportunities and risks early. At this time, sustainability opportunities are best understood, We follow a rigorous product development process that increases optimized and resolved with the least impact to product speed-to-market and reduces risk for our clients. Our team includes development and manufacturing. 125 developers spanning a wide range of disciplines including: mechanical, system architecture (electrical, firmware and software), Integrating sustainable practices into design manufacturing integration and packaging engineers, as well as system engineering, manufacturing and supply network integrators and program managers, among other experts. management is key to distinguishing PCH in the marketplace. We partner with tried and trusted At the define stage we review the project objectives, value proposition suppliers. Our engineers design for optimal and use case and develop a development strategy, resource plan and manufacturing and select suppliers for single statement of work (SOW). We identify high-risk product features and components as well as final assembly. We match hard constraints. customers with supplier capability, and we manage the product journey every step of the way. At the explore phase we look at the competitive landscape and market-leading products to develop the product requirements, feature set and approach. We evaluate alternative solutions with our clients and present our recommendation. We explore high-risk product features and develop prototypes to demonstrate the product performance and associated cost drivers. Next we assess the minimal mechanical envelope rationale, create mock-ups and deliver the initial product requirement definition (PRD). This exploration results in a clear 16 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report understanding of what it takes to develop a fully integrated product to drive the best decision-making to move forward. We build fully that meets our customers’ design and user experience criteria. Here, featured and operable prototypes (that include electrical, mechanical we also discuss sustainability opportunities with our clients, such as and firmware solutions) and test these both in the lab and with users. material selection and efficient eco-friendly packaging. Changes can At this time we detail all components, sub-assemblies and assembly be made most cost-effectively at this stage of product development. steps required for production. We deliver the preliminary estimate At the architect stage our goal is to conceive a completely feasible of an initial bill of materials (BOM) and the cost of goods (COGS) product solution with considerations for every feature and to optimize assessment. We identify suitable suppliers, tooling requirements and for sustainability. We have a thorough understanding of high-risk we configure the supply chain before moving to the manufacturing elements and begin work streams to address these. We build numerous phase. The final assembly process is refined over successive builds consecutive integrated prototypes, or “builds,” to evaluate solutions (EVT-PVT) to optimize for cost, quality and yield in the final saleable in the lab. The goal is to demonstrate that the design meets all the product. Minor design adjustments are made as reliability testing and product performance specifications. We collect data through testing failure analyses reveal opportunities for improvement. “PCH partners with companies that have unique product development requirements and require speed to market, high quality, cost-effectiveness, personalization and specialized supply chains.” – Andre Yousefi, country manager, USA Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 17 Phase II: New Product Introduction EVT is the first pilot run, or the production design performed in a prototype assembly by the operators, engineers and Manufacturing Validation, Ramp/Scale technicians assigned to the project. PCH refines the manufacturing process to optimize for cost During the DVT phase, the production line design is close to improvements, quality requirements, reliability and volume and final production. We test and finalize fixture and assembly scalability. We confirm capacity, cycle time and line yield. We make procedures. The working instructions and quality control plans final tweaks and set up necessary quality control check points. are finalized. Capital investment is required at the manufacturing stage to pay In PVT, we establish review processes for factories, suppliers for custom tooling, to procure components and to develop the and distribution. We integrate packaging and labels and manage manufacturing assembly line. However, the risk to our customers and optimize the supply chain. In addition, PCH secures all is reduced because of the rigor PCH provides in the product regulatory certifications. development phase. Our capabilities include: supplier technical analysis, regulatory As we transfer from development to manufacturing, we follow a and compliance management, design for manufacturing process that includes Engineering Validation and Testing (EVT), (DFM), tooling, industrial engineering, procurement, capacity Design Validation and Testing (DVT) and Production Validation and management, material utilization, supply chain management, Testing (PVT). Each phase addresses manageable steps to ensure quality control, planning, continuous improvement and the transfer from engineering to manufacturing is smooth and the end-of-life planning. product is delivered as designed. “PCH collects, measures and analyzes manufacturing cycle time, throughput, capacity utilization, yield, supplier quality and other key manufacturing metrics, and delivers this information to our partners to optimize business growth.” – Sean O Herlihy, director program management 18 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Phase III: Mass Production, Supply Chain Fulfillment occurs when we receive a specific order and pack out products for this shipment. Products and their accessories are stored Management and Logistics at PCH in China until orders are received via our online order and tracking system. Once the order is received, PCH customizes the PCH offers a variety of services including pack out, fulfillment (B2C order (pack out) and ships direct from our facilities. and B2B), customization, personalization, inventory management and logistics. We are able to get products from China to 90% of all PCH also offers postponement services that allow products to be customers in the world within three days of order. modified just prior to shipment to the consumer. The product is held at the PCH facilities and assembled, packed out, customized and/or Pack Out, Fulfillment personalized with high-quality monogramming, etching and printing PCH operates facilities for pack out and fulfillment – the final production on demand. This not only reduces inventory risk, but enables our phase before products are shipped. customers to design built-to-order experiences for their consumers around the world. Postponement optimizes our customers’ supply During pack out, individual items – which are separate or related chain by keeping the product at PCH until demand results in a products included in one order – are grouped and packaged into shipment being created, customized, personalized, packed out one unit for shipping. These units can be destined to an individual and shipped. customer (B2C), or to a retailer or geographic market (B2B). During B2C pack out, for example, a customer may order a product and related accessories that will be sent together in one customized Today’s consumers demand affordable and quick shipping. package. This package is assembled at the PCH facilities within PCH is fully automated (providing real-time tracking and order the Futian Free Trade Zone. Items are also packed out for specific taking) and offers efficient shipping/logistics. PCH is located in geographic markets, i.e., a hardware product destined for the UK the Futian Free Trade Zone and has experience and relationships will have unique branding, power adapter, and instructions in English. with all major shipping companies. PCH is often relied upon to help Our pack out system is capable of assembling orders on demand. our customers enter new markets fast to gain market share quickly, This reduces potential inventory risk, waste and warehousing costs. while reducing inventory risk. Fulfillment is the process of managing orders and the supply chain that supports them. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 19 PCH Partnership with L’Oréal PCH collaborated with beauty industry leader L’Oréal to manufacture the first battery-free, wearable electronic UV sensor, My Skin Track UV. The cutting-edge product is a skin and sun safety sensor that helps people track their exposure to ultraviolet light, pollution, humidity and pollen. L’Oréal challenged PCH to deliver a brand-new consumer product that could be produced at large-scale while ensuring performance, quality and usability. With a short timeline, PCH worked with L’Oréal and their industrial design partner – fuseproject – to transform a prototype into a fashionable UV sensor that could be attached to clothing, sunglasses and accessories. My Skin Track UV is similar to L’Oréal’s groundbreaking My UV Patch. PCH partnered with L’Oréal in 2016 to bring to market My UV Patch, the world’s first wearable skin-sensor designed to measure UV exposure. The patch is a water-resistant, transparent adhesive that is half the thickness of a human hair. Both products required accurate, reliable and precise detection of UV exposure, high-volume manufacturing capability and a highly favorable consumer experience. 20 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report After initial prototyping, beta testing and feasibility studies, the PCH team determined the product required changes in the design and use case. Our ability to prototype in-house gave L’Oréal the opportunity to provide daily feedback, which led to rapid product builds and testing. Our integrated team structure meant that the manufacturing team was involved from the beginning to incorporate design for assembly (DFA) and design for manufacturing (DFM). This collaborative effort enabled us to transition quickly from design to manufacturing. PCH led the engineering technical feasibility, sensor validation, protection architecture, industrialization and packaging support, among other areas. Marketed under L’Oréal’s skincare brand, La Roche-Posay®, the battery-free My Skin Track UV is activated by the sun and powered by the user’s smartphone. The sensor is designed to help consumers make healthy, real-time choices using wearable technology that easily integrates into their daily routines. “Our partners, like L’Oréal, value our commitment to sustainability, and our ability to deliver new products to market quickly, reliably and cost-effectively.” – Antoine Messager, global account director Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 21 Inventory pack out, fulfillment and logistics platform to provide our customers the maximum flexibility when it comes to ordering and reordering product to meet the demands of global markets. Based on real-time data, our customers oversee their inventory Management on hand, as well as inventory in their channels. This gives our customers control over the amount of product produced, when best to reorder, and which markets to send product to. PCH manufactures products on demand, increasing efficiency and reducing waste by eliminating unnecessary production. We move products fast and efficiently at our Shenzhen operations located in the Futian Free Trade Zone, where PCH has unparalleled skill in inventory management, real-time we have six loading bays with daily outgoing orders. tracking and delivering a unique out-of-the-box customer experience When it comes to reducing cost and waste, other key that may involve personalization, customization and packaging. considerations are product packaging, pallet packing, When inventory is well-managed and tracked, the right product postponement, transportation dynamics and right sizing. is in the right market at the right time to maximize sales. PCH manages these factors to reduce costs, lower waste PCH combines our automated real-time inventory management and increase efficiency. All of this while protecting the system with our (just-in-time) manufacturing, postponement, product and delivering a delightful customer experience. “Supply chain management based on real-time data is critical to optimize operations. The more days of inventory in the channel, the more potential risk for overproduction and waste.” – Liam Casey, CEO 22 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report PCH’s professional pack out services, have contributed to the success of numerous Fortune 500 companies and startups. Our postponement model allows our partners to design and produce a built-to-order personalized experience for customers around the world. Customization optimizes efficiency throughout the production process, reduces supplier cost and inventory waste, and removes complexity in forecasting and planning. We operate multiple production lines at our pack out facility to improve efficiency and account for fluctuating demand. Our configuration supports high volume efficiency and high mix, low volume flexibility. Customized, automated technologies such as auto-labeling machines, H-shape sealing machines and auto-scaling machines deliver additional efficiencies, while a comprehensive serial number control process simplifies inventory management. We operate a rigorous five-stage quality control system during pack out, from vendor incoming batch to outgoing shipment, supported by our Shop Floor Control intelligent tracking system. This process includes: 1. Incoming article inspection 2. In-process quality control 3. First article inspection 4. Final inspection 5. Out-of-the-box audits Shen Xiulan Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 23 Unique add-on services provided by PCH Dangerous Goods Regulations At times, our teams can be required to handle “dangerous goods” as determined by the International Air Transport Association >> Packaging development: PCH develops product packaging (IATA). These include lithium ion or lithium polymer cells and to ensure quality handling during shipment, maximum batteries, for example. To ship such goods, consignors are required efficiency, lowest cost, minimal sustainability impact to prepare a form certifying that the cargo has been packed, and the best out-of-the-box customer experience. labeled and declared according to the IATA. >> Software loading, firmware refreshing and device pairing: PCH strictly adheres to these regulations and we have robust Software/firmware device loading delivers improved supply processes in place to ensure appropriate handling of these items chain efficiencies and limits Internet Protocol exposure. during production. We hold IATA Dangerous Goods Certification >> Hardware function testing: Hardware tests allow for final and have a dedicated, trained team responsible for dangerous product functionality tests across a range of simulated use goods handling. cases. PCH ensures all final product specifications are met. PCH is a certified AEO (Authorized Economic Operator) company >> Personalization services: and has been approved as compliant with WCO (World Customs >> Laser etching: Etching messages and images (which Organization) or equivalent supply chain security standards. can be personalized to individual requests) on hardware or soft goods. >> Dye-sublimation: Allows for high-quality image transfer using PCH’s proprietary dye-sublimation process (with water-based inks) to ensure high-image fidelity and maximum product reliability. >> Device/package printing: Ultraviolet (UV) cured printing on devices or accessories for high-quality personalized image finishes with excellent reliability properties. >> Vendor-managed inventory (VMI) service: PCH ensures that our customers maintain inventory based on delivery to MPS (Mass Production Schedule), optimizing inventory and leading to easy access and fast turnaround on orders while reducing labor, emissions and transportation costs. 24 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Xiang Danghong and Chen Chuanyun Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 25 PCH Flo: PCH customers have access anytime/anywhere to real-time endto-end traceability for every product that PCH touches. PCH Flo’s second-by-second data includes information on delivery orders, purchase orders, inventory management, production schedules, Tracking finance, demand forecast, report generation and product catalogues. Our developers and engineers work with customers to provide: >> System integration with customer processes in Real Time >> >> >> System integration with customer partners Development of application tools Product line IT setup according to customer requirements >> Online system support to daily production. Inventory management is key to running a healthy business. Where we Ship (2017) PCH provides complete visibility into our customers’ inventory on hand, orders and product in the channel. PCH has a proprietary Units shipped application – PCH Flo – to help our customers better manage daily business with real-time data. Our customers have complete 2,024,548 supply chain visibility, including real-time order and shipping status 100 traceability. As soon as an order is placed, the details are printed on packaging labels in Shenzhen and the status of the package is logged. 80 72% of customers utilize air freight In addition, PCH is integrated with over 10 carrier systems, providing 59% maximum insight and flexibility. 60 40 35% “Our systems ensure that our customers 20 always have the right product in the 6% 0 right place at the right time.” North Asia Europe America – Wayne Ford, global director of software development Customers by region 26 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Our Customer Base PCH’s commitment to sustainability is an important factor that differentiates us in the marketplace. Our customers come from a variety of sectors including medical/health, beauty, transportation, consumer electronics, soft goods, entertainment, Ag-Tech, among others. We develop, manufacture and fulfill hardware and soft goods for the consumer and enterprise markets. We work with global Fortune 500 brands as well as mid-sized and startup companies. Our customers are our partners with whom we seek to develop long-term, trusted and collaborative relationships. For our partners, we are a trusted resource that enables them to deliver new product introductions more rapidly, cost-effectively and sustainably, while upholding the highest standards of quality. Customer Satisfaction Keeping our customers satisfied is central to our success, and we continually strive for quality and service improvements. While we informally discuss satisfaction levels with our customers and suppliers on a project basis regularly, we also do broader surveys to determine the satisfaction level of our clients, and what we can be doing better. Vinesh Narayan, Bessie Liu, Larry Huang, Jessie He Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 27 Highway1 Highway1 2013-2017 Moving to China 16.7% Other 20.5% Health 3.8% Agriculture At the end of 2017, PCH decided to relocate Highway1, our hardware accelerator program founded in 2013, 3.8% Robotics to the PCH Innovation Hub in Shenzhen. Type of Widely viewed as one of the premier hardware accelerators product 25.7% in the world, Highway1 is attracting startups that are Smart home more advanced in their development than earlier cohorts. 29.5% Wearable Startups that already have products in market and seek to scale production are best suited to take advantage of PCH’s unique platform. Four startups, with products in the wearable, smart home, health and agriculture industries, were selected for the 2017 Number of companies cohort. Half of the companies were from the U.S. and the other half from Canada. 78 Total between 2013-2017 4 in 2017 28 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Engineering Services: Rebranded and Consolidated The PCH engineering division, formerly known as PCH Lime Lab, was rebranded under the PCH name. Located in San Francisco and Shenzhen, the product development engineering team works with global brands, medium-sized companies, startups and industrial design firms to define, explore, architect and prototype products, while always keeping design for manufacturing (DFM) at the forefront. Teams include mechanical, electrical, software, manufacturing, integration, product management and test engineers who work side by side with PCH’s manufacturing engineering team. Working as one company we provide an integrated platform and accelerate new product introductions. Alex Ko and Bino Consunji Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 29 Where We Sustainability Operate Initiatives PCH Our Operations Environmental in China Impact PCH Operations in San Francisco 30 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Operations PCH became a stronger, more efficient and more sustainable company in 2017. We consolidated our Shenzhen facilities into a single campus in the Futian Free Trade Zone. This change provided numerous benefits to our company, customers, workers, supply base and the environment. We also rebranded and consolidated our engineering division under the PCH name. Our improved operations enable greater collaboration and communications. Our employees enjoy a modernized workplace that includes a new cafeteria, library and relaxation areas. In addition to greater cost efficiencies for our customers and our company, PCH has also reduced energy use, emissions and our environmental footprint. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 31 Where We HQ Cork, Ireland Operate Global Headquarters Shenzhen, China PCH Operational Headquarters, PCH Innovation Hub, Offices, Factories, Distribution Office location Operations Cape Town, South Africa San Francisco Office PCH Innovation Hub, Highway1 Who we work with Sectors Markets served (by shipments delivered) Wearables 6% 33% Fashion-Tech 35% Europe Medical/Health Entertainment North Global brands America Consumer Electronics 67% Transportation IoT Ag-Tech Smallto medium-sized 59% companies (including startups Beauty Soft Goods Asia and design studios) 32 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report PCH Operations in China PCH has our Operational Headquarters in Shenzhen, China. From this key location in the Futian Free Trade Zone, PCH provides development, manufacturing and post production services for product categories, including: FDA-approved medical devices; IoT hardware; consumer electronics; soft goods; beauty products; accessories and other goods. In addition, PCH has corporate offices and research and development operations in China. The PCH Innovation Hub has over 290,600 square feet devoted to pack out and fulfillment as well as six container bays, where we ship product daily around the world. Our location in the Free Trade Zone allows our customers to benefit from favorable labor rates, without paying duty to export finished goods to the global market. PCH packs out hundreds of thousands of units per day and ships B2B (parcel and bulk shipments) and B2C direct from China. Direct shipping and real-time tracking increases inventory efficiency and reduces waste. We run two employee shifts daily, six days a week, and are able to expand production lines depending on demand. For our employees, we have a well-stocked library, relaxation areas and a new cafeteria that serves lunch daily. Yu Jiayao Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 33 PCH Operations In 2012, PCH opened the PCH Innovation Hub in San Francisco to serve global clients, many of whom are in Silicon Valley or who come to the San Francisco Bay Area seeking innovative partners. With over 35,000 square feet of office and lab space, in San Francisco our Hub houses a state-of-the-art prototyping lab, soft goods lab, team of engineers (mechanical, firmware, electrical and packaging), program managers, business development and support operations. State-of-the-art prototyping lab Our prototyping labs (machine shop, electrical engineering, wet lab, soft goods, packaging, 3D rapid prototyping and testing) allow us to work efficiently and iteratively with our clients (and their industrial design teams) to reduce time-to-market, enable efficiencies and mitigate technical risk. At kick-off, our team reviews the product objectives, timelines, constraints, business case, desired user experience, feature set and design intent. They explore feature set variations, research comparable products, design, solutions digitally using state-of-the-art software for the mechanical, electrical and firmware components. We integrate and refine the product by building working units (design validation units or DVUs), subsystem models, conducting tests, developing schematic and layout designs and early packaging concepts. Our team in San Francisco always designs with manufacturing requirements in mind, and we work closely with our manufacturing team in China to develop initial tooling plans, to source components for pilot builds and to design the ideal supply chain. 34 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Shen Xiulan and He Meiying Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 35 Sustainability Most of our sustainability impact occurs in China, where our supplier partners have the greatest environmental footprint. Consolidating our facilities into a single campus in Shenzhen allows us to conserve resources and operate more efficiently. Initiatives In 2017, PCH developed an online energy management dashboard to track energy use across our facilities. Conserving Water As a result of consolidating facilities in 2016, we saw a dramatic reduction in water use. Water use at our China operations went from 11,608 tons in 2016 to 8,903 tons in 2017, a decrease of almost 24 percent. Water reduction While we saw an increase in greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 24% and electricity use, these were a result of increased operations. Electricity increased to 920,347 kWh in 2017, compared to 847,302 kWh in 2016. in PCH operations in China Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions increased from 778 metric tons in 2016 to 1,390 metric tons of CO2 in 2017. “Monitoring and tracking equipment helps us identify energy waste early and make corrections promptly that reduce costs and save resources.” – Ula Wang, facilities engineering manager 36 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Employees Generate New Dashboard Sustainability Initiatives Tracks Energy In 2017, PCH in China implemented paperless operations recommended by employees. The program was tested in the at PCH in China production facilities to monitor paper and ink usage reductions, create better document control and increase productivity. With this program, once a document is approved our document PCH created a software dashboard in 2017 control center scans it and keeps the original on file. The to monitor ongoing energy use across our facilities scanned copy is added to the shared drive and disseminated in China. As part of this program, 43 energy meters as a digital file, as needed. As a result, once a document is were installed on nine floors. These units monitor approved for distribution, each department, including quality energy usage, including HVAC, ovens, air compressors, control, production, warehouse operations, planning and power, sockets and overhead lighting. sourcing, sees it via a log list and can reference it when needed. This has allowed our facility and sustainability teams to track energy consumption accurately to every 15 minutes, floor by floor. Because of this new tracking tool, we can determine when and where energy consumption is high and rapidly initiate energy reduction protocols. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 37 Our Environmental Impact1 2017 China One building This facility has a low risk for occupational hazards and Our facilities The PCH Innovation Hub in China includes office space, manufacturing, environmental pollution. pack out, fulfillment and distribution facilities, a loading dock, a product Electricity is the only significant form We have environmental data for design engineering and development of energy consumed in our facilities. It is used for air conditioning, lighting 388,682 sq ft lab and an R&D center. and operating machinery associated with pack out and fulfillment. of our reported operations 349,956 sq ft Our facilities do not utilize heat or steam. (94% of the total) U.S. Two buildings Natural gas is used for heating and hot water. • PCH Innovation Hub • PCH Hardware Accelerator (Highway1) Electricity is used for all other needs, including to power our state-of-the-art prototyping and systems integration lab. 38,500 sq ft These offices are home to Fab.com, Other Three buildings2 finance, sales, marketing, IT and One office each in Cape Town, global operations. South Africa; Cork, Ireland; Hong Kong These offices use electricity, domestic water and materials (environmental data not provided by landlord). 26,074 sq ft 1. All information for our U.S. sites is obtained from third parties. 2. Environmental data is unavailable for our Cork, Hong Kong and Cape Town offices. We expect to include these locations in our measurements in 2018. 38 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Resource use3 2017 Electricity use Water use Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions 1,467,196 kWh global total 10,610 tons 29 metric tons of CO2 global total U.S. 29 metric tons CO 2 U.S. China U.S. China 546,849 kWh 920,347 kWh 1,003 tons 9, 607 tons China 0 metric tons CO 2 Gas use Waste produced4 29,410 therms 69,237 lbs. U.S. U.S. total Hazardous waste produced in China: Landfill U.S. Recycled electronic waste U.S. Waste water mixed with lubricant oil: 0 kgs. 29,752 lbs. (43%) 253 lbs. (1%) Waste lubricant oil: 25 kgs. Light tubes: 10 kgs. Recycling U.S. Hazardous waste global total Hazardous chemical container: 30.5 kgs. 28,258 lbs. (40%) 1,498 lbs. (2%) Used batteries: 0.5kgs U.S. Compost U.S. 1,115 lbs. (74%) Waste organic solvent: 107kgs. 9,859 lbs. (14%) China Cloth mixed with solvent: 0.5 kgs. 383 lbs. (26%) 3. U.S. data: All information was received from third parties. The water consumption information was received from the San Francisco Public Utilities Commission through the property management (CBRE) and Godtland Enterprises. The waste information was received from Recology (Waste Management Co.). The gas and electric usage was received from Pacific Gas & Electric accounts. 4. All waste is disposed of by licensed operators. Hazardous waste generated in our owned facilities is the only available waste data for our operations in China. All non-hazardous waste (scraps) generated in PCH facilities are owned by our customers and are disposed of according to our clients’ wishes using licensed operators. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 39 About Our Diversity People Overtime Worker Health and Safety at PCH in China Grievances Career Enhancement Opportunities Developing and Engaging Our People Liu Feiyue, Ming Jiarui, Peng Yuhui 40 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report People The safety and well-being of the people who work for PCH directly and indirectly (through suppliers) is our greatest priority. Our Corporate Social Responsibility focuses on: health and safety training, mentorship, education, social and cultural activities and open communications. We support a variety of communications channels – town hall meetings, one-on-one meetings, management open-door policy, a telephone hotline and WeChat instant messaging. These vehicles create a positive work environment by fostering open and trusted communications at all levels of the organization. We also encourage teamwork, which is fundamental to our company values and results in positive relationships. Individuals and teams are empowered and encouraged to help improve workplace safety, among other areas of possible improvement. Most importantly, we promote an open culture where employees feel comfortable talking to managers about opportunities as well as concerns. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 41 About Our People 516 Employees Supervised Total % of total Region Operators Office workers 5 workforce workforce staff U.S. 0 86 12 98 19.0% Total workforce China 189 189 8 386 74.8% Ireland 0 13 2 15 2.9% South 0 8 0 8 1.6% Africa Employee gender India 0 9 0 9 1.7% 42% 58% Total 189 305 22 516 100% 5. Supervised workers are all non-employees: workers hired through dispatch agencies or contractors, consultants and interns. Female employees Male employees 33% Female senior leadership 42 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Lu Mulan, Liu Xuejiao, Li Yongmei | LiuXiangyu and Pi Guanhui Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 43 Worker Health We continue to promote safety within the work environment and safe work practices. In addition to providing relevant safety training to our employees, PCH regularly reviews and monitors our health and safety management systems to comply with and Safety at current requirements. In China, PCH has a Social and Environmental Committee (50 people), which is responsible for factory labor, environment, PCH in China ethics and health and safety management. The Committee is comprised of management, production staff and engineers. At our factory facilities, we monitor potential hazards related to fire safety, chemical use, equipment safety and occupational health. We promote safety programs across our communications channels and supplier base. “We are proud of our strong record in employee safety. Ensuring safety is our highest priority. We focus on prevention, education and training. We continually monitor our initiatives to identify improvements.” – Christie Ma, director of HR 44 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Training + Awareness = Results Educating employees is the key to enhancing workplace health and safety. Training and open communications empower our workforce to report issues in factories that otherwise might be overlooked. By training and educating employees, we drive high standards and help grow our organization in a sustainable and responsible manner. In 2017, one PCH employee was injured when she missed a step walking downstairs. Her injury was minor and she missed three days of work. PCH in China health and safety data 2015 2016 2017 Injuries 1 0 1 Fatalities /occupational diseases 0 0 0 Lost days 76 0 3 19% of our factory workforce participates in the Health and Safety Committee Si Guixiang Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 45 Career Mentorships and Classes Motivate Employees Enhancement All PCH employees receive on-the-job training. In addition, we offer employees career enhancement opportunities. We encourage our employees to grow through career development Opportunities programs. In 2017, our staff participated in a variety of training and development sessions such as: >> One hundred and sixty-nine participants were provided 1,945 hours of training on customer service, office software, management skills, technical skills, labor law and Social and Environmental Responsibiilty. Sixty-six new hires were provided new hire orientation. >> Factory workers attended over 3,559 hours of training, including CSR/EHS/AEO/ISO as well as courses on health and safety. >> Factory workforce engagement programs were offered via the Little Bird programs. >> PCH project managers attended project management training. >> PCH Supply Base Management Team attended supply chain management training. “PCH thrives when our employees are engaged. For each employee, this may mean something different – they feel empowered, motivated, challenged, valued, balanced. Our goal is to provide the support employees need to feel invested in their work and to love what they do.” – Jessica Karlberg, HR and recruiting manager 46 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Ryan Scribner, Courtney Cavanaugh, Peter Barschall, Jessica Karlberg, Gan Manikandan Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 47 Developing We advocate individual and collective team development. We achieve this through our many training and development programs available to employees and teams, as well as our ongoing association with Little Bird. and Engaging Little Bird Partnership Our People PCH values our long-term partnership with Little Bird, an independent, non-governmental organization. We continue to see the Little Bird Hotline as a valuable tool for gathering insights about our workforce. Employees are encouraged to use the hotline and be candid about any issues they feel need to be addressed. The hotline is confidential and anonymous. We will continue to partner with Little Bird to provide workers with a variety of services, including career counseling, opinion collection, dispute mediation, cultural development and occupational safety training. After the transition to PCH’s new base of operations in Shenzhen, a library and learning lab were set up on the 10th floor next to the cafeteria area. Here workers have the opportunity to read books, play chess, drink tea and relax, among other activities. Little Bird representatives and members of the sustainability team are available on site to provide guidance to the workers “We value our people and recognize that they are our greatest asset as a company. We encourage employees to continue to grow professionally throughout their career at PCH, and we provide a variety of development opportunities.” – Christie Ma, director of HR 48 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Pierre Gaillard Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 49 Diversity Having a company culture that values diversity is particularly important at PCH because we have a diverse employee base, as well as a global customer base. We believe respect for diversity is good for business and the right thing to do. We also place great emphasis on gender equality because women are often underrepresented in the hardware and technology sectors. In 2017, 33.3 percent of the PCH senior leadership team was female, up from 30.7 percent in 2016. Also in 2017, 44.8 percent of the senior management roles were held by women, a significant increase from 27.5 percent in 2016. “We continue to strive to Employee category M F <30 30-50 >50 by gender and age improve gender equality across the business and at the senior Senior leadership 66.7% 33.3% 0.0% 66.7% 33.3% leadership level and we are proud Senior management 55.2% 44.8% 3.5% 96.6% 0.0% of the progress we are making.” Middle management 60.9% 39.1% 4.3% 91.3% 4.4% – Liam Casey, CEO Individual contributor 68.6% 31.4% 17.7% 72.6% 9.7% Factory staff 28.3% 71.8% 26.2% 73.3% 0.5% 39.1% of middle management and 44.8% of senior management are women 50 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Peter Yu and Claudia Ceniceros Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 51 Overtime A standard work schedule at PCH, including China, is 40 hours over five days per week. Our Supplier Code of Conduct requires “Overtime is always voluntary, and that factory workers work no more than 20 hours per week workers are entitled to at least one of overtime and no more than 36 hours per month, except in emergency or unusual situations. day off per seven-day week.” The opportunity to work overtime is a priority for our workforce – Jason Yu, director of operations and if it is not available, many workers will seek alternative employment. All overtime is voluntary, and workers are entitled to at least one day off per seven-day week. Workweeks exceeding 60 hours are deemed excessive by industry associations, and at PCH we share this view. Overtime 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Average workweek (hours) 53 51 52 44 49 Compliance with code of conduct6 99% 99% 100% 91% 91% Breaches of 60-hour workweek (number of weeks) 5 8 0 17 4 Average rest days per month 5 5 6 5 5 Breaches of one rest day per week 5 6 0 3 1 6 Sudden increase in demand of products; we were unable to increase headcount quickly enough to meet demand for production. Any overtime was strictly voluntary. 52 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Wu Li and Chen Yaofeng Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 53 Grievances We expect there will always be some grievances reported by employees, and we see this as healthy because employees feel comfortable reporting issues. The most important solution to grievances is to have a mechanism to address these quickly, and for employees to know that their concerns are taken seriously. At PCH in China during 2017 and 2016, we saw a large drop in the number of grievances submitted. This reflects a reduction in our workforce and consolidation of factory space, engineering lab and other offices that occurred in 2016. Employees reported 39 grievances in 2017, compared to 25 in 2016. Most of the grievances – 79.48 percent – were complaints about the food service, which was disrupted while transitioning to a new food supplier. Other grievances addressed factory management (10.26 percent), pay and welfare (5.13 percent) and miscellaneous (5.13 percent). Miscellaneous grievances include employee relationships, training, leave and personal issues. “We believe in open and frequent communication. We have a variety of forums such as – town halls, all-hands, team meetings and one-on-ones. Employees can also use our confidential and anonymous formal and informal platforms to engage management.” -Christie Ma, head of HR in China 54 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Grievance mechanisms Human Resources (HR) or factory management can be reached via: All of our grievance mechanisms comply with local laws and 1. Direct contact with factory line-leaders, supervisors or managers. regulations and promote an atmosphere of open communication. 2. Suggestion box – Employees can express their concerns or suggest At our corporate offices, HR teams and management are trained improvements anonymously through suggestion boxes. These to foster an open-door culture, where grievances can be expressed boxes are checked every Monday and action is usually taken formally or informally. In our factories, we have a formal grievance within 15 days of the concern/suggestion being submitted. This program so that factory workers know their concerns will be may take longer in certain situations, for example, where a worker resolved in a fair and timely manner. survey is required to get wider employee feedback, or more time is Open communication among employees drives continuous needed to fully investigate the case. improvement. Much of the feedback we receive centers around 3. Employee Forum – Held once per quarter, this gathering is suggestions for workplace improvement or clarification of local rules attended by employee representatives, factory general managers, and regulations. The Little Bird partnership reinforces open dialogue HR managers and the internal audit team. Human Resources will between PCH management and our workforce. supervise the implementation of improvements from the forum. We continue to operate multiple grievance mechanisms, and most Responses and improvements are posted on a notice board within are available to our workforce 24 hours a day, 6 days a week. We three months. operate four grievance systems for factory workers. 4. Little Bird – Little Bird sends employee concerns/suggestions to factory HR once a week. Most issues are resolved within one month, or if a more serious concern arises, it is addressed immediately. Since our partnership with Little Bird in 2012, this platform has become increasingly popular among our staff to express concerns/ suggestions in the workplace and it continues to be our most popular grievance mechanism among factory workers. Management strives to close all grievances within three months, and address and close serious grievances promptly. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 55 Partnering with Our Suppliers Audit Discoveries Health and Safety in Supplier Facilities Chen Yilin and Xia Yajun 56 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Supply Network Partnerships are the cornerstone of PCH. We foster trusted and long-term partnerships with our customers and our suppliers to align interests, maximize opportunities and solve problems together. PCH views sustainability the same way we view our partnerships: When we work together we get the best results, and we must do this in an atmosphere of trust and mutual benefit. We seek to form strong, strategic long-term relationships with our suppliers. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 57 Partnering with Strong and positive relationships with suppliers enable us to have greater influence across our supply network and to incorporate sustainable practices where we see opportunity. Our suppliers must sign our Supplier Code of Conduct agreement and comply Our Suppliers with all applicable local laws and regulations. In 2017, PCH transacted with 162 suppliers globally. This does not include suppliers that work with our engineering team in San Francisco. The majority of our company spend is focused on customer-selected suppliers; however, most of our development programs focus on PCH-selected suppliers because we believe this is where we can have the greatest impact. “Because we’ve operated in China for over 20 years, we have fostered trusted and long-term relationships. Our suppliers trust us to guide them on sustainability issues, guidelines, policies and practices. We continue to emphasize with them the importance of sustainability to the brands we work with.” – Alan Cuddihy, country manager, Greater China 58 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Five-step process to admit suppliers into our sustainability network: 4. The PCH Audit Team conducts onsite Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) risk assessment. The team rates supplier 1. The PCH Procurement Team or our customer identifies the performance and management systems and identifies areas supplier based on capabilities. for improvement. Suppliers have three months to follow up on 2. Initial supplier evaluation. This involves a factory inspection action items. by a member of each of the following PCH teams: project 5. Once the supplier is admitted to the PCH network, the management (PM), supply base management (SBM), client Sustainability Team conducts supplier development programs, quality management (CQM) and engineering. including health and safety, system building, energy monitoring, 3. The PCH Sustainability Team conducts a factory readiness chemical mapping and social programs. assessment to determine if the supplier meets PCH and/or our customer audit requirements. The PCH Supply Network To create products, multiple factories are often required. In turn, these factories utilize other factories to produce materials and components. The diagram below represents the possible complexity of the supply network for a product, as well as the influences and controls that PCH has over each link in the chain. Pack out Fulfillment Components Raw materials Development Logistics PCH customers PCH Supplier network Delivery Manufacturing Parts Highway1* PCH controlled * PCH controls these programs, but we are only positioned to influence PCH influenced the participating companies/startups involved. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 59 The supplier initial evaluation stage is designed to evaluate whether the supplier is likely to meet audit requirements. How We Manage When it is clear the supplier will not pass an audit or be suitable for a given project, we are able to move quickly Our Supplier Network to other supplier opportunities. Suppliers are evaluated on engineering and technical ability, quality management, project management and supply based management. The supplier We follow industry best practices and consider the must score at least 60 out of 100 to be eligible for a PCH audit. issues of social, environmental, health and safety At PCH we have two types of suppliers: those selected by PCH impact and business risk when determining which and those selected by our customers. For customer-selected suppliers to audit. Audits set a baseline; they cover suppliers, we do not conduct our own audits but work with our quality, sustainability and chemical management customers to conduct audits that meet their specifications. practices. We cannot audit every supplier as this would require substantial resources, therefore we We encourage and expect our network of suppliers to adhere focus on areas of the supply chain that pose the to our Supplier Code of Conduct and to operate to the highest most risk. Annual audits identify preferred suppliers, standards of social and environmental compliance, even with scores weighted at 50 percent for quality, beyond what is mandated. We continue to audit our supplier 35 percent for social and environmental practices factories and influence our supply network to raise the bar on and 15 percent for chemical management. social and environmental compliance. 60 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Yang Yinping, Wang Hongguo, He Xiaohua Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 61 Suppliers PCH Transacted with in 2017 57 2.5% Service Items New and Consulting 17.2% Final Assembly, Test and Pack 56.3% Hardware 7.2% Printing and Packaging Supplier 162 spend by industry 10.5% Mechanical Engineering Total suppliers 105 6.3% Electrical Engineering Existing 1,000+ Number of suppliers 90% China 8% Europe 2% Asia-Pacific^ Supplier spend by location in our network * Excludes PCH suppliers in North America. ^ Excludes suppliers in China. 62 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Our Supplier Audits Audits are conducted in PCH-selected factories only. 100 PCH-selected suppliers Standard compliance programs 162 38 suppliers audited 0 suppliers failed Total suppliers 62 Customer-selected 525 Hours on Employee Health and Safety (EHS) suppliers assessment and staff training Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 63 Audit In one of our supplier audits in 2017, members of the PCH Environmental Health and Safety team identified three workers who had worked 66 hours in a week. This violates PCH and industry standards of no more than 60 hours per week including overtime. We Discoveries made sure that this supplier was aware of the policy, our standards and, most importantly, the rights of these and other workers. This supplier took action to improve its overtime controls, and PCH will continue to monitor the progress in future audits. In another supplier audit, our sustainability team identified air compressor equipment that didn’t have the correct registration certificate. This was a safety violation. As a result of our audit, the supplier secured the necessary certificate. PCH will continue to monitor this supplier for compliance with industry standards. PCH has a zero-tolerance policy towards child labor in our own or in supplier facilities. Child labor refers to any worker under the age of 16. All new hires to PCH have their identity and age verified by our HR teams. For our suppliers, we follow industry recommendations and we check for child labor during our audit process. All 38 audits (including existing and new suppliers) conducted in 2017 included a check for child labor and prevention systems as well as factory floor spot checks. The audits showed no incidents of child labor. “We have a zero-tolerance child labor policy. We check for child labor during our audit process and conduct spot checks on suppliers we audit. There were no incidents of child labor during 2017 audits.” – Larry Huang, director of quality 64 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Sunny Zhu, Alan Cuddihy, Celine Zhai Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 65 Health One of our greatest challenges is the health and safety of workers in our supplier network. We place great emphasis on making sure health and safety come first. It is the right thing to do, and we recognize that quality products and services are dependent on strong worker morale, and Safety which comes from a sense of well-being. in Supplier Strategies for Supplier Health and Safety Health and safety management programs at supplier facilities include Facilities chemical management, fire safety, ventilation and electrical safety. Audits and daily spot checks cover emergency exits, equipment safety, chemical labels and other potential hazards. We are working with our suppliers to help them integrate health and safety procedures into daily operations. This includes providing training and resources as well as identifying targets for continuous improvement. When necessary, PCH establishes health and safety procedures at supplier factories, and PCH sets up Key Performance Indicators (KPIs), which measure how well the factory meets its targets. The intent is to integrate health and safety methods into the supplier’s day-to-day operations. “We have the highest standards regarding health and safety. We integrate EHS procedures early and make all necessary changes before production lines are up and running.” – Jason Yu, operations director 66 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Pre-startup Safety Review For high-risk safety situations, we conduct pre-startup safety reviews covering eight key areas: general safety, life safety, chemical management, occupational health, machine safety, electrical safety, environment management and emergency response. During the review process, engineering, production, program management and the Employee Health and Safety (EHS) teams get involved. By involving all project teams at an early stage, we ensure that everyone is aware of our safety standards and criteria. This early awareness and full team support minimizes accidents and improves overall safety. For other projects that are not high risk for safety issues, our EHS team evaluates all projects at the beginning (including supplier qualification on CSR issues) on how any risk will be managed. Pre-production Safety Considerations The best way to engage suppliers on EHS management is by starting at the process design stage, early in each project. Before production begins, we assess health, safety and environmental factors to identify and prevent EHS risk. Within our own facilities, PCH also evaluates safety considerations and industry guidelines before each project begins. In 2017, for example, our sustainability team identified one project that needed to change a process involving silk printing. The initial proposal was to carry out the project within our facility. The PCH team reviewed the proposal and found it would be difficult to complete the process correctly and safely at that particular time. Therefore, PCH engaged a qualified supplier to fulfill this job for our client. Lian Junpei Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 67 Lifecycle Analysis Our Policy on Conflict Minerals Managing Chemicals Safely Wang Qi 68 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Product Product sustainability addresses materials, chemicals, conflict minerals, packaging, shipping, inventory management and lifecycle analysis. We seize the opportunity to educate our customers about the impact of products at the exploration and design engineering stage, all the way through to manufacturing, distribution and end-oflife. We also strive to influence industrial designers to consider sustainability early in their process. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 69 Lifecycle Lifecycle Analysis (LCA) is now available to all PCH customers . LCA is the systematic approach to assessing the environmental impact of a product’s entire lifecycle, from raw materials to end-of-life disposal. Packaging LCA integrates sustainability into Analysis design to reduce packaging size and impact and improve the customer experience. We conduct packaging reviews with customers to help them make the best decisions about quality, cost and sustainability impact. We strive to design, develop and produce beautiful, sustainable solutions that have the maximum positive impact on the consumer experience and the least impact on the environment. Ryan Scribner and Daniel Senatore 70 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Graham Hough and Kevin Hernandez Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 71 Smarter, Sustainable In 2017, a leading consumer electronic company challenged PCH to redesign its packaging system used for refurbished or warrantied Packaging products. Our design team was tasked with developing a completely new, efficient, customer-friendly and sustainable packaging system. Our customer’s existing one-size-fits-all approach utilized overpacked and poorly protected cardboard boxes. For end users, the packaging potentially diminished the perceived quality of the product. The company required new packaging that would: 1. Have a high visual impact 2. Offer an enhanced consumer out-of-the-box experience 372% 3. Accommodate numerous products of different shapes, sizes and weights, and 4. Be made from sustainable materials Volume reduction compared to the old packaging Product Tray Accessory Box Three interchangeable options that Keeps accessories organized are dependant on the product. and tidy. Original packaging New 8,807,400mm packaging Volume 2,367,080mm Volume 72 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report The PCH team designed several sample prototypes, and each concept package was made from double-wall corrugated cardboard, while the underwent three rounds of revisions to determine optimum fit, internal components were made from recycled light-weight plastic to design and structure. During testing and quality assurance, sample support different product weights. prototypes underwent drop tests, vibration testing and temperature/ PCH finished the project within budget and in record time. The new humidity tests. system is easier to assemble, and the shared packaging components The final design involved a two-tier packaging system that included significantly reduced manufacturing costs. PCH now manages the an interior and exterior component in one carton. The design team production of the packaging system, adapting the design as needed kept the exterior box dimensions the same but created custom-fit as the electronics company’s product range expands. packaging tray inserts to accommodate each model. The exterior Sustainable Packaging Design Old design New design Unit Percentage change Size 466x180x105mm 236x118x85mm Millimeters Volume 8,807,400mm3 2,367,080mm3 Millimeters cubed (mm3)/unit -73.12% Cost of packaging USD $2 USD $1.6 USD$/unit (per purchase of 10,000 units) -20% Cost of Shipping USD $36.08 USD $27.65 USD$/pc from China to UK -23.36% Fossil fuel consumption ~25MJ ~2MJ Mega joules (MJ) -92% GHG emissions ~.95kg CO2e ~0.15kg CO2e Greenhouse gas kg of CO2e equivalent -84.2% Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 73 Ryan Francis 74 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Our Policy Anti-Corruption and Business Ethics PCH has clear and consistent guidelines around Anti-Corruption and Business Ethics. Our procedures are documented for all on Conflict employees and mandate a Code of Conduct (CoC) for all supply partners, which includes guidelines that are in accordance with RBA (Responsible Business Alliance) and CoC standards, and reflect our Minerals commitment to anti-corruption: >> Business Integrity >> No Improper Advantage >> Disclosure of Information >> Intellectual Property >> Fair Business, Advertising and Competition It is a requirement in our Supplier Code of Conduct >> Protection of Identity and Non-Retaliation that no conflict minerals be procured or used by PCH suppliers in the production of our customers’ products. >> Prevention of use of Conflict Minerals We welcome the advent of conflict minerals mapping >> Privacy as it encourages suppliers to be transparent and track potential use of minerals that are mined in areas of the world where there are armed conflicts and human rights abuses. Most electronic manufacturers have a mapping system in place in accordance with the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Guidance for Responsible Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and High-Risk Areas. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 75 Managing Proper chemical use within PCH facilities and our supplier factories is a health and safety priority. Careful use and monitoring of chemicals is critical, and we spend considerable effort and resources to identify and manage chemicals. In addition, our customers are increasingly Chemicals interested in monitoring the chemicals that are being used in their products. To date, over 1,300 chemicals have been mapped and documented by the PCH Sustainability Team. Safely Hazardous chemicals are those that are poisonous, corrosive, explosive or ignitable and which may pose a hazard for people, equipment or the environment. Hazardous agents get into the body by inhalation more than by any other route. Therefore, chemical exposure on the factory line is a critical concern and carefully monitored. Testing for Hazardous Substances We work with our customers to ensure that the chemicals used in their products are compliant with chemical directives and regulations. We also help our clients with chemical testing and the preparation of the required chemical compliance documentation, which is necessary for product registration and customs clearance “Careful selection, handling and monitoring of chemicals is critical to sustainability, and we expend considerable effort and resources to identify and manage chemicals properly.” – Sunny Zhu, sustainability program manager 76 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Our Chemical Safety Policy It is important that PCH factory facilities and supplier partners maintain a Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS) for each product being manufactured. An MSDS contains pertinent information about chemical ingredients, physical characteristics, proper handling, fire safety and emergency handling. When we examine chemicals, we consider both sacrificial materials that are used during the manufacturing process (that do not form part of the final product) as well as those that are part of the final product. These chemicals are used in processes such as coating, gluing, laminating, cleaning, electroplating, printing, screen-printing and painting. How we address chemical management: 1. Possible elimination 2. Substitution at concept phase 3. Proper ventilation 4. Establishing a safe (according to guidelines) distance between the chemical and worker 5. Providing personal protective equipment (PPE) When gathering chemical information, the strength of our relationship with the supplier is paramount to getting accurate data and enforcing protocols. Some suppliers, particularly sub-tier, are cautious about disclosing the chemicals they use. For this reason, we endeavor to provide training on safe chemical management. Luo Yanlan Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 77 Materiality Matrix How We Communicate with Stakeholders Sustainability Governance Grace Liu and Craig Berrigan 78 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement We conducted a formal materiality study and stakeholder analysis in 2015. We found that our materiality study and stakeholder analysis is still widely valid for 2017; however, we made some minor adjustments in certain areas to ensure the greatest accuracy. Understanding the material issues for our different stakeholders is essential for our business and in setting priorities. We will continue to review our material issues on an annual basis. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 79 Materiality Matrix 4.70 Management and Governance Environmental Management Very High 6 7 1 Business integrity and ethics 17 Safe manufacturing 8 2 Transparency and accountability 18 Waste reduction through 4.60 inventory management 3 Risk and reputation management 1 19 Alternative materials/chemicals 4 Economic impacts 20 Supplier environmental 5 Internal communication performance 4.50 14 11 and knowledge transfer 12 9 21 Sustainable packaging 2 Business Practices 22 Sustainable design 4.40 23 6 Human rights protection/ External Stakeholders 15 17 prevention of child labor Suppliers 24 7 Client privacy and intellectual 23 Health and safety for all 4.30 4 25 property protection PCH employees 26 3 27 10 8 Compliance 24 Supplier audits/code of conduct 13 compliance 29 9 Non-discriminatory pay 25 Anti-corruption 4.20 10 Fair business practices 26 Supply network traceability 30 Industry Collaboration 27 Responsible procurement practices 31 18 4.10 19 20 11 Customer satisfaction 28 Grievance mechanisms 16 5 21 12 Product compliance 32 28 22 Employees/Labor Practices 13 Accurate production planning 33 4.00 29 Fair wages and working hours Product/Service Delivery 30 Training/career development opportunities High 14 Time, cost, price competitiveness 31 Diversity and equal opportunity 15 Product innovation to solve 3.90 4.00 4.10 4.20 4.30 4.40 4.50 4.60 social/environmental problems 32 Recruitment and retention High Internal Stakeholders Very High 16 Accurate product and service labeling 33 Labor management relations 80 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report How We Communicate with Stakeholders ALL -HA AG EN AU DI T ND SM AU C I E S DI CO NF S EE T IN G CO T S NF EV EN E REN C S E V EREN EN CE FAC T SEE S FAC T S E-T S L I T TO FA TLE B CE LIT TL O-F MI E BI R E AC MI C R IR D CR ME O BEN D ME O BEN DI EFI DI A EFI NE A WS L E TS NE PO WS L ET TS PO S T E T T ER ST R EC ER S T ER R EC R S RU IT SU RU I TM SU RV M EN RV SU E Y S EN TF SU E Y S STA TF A IR S STA T H IN A B A IR S T H IN A B RO U GH IL I T YR RO TO U G H IT Y RI L TO WN H CLI EP E N O RT TR WN H CLI EP E N O RT TR A IN A L L S TS A IN A L L S I TS W E IN G BS WE BS G WO I T E N WO I T E Stakeholder Group Location Stakeholder Group Location RD OF -M RD OF -M OU TH OU TH PCH Factory Employees China Media and Social Media Global PCH Corporate Employees Prospective Workforce Global Global (Global) Factory Landlords China PCH Office Employees China Supplier Dispatch Workers China in Factory Dispatch Agencies China Large Clients Global Peer Companies Global Medium Clients Global Academia Global Small Clients (Startups) Global End-of-life Recycling Asia /U.S./ Pro-social Entrepreneurs Global Plants Europe Industrial Service PCH-selected Suppliers China China Providers Investors and Board Asia /U.S./ Global Direct Consumers of Directors Europe Factory Owners China Other Consumers Asia /U.S./ (End-product) Europe Supplier Employees China Trade Unions China PCH Dispatch Agency Hires China Industry Associations Global Non-governmental Retail Stores Global Global Organizations Prospective Customers Global Logistics Companies Global and Freight Forwarders Customer-selected Global Agencies and Consultants Global Suppliers China / U.S./ Design Associations Local Communities U.S. Ireland and Design Consultants Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 81 Kong Xiaoling, Qiu Haiyan and Chen Qiuxia 82 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Sustainability Governance >> The PCH Sustainability Team has influence across all our >> Programs focus on supplier network development, EHS, worker divisions. The Sustainability Team is involved at all stages engagement, social initiatives and industry partnerships. of the business: product development, supplier selection, >> Sustainability reviews are conducted on product and packaging supplier development, packaging and distribution. The Team is across PCH platforms in the U.S. and China, including new heavily influential in the areas of Employee Health and Safety project proposals. (EHS), including compliance, workforce engagement, resource >> The Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer and efficiency and safe handling of chemicals and other materials. Senior Leadership Team review all programs. >> PCH is governed by a Board of Directors who delegate >> The PCH Audit Team conducts all China-based supplier governance and responsibility for sustainability to the PCH qualification audits for labor, environmental and chemical Senior Leadership Team. management practices. >> The Chief Financial Officer (CFO) oversees sustainability >> PCH-owned factories have a Sustainability Committee initiatives at PCH. with Labor, EHS and Ethics subcommittees. >> Each program is initiated within our China-based Sustainability >> Individual offices champion CSR initiatives across the Team, led by the Head of Sustainability. Details are reported organization, including volunteering, diversity, internships to the CFO to ensure there is a viable business case for and charitable giving. each project. >> Our suppliers are expected to adhere to our Supplier Code of Conduct. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 83 Our Sustainability Progress in 2017 2018 Sustainability Goals Amichai Amar 84 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Looking Ahead We work in a dynamic industry that requires shorter production cycles, increased factory sophistication and greater demand for personalized products. Non-tech industries such as fashion, beauty and entertainment are entering the hardware market. We will continue to expand our profitable growth opportunities by focusing on product development, specialized manufacturing, fulfillment and supply chain management. As end consumers ask more questions about the origin of products, PCH seeks to lead the industry in product transparency and product lifecycle considerations. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 85 Our Sustainability Progress in 2017 More to do Ongoing Complete Status 2017 Goals Update 2018 Goals Continue Long-Term Sustainabilty Goals Further integrated sustainability factors into daily Assessment of current sustainability structure that support our business, and improve and business operations (package design, supplier within PCH and identify how modifications can help differentiate our service offering. selection, etc.). achieve longer term goals. Develop Materials Library that is practical, costExpand to include more product materials and the Materials Library has focused on packaging in 2018. effective and available for integration. removal of single-use plastics as a near-term focus. Global Grievance Mechanism that ensures Implemented in PCH's facilities in China. Rollout initiative across all PCH locations. integrity, impartiality. Develop corporate partnership with sustainability Increase engagement with industry leaders, Engaged with sustainabiltiy leaders in new industries bodies in additional industries; develop roadmap learn from best practices where possible. including apparel and consumer products. for future collaboration. Restricted Substance List (RSL) that is useful, Currently helping clients develop RSL, specific RSL standardized and applied across all projects. adaptable and feasible for client usage. to products. Explore possible transition from NGO to social NGO partnerships that improve business In China, PCH engaged in NGO cross-industry enterprise partnerships to help prepare for scale operations, adds value to PCH and its clients. forums focused on issues related to migrant workers. to meet long-term goals. Continued to assess and develop consigned supplier Sustainability Governance at capabilty for specific clients to improve capacity All consigned suppliers meet AVL standard. Consigned Suppliers. and standards. 86 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report 2018 Sustainability Goals Continue to enhance Continue to develop Materials Implement global grievance Increase engagement with long-term sustainability goals Library, encouraging clients mechanism as part of our sustainability leaders in other for the Company. to choose less harmful Employee Guidelines. industries, e.g., apparel, chemicals/materials/processes. cosmetics, etc. to incorporate best practices. Develop and deploy Restricted Develop with our partner Little Assess sustainability issues Subtances List (RSL) for Bird (NGO) a new onsite worker for supply base consigned by customers who do not have grievance mechanism. our clients. their own RSL. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 87 Our Reporting Guidelines Information in this Report Glossary of Terms GRI Index Li Juanli 88 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report About This Report This is our sixth annual Sustainability Report and covers the year 2017 at PCH. Our 2012 2016 Reports can be accessed on our website. Our 2017 Report covers all PCH business units and entities. This is not a report on the financial condition of the organization. Because we are a privately held company, we do not disclose certain financial information, capitalization structure of the organization or details of the share capital and executive board structure of the organization in this Report or in any public forum. Mutual non-disclosure agreements prevent us from naming our suppliers and customers in many cases. Many suppliers and customers do not wish to be named to protect trade secrets and maintain a competitive advantage. We respect this and are working with our partners towards a more transparent future. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 89 Our Our sustainability reporting follows industry and sustainability standards, including the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress and the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. This Report has been prepared in Reporting accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. In compiling this Report, we incorporated the principles for defining report content, namely: stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability Guidelines context, materiality and completeness. We strive to ensure the principles for defining report quality are also met, namely: balance, comparability, accuracy, timeliness, clarity and reliability. We have not sought independent assurance of this Report. All data in this Report is based on the best possible methodologies currently available and is aligned with recognized standards. Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data is subject to inherent uncertainties because of incomplete scientific knowledge used to determine emission factors and measurements. Our GHG emissions accounting and reporting are aligned with the GHG Protocol, and the emission factors we use are from publicly available sources such as the International Energy Agency (IEA). The reported energy usage is based on invoiced utility data, data reported by transport providers and suppliers, and data from real-time electricity meters. Monetary amounts are reported in U.S. dollars. Additional currency values are conversions based on the conversion rate on December 31, 2017, unless stated otherwise. 90 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Information The information in this Report may contain forward-looking statements. Such statements reflect management’s current expectations. Although management believes such statements to be reasonable, no assurance can be given that such expectations will in this Report prove correct. Such statements are subject to risks and uncertainties, and such future events could differ materially from those set out in the forward-looking statements as a result of, among other factors, changes in economic, market or competitive conditions, success of business and operating initiatives, changes in the regulatory environment and other governmental actions and business risk management. Any forward-looking statement made in this Report relates only to events as of the date on which the statement is made. We undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect new information, except as required by law. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 91 Glossary Customization: The process of creating a unique order for an individual customer, market, region or retailer. DFA: Design for Assembly is a process by which products are designed for of Terms efficiency and ease of assembly. DFT: Design for Testing. DFM: Design for Manufacturing is the engineering practice of designing products so they are easy to manufacture. Dispatch worker: Factory operators who work in PCH facilities who are hired and managed by a third-party dispatch agency. B2B: Business to business. DVT: Design Validation Test. B2C: Business to consumer. EHS: Employee Health and Safety, also referred to as Environment, Health BOM: Bill of Materials. A list of raw materials, subassemblies, intermediate and Safety in our industry. assemblies, subcomponents, parts and the quantities of each required to manufacturer a product. Employee: Any person who has an employment contract with PCH, excluding supervised workforce. Chemicals: Substances and chemical compositions that are additives to manufacturing process such as adhesives, paint, ink, cleaning agents and EVT: Engineering Validation Test. thinners. Included are chemicals that form part of the final product as well as sacrificial chemicals (those that are not part of the final product). Facility: A factory building; one factory business might have multiple facilities. COGS : Cost of Goods Sold is the direct costs attributed to the production Factory: A manufacturing, logistics, fulfillment or distribution business. Some of the goods sold. factory businesses are a collection of facility buildings. Corporate staff: All non-operator (non-factory) employees who work Factory office staff: All non-operator employees who work in factory offices. in PCH offices. FDA: U.S. Food and Drug Administration. CQM: Client Quality Manager. Fulfillment: The process of preparing and delivering a customer order. CSR: Corporate Social Responsibility. IoT: Internet of things is the network of devices, vehicles and home Customer: A customer of PCH. appliances which use technology to connect, interact and exchange data. 92 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report IP: Intellectual property. Prototype: An early sample, model, build or release of a product created to test product features and design concept before investing time and LCA: Lifecycle Analysis is the assessment of all environmental factors money in production. of a product’s life, from raw materials to end of use. PSSR: Pre-Startup Safety Review is a tool that incorporates safety measures Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS): A document that contains in pre-production design and processes. information on a material’s potential hazards of (health, fire, reactivity and environmental) and how to work safely with the material. PVT: Production Validation Test. NPI: New Product Introduction is a phase in manufacturing when processes Raw material: Any non-living matter, whether natural or man-made, are refined and validated through pilot builds and capabilities studies to which combine to make customer products such as plastic components, capture issues early and resolve these. metals, leather and fabrics. OECD: Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. RSL: Restricted Substance List, which includes hazardous chemicals and raw materials and possible alternatives. OEL: Occupational Exposure Limit is a regulation that sets maximum exposure levels of chemicals and other hazardous materials in workplace air. SBM: Supply Based Management. Operator: Factory production staff (line operators, warehouse and logistics Senior leadership team: The team of PCH Senior Executives designated staff) hired by PCH or our suppliers on a full-time or supervised basis. by the Board of Directors to manage PCH business, including but not limited to the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. The team is also Pack out: The final step (often including packaging and labeling) designated with responsibility of sustainability leadership at PCH. before shipment to customer. SOW: Statement of Work defines the specific services (work activities Personalization: The process of creating a unique product utilizing such and deliverables) that a contractor is expected to perform. methods as monogramming, etching and printing. Supplier: A factory not owned by PCH that supplies products, PM: Program Manager. goods or services to PCH and our customers. PPE: Personal Protective Equipment such as protective clothing, helmets, Vendor: All PCH suppliers, including factories, sample part suppliers, goggles, or other garments or equipment designed to protect the wearer’s office supplies, goods and services. body from injury or infection. PRD: Product Requirements Document. Production Ramp: The increase in factory production and labor required to meet manufacturing production demand. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 93 GRI Index PCH follows the GRI Standards, an internationally recognized framework for disclosing economic, environmental and social performance. Our previous reports followed the GRI G4 guidelines. This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. Dominic Baldizan and Jessica Karlberg 94 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Disclosure Description/Detail Location in Report/ Page Detail/Omission Explanation General Standard Disclosures Organizational 102-1 Name of organization PCH Intl. 100 Profile 102-2 Products and services About PCH: What We Do 14 102-3 Headquarters Cork, Ireland 32 102-4 Locations Where We Operate 32 102-5 Ownership About This Report 89 102-6 Markets served Where We Operate 32 102-7 Scale PCH in 2017 86 102-8 Employees About Our People 42 102-9 Supply chain Partnering with Our Suppliers 58 102-10 Significant changes N/A 102-11 Precautionary Principle N/A 102-12 External initiatives PCH is a signatory of the United Nations Global Compact. 90 102-13 Association memberships United Nations Global Compact 90 Strategy 102-14 CEO Statement Message from Liam Casey 4 Ethics 102-16 Values and codes of conduct Employee Guidelines, Supplier Code of Conduct 58 Governance 102-18 Governance structure Sustainability Governance 83 Stakeholder 102-40 Stakeholder groups How We Communicate with Stakeholders 81 Engagement 102-42 Identifying stakeholders Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement 80 Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 95 Disclosure Description/Detail Location in Report/ Page Detail/Omission Explanation Stakeholder 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement How We Communicate to Stakeholders 81 Engagement 102-44 Key Topics Materiality Matrix 80 Reporting 102-46 Defining report content Our Reporting Guidelines 90 Practice GRI Index 94 102-47 Material topics GRI Index 94 102-48 Restatements N/A 102-49 Changes in reporting GRI Index 94 102-50 Reporting period Calendar year 2017 unless otherwise noted 90 102-51 Date of most recent report December 2017 90 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 90 102-53 Contact point for questions Alan Cuddihy, country manager, Greater China, sustainability@pchintl.com 102-54 GRI in accordance option Core 90 102-55 GRI content index GRI Index 94 102-56 External assurance N/A Specific Standard Disclosures Economic Procurement 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Supplier Spend by Location 62 Practices Anti205-1 Anti-Corruption guidelines Anti-Corruption and Business Ethics 75 Corruption 96 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report Disclosure Description/Detail Location in Report/ Page Detail/Omission Explanation Environmental Energy 302-1 Energy Consumption Environmental Impact 38 Water 303-5 Water consumption Environmental Impact 38 Emissions 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environmental Impact 38 Waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal Environmental Impact 38 Environmental 307-1 Non-Compliance with environmental laws We have never been fined or had any incidents of non-compliance 83 Compliance and regulations with regulations or laws in the jurisdictions in which we operate. Social Labor/ 402-1 Minimum notice periods for operational changes In the event of any change to our operations that would 54 Management significantly affect our factory employees, up to three days' notice Relations is provided by the HR department. When any employee is no longer to be employed by our factories, they receive at least one-month notice from factory management. Occupational 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Worker Health and Safety at PCH in China 44 Health and Safety 403-9 Work-related injuries Worker Health and Safety at PCH in China 44 Training and 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills Career Enhancement Opportunities 46 Education Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity 50 and Equal Opportunity Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for Audit Discoveries 64 child labor Marketing and 417-1 Requirements for product information For product labeling such as European Conformity (CE), U.S. Food 22 Labeling and labeling and Drug Administration (FDA) or labeling approval for a particular market, our customers instruct us on their labeling requirements. Developing Partnerships Delivering Peace of Mind 97 Nicci Cazares 98 Our Purpose About PCH Operations People Supply Network Product Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement Looking Ahead About This Report © copyright NORTH AMERICA EUROPE ASIA PCH PCH PCH PCH Innovation Hub PCH Innovation Hub 135 Mississippi Street Heritage Business Park Block A, Zhong Tian Yuan Logistics Centre San Francisco, CA Bessboro Road No 8, Tao Hua Road 94107 Blackrock, Cork Futian Free Trade Zone, Shenzhen USA Ireland Guanggdong China @pchintl.com
