INTEGRATED REPORT 2019 For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 Management Principles The Shinsei Bank Group has established the following Management Principles and is working on a day-by-day basis toward their attainment. To become a banking group that is sought out by customers, and contributes to the development of both domestic and international industrial economies, while maintaining stable profitability. To become a banking group that values diverse talents and cultures and is constantly taking on new challenges presented by change, based on its experiences and history. To become a banking group that strives for highly transparent management and values that is trusted by all stakeholders including customers, investors and employees. Editorial Policy Here in this Integrated Report, the Shinsei Bank Group brings together financial and nonfinancial information in a bid to help investors and other stakeholders gain an understanding of the Group’s strategies and efforts toward creating sustainable corporate value. Having referred during the editing process to the frameworks presented by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC)1 and the Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation2 indicated by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, we show the “big picture” narrative of the Shinsei Bank Group’s corporate value creation. In addition, this Report and the Shinsei Bank Integrated Report 2019 Data Appendix fulfill the disclosure requirements (an explanation of the Shinsei Bank’s operations and matters regarding its financial position) stipulated under Article 21 of Japan’s Banking Act. The Report also contains statements about the Group’s management policies and future operating results. These forward-looking statements are not a guarantee of future performance. Actual results may differ from those indicated due to a variety of factors, including changes in the operating environment. Please see Shinsei Bank’s Integrated Report 2019 Data Appendix for supplemental financial information. 1 Established in 2010 for the purpose of developing an international framework for the disclosure of corporate information, the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) is a global coalition of regulators, investors, companies, standard setters, the accounting professions and NGOs. 2 A manual for systematically organizing and integrating the information (management principles, business model, strategy, governance, etc.) that companies should convey to investors. Created and published by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry for the purpose of enhancing the quality of information disclosure and dialogue with investors. Composition of the Shinsei Bank Integrated Report 2019 L The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group  The Shinsei Bank Group is a front-running financial enterprise group that transcends banking sector boundaries and anticipates the trends that will occur in financial business. Since its launch as the Shinsei Bank, Limited in 2000, the Group has engaged in businesses other than banking, including unsecured loans for individual customers, shopping credit/credit cards, leases, securities and trust banking. Based on actual demand arising from changes in society, we will provide products and services that are unique to the Shinsei Bank Group, which is neither a megabank nor a regional financial institution. L Creating Value over the Long-Term  The Shinsei Bank Group is redesigning the existing financial functions in response to social megatrends and environmental changes, and, regardless of whether they are financial or nonfinancial, conducting partnership-type business activities that combine strengths of each partner. Through these activities, we will make an impact on our ever-changing social issues through our entry points (materiality) and aim to create the Group’s sustainable corporate value. L Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value  The Shinsei Bank Group’s capabilities (strengths as an organization) are essential to its realization of long-term value creation. We consider our environmental, social and governance (ESG) foundation—an important management infrastructure that underpins our strategies and business—as involving approaches to environmental problems through our businesses and relationships with society (environmental, social aspects); the Group’s human resources, who are the driving forces behind the value creation process (social); and a decision-making mechanism that contributes to sustainable improvement in corporate value (governance). Making maximum use of this distinctive ESG foundation, we will create value unique to the Shinsei Bank Group. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 1 Contents 4 The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group 4 Evolution of the Shinsei Bank Group 9 Segment Highlights 6 Group Business Profile 10 Distinctive Business Activities Unsecured Loan Business 8 Financial Highlights Structured Finance Business 12 Creating Value over the Long Term 12 Corporate Value Creation Mechanism 31 Message from Chief Officer of Group Finance 14 CEO Message “Redesigning Finance” to Address Society’s Underserved Needs 34 CEO × Outside Director Discussion Posing Challenges for the Shinsei Bank Group: 22 Medium-Term Strategies The Future of Finance and IT’s Mediumto Long-Term Vision Role in that Future Results Summary of Medium-Term Management Plans (FY2010 FY2018) Midto Long-Term Environmental Changes Facing the World Strengths (Expertise and Execution) Core Strategies Financial Targets Materiality (Key Issues toward Sustainable Growth) 37 Investors’ FAQ Business Strategies & Focus Areas Focus Area: a Small-Scale Finance 40 Individual Business b Institutional Investors 42 Institutional Business and Global Markets c Group Organization Business d Productivity Reforms 2 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 44 The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value 44 ESG Data 58 Corporate Governance Policy for Operation of the Board of Directors 46 ESG Management Policy Board of Directors Effectiveness Evaluations 47 ESG Information Index Directors and Executive Officers Compensation Scheme 48 Interview with Outside Audit & Audit & Supervisory Board Members/ Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board Chief Officers/Senior Officers and Executive Officers Promoting Diversity in Creating Value over the Long Term Internal Control Corporate Management Internal Audit Legal and Compliance Activities 66 Risk Governance 68 Initiatives for Employees 71 Initiatives for Customers 50 Corporate Governance 72 Social Initiatives Four Features of Shinsei Bank’s Corporate Governance 73 For Shareholders and Investors Supporting the Creation of Corporate Governance of Shinsei Bank 74 Environmental Initiatives 52 Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Sustainable Value Board Members 76 Business and Financial Results Business and Financial Results 76 Financial Summary 81 Glossary 78 Review of Fiscal 2018 84 Financial Statements (Consolidated) 80 Status of SME Management 88 Equity and Credit Rating Information Improvement Initiatives and Regional Revitalization SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 3 The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Evolution of the Shinsei Bank Group Shinsei Bank Launched F  irst Medium-Term Management Plan EPS (yen) 1,000 750 500 Allocated reserves in connection with its Consumer 250 Finance business 0 -1,000 Posted impairment losses and allocated Posted impairment losses and reserves in order to address dramatic Posted impairment losses allocated reserves in connection changes in statutory and regulatory and allocated reserves in with its Consumer Finance busirequirements as well as operating conconnection with its overness as well as real estate-­ ditions in its consumer finance business seas assets in response to related and non core assets the global financial crisis FY 2000 2005 2010 The Shinsei Bank Group External Environment Transition of Stock 1998 2000 2005 P  referred stock  Shinsei Bank launched L aunched 32 colors of new cash cards for retail Powercapital injection Name changed from The Long-Term Credit Bank of Flex account customers Japan, Limited (LTCB), to Shinsei Bank, Limited  howa Leasing Co., Ltd. converted into a consolidated S Collapse of the IT bubble economy subsidiary P  referred stock capital injection and a partial reducE  nd of the government guarantee on full savings tion of preferred stock capital without compensadeposits tion 2006 2001 Partial repayment of public funds Shinsei Securities Co., Ltd. commenced operations Cancellation of treasury shares 2003 2007 S  hinsei Investment Management Co., Ltd. com HINKI Co., Ltd. (now Shinsei Personal Loan Co., Ltd.) S menced operations converted into a consolidated subsidiary  eduction of capital through the merger of two R Conversion of preferred stock into common stock shares of common stock into one share 2008 2004 Bankruptcy of Lehman Brothers A  PLUS Co., Ltd. (now APLUS FINANCIAL Co., Ltd.) converted into a consolidated subsidiary Issuance of new shares by third-party allotment L isted the Bank’s common stock on the First Section Conversion of preferred stock into common stock of the Tokyo Stock Exchange  E Consumer Finance Co., Ltd. (now Shinsei Financial G Converted the Bank’s long-term credit bank charter Co., Ltd.) converted into a consolidated subsidiary to an ordinary bank charter 4 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Since its launch as the Shinsei Bank, Limited in 2000, the Group has continued to expand its customer base and stabilize income while acquiring new financial functions through acquisitions including APLUS FINANCIAL Co., Ltd., Showa Leasing Co., Ltd. and Shinsei Financial Co., Ltd. S  econd Medium-Term T  hird Medium-Term Medium-Term The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Management Plan Management Plan Strategies Fiscal 2018 Business Topics BPS (yen) 2018 4,000 April Institutional Business ESG 3,636 Child-care Support Fund executes investment in Compass Inc., a company that has developed and offers an artificial intelligence-driven tablet learning 3,000 system. October Individual Business Revision made to Shinsei Step Up Program with regard to Shinsei PowerFlex account customers. 2,000 Individual Business Creating Value over the Long Term Announced to offer “Shinsei Bank Smart Money Lending” for NTT Docomo line subscribers. Individual Business Institutional Business Alliance established with Global Trust Networks, Co. 1,000 to establish fund to aid international students. 211 November Institutional Business ESG Shinsei Corporate Investment Limited invests in TBM 0 Co. Ltd., a company that develops, produces and sells LIMEX, a material made mainly from limestone. December -1,000 Shinsei Bank Group ESG Financial literacy education program “MoneyConnection®” achieves cumulative deploySupporting the Creation of ment to 1,000 schools. 2012 2015 2018 2019 February Institutional Business Sustainable Value Note: Shinsei Bank executed a 1-for-10 reverse stock split on October 1, 2017. Per share data is calculated on the assumption that the said reverse stock split was executed prior to fiscal 2017. Business alliance with geechs inc. aimed at the joint development and provision of financial and nonfinancial products and services geared toward IT freelancers. 2010 European debt crisis March Shinsei Bank Group ESG 2011 The Nomination and Compensation Committee established as an elective advisory body composed Issuance of new shares through international offering entirely of outside directors. Individual Business Business and Financial Results 2016 Shinsei Bank ranked No. 1 in “Internet Banking” category of Oricon’s customer satisfaction survey for third  howa Leasing Co., Ltd. converted into a wholly owned S consecutive year. consolidated subsidiary April  hinsei Financial Co., Ltd. entered the unsecured personal S loan business in Vietnam Individual Business Institutional Business Initiative commenced for the coordinated manageIntroduction of negative interest rate policy ment of Group businesses by customer segment. Acquisition of treasury shares Individual Business Acquisition of shares in Financial Japan, Co., Ltd. 2017 (insurance agent) Established the “Shinsei Bank Group Headquarters” Institutional Business Showa Leasing Co., Ltd. announced to acquire shares Acquisition of treasury shares of Shinko Lease Co., Ltd. Merger of 10 shares of common stock into one share May 2018 Shinsei Bank Group Formulation of “Redesigning Finance” Medium-Term S  hinsei Financial Co., Ltd. launched a new “Lake ALSA” Strategies (fiscal 2019 to 2021) brand, an unsecured loan product Individual Business Institutional Business Acquisition and cancellation of treasury stock Conclusion of a basic agreement with regard to a business partnership with Suruga Bank Ltd. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 5 The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Group Business Profile The Shinsei Bank Group continues to proactively identify underserved customer needs, which are not met by conventional financial products and services. At the same time, we provide solutions to these needs as a financial enterprise group. Targeting both individual and corporate customers, we harness the functions within the Group to deliver unique financial products and services. Shinsei Bank Group Individual Business Institutional Business The Individual Business is composed of The Institutional Business is composed of the corporate business, structhe retail banking business and contured finance business, private equity investment and business succession sumer finance which provides products financing business as well as leasing business. The Global Markets and services such as unsecured loans, Business delivers market services that provide market solutions for foreign credit cards, shopping credit and setexchange and interest rate derivatives, among others. tlements to individual customers. Retail Banking Institutional Business Global Markets Business Corporate Business Markets Business Consumer Finance Shinsei Financial Structured Finance Other Global Markets Businesses Principal Transactions APLUS FINANCIAL Other Business Showa Leasing Individuals (including inbound and Large, medium and small enterprises/financial institutions/ ­outbound travelers, foreigners, and public-sector entities/institutional investors ­individual business operators) Customers 6 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Major Businesses Contribution The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Individual Business L Total Revenue L Ordinary Business Profit after Net Credit Costs Individual Business • Retail Banking Yen/foreign currency deposits, structured deposits, investment trusts, brokerage service (through a partner institution), life and nonlife insurance (through partner institutions), housing loans, provision of financial transactions and services for individuals • Shinsei Financial 67% 42% Creating Value over the Long Term Unsecured loans (Lake, NOLOAN) and credit guarantees • APLUS FINANCIAL Shopping credit and settlements, credit cards, credit guarantees, loans and collection services 155.7 Billion yen 23.3 Billion yen • Other Individual Business Consumer Finance Division functions and profits and losses of other subsidiaries Institutional Business Supporting the Creation of Institutional Business • Corporate Business Sustainable Value Provision of financial products, services and advisory services for corporations, public-sector entities and financial institutions, healthcare finance business, trust banking business • Structured Finance Real estate related nonrecourse finance and corporate finance, 25% 47% project finance, specialty finance including M&A-related finance • Principal Transactions Credit trading, private equity, business succession finance, cor58.0 Billion yen 26.4 Billion yen Business and Financial Results porate restructuring, asset-backed investment, etc. • Showa Leasing Financial products and services focused around lease finance Global Markets Business • Markets Business Foreign exchange, derivatives, equity-related and other capital markets business 4% 4% • Other Global Markets Businesses Securities business, asset management business, wealth management business 9.4 Billion yen 2.3 Billion yen  The percentage figures do not add up to 100% due to the contribution of Corporate/Other. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 7 The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Financial Highlights L Operating Assets L Deposits (Trillions of yen) 8 ¥7.0 trillion (Trillions of yen) 8 ¥5.9 trillion 6 6 4 4 2 2 0 0 (End of Mar.) 15 16 17 18 19 (End of Mar.) 15 16 17 18 19 L Ratio of Nonperforming Claims Classified under the L Total Revenue/Profit Attributable to Financial Revitalization Law to Total Claims Owners of the Parent (Nonconsolidated) (%) 1.5 (Billions of yen) 250 ¥229.7 billion 200 1.0 150 100 0.5 ¥52.3 billion 0.20% 50 0 0 (End of Mar.) 15 16 17 18 19 (FY) 14 15 16 17 18 L Total revenue L Profit attributable to owners of the parent L Expenses/Expenses-to-Revenue Ratio L Capital Ratio (Basel III, Domestic Standard) (Management Accounting Basis) (Billions of yen) (%) (%) 300 75 16 63.0% 11.85% 12 200 50 ¥144.7 billion 8 100 25 4 0 0 0 (FY) 14 15 16 17 18 (End of Mar.) 15 16 17 18 19 L Expenses L Expenses-to-Revenue Ratio 8 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Segment Highlights The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group L Total Revenue L Ordinary Business Profit after Net Credit Costs Individual Business (Billions of yen) ¥155.7 billion (Billions of yen) ¥23.3 billion 160 25 20 120 15 80 10 40 5 Creating Value over the Long Term 0 0 (FY) 16 17 18 (FY) 16 17 18 Institutional Business (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 80 40 ¥58.0 billion ¥26.4 billion Supporting the Creation of 60 30 40 20 Sustainable Value 20 10 0 0 (FY) 16 17 18 (FY) 16 17 18 Business and Financial Results Global Markets Business (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 12 6.0 ¥9.4 billion 9 4.5 6 3.0 ¥2.3 billion 3 1.5 0 0 (FY) 16 17 18 (FY) 16 17 18 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 9 The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Distinctive Business Activities While engaging in a wide range of distinctive business activities, the Shinsei Bank Group promotes unsecured personal loans that offer considerable strengths through a customer base built on the Lake brand as well as robust marketing, credit and collection functions, and corporate structured finance that boasts substantial competitive advantage through expertise based on a wealth of experience and relationships with institutional investors. Unsecured Loan Business Lake ALSA Strengths and Strategies • Development of customer base and customer data by major consumer finance Lake brand • Use of conventional scoring models derived from nonbank credit-risk control methods, plus use of AI to enhance credit assessment/collection • Optimization of operation costs using digital technology • Fixed-term, no-interest loans for new customers 1. Customers with a contract amount under ¥2 million, no interest for 180 days for loans up to ¥50,000, or 2. 30-day no-interest loan • Customers’ smartphones can act as a substitute for a branch, enabling them to receive services in real time 24-hours a day. Smartphones can also be used to make repayments, increase credit limits and receive other services without being restricted to time or place. • Loan disbursement and loan repayments are also possible using a card issued especially for this purpose. Beginning in May 2018, customers can make “cardless” transactions at Seven Bank ATMs. L Number of New Unsecured Loan Customers and Approval Rate 70% of Lake’s customers apply on smartphones FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of New 155 162 113 Application Can apply on smartphones 24 hours/day Customers (Thousands) Credit Results of screening shown on smartphone Approval Rate (%) 34 36 30 Screening screen Contract Forms submitted by e-mail Loan No need to visit a branch. Loan disbursed in ­customer’s account The Difference between an Unsecured Loan Service and Cash Advances Unsecured loans are loans to individual consumers providing finance that is appropriate to the needs and timing of customers. The loans are available, even to customers who do not possess a credit card, through the use of smartphones and a dedicated card that can access ATMs at convenience stores and unstaffed branches. Shopping Major credit cards/shopping credit companies Credit Card Cash Advance and Others • JACCS • Orico A cash advance is an additional service • APLUS for a credit card (shopping). and others Unsecured Loan Major unsecured consumer loan companies Unsecured Loan • ACOM Comparison with cashing: 1. Annual membership fee is not required • PROMISE 2. Upper limit of loan is relatively high (SMBC Consumer Finance Co., Ltd.) 3. Installment repayment plan • AIFUL and others 10 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Structured Finance Business Shinsei Bank Group’s Strengths As neither a megabank nor a regional financial institution, the Shinsei Bank maintains a unique position with the following strengths. • We are better able to tackle projects with a focus on flexibility and speed than megabanks. • We have more expertise and greater analytical skill given our extensive experience than regional financial institutions. • We are able to do business from an independent standpoint with a broad range of customers because we do not belong to a specific capital group. Creating Value over the Long Term Create added values from our unique positioning that is differL New Commitments L New Disbursements ent from both megabanks and regional financial institutions Project Finance Real Estate Nonrecourse Finance Expertise and high Flexibility and (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) analytical skills based mobility that can be 300 300 on extensive realized only by a experience small-sized bank 200 200 Cooperation with Tailor-made regional financial structuring and Supporting the Creation of institutions provision of finance 100 100 Neutral position not Sustainable Value Relationships with belonging to any regional financial major corporate 0 0 institutions groups/Networks with investors globally (FY) 2016 2017 2018 (FY) 2016 2017 2018 L Domestic L Overseas L Domestic L Overseas Product Structure The Structured Finance Business primarily delivers project finance for renewable energy power generation facilities and infrastructure facilities, and provides real estate finance for commercial real estate. Business and Financial Results Special-purpose company (SPC) Power company Electricity sale contract Nonrecourse Bank, etc. loan Products and services purchaser Sale Equity Sponsor Tenant Lease contract SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 11 Creating Value over the Long Term Corporate Value Creation Mechanism Society in 2030 Input Core Strategy Enhance/Leverage Our Capabilities People The Shinsei Bank Organization Group’s Value Creation Process Operations Capital Social Impact Foundation for meeting our Our environment is changing goals/responsibilities • Customers are becoming more sophisticated • Digitalization has accelerated collaboration between service providers Digitalization • • Aging society Expertise and Execution Mid-long-term • Diversification of lifestyles Growing inequality • changes in business environment • Diversity in working styles Expansion of investment opportunities • • Globalization 12 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Seamlessly integrating the Group’s management resources that cross over a wide range of corporate Created Value entities and industries, Shinsei Bank is looking to directly help realize a society that can enjoy the benefits of financial and nonfinancial products and services that meet the underserved needs of individual The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group customers and companies through a process of co-creation with external partners. Outcome Output Access to finance Financial Capital Business Model • Sustainable revenue F  und flows that fit • Improvement of ROE society’s needs Core Strategy Intellectual Capital Creating Value over the Long Term Grow through Value Co-Creation • Provision of solutions • Provision of financial functions  olutions through S Value Human Capital integration with Self-Contained Co-Creation external services Model • Development of diverse and Model competitive human resources Organizational Capital Strengths • Construction of an organizational structure that allows diverse and competitive human resources to excel Information Financial Technology Technology Society-Related Capital Supporting the Creation of • Construction and planning of an ecosystem • Integration with external services Sustainable Value Management • Deeper understanding of our Governance customers Infrastructure Priority Management Issues (Materiality) Address social and Fulfill our social environmental issues responsibilities L Access to finance L Social infrastructure services Business and Financial Results L Fund flows that fit society’s needs L Customer-oriented services L Solutions through integration with external services Capital Governance Operations People Organization SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 13 Creating Value over the Long Term CEO Message “Redesigning Finance” to Address Society’s Underserved Needs ~In order to be a Financial Group that Stays a Step Ahead~ Seamlessly integrating the Group’s management resources that cross over a wide range of corporate entities and industries, Shinsei Bank Group is looking to directly help realize a society that can enjoy the benefits of financial and nonfinancial ­products and services that meet the underserved needs of individual customers and companies through a process of co-creation with external partners. Based on our unique perspective and position as a niche player, we recognize the significance of resolving social issues that major comprehensive service financial groups find ­difficult to address. With the spirit of an entrepreneur, we will work diligently to ­capitalize on this great opportunity. Imagining the Future of Society as the Basis for Formulating Medium-Term Strategies In addition to recognizing the impact of changes in the mediumto long-term environment, the decision to identify certain medium-term strategies as opposed to a medium-term management plan reflects the Group’s efforts to employ a backcasting method to picture a growth narrative that allows it to fully utilize its existential value during a period of financial business reform that arguably occurs if not once in a century at least once in several decades. L Working to Ensure that Today Leads to a application of such precious management resources as Brighter Tomorrow human resources, products, and capital. It also creates a The nature of society is undergoing change from one gap between the genuine needs of customers that inevimoment to the next. This change has in turn contributed tably arise and our business activities, incidence of risks to widespread dynamic business reform. Taking into conthat lower our value as a corporate entity, and obstacles sideration a volatile environment, we began to question to our ability to leverage latent potential that adversely whether our focus on achieving certain numerical targets affects employee motivation. set out in detailed three-year financial plans was negaThis period of reform, which is creating a future that tively impacting the Group’s management flexibility and has little or no correlation to conditions as they are the ability to respond to change. At the same time, we today, is also underpinning a growing shareholder grew concerned that the weight being placed on mediawareness toward the importance of nonfinancial inforum-term management plans was generating a host of mation. In other words, financial data, as a commentary unwanted consequences. This includes the wasteful on past and immediate short-term future performance, 14 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Creating Value over the Long Term Hideyuki Kudo Supporting the Creation of President and Chief Executive Officer Sustainable Value has lost its appeal as an indicator of a company’s outlook terms despite the comfort provided by such cushioning over the medium to long term. More to the point, comfactors as longer healthy lifespans, active participation of panies must now take the initiative to determine their women in society, and the increase in foreign workers. purpose and goals in their own right. It is vitally importMeanwhile, few people object to the increase in producant to identify those matters that are critical to managetivity due to technological innovations throughout sociBusiness and Financial Results ment and to paint a “big picture” narrative with which ety as a result of the automation and digitization of shareholders can easily relate. activities that were previously performed on a manual Rather than covering a current and immediate shortbasis. Due largely to the aforementioned, individuals can term timeframe, we therefore began with a vision of now gain access to vast and diverse amounts of informasociety in 2030 when formulating our medium-term strattion. From this, individuals can extract value from data egies. By casting an eye 10 years into the future, we were that they can relate to and consider important. This sugbetter placed to grasp global trends from a broad pergests a shift away from conventional values and the crespective and adopt a process that incorporates a comation of a society that is rich in diversity. With this in prehensive assessment of the environment in which we mind, the number of people who obtain personalized operate. What then is the Shinsei Bank Group’s vision of services in tune with expectations while skillfully managsociety in 2030? ing data will likely increase. By the same token, we can expect social issues to emerge and steadily deepen. L Society in 2030 These issues include a widening gap between those with There is no doubting the decline in Japan’s working and without access to information, individuals who are population and the continued aging of its society in real unable to properly manage data, changes that reflect a SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 15 Creating Value over the Long Term CEO Message mismatch between existing systems and mechanisms, and services. As far as businesses that fully exploit the the ability or lack thereof to keep up with the pace of benefits of scale are concerned, this was considered change as a result of the digital divide, and a growing economically rational. Meanwhile, this historical trend sense of inequality. has led to an abundance of needs that are yet to be More than ever, considerable focus should be directed uncovered and a host of unresolved issues. When toward “sustainability” in every sense of the word. Based describing the Group’s market and position at the start on the correlation between its many facets, a wide range of this message, I did not use the word “niche” in its of global issues including climate change, ecosystem small or narrow sense. As a niche player, we are focusing sustainability, and the development of social systems on areas that others are yet to explore and operate. that address such problems as human rights, inequality, Rather than attempt to address every issue, the Group and poverty remain unresolved. Achieving the sustainwill look to resolve issues that it is best suited to tackle able development goals (SDGs) adopted by the United and will focus on needs that the majority of financial Nations is no easy task. Many innovative ideas will be institutions have continued to neglect due to the high required in the leadup to 2030. Needless to say, the degree of difficulty. This incidence of demand that has Group’s own development is critical if we are to continue been overlooked by the market offers an enormous participating in efforts aimed at promoting sustainability opportunity. Recognizing advances in digitization as a and the achievement of SDGs. real and positive solution, we will work to provide robust Historically, financial institutions have been content to underlying support as a matter of course. provide customers with one-size-fits-all type products The Role that the Shinsei Bank Group will be Required to Play to Realize Society in 2030 Using its ability to quickly uncover customer segments with unserved and underserved needs as a tool for providing services ahead of its rivals, in other words “financial innovation,” is the foundation for the Group’s business model. In today’s modern society, there are people who are not provided limited and segmented products and services being provided with all possible financial and nonfinanin either debt or equity. cial products and services. This has contributed to the Customers with unserved and underserved needs exist rise of an “unserved” market. At the same time, there in any era. It can be said that innovation will provide the are those who remain unsatisfied with traditional finanbreakthrough necessary to address this fundamental cial and nonfinancial services. These individuals make up dilemma. The existence of social issues indicates a lack the “underserved” market. The reason for the existence of market success and speaks to the difficulties involved of each market stems from the difficulties in providing in finding a solution. Having said this, we recognize that sought after products and services using existing ideas the current operating environment can serve as a source and technologies. for business opportunities looking ahead. With this in For example, despite having achieved outstanding mind, we will focus on solving each of the aforemenacademic results in their country of birth, and investing tioned social issues by connecting our financial functions large amounts to study in Japan, foreign students can and services with the Group’s overall customer base that find difficulties in gaining access to basic financial sercovers a wide array of different industries. In this manner, vices such as the opening of bank accounts, fund transwe will maximize our existence and value. fers, settlement, and loans. This considerable As far as society is concerned, the Group will continue inconvenience can be attributed to the lack of any transto work effectively with external human and other action history as evidence of credit standing and resources. By taking the lead in the creation of businessabsence of a guarantor in Japan. We also recognize es that serve customer segments with unserved and underserved customers in corporate sector who have underserved needs, the Group will continue to be a various investment needs such as renewable energy, financial group that stays a step ahead. infrastructure, real assets and others. However, they are 16 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Identifying Priority Management Materiality Issues in order to Remain a The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Financial Group that Stays a Step Ahead Increasing the positive impact of its business activities on society while decreasing any negative impact are directly linked to efforts aimed at enhancing the sustained value of the Group. Although work to further enrich society and to increase corporate value follow the same vector over the long term, the question at hand is to identify and prioritize the Group’s most socially important business activities and issues that are likely to have the greatest impact on enhancing corporate value. Given the many tasks that need to be addressed and the limited nature of the Group’s resources, it is vital that we specify priority management of materiality issues. L Items Pivotal to the Shinsei Bank Group’s responsible for the circulation of money in society, it is Business Model vital that we guarantee our obligation to “fulfill our Creating Value over the Long Term Unshackled by conventional concepts, personnel social responsibilities.” In this instance, we recognize responsible for the next generation engaged in free, that portion of risk that also accrues in realizing our first open, and detailed discussions. This was an important materiality category of addressing social and environpart of the process undertaken to formulate the Group’s mental issues. Here, we have identified “social infrastrucmedium-term strategies. In specific terms, personnel ture services” and “customer-oriented services” as were separated into a number of business clusters and priority issues. Third, we will work to build a “foundation asked to consider business strategies consistent with the for meeting our goals and responsibilities.” This foundaGroup’s 2030 vision. Based on these cluster deliberation will underpin efforts to address social and environtions, workshops were then held with the Group’s relemental issues and fulfill our social responsibilities. The vant executives. As far as the determination of priority issues that we have identified for this third matemateriality was concerned, we began with an image of riality category are “expertise and execution,” “goverSupporting the Creation of each business value chain provided by cluster members. nance,” “people” (human resources including the Discussions were then based on key value chain items empowerment of women, recruitment of the elderly and that were considered to have an impact on society. young generation based on ability, and the cultivation, Sustainable Value Drawing on a consolidation of key comments from clusdevelopment and application of talent on a Group-wide ter members, we identified several key commonalities. basis), “organization” that makes the most of these The results of this sorting and integration process has human resources, highly productive “operations,” and contributed to determining the Group’s materiality “capital.” issues. Developing businesses that are embedded in each of The Shinsei Bank Group classifies materiality into three these materiality issues is pivotal to the Group’s competbroad categories. First, every effort will be made to itive strategy. This in turn will allow us to both resolve “address social and environment issues” by leveraging social issues and enhance the Group’s sustained corpoBusiness and Financial Results the Group’s unique perspective and inherent strengths rate value through its ongoing operations and activities. to create new business opportunities thereby fulfilling its role as a first mover. In this regard, we have identified the following priority issues: “access to finance,” and the need to deliver financial services tailored to the needs of customers who are not satisfied with the existing menu available; “fund flows that fit society’s needs,” or more specifically the creation of an appropriate flow of funds for society by providing financial solutions that promote the circulation of funds into sustainable social capital including renewable energy and other social infrastructure; and, “solutions through integration with external services,” that entail building and participating in ecosystems, all of which essential to effectively realizing our goals. Second, as long as financial institutions are SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 17 Creating Value over the Long Term CEO Message Our Business Model Designed with a Focus on Priority Management Materiality Issues The Shinsei Bank Group’s business model is an amalgam of two distinct parts: a self-contained portion that draws on accumulated strengths; and a co-creation portion that generates value by integrating competitive individual functions with external services. By providing individual functions and capabilities to others based on an abstract and general breakdown of elements up to competency levels, the potential exists to appeal to value co-creation model customers. Steps can then be taken to further fine tune the self-contained model by feeding back subsequent results. Rather than drawing on its business, product, and service levels, the strength of the Group’s business model is therefore attributable to this feedback loop design. L Core Strategies of the Bank’s from fiscal 2016 to fiscal 2018, the Group reinforced propriMedium-Term Strategies etary strengths with respect to its self-contained model. As Under its medium-term strategies, which began from fisone prime example, we proactively allocated management cal 2019, the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020, the resources to the Unsecured Loan and Structured Finance Group has identified two core strategies. In specific businesses, which were positioned as growth areas. terms, we will “enhance and leverage our capabilities” The Group unveiled the “Lake ALSA” brand as a part as the input capital to “grow through value co-creation.” of efforts to further develop its Unsecured Loan business The core strategy to grow through value co-creation is a in April 2018. This initiative reflects the Group’s goals of product of the Group’s self-contained model, which draws increasing its share of the consumer finance market while on accumulated strengths as a source, and the value capturing customers who historically exhibit a high co-creation model, which entails integration with external degree of digital literacy. At that time, measures services. Under its self-contained model, the Group is lookdesigned to distinguish Lake ALSA from the previous ing to provide competitive products and services after Bank Lake brand created confusion from a marketing internalizing its core elements and processes with the perspective. As a result, efforts in this area began from a Group on an end-to-end basis. The key focus of this model lower customer base than initially anticipated. On a posiis to extract and provide only essential individual functions. tive note, the Group undertook a variety of corrective The value co-creation model is designed to promote intemeasures. In addition to ramping up efforts aimed at gration with external services through partnerships as well navigating customers, steps were taken to review televias the building of and participation in ecosystems. sion commercials, push forward new campaigns includEach of these models is interdependent with the other. ing a 60-day no interest period, refine its credit strategy, Alternatively, the Group is unlikely to be selected as a as a part of the steady implementation of necessary function provider by external partners, which is the basis measures. Based on these endeavors, the number of for the value co-creation model, without the various new customers is exhibiting a gradual recovery. As a piostrengths provided under the self-contained model. neer case study under its value co-creation model, the Taking this into consideration, it is vital that the Group Group announced details of its alliance with NTT continues to hone the individual functions that make up Docomo, Inc., in October 2018. In conjunction with this the self-contained model. The model itself must be in a announcement, and as the first partner bank of the state where it can be presented as a kind of showcase. Put “Docomo Lending Platform,” the Bank unveiled plans another way, it will be difficult to attract any interest in for the launch of “Shinsei Bank Smart Money Lending” individual functions without the success of products and for NTT Docomo line subscribers, a new lending service. services as a total package. To summarize, further refineAgain, in October 2018, the Bank disclosed details of its ments through integration with external services under plans to establish a fund for the purpose of supporting the value co-creation model can enhance the self-coninternational students in collaboration with Global Trust tained model in return. The implication here is that our Networks Co., Ltd. With this initiative, the Bank has initicompetitive edge is generated through a feedback loop. ated steps to engage in value co-creation activities by combining the strength of its proprietary functions with L Redefining Strengths Cultivated Over the Period external services where outside parties excel. Up to the Third Medium-Term Management Plan We have redefined unsecured personal loans, a tradiLooking back over the period up to the Third Mediumtional fixed-type business, focusing mainly on the Lake Term Management Plan, which covered the three years brand, as “small-scale finance” as a part of our medi18 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Overview of Medium-Term Strategies The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Capabilities Business Model Created Value Core Strategy Core Strategy Sustainable Growth Enhance / Leverage Grow through Address social and our Capabilities Value Co-Creation environmental issues People Fulfill our social Input Output responsibilities Organization Value Foundation for meeting Self-Contained Co-Creation our goals/responsibilities Model Model Operations Profitability Creating Value over the Long Term Capital Financial Targets um-term strategies. By breaking down the elements that increased the balance of operating assets while at the serve as a source of strength in an abstract and general same time diversifying sources of power supply. As far as manner, we will reinforce efforts to provide small amount the Group’s real estate finance activities are concerned, and frequent financing as well as settlement services to we have continued to adopt a cautious approach toward individuals and small business operators. Within the market conditions in Japan. This cautious approach takes Group, energies will be channeled toward enhancing into account a variety of factors including overheating Supporting the Creation of strengths in credit assessment and collection by utilizing concerns and Brexit-related turmoil in the U.K. Building credit data and AI. At the same time, we will develop a on its considerable structuring and risk management platform that unifies financing, settlement, and other sercapabilities, however, the Shinsei Bank Group is securing Sustainable Value vices. In addition, we will promote user interface/user a firm footing in the real estate finance market. experience (UI/UX) improvements by incorporating appliUnder its medium-term strategies, the Group has redecation, online, and other services into an application profined such traditional commercial banking business activigramming interface (API). Working to build and participate ties as the provision of senior finance to nonrecourse in ecosystems that are not confined to the finance industry, projects. Focusing on such areas as the renewable energy, we will proactively provide such functions as credit assessinfrastructure, and real estate assets of institutional invesments, guarantees, collections, settlements, marketing, tors, we are offering one-stop services to address alternaand systems in line with the needs of alliance partners, tive investment needs where there is considerable room for Business and Financial Results thereby optimizing the credit assessment of the middle expansion in Japan. In specific terms, we are providing risk segment including the elderly, foreigners, freelance, mezzanine and equity financing in addition to project origiand small business operators while working to further nation and advisory services as well as senior loans. The expand the provision of services. Through these and other Group is strengthening its institutional investor business means, the Group will help address the small loan demand where efforts have been directed toward broadening the of unserved and underserved customers. scope of activities to encompass the management of the Guided by its Third Medium-Term Management Plan, aforementioned funds and financing. In addition to our histhe Group is also steadily advancing its structured finance torical collaboration with regional financial institutions in activities. Drawing on its track record with sponsors, finanloan syndication and other areas, we are providing comprecial institutions, and operators in Japan and overseas, the hensive service support to address the management needs Group is focusing especially on the project finance field. of a wide range of institutional investors. In this manner, we Starting with our renewable energy financing endeavors are promoting the circulation of funds into such social capimainly in connection with megasolar, biomass, and wind tal as renewable energy, infrastructure, and real estate. power projects in Japan, we are stepping up our support Turning to the Group’s other core strategy of enhancing/ in offshore wind power, seawater desalination, and other leveraging capabilities, a source of input capital, we will proareas. As a result of these efforts, we have successfully mote the optimal use of capital including diverse human SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 19 Creating Value over the Long Term CEO Message resources with abundant expertise, a unified organizational and its Group companies under a virtual Group headquarstructure that is capable of realizing the full potential of ters. Wherever possible, the administrative functions and these human resources, and a high productivity operating personnel have been centralized into the Group’s structure. With regard to the expertise and diversity of Nihonbashi office. In addition to reviewing the operations human resources, we cannot overstate the importance of of each company on a Group basis, steps have been taken securing and developing specialist personnel, who are well to improve internal regulations and the Group’s human versed in AI, analytics, and big data, and experienced in resource evaluation systems. In an effort to ensure the alternative investments while possessing analytical skills. At effective use of space, initiatives were also implemented to the same time, ensuring that women can excel at all levels, reduce unnecessary documentation. Against the backdrop hiring young and elderly employees based on their capabiliof this unprecedented virtual Group headquarters model, ties, cultivating talent with abilities outside the Bank’s princiemployees are moving steadily forward through trial and pal operations are all critical factors in ensuring the Group’s error. In conjunction with this consolidation of head office sustainable growth. For its part, the Group is committed to functions, we established the Individual Business Unit and promoting flexible employment and diverse work styles in Institutional Business Unit that cross entities covering the order to achieve these ends. While consistent with the Group’s companies as a part of our medium-term stratemodality of freelancers, one of the ecosystems that the gies. After centralizing the business strategy and planning Group is attempting to build, we have made this as a comfunctions of each unit, we will put in place a structure and mitment after recognizing the importance of projects that nurture a mindset that delivers optimal solutions on a are aligned to each individual’s skills and unfettered work Group-wide basis and is removed from individual entity style options that remove the constraints of whether or not concerns. To achieve this objective, and as we announced an individual is a member of a company. We also believe in March 2019, each of the institutional businesses, collecthat personalizing work styles is integral to our vision of socition, and IT functions that have been dispersed across the ety in 2030. In this regard, we hope to increase work style Tokyo metropolitan area will be shifted to a central locaoptions for Group employees going forward. With this in tion. The Shinsei Bank and Showa Leasing Co., Ltd. will be mind, we will avoid building separate silos that create barribrought into the Nihonbashi office. The functions underers while shying away from an overemphasis on uniformity. If taken by Alpha Servicer Co., Ltd. will be consolidated into I could use a metaphor, we are not looking to mix a variety the Akihabara office where APLUS FINANCIAL Co., Ltd. of paints only to come up with the color gray. Our view and Shinsei Financial Co., Ltd. are located. The IT function toward the coordination of human resources into an organiof Group companies will be brought under the one roof at zation mirrors the creation of a piece of impressionist art. If the Shinkawa office. As far as the Group’s retail banking we look closely, each of the independent colors overlap. operations are concerned, steps were taken to roll out a Taking a step back, the colors blend and mesh in a more portion of the area management system of branches in vibrant manner to create a complete and overall picture. In earnest under the Third Medium-Term Management Plan order to achieve this goal, it is imperative that we adopt a and to put in place a structure that can dynamically deploy tolerant approach and remain willing to accept ideas and human resources in an optimal manner within each area in qualities that differ from our own. It is equally important to line with each customer base and peak period. keep a mindset that enjoys new challenges and change. This presupposes a culture that is the direct opposite of the L Issues to be Addressed traditional image of a bank and its precedents, far removed While steadfastly achieving several objectives that needfrom the “cookie-cutter” concept where each piece is idened to be addressed, we recognize that some major issues tical to the other. Taking these factors into consideration, it remain pending. These issues include how to properly utiis vital that employees are directly involved in determining lize and return accumulated capital, how to improve the the Group’s significance. For this to happen, we must put in Bank’s capital efficiency (ROE), and how to ensure that our place underlying evaluation and compensation systems that business model is adequately assessed by capital margenerate a genuine sense of accomplishment and contribukets. At first glance, capital market expectations toward tion. To summarize, enhancing and leveraging capabilities increasing ROE and the Bank’s share price seem contrawill increasingly become a worthwhile challenge and misdictory to the need to accumulate repayment capital as a sion for management in the future. public fund injected bank. However, when taking into conGuided by the Third Medium-Term Management Plan, sideration the conversion of public funds into common we consolidated the head office functions of the Group stock, to repay the injection of public funds, it is important 20 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 to accumulate the necessary capital and ensure that capiBased on the aforementioned, we will work to increase tal markets evaluate our business model which is ROE and the Bank’s share price, secure a high evaluation The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group designed to increase ROE and the Bank’s share price of our business model, and raise our rating in the eyes of while generating future cash flows. Accordingly, capital capital markets by effectively utilizing capital that incorpomarket expectations and the repayment of public funds rates an inorganic growth strategy while at the same time follow the same vector from a long-term perspective. accumulating capital and improving the total payout ratio. Message to Our Stakeholders Against the backdrop of a changing finance business Firmly facing this challenge, the Group wants to environment, and despite talk of a decline in the presensure it is an entity that is capable of meeting the tige of existing financial institutions, the importance of expectations of stakeholders. Each and every member of Creating Value over the Long Term financial functions is expected to remain unchanged in the Group is committed to redoubling efforts while purthe future given that the real economy and finance secsuing the co-creation of value in concert with the many tor are inextricably linked. As the definitions and boundpartners who help build the Group’s value chain. As we aries of financial functions fluctuate, however, I believe work toward achieving our goals, we seek your continthere is a need for us to take the initiative in reassessing ued support and understanding. our role and responsibilities and to once again redesign the way in which we provide added value based on an awareness toward our position with these significant July 2019 trends. This is the essence of our “redesigning finance” medium-term strategies. The key to our sustainable growth as a company lies in how quickly we can underSupporting the Creation of go a self-reformation and the degree to which we can positively impact society while utilizing external Hideyuki Kudo ­partnerships. President and Chief Executive Officer Sustainable Value Business and Financial Results SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 21 Creating Value over the Long Term Medium-Term Strategies (FY2019 FY2021) Mediumto Long-Term Vision 1 To be a financial innovator that provides game game-changing financial services that is made ­possible through the integration of its Group companies. 2 To be a financial group that achieves outstanding productivity and efficiency by realizing lean operations through ongoing improvements and reforms. 3 To be a financial group which, in addition to rewarding its stakeholders, is unified by the core­ values derived from the confidence , sense of fulfillment and the pride created through the achievement of the above. As strategies that embody the “Redesigning Finance,” namely, necessary “discontinuous initiatives,” the Bank’s Medium-Term Strategies serve to achieve the “Medium-to Long-Term Vision” of the Shinsei Bank Group. Towards 2030 Our growth stories fulfilling our Medium-toMediumto Long-Term Vision in the changing world Long-Term Vision • Financial innovator • Outstanding productivity and efficiency • Rewarding stakeholders The world around us is changing in medium to Medium-Term Strategies long term “Redesigning Finance” • Digitalization • Aging society FY2019 FY2021 • Diversification of lifestyles Third Medium-Term • Diversity in working styles Management Plan • Globalization FY2015 FY2016 FY2018 • Expansion of investment opportunities • Growing inequality 22 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Results Summary of Medium-Term Management Plans The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group (FY2010 FY2018)  ccumulated earnings over ¥420 billion while reduced volatility and posted A steady profits (Billions of yen) 500 52.3 400 51.4 50.7 300 60.9 200 67.8 41.3 Creating Value over the Long Term 100 51.0 42.6 6.4 0 FY 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 1st MTMP 2nd MTMP 3rd MTMP • Rebuilding the customer fran• Further expanding the custom• “Selection and Concentration” chise er base of business • Establishing a stabilized earn• Increasing quality assets while • Creation of value through ings base improving our portfolio group integration • Optimized risk weighted assets • Improved capital ratio by accumu• Business franchise in unsecured through reduction of non core lating earnings loans and structured finance business assets • Significant profits contribution reflected steady profits Supporting the Creation of • Stabilization of earnings was mainly from credit reversals • Improved earning structure of remained as a challenge on the disposal of NPLs and oneretail banking off profits • Total payout ratio improved while • Increasing recurring / stable proflow ROE remained as a challenge Sustainable Value its remained as a challenge Indicators FY2010 FY2012 FY2013FY2015 FY2016 FY2018 NIM 2.09% 2.28% 2.43% Expensesto-Revenue 57.5% 63.4% 62.3% Ratio ROA 0.3% 0.6% 0.6% ROE 5.1% 7.7% 6.1% Risk Monitored 7.29% 2.09% 1.56% Business and Financial Results Loan Ratio1 CET1 ratio1 — 12.9% 12.0% Total Payout 8.0% 10.6% 35.0% Ratio 1 Figures of final year of each MTMP are presented Items achieved under the Third Medium-Term Management Plan • Allocated resources to growth areas Selection and Concentration • Achieved stable growth and strong revenue streams in growth areas of Businesses Value Creation through • Established our virtual Group Headquarters Group Integration • Built governance structure to reflect group-wide management Achieve Flexible Business • Improved productivity on a group-wide basis by enhancing effiManagement and Lean Operations ciencies SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 23 Creating Value over the Long Term Midto Long-Term Environmental Changes Facing the World uality D g ineq igit aliz in ati ow on Gr  Rising security needs Expanding income disparity Entering different ­industries Growing regional  Expansion of investmen disparity Greater sophistication of IT infrastructure Increasing gap in IT Increasingly cashless t op society literacy ging Impact from midto por Aging of consumers long-term environA Capital inflow from tun outside Japan Changing asset management mental change Important needs due to longer lifespans itie Discovery of potential • Increasingly sophistiinvestment targets keywords for Decline in working age population cated levels of s environmental change ­customer needs Changes in services available to consumers • Accelerating growth in Increase in visitors and workers from overseas links between business Expansion of C2C transactions s operators Acceleration from Evolving consumption styles tyle domestic to overseas and consumer awareness fe s investments  f li Increased mobility in Growth in a sharing Gl economy no ob labor market io ali Changes in occupational at za tio awareness ic if n rs ve Di  D le s i v e r s it y in w o r k i ng sty Strengths (Expertise and Execution) Information Technology Financial Technology L AI / Analytics L Alternative Investments Speed up and automate financial operations Advanced expertise and analysis capabilities based on extensive experience L Finance / Nonfinance Big Data Harness financial data from within the Group L Financial Solutions and nonfinancial data from outside the Group Expertise to integrate products and services from inside / outside of the Group Management Infrastructure Governance L Group-wide Integrated Management L Effective Board of Directors Integrating bank and nonbank operations L Group Governance L Speed and Flexibility Scale and execution framework which ensures L Risk Governance speedy decision-making 24 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019  Medium-Term Strategies (FY2019 FY2021) Core Strategies The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Grow through Enhance / Leverage our Value Co-Creation Capabilities Integration with external services Diverse people and flexible workstyle Customer-centric organization Finance as a Service Creating Value over the Long Term Productive operations Deeper understanding of our customers Optimal capital usage Maximization of customer value Optimal usage of our resources Supporting the Creation of Financial Targets Sustainable Value Growth Growth EPS Growth Rate Profit Share of Focus Areas Annual average Small-scale finance Institutional investors 2% or more FY2018 FY2021 FY2018 FY2021 excluding the effect of ­purchasing treasury shares 45% 50% 10% 15% Business and Financial Results Profitability Efficiency Soundness ROE OHR CET1 Ratio In the In the FY2018 medium term FY2018 FY2021 FY2018 medium term less than minimum 6.0% 8.0% 63.0% 60% 12.0% 10% Shareholder Shinsei Bank aims to maintain or improve the total payout ratio, depending on Returns financial conditions and market environment, within the range of total payout ratio as set in the Revitalization plan.(*) * As mentioned in the Revitalization plan submitted to the Financial Services Agency on March 22, 2018, the range should be in principal within the range of the general total payout ratio of the domestic banks. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 25 Creating Value over the Long Term Materiality (Key Issues toward Sustainable Growth) The key, or material, elements that make a significant impact on “corporate value,” namely, the overall economic value and social value of a company, we believe should be at the essence of corporate value creation. Moreover, in consideration of this materiality, the business model of the Shinsei Bank Group and the value (outcome) it generates, are inextricably tied to materiality. Specific process of materiality Understanding SDG Compass (corporate behavior guidelines for SDGs), Guidance for Collaborative Value Creation materiality (METI), SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board), GRI (Global Reporting Initiative) and other guidelines are referenced to gain an understanding what materiality is and how to specify materiality. Extracting On the basis of a number of business clusters, hold workshops with employees who will be the next elements of generation involved with business strategy formulation for the Bank’s Medium-Term Strategies. In each materiality from cluster, first of all start from the visualization of the value chain, and together with the impact on socistrategy ety at each point in the value chain, discuss to flesh-out what are the important functions of the Shinsei Bank Group. Then, from within the aggregated points that emerged from each respective cluster, extract and organize the original structure of materiality. Discussion and Materiality is included as one of the agenda items undertaken when discussing the Medium-Term specification at Strategies with management. Indeed, our core competence that has the largest impact on raising corthe management porate value, as well as being important to society in the course of our business activities, is specified level as such materiality that is unique to the Shinsei Bank Group. Medium-Term Strategies materials cover materiality, as well as the SDGs that are bound together with materiality. Dialogue with In the course of engagement (constructive dialogue) with investors, shareholders and other stakeholdstakeholders ers, discussions on the materiality interwoven through the Medium-Term Strategies work to instill and refine materiality. Specified materiality Address social and environmental issues Fulfill our social responsibilities Support these Support these SDGs: SDGs: Access to finance Social infrastructure services • Provide services for customer needs which are not • Firmly provide fundamental financial functions satisfied by traditional financial services (deposit, loan, payment etc.) as social infrastructure • Provide payment methods with emerging technology • Maintain cyber security • Prevent money laundering Fund flows that fit society’s needs • Provide solutions for supporting sustainable social Customer-oriented services capital • Place customer benefit first • Give information that is accurate and easy to digest Solutions through integration with external services • Build / participate in ecosystems, use digital ­technology Support these Foundation for meeting our goals / responsibilities SDGs: • Expertise and Execution • Governance • People • Organization • Operations • Capital 26 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019  Medium-Term Strategies (FY2019 FY2021) The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Links between materiality and SDGs Based on the United Nations Sustainable will make contributions to sustainable economic Development Summit held in 2015, over 150 pargrowth through investments and loans for social ticipating Member State leaders adopted 17 infrastructure that make clean energy prevalent Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as targets (SDG 7: Affordable and Clean Energy). In addition, that would change the world. Sustainable developdecent, humane employment is linked to an orgament is defined as development that is sufficient to nization’s recognition of equality and diversity, meet the needs of the current generation, while including with regard to gender, nationality, age, not diminishing the ability of future generations to and place of origin (SDG 5: Gender Equality). sufficiently meet their needs. In the pursuit of overAchieving acceptance and coexistence in a coming the disparities of generations and regions, diverse society means securing a legal system, Creating Value over the Long Term and the building of a society in which no one is left compliance, and security through the realization of behind, more than just in developing countries, it a peaceful and fair world in which no one is left is advanced nations that are particular targets for behind, including customers and employees, and change. Linking the principles of these SDGs with the range of other stakeholders (SDG 16: Peace, the materiality of the Shinsei Bank Group, we Justice and Strong Institutions). believe, will work to convey to our stakeholders the impact that the outcomes generated by the Address social and Fulfill our social environmental issues responsibilities Shinsei Bank Group have on society. One theme of the Medium-Term Strategies is innovation. In carrying out our roles and responsibilities to society toward addressing social and environmental issues, namely, the materiality of the Supporting the Creation of Shinsei Bank Group, the common foundation upon which we implement those roles and responsibilities is innovation (SDG 9: Industry, Innovation and Sustainable Value Infrastructure). By promoting greater innovation, it becomes possible to achieve sustainable economic growth and decent, humane working conditions Foundation for (SDG 8: Decent Work and Economic Growth). We meeting our goals / responsibilities Business Strategies & Focus Areas Business and Financial Results Business Strategy Individual Business Business Strategy Institutional Business Focus Area Small-Scale Finance Focus Area Institutional Investors Enhance service offerings through building / Provide one-stop services for alternative investparticipating in ecosystems, using digital techments nology and data analysis Organization Infrastructure Focus Area Group Organization Focus Area Productivity Reforms Integrate business functions across the Group Cost structure reform including usage of digital technology and channel ­optimization SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 27 Creating Value over the Long Term Focus Area 1 Small-Scale Finance Enhance service offerings through building / participating in ecosystems, using digital technology and data analysis SWOT analysis Strengths Weaknesses • Lake ALSA brand strength and customer base • Limited business base outside of Japan • Nationwide merchant network, settlement platform • Insufficient knowhow and human resources to develop • Small-lot financing knowhow and insights business overseas • In-house-developed unsecured loan system • AI-driven scoring, aggressive adoption of RPA deployment and other cutting-edge technologies • Loan needs in new customer segments • A declining population, particularly fewer people in the Working elderly, people with multiple sources of income, foryounger age range eign nationals living in Japan/Japanese nationals living out• Lower purchasing needs due to transition to a lifestyle with side of Japan few possessions, transition from materials-based consumption to value-based consumption, expansion of a sharing economy • Diversifying needs • Lower credit lines due to declining incomes from primary EC shopping credits, cashless loans, leasing needs associated business with lifestyles with few possessions • Increased non-face-to-face transactions and obsolescence of • Credit guarantee needs for lending and borrowing amongst Bank branches and ATMs due to cashless transactions individual • Lower revenue rates from existing businesses due to new players in the market, primarily Fintech vendors Opportunities Threats What is small-scale finance? Core Customers Value Co-Creation • Individuals and small businesses 3 Build / participate in ecosystems, share data to better understand our customers Product / Service Lineup • Provide functions (credit assessment, guarantees, collection, payments etc.) based on partner needs Small-size, high-frequency credit and payment transactions: • Share and use customer data and know-how • Unsecured loans, shopping credit • Serve foreign nationals and freelancers • Credit guarantee, rent guarantee • Credit cards, prepaid cards 2 S  trengthen core capabilities, integrate with • Other cashless payments payment platforms • Utilize AI / RPA to analyze data and streamline Our Capabilities operations • Large and diverse customer portfolio • Deploy all-in-one platform for payments, credit • Strong analytical capabilities for assessment and other services marketing, credit assessment and collection • Stable operations Self-contained Model 1 Streamline and speed-up existing processes • Scale up multi-payment services to meet increasing cashless payments • Gather outside UI/UX expertise 28 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019  Medium-Term Strategies (FY2019 FY2021) Focus Area 2 Institutional Investors The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Provide one-stop services for alternative investments SWOT analysis Strengths Weaknesses • Know-how and insights that enable detailed schemes to be • A small balance sheet compared to megabanks put together, in line with projects • Relationships with corporate business sponsors, such as • Ability to identify qualities and to analyze through networks merchants and makers of sponsors and operators • No overseas bases • Network with institutional investors centering on regional • Poor experience with mezzanine and equity investments financial institutions Creating Value over the Long Term • Increased assets geared toward alternative investments due • Fluctuating market conditions (real estate) to development of management without assets (renewable • Evolving government policies (renewable energy) energy, real estate) • Flat inbound investments in the event that domestic financial • Increased inbound investments from overseas institutional institutions cannot meet the diverse needs of overseas instituinvestors (funds, pension funds), primarily in renewable enertional investors gy and real estate • Risk of declining interest in overseas asset investments due to • Rising interest in investment with alternative investments and rising foreign currency funding costs overseas assets from domestic institutional investors Supporting the Creation of Opportunities Threats Sustainable Value What is institutional investor oriented business? Core Customers Value Co-Creation • Investment managers sponsoring 3 Provide alternative investment services equity investments ● • Investment opportunities for wide variety of • Asset owners such as financial institutional investors institutions, pension funds etc. ● • Senior, mezzanine and equity financing, and advisory services Business and Financial Results Product / Service Lineup ● • Enhancing structuring capabilities including debt A  lternative investment solutions and equity funds focusing on real assets (renewable energy, infrastructure, real 2 Arrange syndicated loans estate): • Arrangement, advisory, financing, ● • Partner with regional financial institutions to equity, risk hedging solutions etc. provide senior loans ● • Target assets: Renewable energy, real estate, Our Capabilities others • Expertise in real assets • Our connections with institutional Self-contained Model investors • Structuring know-how using trusts 1 Arrange bilateral structured finance • Independently provide senior loans ● • Target assets: Renewable energy, real estate, ● others SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 29 Creating Value over the Long Term  Medium-Term Strategies (FY2019 FY2021) Focus Area 3 Group Organization Individual Customers Institutional Customers Individual Institutional Business Unit Business Unit Corporate Function (Virtual Group HQ) Achievements by FY2018 Integration of Group Business  • Established Virtual Group HQ • Unify business planning functions • Strengthened group goverfor individual / institutional cusOffer the best solutions nance tomers for meeting customer • Leverage diversity of the Group to needs create customer value • Integrate group-wide human resources Focus Area 4 Productivity Reforms Cost Reduction from Productivity Reforms Further Initiatives for Reforms (Billions of yen) • Branch and office optimization 15 Efficiency of branch channels Third Medium-Term Medium-Term Effective use of office space Management Plan Strategies • Cost structure reforms Expense reassessment, expenditure control 10 Additional ¥ 6.0 billion in Greater enforcement of procurement rules & cost reductions transparency • Digital technology and workstyle reforms Implementation of AI, digital technology etc. 5 Business process / operations review More flexible hours and workplaces 0 Achievements by FY2018 FY2015 FY2018 FY2021 • Consolidation of group corporate functions • Call center / business center optimization Note) F  Y2015 FY2018; versus FY2015 FY2019 FY2021; versus FY2018 • Restructuring initiatives in APLUS • Debt collection performance improvement 30 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Message from Chief Officer of Group Finance The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group We will strive to achieve outstanding productivity and efficiency by continuous improvement and reform Creating Value over the Long Term Shoichi Hirano Chief Officer, Group Corporate Planning and Finance tiatives. The direction of qualitative strategies is more Financial Strategy of the important than quantitative plans. Since the future is an Medium-Term Strategies era of change that is not an extension of today, the hisSupporting the Creation of torical performance and near-term assumptions presentGrowth ed in financial data are no longer a good indicator of a J EPS Growth Rate: Annual average 2% or more (excluding company’s mediumto long-term future outlook. Hence, Sustainable Value the effect of purchasing treasury shares) we have compiled our strategies with an emphasis on J Profit Share of Focus Areas(*) qualitative growth stories that are not influenced by mar(1) Small-scale finance: 45% (FY2018) R 50% (FY2021) ket conditions. We focus on our financial targets such as (2) Institutional Investors: 10% (FY2018) R 15%(FY2021) growth, profitability, efficiency and soundness. In light of (*) S  hare of ordinary business profit after net credit costs, excluding one-time factors the aim of presenting a growth story, the most important indicator is growth potential. We have set 2% or more of Profitability EPS growth target (excluding share buyback) instead of J ROE: 6% (FY2018) R 8% (In the medium term) our traditional net income target. We are also targeting Business and Financial Results profit shares of 50% in small-scale finance and 15% of Efficiency businesses with institutional investors, which are key growth areas. In profitability, ROE of 8% has been set as J Expenses-to-Revenue Ratio: 63% (FY2018) R Less than a medium-term target. In efficiency, less than 60% of 60% (FY2021) expenses-to-revenue ratio has been set. Increase in IT Soundness expenses in the Bank and APLUS FINANCIAL, office relocation expenses, regulation related expenses and J CET1 Ratio: consumption tax hike are partly offset by productivity 12.0% (FY2018) R Minimum 10% (In the medium term) enhancement initiatives in order to improve expenses-­ to-revenue ratio. In financial soundness, a minimum 10% The Medium-Term Strategies have been developed as a of Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio has been set as a vision for the future including changes in the business medium-term target. Capital adequacy led by an accuenvironment rather than an extension of our current inimulation of profits has been one of our strengths. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 31 Creating Value over the Long Term Message from Chief Officer of Group Finance Accordingly, we proactively consider utilizing capital for position and market conditions at the time. The total inorganic strategies while maintaining an adequate level payout ratio of 50% is based on this year’s shareholder of capital in the Medium-Term Strategies. return does not necessarily make any reference to future total payout ratios. Shinsei aims to maintain or improve the total payout Cost of Equity ratio, depending on financial conditions and market environment, within the range of total payout ratio as set The Bank recognizes that capital efficiency, meaning in the Revitalization Plan. As mentioned in the profitability against capital, needs to be enhanced and Revitalization Plan submitted to the Financial Services per share values need to be increased through the effort Agency in March 2018, the range should, in principle, be to strengthen earning power for boosting the Bank’s corwithin the range of the general total payout ratio of the porate value in the medium to long term. At the same domestic banks. time, the Bank has received an injection of public funds, which requires the accumulation of a public fund repayment source. Based on this recognition, the Shinsei Bank Performance of Share Price Group needs to maximize the absolute amount of profit, while securing a certain capital in order to generate Fiscal 2016: Shinsei stock has been outperforming indiappropriate return against cost of equity in the medium ces such as TOPIX, TOPIX Banks and TOPIX Other to long term. Financing Business, while TOPIX Banks and TOPIX Other In the Medium-Term Strategies, the Bank redefines its Financing Business have been sluggish due to negative core strategies as well as focus areas, and presents busiinterest rate policy announced in January 2016. We ness strategies for Individual and Institutional believe this reflects our business portfolio including Businesses. In addition, the Bank has articulated its key unsecured personal loans and structured finance which financial targets such as EPS growth rate and ROE to are relatively resilient against negative interest rate enviclarify its profitability and capital efficiency goals. ronment. Progress toward achieving the plan will regularly be Fiscal 2017: Shinsei stock has underperformed against made public in disclosure materials such as integrated TOPIX and TOPIX Banks due partly to the fact that we reports. did not announce a share buyback program until January 2018. Fiscal 2018: Shinsei stock has been recovering from Shareholder Return Policy underperformance against indices, as a result of continuous efforts on business operations in focused areas and A share buyback program up to ¥23.5 billion based on measurements in productivity enhancement projects as fiscal 2018 operating results was approved by the Board well as dialogue to market. However, at the end of year of Directors in May 2019. The total payout ratio including 2018, concerns about economic downturn in the U.S. the share buyback program and year-end dividend for and sudden rise of US interest rate influenced overall fiscal 2018 is to be 50% (Please refer to Review of Fiscal stock performance in Japan, especially in the financial 2018 on page 78 for the historical trend for total payout sector. Shinsei stock was not an exception. ratio) As we entered 2019, in tandem with a recovering trend Shinsei has decided the shareholder return up to the in the Japanese equity market, Shinsei stock has had an maximum available share buyback program by taking upturn. However, we believe that current share price into consideration the capital policy as stated in the does not reflect its true share value. A share buyback Revitalization Plan that, “we will maintain or improve the program up to ¥23.5 billion has been approved by the total payout ratio with the range of average Japanese Board of Directors. In the Medium-Term Strategies startbanks” as we think that the current share price is undering from fiscal 2019, we will further strengthen our comvalued and it does not reflect its true share value. petency to resolve social challenges and aim to increase However, the scheme/amount of shareholder return and equity value of Shinsei by co-creating value with external the total payout ratio will be decided at each time periparties. od based on prevailing share price, financial/capital 32 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Shinsei Bank TOPIX Banks (including dividends) TOPIX (including dividends) The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group TOPIX Other Financing Business (including dividends) Share Price Trend FY2017 Share Price Performance (From the end of March 2016 to the end of May 2019) (Compared with the end of March 2017) (Yen) (%) 3,000 160 2,500 140 2,000 120 1,500 100 1,000 500 80 0 60 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 Creating Value over the Long Term 2016 2017 2018 2019 2017 2018 FY2016 Share Price Performance FY2018 Share Price Performance (Compared with the end of March 2016) (Compared with the end of March 2018) (%) (%) 160 160 140 140 120 120 100 100 80 80 60 60 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3 4 5 Supporting the Creation of 2016 2017 2018 2019 Sustainable Value FY2018 FY2019 YoY % Financial Management Policies for Fiscal 2019 (¥ billion) (Actual) (Plan) B(+)/W(-) Total Revenue 229.7 243.0 +6% Net income is expected to be ¥53 billion for fiscal 2019. Total revenue is expected to be ¥243 billion, reflecting Expenses -144.7 -152.0 -5% an increase in net interest income from unsecured loans Expenses-to63.0% 62.6% — and contribution of revenue from new subsidiaries in revenue ratio Business and Financial Results addition to noninterest income growth in global markets Ordinary Business Profit business as well as APLUS FINANCIAL and Retail 84.9 91.0 +7% (OBP) Banking businesses. Net Credit Costs -29.3 -35.0 -19% Expenses are expected to be ¥152 billion due primarily to consolidation of new subsidiaries’ expenses as well as OBP after 55.6 56.0 +1% Net Credit Costs an increase in IT and premises expenses. Expenses-torevenue ratio is planned to be 62.6%. Others -3.3 -3.0 +9% Net credit costs are expected to be ¥35 billion. This Net Income 52.3 53.0 +1% mainly comprises unsecured loans and APLUS FINANCIAL businesses. We expect net credit costs to increase compared to fiscal 2018 mainly reflecting asset growth in unsecured loans as well as an absence of net credit recoveries as recorded in Structured Finance Businesses in fiscal 2018. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 33 Creating Value over the Long Term CEO × Outside Director Discussion Hideyuki Kudo Ryuichi Tomimura President and Chief Outside Director Executive Officer (President, Representative Director, SIGMAXYZ Inc.) Amid the advances being made in information technology (IT), what is expected of the Shinsei Bank Group and the finance industry, what are the issues and how should the Group ideally formulate IT strategies to increase corporate value over the medium to long term? These and other subjects formed the basis of a discussion between Outside Director Ryuichi Tomimura, who possesses a wide range of knowledge in the IT field, and Shinsei Bank President Hideyuki Kudo. Posing Challenges for the Shinsei Bank Group: The Future of Finance and IT’s Role in that Future Social Change and IT Kudo Which is to say, rather than the needs of the buyer or customer, our priority is creating and selling what makers How are financial institutions changing at a time when a consider to be good products and that we are skilled at the shift from a maker-oriented “product-out” to a custommaker-oriented “product-out” perspective. However, with er-oriented “market-in” perspective is being demanded? the greater diversification of customer values and the Tomimura The word “innovation” comprises “in” and increasing sophistication of needs, the products and ser“nova,” the former having the meaning of “to insert” vices provided by companies did not match those needs and the latter meaning “new.” Since the time of what is well. Based on the reality that this does not mean that cusreferred to as the industrialization of society, the tomers themselves clearly understand their values and approach in which Japan was deemed to excel involved needs in the first place, it is incumbent on companies to the commercialization of products planned by R&D discern the true needs of customers who thus far have not departments and the sending of those products out into been satisfied with their products and services and for society. In that sense, the area in which the Japanese are them to propose products and services that offer new value said to be weakest is in innovation. from a customer-oriented “market-in” perspective. 34 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Tomimura Yes, I agree. However, now that we have Tomimura For example, it would be a true innovation if entered the digital society era with the evolution of the we could co-create new products and services realized The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Internet of Things (IoT) and AI, another approach is through looking closely at the kinds of work styles and becoming more mainstream. This involves closely lifestyles of people from overseas who come to Japan observing consumers, allowing them to decide what and then propose what kind of lifestyle or experience they want to do and providing them with the means to you would like for customers. This is because, up until achieve it, while creating products and services that now, it has been entirely a product-out world. I get the incorporate both new ways of thinking about developing feeling from the discussions at the Board of Directors’ services in teams and what’s happening in the market. It meetings that new innovation has started at Shinsei is very close to the concept known as POC1, but I think Bank. If we can reach the point at which lifestyle proposthat Japanese companies and society will likely change als are coming from the Bank’s side, that method would through this shift in the value creation model. immediately spread. 1 POC: Abbreviation for proof of concept. Refers to verification and demonstration in Kudo That project is being addressed primarily by the Creating Value over the Long Term the early stages of prototype development for the purpose of demonstrating new concepts, theories, principles, and ideas. In providing services based on new conEcosystem Strategy Office under the Group Business cepts, such as IoT, machine to machine (M2M) communication, and AI (Artificial Intelligence), this is an important process when verifying and demonstrating added Strategy Division. Since this is neither a product front value, service, and solution specifications. line nor an operational front line, our current task is to involve other sections and think about what to supply to The Finance Industry and the the ecosystem. Shinsei Bank Group’s IT Tomimura We supply what the customers want into the ecosystem by taking into consideration their perspecWhether Shinsei Bank can reform its traditional bank tives. If you take that point of view, I think there will be a sales methods, depends on rapidly giving consideration time when the work styles of management and employto those reforms in a new organization and raising the ees will also change. Consumer information, such as “it’s Group’s competitiveness by bringing them to fruition. more conveniently done for me this way” or “I’d be Supporting the Creation of An environment should be put in place to encourage happy if I could do more things like this at home,” will curiosity about, and provide added impetus to, its abilibe freely available via digital technology. After that, it will ty to take action. be best to create an environment in which innovation Sustainable Value Kudo Since banks are a regulated industry, what we can occur. can and cannot do has already been clearly decided for us. To start with, it is the type of industry in which the Future IT Strategies and Basis idea of setting yourself apart from competitors by means for Realizing them of your products remains a rarity. For that reason, we have become accustomed to the mindset of selling Ascertain on a grand scale the scope of your business products as they are now. The basic problem is whether and then broaden the Group’s horizons. This is achieved we can reform ourselves simply by saying, “It’s not prodby thinking about overall optimization, identifying what Business and Financial Results uct-out, but market-in.” should be done amid the trend for digitalization and, Tomimura Front-line staff, who know their customers, with IT as the facilitating driving force, addressing infraare expected to provide feedback about the products structure development. and services they want to see created. I think that would Tomimura From here on, it will be important to discuss be good if the flow of feedback could be skillfully chanhow to use IT. Digitalization will advance automatically neled and proposed to management. when we reach the point of having discussions, including We have to consider how the front-line staff want to those about lifestyle support services for non-Japanese use IT in their business tasks and incorporating those mentioned above. I think it’s a safe bet with that approach. needs to an even greater extent, I believe that the faster Kudo With such awareness of the problem, we have the pace of change, the greater Shinsei Bank can constructed a virtual group headquarters that brings improve its competitiveness. together the indirect divisions of the Bank and Group Kudo Since people on the front line have come to cercompanies and, hereafter, we will promote the integratain assumptions based on current practices, I am thinktion of Group-based IT functions. In addition to considing about how to realize a mindset whereby frontline ering the architecture of the whole Group as a means to staff consider customer needs in the organization. determine the direction we should take for the overall SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 35 Creating Value over the Long Term CEO × Outside Director Discussion optimization of the Group’s IT, we would like to identify president of APLUS. As a result, when viewed from a what aspects of digitalization we should address and broader perspective, there are more things that can be would like to give IT a kind of promotional role. If an done. Conceivably and conversely, I would like to make agenda arises from that, I think it will be a subject that them into organizations that are capable of assessing can be discussed at the Board of Directors’ level. aspects that have not been attempted up to now as we Tomimura Naturally it will be. had questioned whether they were rational. Kudo At the Group company APLUS, a shopping credit Tomimura Rather than “I wanted to do something like company, any discussion of what is important in that area this, but I gave up because I didn’t have the systems,” of business, involves the indispensability of the credit card we should make the argument that the Group as a whole system being properly in place. We will have to invest the can achieve “business like this if we put in place a sysfunds necessary for the maintenance of the system. How­ tem like this.” We thought that these organizational ever, in addition to this, we must consider whether having reforms were good measures, in the sense that we could a credit card business has any kind of significance for the expect that they should be possible if only because whole Group in the first place. By not treating credit cards there were so many different products. separately but as part of a complete range of products and Kudo In individual business in particular and even in the services for individuals, we can maintain the broader view world of finance, I recognize that a period of dramatic taking cooperation with other industries into consideration, change is coming. Although, individually, there are some and making it possible to open up new areas of business. advanced business models, comprehensively integrated business model is not being suggested. However, our Creating an Organization to group possesses elemental technologies that can tackle Implement IT Strategies the creation of new business models. Although we do not have a large existing customer base, if we were to build an A major turning point in the banking business for indiecosystem—on the assumption that we collaborate with vidual customers. Build an ecosystem with a view to other companies, such as NTT Docomo, for example—I partnering with other companies, bearing in mind that believe that there could be benefits for our customers. organizations that are responsive to change survive. Tomimura Hereafter, it will be important to openly disTomimura For example, if you look at the Group as a cuss ideas from the front line. IT is a tool, and what you whole, is it not necessary to have someone to consider do when using it is important. Japanese companies whether or not there may be a lot of similar products often talk about their “plan for the year 20XX,” but in and services, and whether it would be better to combine reality the changes are dramatic and plans never turn out them? as planned. Accordingly, ideas should not be conKudo Quite so. Under the organizational reforms in strained to having to be this way or that, but rather orgaMarch 2019, we formed organizations called the nizational forms that are more sensitive to and respond Corporate Business Unit and Individual Business Unit, more agilely to change are the ones that are supposed and the head of the latter concurrently serves as the to survive. 36 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Investors’ FAQ We have summarized some of the key questions and their respective answers as The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group received from institutional investors for the fiscal year ended on March 31, 2019. Q1 In the growth area of unsecured loans, please give your analysis of the factors that contributed to the decline in both the new customer acquisition rate and the approval rate for the Lake ALSA brand, which was launched in April 2018, and to the overall decrease in the balance of unsecured loans. Taking into consideration Creating Value over the Long Term market trends, please also tell us about the outlook for the Shinsei Bank Group’s unsecured loans. We positioned unsecured loans as a growth area in our Third Medium-Term Management Plan and established as a target an average annual balance growth rate of 10% over the three years. As a result, the balance which stood at ¥428.5 billion as of March 31, 2016, increased 19% to ¥509.9 billion as of March 31, 2019. The average growth rate during the period was 6%, hence, we did not meet our original target of 10%, but here we explain the results, including the contributory factors, during these three years. The actual balance growth results by fiscal year show that the balance grew by 12% in fiscal 2016, the first year of the Plan, and thus exceeded our original target. Against a backdrop of Supporting the Creation of significant growth in the overall unsecured loan market, centered on bank card loans, in addition to the unsecured loans generated by the Lake brand, significant growth in the credit guarantee balances for regional financial institutions also served to give added impetus to balance Sustainable Value growth. In the Plan’s second fiscal year (fiscal 2017), we recorded balance growth of 8%, and the speed of balance growth slowed from that of the previous fiscal year. In March 2017, there were also changes in the environment of the bank card loan market, such as the Japanese Bankers Association announcing its “Agreement Relating to Consumer Loans by Banks,” and the pace of growth in the unsecured loan market slowed. As a result, unsecured loan balance growth for fiscal 2017 of 8% was achieved, in line with our expectation at the start of that fiscal year. In comparison with the end of March 2016, the balance growth over the two years was 21%, and Business and Financial Results we maintained an average annual growth rate of more than 10%. In December 2017, we conducted a review of our business strategy for unsecured loans and unified the products offered as bank card loans into “Shinsei Bank Smart Card Loan Plus.” At the same time, we announced that applications from new customers for the Shinsei Bank Card Loan Lake would be suspended from April 2018. Initially, we had planned to use the Lake brand for the consumer finance product needs of both bank and nonbank customers. However, the Lake brand is highly recognized as a nonbank consumer finance brand and, hence penetration with bank customers remained limited. As a result, from April 2018, we primarily offered Shinsei Bank Smart Card Loan Plus for those customers with bank card loan needs and Lake ALSA, newly introduced by Shinsei Financial, for those with consumer finance product needs. In fiscal 2018, the final year of the Third Medium-Term Management Plan, we launched Lake ALSA as the core unsecured loan product in the Shinsei Bank Group. However, in addition to a SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 37 Creating Value over the Long Term Investors’ FAQ continued decline in the growth rate of the market overall, marketing measures became more difficult than expected due to the parallel arrangement of the two Lake brands, Shinsei Bank Card Loan Lake and Lake ALSA, resulting in the new customer acquisition rate and the approval rate being significantly lower than initially forecasted. During the period, however, by implementing several marketing measures, such as improvements in the leads geared toward new customers on the website and the deployment of a 60-day interest-free campaign, the number of Lake ALSA applications recovered to the level of the former Shinsei Bank Card Loan Lake. With regard to the growth rate, we also improved the new customer acquisition rate by gaining customers in the higher income bracket and conducting a more precise credit screening process. In the medium-term management strategy that we have commenced in fiscal 2019, unsecured loan product is one of the products in retail finance, a focus area. Going forward, while securing appropriate credit management and profitability, we will aim for further balance growth. Q2 With regard to optimizing the retail banking earnings structure, please tell us about the issues and measures (for example, branch closures and ATM fee charges) as well as the effects and responses. While funding function in the retail banking business plays an important role and supports the majority of the funding for Group’s businesses, it remained unprofitable partly due to an insufficient reflection of the important funding role in the management accounting rule. This was one of the most important issues to be resolved during the Third Medium-Term Management Plan. We reviewed and enhanced our management accounting rules during the second year of the Plan. However, the retail banking business recorded loss in fiscal 2017 due to low demand for housing loan refinance in contrast to the high demand at the time of introducing the negative interest rate policy, in addition to sluggish sales of asset management products. Despite the headwind, we continued bold measures to improve profitability of the retail banking business. We announced in January 2018 that we would close financial centers in Takamatsu and Kanazawa in June 2018 as a result of reviewing our sales channel strategy and cost structure. In fiscal 2018, the Plan’s final year, we revised the “Shinsei Step-up Program” in October 2018 and decided to charge “Shinsei Standard”-stage customers a fee for withdrawals made from partner ATMs. As a result of such efforts, in terms of ordinary business profit (OBP) after net credit costs, the retail banking business succeeded in recording a profit from the second half of fiscal 2018. In light of the medium-term management strategy as launched in fiscal 2019, we will aim to further improve profitability. In April 2019, we re-aligned our organization to manage customer segments and their businesses in a more coordinated manner while promoting initiatives designed to create customer value across all our individual business units. 38 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Q3 In the case of public fund repayments, please tell us about the problems you are currently facing and the repayment path (roadmap) that takes those problems into consideration. The public funds injected into the Bank were initially in the form of preferred shares. In August 2006, with regard to about 300 million out of the 600 million shares of Series 3 Class-B preferred stock, we issued 200,033,338 shares (at that time) of common stock following an acquisition Creating Value over the Long Term request from the government and made partial public fund repayments in the form of sales received through market transactions. Subsequently, when the remaining 300 million shares of Series 3 Class-B preferred shares and 74,528,000 shares of the Series 2 Class-A preferred shares were due for conversion to common stock, we converted the Series 3 Class-B preferred stock to 200 million shares of common stock in August 2007, and the Series 2 Class-A preferred shares to 269,128,888 shares of common stock in March 2008. Consequently, at the present time all public funds injected into the Bank have been converted to common stock. As a result of the 1-for-10 reverse stock split implemented in October 2017, Deposit Insurance Corporation of Japan and The Resolution and Collection Corporation now hold 26,912,888 shares and 20 million shares, respectively. Supporting the Creation of Therefore, in addition to accumulating repayment resources for the purpose of public fund repayments, we believe that it is extremely important to improve the Bank’s stock market evaluation and to bring about an improvement in our stock price. We also believe that efforts to Sustainable Value improve our stock price will provide the path to public fund repayments at this time. Specifically, to improve our stock price, we strengthened shareholder returns as a part of the capital policy and repurchased our own shares on an ongoing basis to improve per share value during the course of the Third Medium-Term Management Plan. L Return of Profits to Shareholders during the Third Medium-Term Management Plan FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Business and Financial Results Total return ratio 25% 30% 50% Dividends ¥2.59 billion ¥2.53 billion ¥2.45 billion Own share repurchase amount ¥10.0 billion ¥13.0 billion ¥23.5 billion Note: T  he performance in each fiscal year determines the amount returned to shareholders in the following fiscal year. In the years ahead, we will adapt to the rapidly changing business environment, establish a sustainable business model and endeavor to record stable profits. At the same time, we will conduct reviews of current and future profit trends, implement shareholder returns that take into consideration financial stability and maintain a balance with retained earnings, as well as work to improve our stock price and shorten the duration for public fund repayments. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 39 Creating Value over the Long Term Individual Business ongoing financial deregulation on account of the Bank of Japan’s negative interest rate policy, trade and economic friction between the U.S. and China, the U.K.’s Brexit issues, or other factors. Indeed, these are issues that represent business opportunities. In the retail banking field, Shinsei Bank is working to develop multiple consulting channels, one-to-one marketing that utilizes behavioral data, construction of a framework for organizational management by customer segment and other efforts. We take a personalized approach for ideal communication with each and every customer, offering products and services that satisfy their needs and life plans, and in so doing endeavor to provide customers stable asset formation. In the credit card and settlement fields, the competitive Tetsuro Shimizu Managing Executive Officer, climate is escalating in severity due to the market entry of Head of Individual Business Unit nonfinancial platform providers and innovative financial technologies. Seizing upon the business opportunities of The Individual Business is composed of the retail bankproviding platforms upon which customers are offered a ing business, which accepts deposits, handles asset stress-free choice of the method that they most prefer management products and provides housing loans; from an array of settlement options, we are moving forconsumer finance, which provides products and services ward on providing a range of settlement styles, including such as unsecured loans, credit cards, shopping credit assorted payment types, prepaid and credit cards. and settlements to individual customers. The unsecured loans field is experiencing demand for providing financial access to customer segments where, in L Business risks and opportunities based on an light of customers’ diversifying lifestyles and increasing awareness of the environment reliance on digitization, either traditional credit informaThe Shinsei Bank has a role to play in finding solutions to tion used in the past is insufficient to grant credit, or cusissues that confront society. This holds true whether it be tomer segments where there is a preference for digital responding to changes in consumer behavior that occur capabilities for non-face-to-face transactions. Together in line with the progression of a declining birthrate and with the credit assessment and collection knowhow we an aging population or diversifying lifestyles, or be it have long cultivated, we are adding AI and digital techsupporting mid-to long-term asset formation for individnologies, and by partnering with companies that possess ual customers without the significant vulnerabilities that customer platforms, we are endeavoring to respond to come with an opaque external environment, such as the the financial needs of new customer segments. Operating Assets Housing Loans Unsecured Loans APLUS FINANCIAL (Trillions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Trillions of yen) 1.5 600 1.5 509.9 1.1 1.1 1.0 400 1.0 0.5 200 0.5 0 0 0 (End of Mar.) 17 18 19 (End of Mar.) 17 18 19 (End of Mar.) 17 18 19 L Shinsei Bank Lake L NOLOAN L Shopping Card Credit (Excluding Automobile)* L Credit Guarantees L Credit Cards L Automobile Credit* L Shinsei Bank Smart Card Loan Plus L Housing Related Loans etc. *Includes credit guarantees business 40 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Strategies for Individual Business The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Data analysis to capture customer needs + Personalized solutions Grow through Value Co-Creation Enhance / Leverage our Capabilities Small-Scale Build / participate in ecosystems, use data to enhance services • Upgrade our AI / analytics database “YUI Finance Platform” • Collaboration with external parties which own customer base, data etc. • Provide one-stop retail products / services and develop an all-in-one platform • Enhance strengths in credit assessment and collection by using payment / credit data, AI and digital technology • Expand use of digital technology Improve customer experience, and use alliances to uncover • Centralize & streamline operations / proRetail Asset new customer opportunities cesses Management • Personalize communication and product offerings by using Creating Value over the Long Term digital technology and customer data • Use alliances with brokerage / insurance companies to uncover new customer opportunities Housing-Related Broaden customer segment via partnerships and new products Loans • Collaboration with housing-related companies and other financial institutions • Capture customer needs for securing post-retirement cash-flows and financing home renovations Topic Shinsei Bank Smart Money Lending for NTT Docomo Line Subscribers Supporting the Creation of Leveraging the Docomo Lending Platform, which NTT Docomo, Inc. provides to Docomo line subscribers, Shinsei Bank has launched Shinsei Bank Smart Money Sustainable Value Lending to provide loans and other financial services. This combines the credit screening knowhow the Group has cultivated in the Lake business, together with “Docomo Scoring” for each individual’s credit score as calculated from the big data Facilitates Shinsei Service fully Support to offer new completed via “smart” use of obtained through Docomo’s wide-ranging business developments. In this way we can lending proposal a smart phone lending service offer more optimized transaction conditions for our customers. As the financial businesses held by the Shinsei Bank Group leverage the strengths of technology from the perspectives of both information and finance, while also collaborating with external partners that possess open and flexible platforms, this will lead to the development of a collaborative value creation-type business model. Business and Financial Results Data on Major Operations Retail Banking Shinsei Financial, Shinsei Bank Lake APLUS FINANCIAL (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 80 80 80 69.2 60 60 60 57.8 40 40 40 35.7 26.9 20 20 21.2 20 19.6 0 -0.7 -0.7 0 0 3.1 -10 -10 -10 FY 17 18 FY 17 18 FY 17 18 L Total Revenue L Ordinary Business Profit (OBP) L OBP after Net Credit Costs SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 41 Creating Value over the Long Term Institutional Business and Global Markets Business (SMEs) as those in management positions get older, as well as environmental and energy issues, robust inbound demand. We are keenly aware of the value chain that encompasses not only our customers but also our business partners. We recognize diverse needs as business opportunities and aim to provide differentiated solutions by utilizing resources inside and outside the Group. For our institutional customers, we are focusing our efforts in syndication and business flow finance operations. To further advance development in these areas, we are focused not only on the leasing functions within the Group, but also on cooperation with companies outside the group, and are pursuing partner-based businesses that support the creation of new enterprises and the resolution of issues being faced by the partners of Shinichirou Seto Senior Managing Executive Officer our customers in line with our goal of also providing Head of Institutional Business Unit solutions in nonfinancial domains. The Institutional Business is composed of the corporate For our investor customers, we are focusing our efforts business, which provides solutions to our corporate and on the arrangement of syndicated loans with regional financial institution customers; structured finance, which financial institutions and the provision of senior loans on provides services such as real estate finance and project a stand-alone basis using analytical skill, know-how and finance; services that provide private equity investments relationships we have built up with domestic and overand business succession finance; and the leasing busiseas institutional investors to date in the project finance, ness. The Global Markets Business delivers market serreal estate finance, and specialty finance businesses. vices that provide market solutions for foreign Moving forward, we intend to provide investment opporexchange and interest rate derivatives, among others. tunities to a wide range of institutional investors, including investment managers and the asset owners L Risks and opportunities based on our underproviding the funds. standing of the external environment In line with our goal of making further progress in The profitability of the traditional lending business conthese businesses, Shinsei Bank in April 2019 decided to tinues to trend at a low level against the backdrop of a make the best use of its resources and functions in the stable interest rate environment and an improvement in leasing, trust, securities, and markets business by estabthe financial structure of corporations. Meanwhile, new lishing the Group Institutional Business Planning Division financial needs are emerging in line with the challenges for the planning and implementation of management being faced by the society, including issues related to resource allocations and business strategies across the the life cycle of small and medium-sized enterprises Group. Operating Assets Corporate Business Structured Finance Showa Leasing (Trillions of yen) (Trillions of yen) (Billions of yen) 2.0 2.0 600 1.5 1.6 490.7 1.5 1.5 400 1.0 1.0 200 0.5 0.5 0 0 0 (End of Mar.) 17 18 19 (End of Mar.) 17 18 19 (End of Mar.) 17 18 19 L Corporates L Real Estate Nonrecourse Finance L Real Estate Companies; REITs L Others (Public Companies, L Project Finance L Specialty Finance (LBOs, Shipping, etc.) Financial Institutions, etc.) 42 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Strategies for Institutional Business The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Partnership-style business + One-stop service for alternative investments Grow through Value Co-Creation Enhance / Leverage our Capabilities Institutional Capture a range of customer needs in the alternative • Deepen expertise in products, services, Investors ­investment space and functions • Service offerings for investments in renewable energy, real • Build a track record in real assets estate, domestic private equity etc. • Enhance strategy / planning through an • Expand networks with institutional investors, provide integrated group approach investment opportunities • Launch CRM system, streamline processes through RPA (Robotic Process Nonfinancial Deploy partnership-style business Automation) Corporations • Deploy solutions that merge financial to nonfinancial Creating Value over the Long Term ­service • Strengthen value proposition for existing financial services • Strengthen asset business for core areas such as construction machinery Financial Partner with regional financial institutions Institutions • Provide Shinsei Bank Group’s services to regional ­customers • Support regional financial institutions to solve their own issues by utilizing Shinsei Bank Group’s functions Supporting the Creation of Topic Woman of the Year 2019 award for Child Care Support Two Shinsei Corporate Investment employees won the Nikkei Women’s Woman of the Year 2019 award for Child Care Support. The award was given to employees working with the Child-care Sustainable Value Support Fund, which was established in 2017 by the Group with the goal of contributing to a society that supports both work and childcare, and is the first domestic financial institution fund focusing on impact investments in child-care-related businesses. The Fund has been recognized for its entrepreneurial spirit and achievements, having improved earnings while resolving social issues through the conduct of business and being based on the real-world experiences of women pursuing careers while also raising children. The Group has established a second fund focused on nursing care and expanding the business of investment targets, with the aim of providing companywide support to impact investment business, including corporate business referral and screening section support. Business and Financial Results Data on Major Operations Corporate Business Structured Finance Showa Leasing Principal Transactions Global Markets Business (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 20 20 20 20 20 16.7 17.6 15 15 15 15 15 14.2 9.8 10 10 12.0 10 10 9.3 10 9.4 5 4.9 5 5 4.3 5 5.3 5 4.0 5.3 4.9 2.3 2.3 0 0 0 0 0 FY 17 18 FY 17 18 FY 17 18 FY 17 18 FY 17 18 L Revenue L Ordinary Business Profit (OBP) L OBP after Net Credit Costs SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 43 Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value ESG Data (Nonconsolidated) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Corporate Governance Number of Directors 7 7 7 Ratio of Female Directors 0% 0% 14.2% Number of Outside Directors 5 5 5 Number of Board of Directors Meetings Held 6 6 6 Attendance Rate for the 100% 95% 100% Board of Directors Meetings (Note) Governance-related data as of June 30, 2019. Employees Number of Employees 2,207 2,188 2,150 Male 1,272 1,265 1,218 Ratio 58% 58% 57% Female 935 923 932 Ratio 42% 42% 43% Competitive Ratio in Recruitment 45.0 31.2 27.0 (Applicant base) Male 41.9 26.2 25.8 Female 50.1 39.5 28.3 Average Age 40.9 41.3 41.7 Male 40.4 40.7 41.1 Female 41.7 42.1 42.5 Average Years of Service 11 years 12 years 12 years 11 months 5 months 11 months Average Monthly Salary ¥482 ¥479 ¥477 thousand thousand thousand Number of Business-Limited Employees — — 146 Number of Part-time Employees 203 267 215 Number of Temporary Employees 143 113 6 Number of Overseas Locals Recruited 0 0 0 Number of new University Graduates Hired 54 53 55 Male 34 33 28 Ratio 63% 62% 51% Female 20 20 27 Ratio 37% 38% 49% Number of Mid-career Personnel Recruited 82 32 38 Male 43 18 19 Female 39 14 19 Number of Managers 649 643 631 Number of Female Managers Section Leader-Level or Higher 87 89 96 Ratio 13.4% 13.8% 15.2% Section Manager-Level or Higher 383 390 412 Ratio 29.6% 30.0% 31.6% 44 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 (Nonconsolidated) FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Employees Number of Employed Persons with Disabilities 29 29 32 Employment Rate of Persons with Disabilities 1.8% 1.9% 2.1% Average Overtime Hours per Month 21.8 19.9 18.7 Average Paid Leave Acquisition Rate 59.9% 62.5% 63.7% Number of Employees Taking Childcare Leave 32 33 35 Male 0 4 6 Female 32 29 29 Number of Employees Taking Life Support 4 6 7 Leave Number of Employees Taking Family Care 4 4 1 Leave Creating Value over the Long Term Number of Employees Registering Concurrent — — 42 Business or Side Business Ratio of Employees Using Teleworking — — 13.3% Number of Employees Using Continued 13 11 10 Employment System Number of Employment of Functional Change 34 60 230 or Employment Status Change Male 11 19 50 Female 23 41 180 (Note) Number of Employees Taking Life Support Leave means the Number of Employees Taking Childcare Leave before January 1, 2018. Supporting the Creation of Environment Arrangement Results of Project Finance for 69.5 61.8 90.0 Renewable Energy (Billions of yen) Environment Impact Data1 Sustainable Value CO2 Emissions (t)2 2,746 2,602 2,575 Electricity Usage (kWh) 5,093,523 5,069,080 5,027,896 Gas Usage (m3) 90,000 90,000 114,000 Clean Water Usage (t) 3 1,796 1,758 1,623 Amount of Waste Generated/Recycling Rate3 Waste Generated (t) 233 206 218 Amount Recycled (t) 154 123 138 Business and Financial Results Amount of Waste Disposal (t) 79 83 80 Recycling Rate 66% 60% 63% (Note) 1. Data are for all Shinsei Bank Nihonbashi headquarters (excluding affiliated companies) and ARCO TOWER (Meguro). 2. C alculated using electricity and gas usage according to “Guidelines for Calculating Specified Greenhouse Gas Emissions Volume under the Total Emissions Obligations and the Emissions Trading Framework.” 3 . Data are for Shinsei Bank Nihonbashi headquarters (excluding affiliated companies). Contribution to Society Financial Literacy Program (MoneyConnection®) (Consolidated) Number of Schools where the 827 943 1,058 Program was Held Number of Student Participants 108,253 122,811 136,232 Volunteer Activities Number of Volunteer Activities 27 31 33 Number of Employee Participants 475 395 328 Compliance Number of Whistle-Blowing Reports 0 1 1 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 45 Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value ESG Management Policy Group ESG Management Policy The Shinsei Bank Group has established “Group ESG ­ anagement. From the perspective of ESG management, m Management Policy” to clearly stipulate the basic views and environmental issues represent business risks, while at the future direction of the Group’s initiatives pertaining to envisame time also provide significant business opportunities. ronmental and societal issues. This policy has been posiThe Group will therefore mobilize all of our capabilities as a tioned as a basic policy and the starting point for the financial services provider to help tackle environmental formulation of our management strategies. We are aware issues. Furthermore, we will actively pursue investment and that, in order to pursue the kinds of sustainable growth lending opportunities contributing to the expansion of opportunities that are required for the realization of our renewable energy use. management principles, it is essential, as part of our social Promotion of ESG Investment and Lending: When making responsibility as a corporate group, that we contribute to investment and loans, the Group will actively involve itself in the building of a sustainable society. transactions where the recipients of our investments or loans, Website: https://www.shinseibank.com/corporate/en/esg/ or the projects operated by these recipients, contribute to the solution of societal and environmental issues. In pursuing G: Corporate Governance ESG investment and lending, we aim to enhance the sustainBasic views, guidelines and internal control have been stipuability of the Group’s revenue-growth opportunities through lated in our Corporate Governance Report. contributing to the creation of a sustainable society. Investment and Lending to Specific Segments: Based on Website: https://www.shinseibank.com/corporate/en/policy/ our awareness that tackling environmental and social issues governance/governance_report.html in a sincere manner will lead to the realization of our management principles, we deem it to be a managerial risk for S: Social Issues Group companies to, in the course of their business activiBasic views: We believe that human resources are the most ties, engage in business transactions with companies that important element for the Group as we engage in financial do not respond to environmental and societal issues in an businesses. The Group’s human resources are the source of appropriate manner. Consequently, when conducting our our innovation and the competitiveness we require to achieve business, we will assess cases based on considerations relatsustainable growth amidst fiercely competitive market condiing to environmental and societal issues as well as economic tions. We provide our employees with our all-out support, rationality in an appropriate manner. fostering a working environment that facilitates flexible workThe Group has identified transactions with businesses such ing styles in order to provide appealing workplaces and as those listed below as representing serious environmental enable people of diversified backgrounds from gender, age, and societal risks and any further investment or lending transnationalities and all other aspects to fully demonstrate their actions involving such businesses shall, in principle, be banned: potential and achieve sustainable Group growth. Types of transactions which shall be banned in principle We have established the “Group Human Rights Policy” in i) Investment and lending transactions connected with order to clarify the Group’s respect to the human rights of anti-social forces; all people. The Group is now able to meet the financial ii) Investment and lending transactions connected with the needs in society that conventional financial services have violation of laws and regulations or aimed at illegal acts or been unable to satisfy, by creating new opportunities for evasion or circumvention of laws; people to access financial services. The Group shall strive to iii) Investment and lending contrary to public order or morals; provide easy-to-understand information to enable customiv) Investment and lending to companies producing cluster ers to ascertain their own financial needs in an appropriate bombs; manner. When providing information, we vow to prioritize v) Investment and lending to coal-fired thermal power plants customers’ needs first and foremost and provide them with Note: Although further investment and lending to coal-fired optimal financial products and services. thermal power plants shall not be made in principle, Corporate Philanthropy: In order to act as a responsible corin the case of ultra-supercritical pressure coal-fired porate citizen in accordance with our “Policy for Corporate thermal power plants(*) or power plants with the Philanthropic Initiatives,” the Group is actively committed to same or higher levels of efficiency, a careful assesscontributing to society and is aiming to become a banking ment shall be made of the power generation efficiengroup that earns the trust of society. Also, through societal cy of the power plant concerned. In addition to contribution, the Group aims to nurture human resources technologies used to reduce greenhouse gas emisable to contribute to the sustainable development of society sions, and other considerations pertaining to each through strengthening teamwork among employees that individual power plant, with reference to guidelines transcends the boundaries of Group companies and creating such as OECD Arrangement on Officially Supported networks connecting the Group with communities. Export Credits and in full consideration of the situations in each country and international conditions E: Environmental Issues relating to coal-fired thermal power plants. Global environmental issues such as climate change are very critical issues relating to the realization of a sustainable (*) An ultra-supercritical pressure coal-fired thermal power plant is defined as falling into either of following power plant groups: ­society, and we are aware that such issues are also import1. A power plant with a steam pressure of 240 bars or higher and a steam temperature of 593°C or higher. ant management issues for us in our pursuit of ESG 2. A power plant with a CO2 emission volume of below 750g per kWh. 46 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 ESG Information Index Management Management Principles Management General The Charter of Shinsei Bank Group Corporate Behavior The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Shinsei Bank Group Code of Conduct1 Group ESG Management Policy Mediumto Long-Term Vision Medium-Term Strategies IR/SR Policy of Shinsei Bank Group 1. Including corruption prevention and bribery prevention Governance Corporate Governance Policies for Initiatives Concerning the “Corporate Governance Code” Corporate Governance Report Compliance Basic Policy against Antisocial Forces Creating Value over the Long Term Shinsei Bank Group Policy on Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism Data Security Basic Policy Concerning Protection of Personal Information Social Media Policy Foreign Exchange Transaction Policy Tax Governance Global Tax Policy Risk Governance Risk Management Basic Stance Group ESG Management Policy Society Human Rights Group Human Rights Policy Action Plan to Promote Active Participation of Women Supporting the Creation of Customer Policy on Customer-Oriented Business Conduct and Action Plan Financial Facilitation Initiatives Contribution to Society Approach for Corporate Philanthropic Activities Sustainable Value Basic Stance Group ESG Management Policy Environment Promotion of ESG Group ESG Management Policy Investment and Loan Stance for Investment Businesses which are prohibited from New Transaction: and Loan to Investment and lending transactions connected with anti-social Specific Business forces Investment and lending transactions connected with the violaBusiness and Financial Results tion of laws and regulations or aimed at illegal acts or evasion or circumvention of laws Investment and lending contrary to public order or morals Investment and lending to companies producing cluster bombs Investment and lending to coal-fired thermal power plants (including provisionary clause) Approach for Environment Saving Electricity and Lowering Environment Impact Impact of Own Company Initiatives The United Nations Global Compact Since 2019 Shinsei Bank has been committed to the UN Global Compact corporate responsibility initiative and its principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 47 Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value Interview with Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member I hope that the Bank will fully recognize the importance of gender diversity as a corporate management strategy, and become a leading company where women can play an active role throughout their careers while dealing with various life events. Shiho Konno Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Lawyer Promoting Diversity in Corporate Management Q Based on your own experiences and ­societal trends, please share your thoughts about the significance of Corporate Governance Code revision in June 2018 took things one step further by stipulating the need for diversity pertaining to gender and international experience. ­diversity in corporate governance. Diversity can discussed from the perspective of gender, nationality, age, experience, and many other attributes, A First, diversity is critical for Boards of Directors to adequately perform their supervisory functions. According to the minutes from the Financial Services but from a global perspective, gender is considered the most critical type of diversity. Nevertheless, Japan ranked 110th out of 149 countries in the Global Gender Agency’s “Council of Experts Concerning the Follow-up Gap Index in 2018, which clearly shows that Japan is lagof Japan’s Stewardship Code and Japan’s Corporate ging considerably behind other countries in this respect, Governance Code” where the revisions to diversity-relatand the June 2018 revision to the Corporate Governance ed provisions were debated, there was discussion about Code is seen as a measure to rectify this situation. With the fact that overseas investors used to be concerned respect to gender diversity, based on my personal expethat homogeneity and a lack of diversity in Japanese rience, I feel that in Japan today it is easier for women to corporate boardrooms may be having a significant negaspeak out without worrying too much about what others tive impact on their supervisory functions. I believe that in the room will think. For example, I feel that it is easier board member diversity is demanded by the global capfor women to question long-standing practices within a ital markets as a matter of course since it relates to a company and push for improvements. Personally, I have board's supervisory capabilities, and I also believe it is expressed my opinions quite freely at board meetings, an essential condition in order to enhance corporate including at other companies. At Shinsei Bank, with my governance. nearly 30 years of experience as a lawyer, I would like to Japan’s Corporate Governance Code was established continue to proactively state my opinions on things that I in June 2015. The Code included provisions concerning notice, many of these being things I notice because I am the need for outside directors. With this, Japanese coma woman and an outsider and thereby provide a contripanies took the first steps toward increasing board bution to enhancing corporate governance and corpomember diversity, and, with listed companies having rate value in the medium term. added outside directors to a certain extent, the 48 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Q Looking back on the past year as an As seen by the increasing number of women in top Outside Audit & Supervisory Board positions in the finance industry these days, I think that The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group ­member of the Bank, what challenges as finance is a field in which women can thrive. I hope that well as potential do you see with respect women in the Bank will assume even more active roles, to diversity in the Group? and that other talented women will opt to join the Bank and thrive as well. A Before assuming office, I looked at the figures, such as the ratio of women in managerial positions, and felt that the Bank was ahead of other compaIn terms of board diversity pertaining to attributes other than gender, the fact that Outside Directors from a variety of different backgrounds comprise a majority of the Bank’s nies in this area. However, upon actually taking office, I Directors, is worthy of note for a Company with an Audit realized that there is still a lot of room to improve in & Supervisory Board. The ratio of Outside Directors is not terms of the diversity of senior management and only high, I feel that there are few other companies where Directors and Executive Officers. I attend Board of Outside Directors speak out as actively and make comCreating Value over the Long Term Directors meetings and Audit & Supervisory Board meetments as meaningful as they do at Shinsei Bank. ings, and at these meetings Executive Officers often come to give explanations about the areas they are in charge of. Currently, almost all of the directors, executive officers, and senior managers of subsidiaries who appear are men. On the other hand, there seems to be a shared Q What would you like to see Officers and the Board of Directors do with respect to promoting diversity in the Shinsei Bank understanding of the need to improve the current situaGroup? tion, and I feel that considerable effort and progress have been made over the past year. In November last year, an internal symposium on “Unconscious Bias” was held mainly for men in managerial positions, and about A As I discussed at the diversity symposium, in this era of declining birthrates, population aging, and a shortfall in the working population, companies where Supporting the Creation of 300 people attended the event. I participated in the women, who make up half of the population, cannot event as one of the panelists. There was quite a strong play an active role will inevitably decline. I would like reaction to the symposium, and I have heard that some Shinsei Bank to become a leading company where Sustainable Value managers changed their behavior from that day on. I feel women can actively participate throughout their careers that the momentum towards more diversity within the while dealing with various life events. I also hope that Bank has increased following that symposium, as the the Bank will become a place that women who possess a Group Committee to Promote the Active Participation of strong desire to work flock to. Rather than simply viewWomen has contacted me and other newly-appointed ing this as “doing something for women” as part of the female Directors and Executive Officers, asking to have Bank’s consideration for women’s human rights, I want meetings with us. the Bank to recognize its importance as a corporate Recently, a woman was appointed as an Outside management strategy. Business and Financial Results Director. This was the first time the Bank has appointed a To this end, as I discussed earlier in connection with female Director. Another woman was also appointed as the theme of “Unconscious Bias” at the symposium that an Outside Audit & Supervisory Board member, meaning I mentioned, I would like the Bank to eliminate certain that women are now the majority on the Audit & preconceived notions, such as feeling bad about burSupervisory Board, which is almost unprecedented, even dening women with heavy responsibilities. On the other among listed companies. This spring, three female hand, childbirth is a life event particular to women. Executive Officers were newly appointed, and there is Childcare and nursing care are common challenges that momentum to develop women candidates for Director many employees face. I hope that the Bank will devise and Executive Officer positions. Based on these events, I ways to create workplace environments that enable both feel that the Bank is more committed to diversity than men and women to continue working for their entire other companies, and that this has led to stronger govcareers while also raising children and providing nursing ernance. care. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 49 Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value Corporate Governance Four Features of Shinsei Bank’s Corporate Governance J Ratio of Outside Directors on the Board of Directors 71% • Five of the seven directors at Shinsei Bank are outside directors and comprise a majority of the Board of Directors. • The Bank has maintained a Board structure where outside directors ­comprise a majority since Shinsei Bank started. • The Bank has submitted the names of seven individuals, including ­outside Audit & Supervisory Board members as independent officers to the Tokyo Stock Exchange. 80% J Ratio of Outside Directors with Corporate Executive Experience • The mix of outside directors on our Board is well balanced with deep expertise and extensive experience relating to finance in Japan and overseas, businesses aimed at c­ onsumers, risk management areas and information systems. • Four of the five outside directors on our Board are or have worked as corporate ­executives. J Attendance Rate for the Board of Directors • Our directors, including outside directors, attended each meeting of the 100% Board of Directors and engaged in active debate about the Bank’s ­management and o ­ perational execution. • This attendance rate is the average for our directors for six meetings of the Board of Directors since the June 2018 general meeting of ­shareholders. J Number of IR Meetings /Companies where the 58 meetings CEO Met with Shareholders, Investors and Analysts • The CEO has been assigned ultimate responsibility for investor relations (IR) activities and engages in constructive dialogue with the market in 56 companies Japan, North America, Europe and Asia. • The Bank has reduced the number of duplicative meetings by CEO with the same investors, and focused on the meetings with proxy advisor firms in fiscal 2018. 50 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Corporate Governance of Shinsei Bank The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Shinsei Bank’s Board of Directors—the Bank’s deciand oversight for executives performing their duties. sion-making body for its business management—conRegarding transactions with parties such as directors and sists of seven directors—two full-time directors who are major shareholders, the Bank conducts checks to avoid directly responsible for the execution of the Bank’s busiconflicts of interest and to maintain the fairness of transnesses and five outside directors who primarily supervise actions, and, when necessary, it uses established framethe Bank’s business execution. The composition of the works for deliberating on such transactions in Board of Board of Directors ensures the objectivity and transparDirectors meetings and conducting any necessary folency of business management and facilitates approprilow-ups. Through the auditing of the Bank’s Board of ate management decision-making. The current outside Directors and business execution by the Audit & directors are a balanced group of executives who bring Supervisory Board and its members, which are indepento the Bank their extensive experience and expertise in a dent from the Board of Directors, the Bank seeks to creCreating Value over the Long Term range of fields, including domestic and overseas finanate a strict corporate governance framework which is to cial businesses, consumer-related businesses and the encourage the adoption of optimal and balanced manfields of risk management and information systems. agement policies reflecting the benefit of stakeholders Backed by this experience and expertise, the outside such as shareholders and customers, through which the directors express their opinions in an independent and Bank seeks to enhance its corporate value. objective manner fulfilling their roles in providing advice L Corporate Governance Structure Chart (as of June 19, 2019) General Meeting of Shareholders Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value Appoints Appoints Develops Audits Audit & Supervisory Board Members/ Management Directors/Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Strategy; (5 out of 7 directors are outside directors) (2 out of 3 members are outside members) Supervises Business Inquiries Reports Execution Appoints Supervises Structure of Board of Directors Nomination and Compensation Committee Executive President & CEO Hideyuki Kudo Directors Chief Officer Yoshiaki Kozano Group Internal Audit Division Outside J. Christopher Flowers Business and Financial Results Audits Directors Ernest M. Higa Business Execution Implements Jun Makihara Management Rie Murayama Strategy; President & CEO Ryuichi Tomimura Executes Business Group Executive Committee/ Structure of Audit & Supervisory Board Executive Committee/ Audit & Supervisory Shinya Nagata Other Various Committees Board Member Outside Audit & Supervisory Ikuko Akamatsu Board Members Shiho Konno Chief Officers Business Unit Head/ Senior Officers Other Executive Officers Audits Accounting Auditor Business Sections Group Headquarters (Shinsei Bank, Subsidiaries) SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 51 Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value B  oard of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members Hideyuki Kudo Yoshiaki Kozano J. Christopher Flowers Ernest M. Higa Jun Makihara Representative Director, Director Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director President and Nomination and Nomination and Chairperson, Nomination and Chief Executive Officer Compensation Committee Compensation Committee Compensation Committee Chairman of Board Member Member Reasons for Nomination Mr. Hideyuki Kudo has abunMr. Yoshiaki Kozano has a Mr. J. Christopher Flowers Mr. Ernest M. Higa was Mr. Jun Makihara was asked dant experience and insight, wealth of experience and was asked to stand as an asked to stand as an to stand as an Outside focusing on corporate and risk results, focusing on corporate Outside Director in order to Outside Director in order to Director in order to reflect in management operations. Since operations. Since his appointreflect in the Bank’s manreflect in the Bank’s manthe Bank’s management, his his appointment to office as ment in 2017, he has been agement, his expertise and agement, his experience extensive knowledge of the president in 2015, he has planning and promoting the broad insight into banking, and deep insight of busifinance and his domestic been contributing to improved Group’s business strategy as finance and the financial ness for consumers. and international expericorporate value by leading the the Director, Chief Officer, ­services industry as a whole. ence. steady implementation of the Group Business Strategy and Medium-Term Management contributing to the enhancePlan, the formulation of the ment of corporate value Medium-Term Management through reorganization of the Strategy, and the establishGroup and creation of busiment of the Group head office. ness opportunities. L Directors’ Skill Matrix Risk Consumer Management Finance IT Management Business J Hideyuki Kudo q q q J Yoshiaki Kozano q q J J. Christopher Flowers q q J Ernest M. Higa q q J Jun Makihara q q J Rie Murayama q q J Ryuichi Tomimura q q 52 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Creating Value over the Long Term Rie Murayama Ryuichi Tomimura Shinya Nagata Ikuko Akamatsu Shiho Konno Supporting the Creation of Outside Director Outside Director Audit & Outside Audit & Outside Audit & Sustainable Value Nomination and Nomination and Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member Supervisory Board Member Compensation Committee Compensation Committee Member Member Ms. Rie Murayama was Mr. Ryuichi Tomimura was Mr. Shinya Nagata was asked to Ms. Ikuko Akamatsu was asked Ms. Shiho Konno was asked asked to stand as an asked to stand as an stand as Audit & Supervisory to stand as an Outside Audit & to stand as an Outside Audit Outside Director in order to Outside Director in order to Board Member based on the Supervisory Board Member in & Supervisory Board reflect in the Bank’s manreflect in the Bank’s manjudgment that he is suitable as a order to reflect in the Bank’s Member in order to reflect agement, her wide range of agement, his extensive corporate auditor who can play a audit operations her expertise in in the Bank’s audit operaexpertise based on her experience and wide range central role in all areas of corpocompliance and governance, tions her expertise and rate audit. Through his long work Business and Financial Results experience as Outside of knowledge including etc. and to take on the promoextensive experience as a experience at Shinsei Bank, Shinya Director at other companies, information systems as a Nagata has gained a deep undertion of diversity, as well as for lawyer and based on her as well as her knowledge management executive and standing of the Group’s business her professional knowledge and experience as an outside based on her extensive a consultant. and with his extensive knowledge experience as a certified public director at listed companies experience at an investment and experience in finance and accountant and a certified fraud as well as her expertise in bank. accounting he is able to share the examiner and extensive expericompliance and govercircumstances of the Group with ence as a consultant based on nance, etc. and to take on outside corporate auditors. the aforementioned expertise. the promotion of diversity. L Audit & Supervisory Board Members’ Skill Matrix Financial Finance Legal Affairs Accounting J Shinya Nagata q q J Ikuko Akamatsu q J Shiho Konno q SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 53 Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members Directors Outside Directors Hideyuki Kudo Yoshiaki Kozano J. Christopher Flowers Representative Director, President Director Outside Director and Chief Executive Officer Managing Director and Chief Executive Officer, J.C. Flowers & Co. LLC Ownership: Common shares 15,051 Ownership: Common shares 4,086 Ownership: Common shares 7,675,374 Attendance rate: 100% Attendance rate: 100% Attendance rate: 100% Jun. 2015 Representative Director, President and Jun. 2018 Director, Chief Officer, Group Business Nov. 2018 Member of the Supervisory Board, Chief Executive Officer, Shinsei Bank, Strategy, Shinsei Bank, Limited (Equivalent Hamburg Commercial Bank (Current) Limited (Current) to Senior Managing Executive Officer), May 2012 Member of the Supervisory Board, NIBC Apr. 2015 Managing Executive Officer, Shinsei Bank, Shinsei Bank, Limited (Current) Holding N.V. (Current) Limited Apr. 2018 Chief Officer, Group Business Strategy Nov. 2002 Managing Director and Chief Executive Apr. 2013 Managing Executive Officer, Chief Risk (Equivalent to Senior Managing Executive Officer, J.C. Flowers & Co. LLC (Current) Officer, Head of Risk Management Group, Officer) Mar. 2000 Director, Shinsei Bank, Limited (Current) Shinsei Bank, Limited Apr. 2017 Chief Officer, Group Business Strategy, Managing Executive Officer, Special Dec. 1988 Partner, Goldman, Sachs & Co. Apr. 2011 Managing Executive Officer, Head of Structured Finance Sub-Group, Shinsei Assignment, Shinsei Bank, Limited Mar. 1979 Joined Goldman, Sachs & Co. Bank, Limited Jun. 2016 Director, APLUS FINANCIAL Co., Ltd. Sep. 2010 Managing Executive Officer, Deputy Head (Current) of Institutional Group, Shinsei Bank, Apr. 2016 Managing Executive Officer, Special Limited Assignment (Head of Group Business Jun. 2007 Managing Director, Investments Division, Strategy, Shinsei Bank, Limited) Aetos Japan, LLC Apr. 2015 Managing Executive Officer, Deputy Head Jan. 2007 Vice Chairman, MID Urban Development of Institutional Group, Shinsei Bank, Co., Ltd. (Predecessor of Kanden Realty & Limited Development Co., Ltd.) Jun. 2011 Managing Executive Officer, Head of Jun. 2006 Representative Director, President, MID Principal Transactions Sub-Group, Shinsei Urban Development Co., Ltd. Bank, Limited (Predecessor of Kanden Realty & Dec. 2007 Head of Principal Transactions Sub-Group, Development Co., Ltd.) Shinsei Bank, Limited May 2005 Managing Director, Aetos Japan, LLC Jul. 2006 Head of Corporate Business Solutions Sub-Group, Shinsei Bank, Limited Aug. 2003 Director, Acquisition Group, Aetos Japan, LLC Nov. 2003 General Manager, Credit Trading Division, Shinsei Bank, Limited May 2001 General Manager, Advisory Department No. II, Investment Banking Division, Apr. 1986 Joined The Long-Term Credit Bank of Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. Japan, Ltd. (Predecessor of Shinsei Bank, Limited) Apr. 1987 Joined The Dai-Ichi Kangyo Bank, Ltd. (Predecessor of Mizuho Bank, Ltd.) 54 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Ernest M. Higa Jun Makihara Ryuichi Tomimura Creating Value over the Long Term Outside Director Outside Director Outside Director Chairman, President & Director, Monex Group, Inc. President, Chief Executive Officer, Director, Philip Morris International Inc. Representative Director, SIGMAXYZ Inc. Higa Industries Co., Ltd. Ownership: Common shares 3,581 Ownership: Common shares 20,000 Ownership: Common shares 0 Attendance rate: 100% Attendance rate: 100% Attendance rate: 100% Apr. 2017 Board of Trustees, Showa Women’s Sep. 2014 Director, Philip Morris International Inc. Jun. 2018 President, Representative Director, University (Current) (Current) SIGMAXYZ Inc. (Current) Sep. 2016 Chairman & Representative Director, Jun. 2011 Director, Shinsei Bank, Limited (Current) Jun. 2016 Executive Vice President, Representative Wendy’s Japan K.K. (Current) Director, SIGMAXYZ Inc. Jun. 2006 Director, Monex Group, Inc. (Current) Supporting the Creation of Apr. 2015 Chairman, President & Chief Executive Jun. 2015 Director, Shinsei Bank, Limited (Current) Officer, Jul. 2000 Chairman of the Board, Neoteny Co., Ltd. Jun. 2014 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Higa Industries Co., Ltd. (Current) Nov. 1996 Co-Branch Manager, Goldman Sachs Shinsei Bank, Limited Jun. 2013 Director, Shinsei Bank, Limited (Current) Tokyo Branch (Predecessor of Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.) Aug. 2012 Director, Plan.Do.See Inc. Mar. 2011 Chief Executive Officer, Wendy’s Japan Nov. 1992 Partner, Goldman, Sachs & Co. Apr. 2010 Executive Vice President, Director, LLC Sustainable Value SIGMAXYZ Inc. Jun. 2010 Director, JC Comsa Corporation (Current) Sep. 1981 Joined Goldman, Sachs & Co. Dec. 2007 Representative Director, Managing May 2009 Board of Overseers, Columbia Business Director, RHJ International Japan, Inc. School (Current) Feb. 2004 Representative Director, Senior Executive Apr. 2008 Board Member, The Tokyo New Business Vice President, Japan Telecom Co., Ltd. Conference (Current) (Predecessor of Softbank Corp.) Apr. 1983 President and Chief Executive Officer, Oct. 2002 Managing Director, IBM Business Higa Industries Co., Ltd. Consulting Service KK, Vice President, IBM Apr. 1976 Joined Higa Industries Co., Ltd. Corporation Business Consulting Service, Asia Pacific Jan. 1994 Managing Partner, Pricewaterhouse Consultant Oct. 1991 General Manager, Network Integration Division, Recruit Co. Ltd. (Predecessor of Business and Financial Results Recruit Holdings Co., Ltd.) Oct. 1983 Joined IBM Japan, Ltd. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 55 Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value Board of Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members Audit & Supervisory Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Board Member Shinya Nagata Shiho Konno Audit & Supervisory Board Member Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Lawyer Ownership: Common shares 2,229 Ownership: Common shares 0 Attendance rate: 100% Attendance rate: 100% Jun. 2012 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Jun. 2018 Director, Monex Group Inc. (Current) Shinsei Bank, Limited (Current) Jun. 2018 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Oct. 2010 Executive Officer, General Manager, Shinsei Bank, Limited (Current) Financial and Regulatory Accounting Jun. 2017 Director, Alfresa Holdings Corporation Division, Shinsei Bank, Limited (Current) Sep. 2010 Executive Officer, General Manager, Jun. 2016 Director, Kakaku.com, Inc. Group Regulatory Accounting and Tax Division, General Manager, Group Jun. 2015 Director, Watami Co., Ltd. Financial Accounting Division, Shinsei Mar. 2015 Established Shiho Konno Habataki Law Bank, Limited Office (Current) Jun. 2010 General Manager, Group Regulatory Aug. 2014 Auditor, Japan Corporate Governance Accounting and Tax Division, General Network Manager, Group Financial Accounting Division, Shinsei Bank, Limited Apr. 2014 Member, Committee on Realization of a Gender-Equal Society of Japan Federation Sep. 2009 General Manager, Group Regulatory of Bar Associations (Current) Accounting and Tax Division, Shinsei Bank, Limited Apr. 2009 Professor, Waseda Law School, Waseda University Apr. 2009 General Manager, Group Regulatory Accounting and Tax Division, General Mar. 2008 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Manager, Group Financial Accounting Advanced Softmaterials Inc. Division, Shinsei Bank, Limited Jun. 2005 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Oct. 2006 General Manager, Group Regulatory Yahoo Japan Corporation Accounting and Tax Division, General Apr. 1991 Registered in Daiichi Tokyo Bar Manager, Group Financial Projects Association Division, Shinsei Bank, Limited Dec. 2001 General Manager, Financial and Regulatory Accounting Division, Shinsei Bank, Limited Apr. 1981 Joined The Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Predecessor of Shinsei Bank, Limited) 56 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Newly Appointed Outside Director The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group On this occasion, I am honored to have been appointed as a Shinsei Bank Outside Director. For a total of 27 years, I worked for foreign financial institutes and accumulated experience in the equity research and investment banking divisions, and as executive manager. For the past three years, I have attended the site of corporate management as an outside director and board member of several companies, and have thereby personally experienced the weight of responsibility as a director. As an outside director of Shinsei Bank, I will have the opportunity to experience the forefront of the finance industry as it continues to encounter a surging wave of multiple reforms and changes, which I feel is both an unexpected joy and a heavy yet motivating responsibility. Rie Murayama Creating Value over the Long Term Moreover, one of my major goals is to contribute to greater corporate value Outside Director by promoting the true diversity and meritocracy required to demonstrate and Former Managing Director at realize the Womenomics advocated by my former colleagues, and by materiGoldman Sachs Japan alizing the results thereof. I look forward to working with all of you. Jun. 2019 Director, Shinsei Bank, Limited (Current) Ownership: Common shares 0 Jun. 2017 Director, KATITAS Co., Ltd. Apr. 2017 Chairman & Representative Director, ComTech, Ltd. Jun. 2016 Director, RENOVA, Inc. Apr. 2016 Trustee, National Center for Global Health and Medicine (Current) Nov. 2001 Managing Director Mar. 1993 Joined Goldman Sachs Tokyo Branch (Predecessor of Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.) Nov. 1988 Joined CS First Boston Securities Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value Newly Appointed Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member My name is Ikuko Akamatsu, and I was recently appointed as an Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member. After graduating from university, I raised two sons while serving as a certified public accountant and certified fraud examiner. Based on my experience working in these areas, over the past eight years I have researched compliance, governance, and diversity at a university. Business and Financial Results Likewise, I hope to utilize my various experiences and expertise gained over the past quarter century along with my knowledge in my specialty fields of finance and internal control as I work to audit and provide oversight for the executive branch of management. I will aim to enhance corporate value over the mediumto long-term and carry out my responsibilities as Outside Audit Ikuko Akamatsu & Supervisory Board Member in order to support all of Shinsei Bank’s shareOutside Audit & Supervisory holders and stakeholders. Board Member I look forward to working with all of you. Certified Public Accountant Certified Fraud Examiner Jun. 2019 Audit & Supervisory Board Member, Shinsei Bank, Limited (Current) Apr. 2019 Senior Researcher, Management Training and Consulting Division, Institute of Management, SANNO University (Current) Aug. 2018 Director, TOP'S Inc. (Current) Ownership: Common shares 0 Jan. 2017 Member, Committee on Promotion of Active Participation for Women Accountants, The Japanese Institute of Certified Public Accountants (Current) Dec. 2010 Chief Researcher, Management Training and Consulting Division, Institute of Management, SANNO University Jan. 1995 Joined Showa Ota & Co. (Predecessor of Ernst & Young ShinNihon LLC) SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 57 Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value Corporate Governance Policy for Operation of the Board of Directors The Bank holds strategy sessions to intensively discuss that in order to improve the Bank’s accountability selected agenda items in addition to the six periodic towards its stakeholders, including shareholders, it is Board of Directors’ meetings. In fiscal 2018, the Bank necessary to further enhance objectivity and transparenheld two strategy sessions that mainly discussed the cy of the Board of Directors’ functions related to Medium-Term Strategies that start in fiscal 2019. In the appointment of candidates for directors and decisions sessions, directors and audit & supervisory board memon directors’ remuneration. In March 2019, the Bank bers posed numerous questions and comments on the established a voluntary Nomination and Compensation explanation by executive directors from a broader perCommittee for the purpose of further increasing the spective. objectivity and transparency of the functions of the Moreover, to ensure the sharing of their independent Board of Directors. The Nomination and Compensation viewpoints as well as to share detailed information Committee comprises only outside directors. The comregarding business execution with each of the outside mittee consults with the Board of Directors, and deliberdirectors, the Bank holds regular meetings attended only ates on the contents of General Meeting of Shareholders by the outside directors themselves. proposals regarding the appointment and dismissal of The majority of the Bank’s Board of Directors are presdirectors, on matters concerning the appointment and ently composed of outside directors (five of the seven dismissal of representative directors and on matters condirectors are outside directors), ensuring objective and cerning the compensation of directors, and reports its transparent discussions for appointment of candidates findings back to the Board of Directors. for directors and decisions on the directors’ remuneraIn order to fulfill its accountability towards stakeholdtion system and their specific remuneration levels. In ers, Shinsei Bank will make efforts to continually addition, from the perspective of “governance” in the strengthen its corporate governance framework. ESG management philosophy, the Bank has concluded L Annual Schedule for the Board of Directors Regularly scheduled Board meeting (on financial Regularly scheduled Board meeting (on interim May Nov. results, AGM* related materials, audit reports, etc.) financial results, etc.) Regularly scheduled Board meeting (held after Jun. Jan. Regularly scheduled Board meeting AGM ends, appointment of President, etc.) Regularly scheduled Board meeting (on fiscal Sep. Regularly scheduled Board meeting Mar. year budget and plan, etc.) * AGM: annual general meeting of shareholders L Timetable for Day of Regularly Scheduled L Strategy Session Board Meetings Meeting composed of outside directors Explanation by executive directors on 9:00 8:00 only (Nomination and Compensation formulation of Medium-Term Strategies Committee as needed) 12:00 Lunch Meeting of Board of Directors commences Discussion on formulation of Medium-Term Report from President 13:00 Strategies Report from Audit & Supervisory Board Report from Group Internal Audit Division 15:00 Summary 9:00 Finance-related report 16:00 Conclude meeting Individual agenda items to be resolved Report and deliberate on specific agenda items Risk-related report 11:30 Conclude meeting 58 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Board of Directors Effectiveness Evaluations The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group The Bank periodically conducts an evaluation/analysis of (b) Contents of strategy sessions discussions and effectivethe effectiveness of the Board as a whole in order to ness of the sessions improve the Board’s functionality. In the fiscal year under review, discussions focused on the An overview of the fiscal 2018 self-evaluation is as theme of mid-term management strategy formulation, ­follows. and in general these were evaluated to be useful. Strategy sessions were deemed to still be effective for deliberating (1) Objective on business strategy, and the decision was made to conTo improve the function of the Board of Directors by havtinue to hold the sessions while considering the themes as ing the Board perform a self-evaluation of whether it is well as the timing and frequency of sessions. fulfilling the roles and duties required of it and then (c) Board composition/diversity implement the PDCA cycle. Questions were asked regarding the roles, responsibilities, Creating Value over the Long Term (2) Subjects of analysis/evaluation gender balance, and cosmopolitanism of the Board, and it The Board’s activities, and the operation and support was confirmed that continued consideration should be systems for efficiently and effectively carrying out such given, particularly with respect to gender balance. activities. (d) Management of Board and strategy sessions by executives (3) Evaluators Since there had been feedback that deliberation time Evaluation by all members attending Board meetings was long, we worked to select agenda items with omit(Directors, Audit & Supervisory Board members and othted explanations and worked to keep explanations brief, ers – totaling 11 people). Certain questions are only among other measures, and in the fiscal year under asked to Audit & Supervisory Board members in order to review, as a result of efforts including revising the comreceive an evaluation of the Board by Audit & position of materials and receiving questions in advance, Supervisory Board members. etc., all respondents evaluated deliberation time as Supporting the Creation of (4) Analyzed/evaluated matters being appropriate, and we recognize that these efforts The contents of discussions at Board meetings, the have led to more efficient and dynamic management. operation of the Board by the executives, the composiSustainable Value tion and diversity of members of the Board, the provi(e) Provision of information to the Board by executives sion of information to the Board by the executives, the While the explanations at Board of Directors Meetings content of discussions at strategy sessions, the managewere evaluated as having improved, we also confirmed ment of strategy sessions by executives, communication, that there is room for improvement in providing informathe necessity of third-party evaluations of the Board’s tion on risk management, compliance, and other topics. effectiveness, evaluations by Audit & Supervisory Board (f) Third-party evaluation of effectiveness members, etc. The utilization of evaluations and their necessity are mat(5) Means of analysis/evaluation ters that we should continue to study while taking into Business and Financial Results Questionnaire survey (questions in which responses are account the Board’s intentions. selected including free-response questions) prepared by the secretariat for the Board of Directors based on (g) Questions for Audit & Supervisory Board members instructions from the Board Chairman. We confirmed that, as a whole, Audit & Supervisory (6) Results feedback Board members feel that directors are properly executThe selected results and responses to free-response ing the duties expected of them. questions are reported to the Board. The following is an overview of the key results of the surFrom the results of the survey, we concluded that vey. more efficient operation has led to more time being devoted to important discussions within limited meeting (a) Contents of Board meeting discussions times, such as the mediumto long-term business vision. To a certain extent, survey respondents feel that discusThe Bank will also strive to improve and maintain the sions for the mediumto long-term business vision, as aspects that were evaluated as appropriate or improved well as discussions for a business model aimed at from the previous year, and work to further improve the increasing corporate value and achieving sustainable Board’s effectiveness and functioning by examining and growth have been constructive and are contributing to making improvements to issues raised in the survey. an increase in corporate value and sustainable growth. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 59 Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value Corporate Governance Directors and Executive Officers Compensation Scheme Policy for Determining Compensation rules determined by the Board of Directors. Note that since • Appropriate incentives are provided in order to the indices used in the calculation formula are determined advance the Group’s business and realize the midto by the market, they are not set as performance targets. long-term Group management principles. • Reflecting the roles and responsibilities of each direcTotal Maximum Amount of Compensation for Directors tor and executive officer, directors and executive offi(1) Total maximum amount of compensation for directors cers share common shareholder value by holding the (including outside directors): Up to ¥180 million per Company’s shares over the long term. year (of this amount, ¥60 million for outside directors) • The scheme will curb excessive risk-taking and contribute (2) Maximum amount of allotment of restricted stock for to ongoing sound management as a financial institution. full-time directors: Up to ¥20 million per year, within • The plan incorporates a compensation system that the total maximum amount in (1) above (introduced provides incentive to further increase corporate value from fiscal 2018) considering share price. (3) Maximum amount of allotment of equity remuneration type stock options for full-time directors: Up to Composition of Compensation for Full-Time Directors* ¥50 million per year, separate from the total maximum • Basic compensation amount in (1) above Fixed compensation (Annual fixed amount) • Midto long-term incentive compensation Process for Determining Compensation Amounts We have introduced midto long-term incentive comCompensation amounts for directors and executive offipensation in order to enable directors and executive cers are predicated on the content of the Bank’s current officers to share with shareholders in the risks and benPlan for Restoring Sound Management and are deterefits associated with stock price fluctuations and to mined by the Board of Directors taking into consideration increase their motivation to contribute to increasing the recommendations of the Nomination and the stock price and enhancing corporate value over Compensation Committee who deliberate on compensathe midto long-term. tion amounts within the scope of compensation amounts 1) Restricted stock compensation (Introduced from fiscal determined at a general meeting of shareholders. The 2018) Nomination and Compensation Committee is comprised 2) Equity remuneration type stock options of all of the Bank’s outside directors, and the quorum for * There is no short-term incentive compensation to reward full-time directors for perNomination and Compensation Committee meetings is a formance in a single fiscal year. Note that introduction of restricted stock compenmajority of members present. Note that although the sation is under consideration as midto long-term incentive compensation for outside directors who are not full-time directors. Nomination and Compensation Committee was established on March 20, 2019, the process for determining Performance-based compensation compensation amounts for the Bank’s directors and execEquity remuneration type stock options are calculated using utive officers in fiscal 2018 also involved determination a set formula that is based on the stock prices and net assets through deliberations at a Board of Directors meeting at of the Bank and other companies in the banking sector. For which outside directors comprised the majority. Three this reason we have categorized them as “performance-­ Board of Directors meetings with matters on the agenda based compensation”. Equity remuneration type stock concerning compensation etc. for directors and executive option payment amounts are determined based on internal officers were held in fiscal 2018. L Total Amounts of Compensation etc. by Category, Total Amounts by Type of Compensation etc., and the Number of Eligible Persons (from April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019) Categories Total amounts of Total amounts by type of compensation etc. (millions of yen) compensation etc. Fixed Equity remuneration Restricted stock Retirement Number of eligible persons (millions of yen) Other compensation type stock options compensation benefits Directors (excluding outside 139 69 22 19 27 — 3 (One of whom has retired) directors) Audit & Supervisory Board members (excluding outside Audit & 20 20 — — — — 1 Supervisory Board members) Outside directors and outside Audit 78 72 — — 6 — 8 (One of whom has retired) & Supervisory Board members Total 237 161 22 19 33 — 12 (Two of whom have retired) Notes: 1. Amounts have been rounded down to the nearest unit. 2. Within the categories above, there are three directors who serve concurrently as executive officers (one of whom has retired). 3. B  ased on a resolution at the 15th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 17, 2015, one executive director and one outside director who retired at the closing of the 18th Annual General Meeting of Shareholders held on June 20, 2018, were paid retirement benefits of 33 million yen. Compensation for executive officers as well as chief year’s performance as short-term incentive compensaofficers and senior officers in the Group Headquarters is tion, and restricted stock compensation as mediumto comprised of a fixed compensation component as basic long-term incentive compensation (introduced in fiscal compensation, a bonus component based on the single 2018). 60 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Audit & Supervisory Board Members/Audit & Supervisory Board The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Shinsei Bank’s Audit & Supervisory Board is composed of key meetings, such as Executive Committee meetings, in one full-time member who has extensive business experiaddition to Board of Directors’ meetings, review key docence at the Bank and is knowledgeable in finance and uments and conduct interviews with directors, executive accounting and two outside members, one of whom is an officers and accounting auditors, engage with internal attorney and the other is a certified public accountant. By control sections such as the Group Internal Audit Division applying the expertise from their respective fields of speand utilize staff of the Office of Audit & Supervisory Board cialization and their knowledge of corporate governance, Members to systematically and efficiently audit the state the Audit & Supervisory Board, which is fully independent of the business execution of the entire Shinsei Bank from the Board of Directors, engages in appropriate Group, including the Bank as well as its subsidiaries. audits of the performance of the business execution of directors. L Activities of Audit & Supervisory Board Members In addition, both outside Audit & Supervisory Board since Fiscal 2018 AGM1 members are experienced as external directors of other Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Creating Value over the Long Term companies, and, by drawing upon their experience, they meetings Board meetings are able to provide views with greater objectivity from a Number of meetings held2 6 times 12 times position of greater independence, resulting in enhanced Attendance rate 100% 100% effectiveness of the Audit & Supervisory Board’s auditing 1 AGM refers to the annual general meeting of shareholders. activities. Audit & Supervisory Board members, in addition 2 The total number of meetings held after the AGM in fiscal 2018 to personally conducting audit activities such as attending Chief Officers/Senior Officers and Executive Officers In order to ensure agile day-to-day business operations, Act, and other laws and ordinances, and are working to business operations are split into basic units called “diviincrease the level of sophistication and productivity of sions,” and under the direction of the Executive Direc­tors operations on a consolidated basis under the responsibililed by the President and Chief Executive Officer, the 37 (as ty of chief officers and senior officers who assist them. Supporting the Creation of of June 19, 2019) executive officers, chief officers, and In addition, as bodies that support the President and senior officers appointed by the Board of Directors are Chief Executive Officer in making decisions regarding the responsible for each division as executive officers in charge. execution of business, the Bank has established a Group Sustainable Value With regard to business functions, business unit heads Executive Committee and an Executive Committee, both and executive officers in charge of each division are comprising Executive Directors, business unit heads, appointed from among executive officers, and each divisupervising executive officers in charge, chief officers, and sions’ executive officers in charge and their supervising others. In addition, by establishing various committees executive officers in charge work to promote business that handle technical matters as a complement to the with customers based on overall Group business strateGroup Executive Committee and the Executive gies and management resource allocations devised by Committee, the Bank has put in place a framework for business unit heads. making decisions after adequate deliberation and verifiWe have consolidated indirect functions such as human cation based on the nature of the matter at hand. resources and finance that had been located in each Based on this framework, the Bank is strongly promotBusiness and Financial Results Group company within the Bank’s Group Headquarters as ing Group integration in keeping with the Mediumto much as possible under the Banking Act, the Companies Long-Term Vision. L Overview of Group Executive Committee, Executive Committee and Other Important Committees Name Main Purpose Group Executive Committee The President’s decision-making body for day-to-day business execution at the Group level Executive Committee The President’s decision-making body for day-to-day business execution for Shinsei Bank, Limited Group ALM Committee Negotiate, formulate policies and make ­decisions concerning mediumand long-term Asset and Liability Management Group Compliance Committee Communicate, coordinate and make decisions on the Group’s compliance posture and on matters relating to compliance Group Risk Policy Committee Discuss the risk operation policy and management framework for the Group’s portfolios, and the Group’s approach to major portfolios, sectors, products and so forth Group IT Committee Discuss, coordinate and make decisions on matters concerning the Group’s information technology systems Group Business Continuity Management Committee Discuss, coordinate and make decisions across divisions to advance reforms to the Group’s business continuity structure Group Basel Committee Discuss, coordinate and make resolutions on matters concerning regulatory capital, with a focus on Basel regulations Group Management Development Committee Discuss, coordinate and make decisions about the Group’s HR system and related measures, etc. Group New Business/ Product Committee Conduct due diligence on each new business and service proposal across the Group and make decisions, and conduct due diligence on strategic investment proposals Doubtful Debt Committee Promptly inform top management about significant bad debt exposure, and make decisions on write-offs and other matters concerning sale of debts, debt forgiveness and so forth SME Loan Committee Through discussions on the business policy and challenges for the entire institutional banking business, take initiative in bank-wide efforts to achieve SME loan goals set in the Revitalization Plan SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 61 Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value Corporate Governance Internal Control In order for corporate governance to function effectively, Shinsei Bank’s basic policy governing its internal conin addition to creating business execution oversight and trol systems has been put in place in order to ensure the decision-making frameworks around the Board of propriety and efficiency of day-to-day operations and is Directors, putting into place frameworks which facilitate defined in the “Internal Control Rules” determined by the proper functioning of functions such as internal the Board of Directors, and, furthermore, the adequacy audits and compliance is also necessary. Additionally, the of its internal control systems is reviewed annually by the creation of internal control systems as required by the Board of Directors. The Internal Control Rules clearly Corporation Act or internal controls that ensure the state that (1) the internal control system has a self-disciaccuracy of financial reports as required by the Financial plined function in the business execution line in the field Instruments and Exchange Act is also a crucial element (first-line); a management function, such as compliance in a properly functioning corporate governance strucindependent from business execution lines (second-line); ture. While management is responsible for ensuring the and an internal audit function independent from these implementation of such internal controls, the proper functions (third-line); (2) the Board of Directors shall function of overall internal controls can be ensured by receive timely and appropriate reports from the secinstalling detailed internal control frameworks within the ond-line and third-line functions in order to grasp and divisions executing business operations. deal with serious risks and problems appropriately, and L Internal Control Framework Audit Audit & Supervisory Board Members/ Report Directors/Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Board Account Auditors Preparation/ Supervision Appointment/ updating of regulations Appointment supervision Audit Report Audit Report President & CEO Third-line function (internal audit function) Group Internal Audit Division Report Audit Executive Officers, Chief Officers, Senior Officers • Internal Control Rules Second-line function (management function, • Charter of Shinsei Bank compliance independent from business execution lines in the field) Group Corporate Behavior Group Headquarters • Shinsei Group Code of Conduct First-line function (a self-disciplined function in the • Risk Management Policy business execution line in the field) • Group Information Security Policy Customer business divisions (including Group companies) • Regulations of Business Plan Execution (Preparations of policies and measures) • Subsidiaries and Affiliates • Compliance • Management of subsidiaries Policy Action and affiliated companies Do • Risk Management • Group Headquarters (Improvement of policies • Security • Supervision of financial and (Implementation and measures) business matters of policies Organization Management • Efficient conduct of business and measures) Policy Check • Internal Audit Policy (Evaluation of policies and measures) <Design and operation of internal control systems> 62 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group shall periodically review the key policies and controls. With regard to internal control over group companies, Under this regulation, the Shinsei Bank Group Code of from April 2017, the indirect functions of Group compaConduct, Risk Management Policy, Group Information nies have been consolidated at the Group Headquarters Security Policy, Regulations of Business Execution, and managed centrally, and the departments in charge Subsidiaries and Affiliates Policy, Group Headquarters and specialized sections of the Group Headquarters Organization Management Policy and Internal Audit work together to manage subsidiaries and affiliates. Policy are established as the underlying rules. In addition, Under this system, matters related to business activities by improving the system for ensuring the effectiveness of and internal management of subsidiaries and affiliates the audits by Audit & Supervisory Board members, we are regularly reported to the Group Executive are striving to ensure the propriety, transparency and effiCommittee, and important matters related to the manciency of operations throughout the entire Group, includagement of subsidiaries and affiliates are discussed at Creating Value over the Long Term ing subsidiaries. Furthermore, we are striving to create and reported to the Group Executive Committee. systems to sever relationships with anti-social forces and Through the development of this system, we will further ensure the propriety of operations, including establishing enhance the management system of the entire Group, the Charter of Shinsei Bank Group Corporate Behavior to including subsidiaries and affiliates. cut off relationships with anti-social forces. L Group Internal Control Support Framework (as of June 19, 2019) Supporting the Creation of Divisions in Charge Overall Control Sustainable Value • Group Corporate Planning Division • Group Corporate Group Institutional Business Planning Division, Planning Division Group Individual Business Planning Division Management, Control Report Operational Risk Legal Compliance Administrative Operations • Group Legal and Compliance Risk Management Division Division Information Systems Risk Management System Risk Division* Business and Financial Results Group Member Companies Management, • Group Information Control Technology Division Credit Risk • Group Human • Showa Leasing Specialized Sections • Group Portfolio Labor Risk Resources Division Risk Management Division • APLUS FINANCIAL • Group Individual Banking Reputational Risk • Shinsei Financial Risk Management Division • Group IR & Corporate Communications Division • Shinsei Securities • Shinsei Trust & Banking Business Continuity Plan (BCP) Report Market Risk • Group General Services Division • Group Integrated Risk • Shinsei Investment Management Management Division • Shinsei Investment & Finance Finance • Group Corporate Planning • Alpha Servicer Liquidity Risk Division • Group Treasury Division • Group Financial and Regulatory • Shinsei Corporate Investment • Group Integrated Risk Accounting Division Management Division • Group Treasury Division P Under Group Headquarters * The specialized sections of each risk area identify and measure the potential risks in cooperation with the controlling division (Group Integrated Risk Management Division). SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 63 Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value Corporate Governance Internal Audit The Group Internal Audit Division (GIAD) of the Bank assessment, assessing risk from an individual business makes regular direct reports regarding the results of level. Audit resources are prioritized to businesses or audits and the status of GIAD activities to the President processes perceived to have relatively higher risk. and the Audit & Supervisory Board. The GIAD supports The GIAD has enhanced its off-site monitoring activithe President in his responsibility for controlling business ties by attending key management meetings, reviewing execution, in particular for establishing an effective sysinternal control documents and holding regular meettem of internal controls, and also supports the Audit & ings with senior management. Supervisory Board in their responsibilities for audit and The GIAD also takes the initiative in developing intersupervisory activities, in particular for monitoring the sysnal auditors’ expertise, in particular, strongly encouragtem governing internal controls and its operation. The ing them to obtain professional certifications such as the GIAD provides independent and objective assessments Certified Internal Auditor and Certified Information of the effectiveness of risk management, control and Systems Auditor qualifications. While the GIAD pursues governance processes, the reliability of information and the development and introduction of new audit techinformation technology systems, and compliance with niques, it also recognizes the importance of maintaining statutory, legal and regulatory requirements, as well as fundamental skills necessary to perform its audit-related provides solutions to management. duties. The GIAD is independent of all organizations subject The GIAD has integrated internal audit functions withto internal audits, as well as being independent of dayin the Bank and major subsidiaries, and conducts interto-day operational activities and control processes, nal audit activities in an integrated manner across the including regular preventive and detective controls. The Bank group. By receiving regular quality assessments GIAD utilizes a risk-based audit approach and creates a carried out by a third party organization of group internal comprehensive risk assessment by combining a macaudit activities, we are able to identify opportunities for ro-risk assessment, assessing risk from the perspective of improvement from an objective viewpoint. the Banking Group as a whole, together with a micro-risk Legal and Compliance Activities ties performed by compliance supervisors and compliCompliance Framework and Activities ance managers, these compliance officers prepare an annual Group compliance program, set rules, provide The Group Compliance Committee established in the training, and so on. Group Headquarters, Group Legal and Compliance Division and compliance supervisors (general managers) Whistle-blower System and compliance managers assigned to divisions, branches and departments in key Group companies, including Shinsei Bank has established a compliance hotline sysShinsei Bank, constitute the main elements of the Shinsei tem. Under this system, executives and employees of Bank Group’s compliance framework. The Group the Bank can report on violations of laws or ordinances, Compliance Committee, chaired by the Chief Officer of or matters in which there are suspicions of such violathe Group Legal and Compliance Division, reports on tions. If a report is made, the matter is reported to senior and discusses the basic policy for the compliance framemanagement, a team is organized to investigate the work spanning the entire Group as well as compliissue, and necessary corrective and recovery measures ance-related issues. are implemented. The Bank prohibits whistle-blowers There are compliance officers within the Group Legal from being subject to unfavorable treatment due to the and Compliance Division, and in addition to providing fact that they made a report, and the Group Legal and support and guidance for compliance promotion activiCompliance Division later follows up to make sure that 64 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 the whistle-blower has not been treated unfavorably. Financial Action Task Force (FATF), the Shinsei Bank Other group companies have also established similar Group is working on measures to combat money launThe Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group internal whistle-blowing systems. dering and the financing of terrorism under the leadership of senior management. Going forward, assessing L Compliance Hotline the effectiveness of countermeasures and continuously P Three Investigation Teams reviewing efforts will be a top priority for the Group. 1. Group Legal and Compliance Division 2. Full-Time Audit & Supervisory Board Member Legal Supervision 3. Outside Law Officer P Information on the internal whistle-blower system is Violations of any laws and ordinances that the Bank and provided through internal rules and the Company’s each Group company are required to abide by carries intranet the risk of severe repercussions not only to our credibility and reputation as a financial institution, but to the crediCreating Value over the Long Term bility and functionality of the overall banking system Measures against Money Laundering and itself. In the case of individual transactions, there exists a Provision of the Financing of Terrorism risk that we may become embroiled in a dispute and face unexpected claims for damages. Prevention and The Shinsei Bank Group has “Policy on Anti-Money proper management of these legal risks are a crucial Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism” function within the day-to-day operations of today’s and has positioned combating money laundering and banking groups. Shinsei Bank has established the Legal the provision of funds to terrorist organizations as one of Department within its Group Legal and Compliance the most critical issues for management, and works to Division that presides over such legal affairs, including establish a Group-wide framework for doing so. Using a compliance with corporate and transactional laws, legal risk-based approach, the Group is reducing risk by documentation and litigation supervision, and, through Supporting the Creation of implementing individual measures to combat the Shinsei this specialized support, we work with legal officers in all Bank Group’s particular risks that have been identified Group companies and, on a Group basis, aim to prevent and evaluated. In particular, in fiscal 2019, ahead of the and manage any legal risk and support our compliance Sustainable Value 4th Round of Mutual Evaluations of Japan by the posture from a legal standpoint. L Shinsei Bank Group Policy on Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism 1. Risk assessment Specify and assess the risk of money laundering and financing of terrorism at each company based on the concept of the risk-based approach, while paying attention to laws, ordinances, and other rules in Japan and documents issued by the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, and other international organizations. Take risk mitigation measures that are appropriate for the risk being addressed. Regularly examine the effectiveness of risk identification and assessment practices and risk mitigation measures Business and Financial Results and review them as needed. 2. Customer identification and due Conduct customer identification before entering into transactions pursuant to relevant laws and ordinances, pracdiligence tice proper customer due diligence, and endeavor to eliminate inappropriate transaction relationships with customers including those with antisocial forces. 3. Transaction monitoring, customer Give the authorities a suspicious transaction report immediately if a transaction is judged to fall under suspicious screening, and reporting of transactions based on an abnormality found in the customer identification process conducted before entering into suspicious transactions a transaction or during transaction monitoring or customer screening or based on a report made by business promotion divisions/branches. 4. Targeted financial sanctions and Eliminate transaction relationships with the parties that are subject to targeted financial sanctions and appropriately asset-freezing measures take asset-freezing and other measures pursuant to domestic and overseas regulations and so forth. 5. Management of customers with Appropriately collect information on customers who have entered into a correspondent contract with the Bank and correspondent contract assess their AML/CFT frameworks. Shinsei Bank and its customers who have entered into a correspondent contract with the Bank are prohibited from having transactions with shellbanks and from having transactions using through accounts with a strong level of anonymity. 6. Training for officers and Endeavor to provide guidance and training to officers and employees to deepen their knowledge and understandemployees ing of AML/CFT measures and to equip them with expertise and to ensure their suitability according to their roles. 7. Continuous improvement Regularly check the effectiveness of AML/CFT frameworks and endeavor to keep improving them based on the results of such checks. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 65 Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value Risk Governance Basic Approach The Shinsei Bank Group handles business and risk manthe Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Ratio and ROE (return agement in an integrated manner by matching risk and on equity) etc. as important financial targets in its busireturn. In the process of formulating our annual manageness strategy, and the consistent framework between ment plan, we create a financial plan and a capital allofinancial planning and risk appetite allows us to generate cation plan by keeping consistency with one another, expected return by taking appropriate risk, which will based on the risk appetite specified in each business result in improving financial targets through the integratstrategy in the Medium-Term Strategies. The capital alloed risk management and business management. This cation plan quantifies risk appetite and allocates the management philosophy based on risk appetite is comrequired capital to each business line in order to achieve monly referred to as the “risk appetite framework.” the financial plan. The Shinsei Bank Group has identified L Conceptual Diagram of Integrated Management Business Business Environment Scenario Verification Environment Scenario Verification recognition recognition Medium-Term Strategies FY Business Plan Operation Results and (Risk appetite) Financial Plan monitoring review of Business strategies Financial Targets plan (Risk appetite) Capital allocation plan L Overview of Integrated Management Functions Financial risks Nonfinancial risks Capital Liquidity Revenue fluctuation Scenario analysis Evaluation of High important risks importance Capital management Revenue Integrated risk Liquidity risk management management management Difficult to quantify 66 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Risk Appetite The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group The types and amounts of key risks are defined as “risk eration of nonfinancial risks that are difficult to quantify, capital” in an integrated risk management method. Risk along with other risks. In this process, we visualize trigger capital is the amount of risk measured for each of the events, transmission mechanisms, and financial impacts risk categories: Credit risk, market risk, interest rate risk, to the maximum extent possible when determining busiand operational risk, and it is a performance indicator ness impacts. Currently, we identify various important vis-à-vis the capital allocation plan. Risk capital by busirisks including economic downturns, the rise in longness line is monitored under the strict rules, and the term interest rates, the entry of nonfinancial companies progress of the management plan is managed from the into the industry due to innovations in financial technoloviewpoint of risk appetite. If monitoring activity reveals a gies, the risk of fraud in business processes, and the risk deviation from the original capital allocation plan due to of destabilization of the foreign currency procurement changes in the business environment or other factors, we environment. We will strive to monitor the signs of, as Creating Value over the Long Term review the plan and/or the operational policy. well as manage, these risks, and bolster our ability to In addition, among risks that may emerge in the comrespond in times of emergency. At the Shinsei Bank ing year, risks believed to have a significant impact on Group we established a risk policy committee as a conbusiness are recognized based on discussions by senior sultative body to ensure an alignment between business management. This process also emphasizes the considstrategy and risk appetite. L Important Risks Risk scenario Risk scenario details/impact 1. Decline in asset prices and A change in monetary policy caused by significant inflation resulting from protectionist moves triggered by U.S.increase in fund procureChina trade friction. Supporting the Creation of ment costs due to a rise in An increase in credit costs and fund procurement costs in conjunction with falling real estate prices caused by a sharp long-term interest rates rise in long-term interest rates following interest rate hikes. 2. Entry of nonfinancial Entry by players from other industries into the personal and SME loan market in association with the rise of FinTech ­companies into the industry and other new technologies. Sustainable Value due to innovations in A resulting decline in the Shinsei Bank Group’s loan balance and lower profit margins due to competition over ­financial technologies ­interest rates. 3. Risk of fraud in business Internal fraud, including fraud by subcontractors, external fraud (money laundering, cyberattacks, etc.), system processes ­failures, etc. Associated penalties and administrative sanctions imposed by relevant authorities, as well as reputational damage, etc. 4. Risk of destabilization The foreign currency investment/procurement balance increasingly tilts towards excessive investment. of the foreign currency Instability and inefficiency of foreign currency procurement, including rising fund procurement costs in conjunction ­procurement environment with financial market turmoil under such circumstances. Business and Financial Results Management Plan Verification To ensure the validity of the management plan, our basic feasibility, we review the plan. For nonfinancial risks, we approach is to perform verification including scenario attempt to link these to the management plan and peranalyses, and conduct revisions as necessary. In scenario form the aforementioned important risk analyses during analyses, we create several scenarios such as an ecothe plan formulation process. This requires close comnomic downturn, and estimate the revenue fluctuation munication between the business management and risk risk, capital adequacy, and liquidity risk in each scenario. management sections, and this communication is an If, based on the analyses, we determine that the plan important factor to integrate risk management and busiassumes excessive risk, or if there are doubts about its ness management. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 67 Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value Initiatives for Employees The Shinsei Bank Group regards HR-related matters as one of the most important tasks for the growth of the organization. Therefore, we implement ongoing reviews of our existing systems and initiatives. In order to provide optimal value to our customers, the entire Group is working together across departments and groups to develop and utilize personnel and foster an organizational culture. The Shinsei Bank Group’s Diversity & Inclusion customers’ true needs. We call on our Group employees to free themselves from conventional concepts and ideas, to enjoy change, and to develop a mindset of respecting diversity and accepting things that are different. “Enjoying” change involves being open minded and Hideyuki Kudo adopting a positive approach to change, and proactively President and Chief Executive Officer embracing your own efforts to respond to changes. At the same time, in order to create new, interesting, and unique Shinsei Bank Group companies provide financial products things, the Group is working to create a structure whereby and services to corporate and individual customers while the Group is not simply a collection of individual compacollaborating under integrated management. We also nies, but one in which the various strengths of each comconduct reviews of the Group’s financial functions from pany are brought together and the personnel the customer's point of view, and aim to create new busiunderpinning these strengths work together organically nesses that extend beyond existing frameworks based on while respecting one another’s individuality. The Shinsei Bank Group’s Personnel Strategy The finance industry has entered a dynamic period of Starting in fiscal 2018, we began using a common pertransformation due to the progress of digitalization, the formance evaluation system across the Group as a part utilization of data and AI, and other advancements, and of our efforts to bolster talent management. We are the Shinsei Bank Group aims to be a financial innovator working to have all employees, regardless of which that provides innovative financial services by further Group company they belong to, contribute even more refining our features and strengths. We believe that the value to the Group by maximizing their individual key is for the personnel in each Group company to leverstrengths and through the optimal utilization of personage their business platforms, product strengths, and nel on a Group-wide basis in addition to helping development capabilities to maximize their capabilities. employees develop their skills. Moreover, we aim to We want all personnel to enhance their level of expermaximize group performance while creating new finantise, while also bringing together their expertise at a cial services as we integrate the Group’s various financial high level, generate novel ideas, and proactively deliver functions. new value to customers. Promoting Diversity and the Active Participation of Women in the Workplace In order to further promote diversity, in February, 2018, example, to help promote diverse work styles, in April the Shinsei Bank Group established the Diversity 2018 we introduced a telecommuting system and also Promotion Office within the Group Human Resources started allowing employees to engage in both side work Division. We have positioned diverse work styles, proand concurrent work. Allowing employees to engage in moting active participation of women in the workplace, both side work and concurrent work received a great utilization of seniors, etc., as important themes, and we deal of attention as a cutting-edge initiative by domestic are promoting measures related to these topics. As an financial institutions, and was covered by large media 68 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 outlets. Leveraging this kind of framework allowing L Promoting Role of Women in Workplace, diverse work styles, we will consider hiring more outside Trend in Female Manager Ratio The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group (%) talent, such as people with high levels of specialization. 40 Shinsei Bank President and Chief Executive Officer 35.0 Hideyuki Kudo supports the “Declaration on Action by a 31.6 30 Group of Male Leaders Who Will Create a Society in Fiscal 2020 which Women Shine” advocated by the Cabinet Office. Target 20 In February 2018, the Bank established the “Committee on Promoting the Role of Group Women in the 10 Workplace,” and is developing a variety of career development systems to promote female employees in the workplace, including providing training opportunities. In 0 (FY) 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 fiscal 2020, the Bank aims to have a female manager Creating Value over the Long Term (section leader-level or higher)1 ratio of 17% (15.2% in fiscal 2019), and a female manager (section manager-level or higher)2 ratio of 35% (31.6% in fiscal 2019). (Note 1) R  anking of senior manager, deputy senior manager, or above (Note 2) Ranking of manager or above Employee Health Initiatives Employment Initiatives for Persons with Disabilities The Shinsei Bank Group is working to maintain and improve the health of its employees and create a safe There are 88 people with disabilities working in various Supporting the Creation of and comfortable working environment by linking the Shinsei Group workplaces (as of March 31, 2019), based activities of the Health Committee and industrial health, on the idea that personnel with diverse values should be in accordance with laws related to occupational health able to harness their individuality and work together in Sustainable Value and safety. We also use stress checks to understand the the same workplaces, rather than separating from each health risks of individual organizational units based on other people with disabilities and those without disabiliorganizational analyses of each Group company, and ties. In order to maintain a working environment and systake actions to improve them. Shinsei Bank has estabtems whereby people with disabilities can work with lished a Health Development Center, which provides peace of mind for many years, and in order to expand daily health management and health guidance. The opportunities for continuous active participation based Health Development Center is staffed with full-time on the circumstances of each individual, the Bank industrial physicians. assigns such employees to workplaces in accordance Business and Financial Results with their individual characteristics. Work Style Reform Interview 1 Side Work and Concurrent Work  Masahiro Tazawa  Project Finance Division In addition to my main work in the lending business at Shinsei Bank, I import and sell cashmere wool from Mongolia as a side business. When starting my side business, I made sure that it was the kind of business that would not hinder my main work and would be something that I could do without over-extending myself. I basically limit the time I spend on my side business to weekends and holidays. In creating a business plan for my side business, I meet and speak with a lot of people, and during this process my network grew to include people both outside and inside the Group that I previously had no connection with. This network, along with the various opinions I received from people, have been very useful to me in my main work in the Bank’s lending business as well. In addition, I think that by starting my own business and actually experiencing the difficulties that come with running a business first hand, I am able to better understand the customers I lend to and better serve them. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 69 Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value Initiatives for Employees L List of Shinsei Bank’s work-style reform-related programs System Details Self-Directed Flex-Time Allows employees to start or finish work 30 minutes or one hour earlier or later than the normal starting or ending times Work from Home Allows employees to work from their home or a relative’s (within two degrees of kinship) home, up to a maximum of two days per week Side Work/Concurrent Work Allows employees to concurrently engage in personal business (outsourcing, business start-up, company executive, etc.) or work concurrently for another company Half-Day Paid Time Off Allows employees to take time off in half-day increments during designated hours in the morning or afternoon Hourly Paid Time Off Allows employees to take time off in one-hour increments, up to five days per year (in combination with above half-day paid time off) Life Support Leave Allows employees to take a leave of absence for reasons including childcare, family care, study abroad, fertility treatment, spouse work transfer, etc., not covered by existing frameworks Maternity Leave Female employees can take leave from 6 weeks prior to childbirth to 8 weeks after childbirth Childcare Leave Employees can take leave up until their child reaches the age of two at a maximum Family Care Leave In principle, employees can take up to a total of one year (365 days) off to care for each family member who requires care (Note) Only employees satisfying certain conditions are eligible to take the systems noted above. Work-Style Design – Office Space Reform L Reducing the Volume of Paper Documents Stored at the In April 2017, the Shinsei Bank Group integrated the Nihonbashi and Meguro Offices to Facilitate More indirect functions of Group companies, established a virEfficient Use of Space As part of efforts to reduce the volume of stored paper doctual Group headquarters, and consolidated all employuments, reduction targets have been set for each departees engaged in indirect functions at Group companies in ment. We achieved the goal of reducing the volume of the Nihonbashi Office. In fiscal 2019, in order to further paper documents stored per person to 1.5fm (file meters). promote Group integration on the business side, we will The volume of documents was reduced by 2,714fm in total, consolidate the formerly decentralized Tokyo metropoliwhich is 2,642 meters when converted to height. This is tan area offices of Group companies into functional units more than four times the transcending the bounds of legal entities. In addition to height of Tokyo Skytree. workplace strategies and securing work space, such as Reducing the amount of space introducing ABW (Activity Based Working)1 in areas used for document storage where institutional business departments are gathered, allowed office space to be A PDF file certificate was awarded to we have launched a project to promote the redesigning used more effectively. departments that achieved significant reductions in the volume of stored of office environments and working styles, including (Note 1) A  work style that allows choice in paper documents such things as location of work switching to mobile PCs, adding Wi-Fi in offices, and and desk to match the type of work being performed. enhancing the IT environment to facilitate paperless meetings etc., along with other initiatives. Work Style Reform Interview B Assigning Senior Personnel  Mitsumasa Sugiyama  Retail Sales & Support Division My current job involves arranging general affairs matters within my division; handling inquiries, including inquiries from retail branches concerning personnel matters; and coordinating with related divisions. For 45 years, I was helped along by others at the Long-Term Credit Bank of Japan and then Shinsei Bank. I wanted to return the favor, even if just a little, while other staff members still see me as someone they can depend on. I think that smiles, communication, and handshakes are important. In talking with staff, I try to understand what they are feeling, and talk to them about my experiences and about how to stay motivated. I tell people to take all work seriously, and that what is important is to figure out ways to enjoy the work you’re given and to make progress one step at a time with a positive attitude. In order for senior personnel to contribute, what is important is that others rely on us without viewing our age as an issue. 70 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Initiatives for Customers Customer-Oriented Business Conduct The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group As a guideline for conducting business operations with contributing to our customers’ asset formation,” and by top priority on customers’ “best interests,” the Bank firmly committing to customer-oriented business operaestablished the “Policy on Customer-Oriented Business tions, we will contribute to the sustainable growth and Conduct” (hereinafter referred to as the “Policy”) and development of society and the economy. an “Action Plan” to put this Policy into practice. Each For additional details, please refer to Shinsei Bank’s Shinsei Bank Group company and all executives and website. employees of the Group have reaffirmed the importance https://www.shinseibank.com/fiduciaryduty.html of “Pursuing customer-oriented business conduct and LS  hinsei Bank Group Companies that Have Established and Announced a Policy Creating Value over the Long Term Functions in Shinsei Bank Group’s Asset Management Business Operations Sales Investment / Product Development Custody Services Shinsei Bank Shinsei Trust & Banking Shinsei Securities Shinsei Investment Management L The Policy and Actions Policy Actions Supporting the Creation of Implementation of the Policy Monthly PDCA (Plan-Do-Check-Action) meetings were held among members of divisions including on Customer-Oriented planning, sales, product management and compliance in the retail asset management business Business Conduct regarding customer-oriented business conducts. Status of the action plan for fiscal 2018 has been announced. Sustainable Value The Best Interests of the We have reviewed operation rules and advisory tools in asset management and consulting services Customers to provide the services suitable for each customer. Asset management products and services have been enhanced and consulting services with video conference system have been introduced in some branches to fulfill the customers’ various needs. Appropriate Management of 31 new products and services were screened and checked for conflicts of interest in the committee. Conflicts of Interest All products and services have been reviewed semi-annually, and also checked changes in market value, status of complaints and its follow-ups in addition to conflicts of interest. Transparency of Expense and We renewed our website on mutual fund products for customers to easily compare fees with those of Fee Structures other mutual funds. Internal training program has been enhanced to explain fee structures to the cusBusiness and Financial Results tomers in easily understandable ways. Providing Important Advisory tools in asset management consultation was revised and Money Plan Guide has been develInformation in oped to provide information on life planning and asset formation of customers . We have provided Easily Understandable Ways information about structure, risks and fees of mutual funds and also introduced Mutual Fund Lineup as a tool for customers to compare and select mutual funds. Providing Services Suitable for We have monitored to see if products and services we advised have been good matches for customEach Customer ers’ asset management experiences, assets, investment purpose and life plan as well as economic rationality. Monitoring results have been fed backed to employees to improve quality of the services. Particularly, transactions of elderly customers have been continuously monitored as to whether appropriate advice has been made and customers could properly understand. Frameworks for Increase in asset under management and the results of customer satisfaction survey were added to Appropriate Motivation of the performance evaluation of branches to ensure that employees could deeply understand customEmployees er-oriented business conduct. We also reviewed evaluation frameworks and items in order to encourage employees to act in the best interests of customers. Internal training programs including inheritance, real estate investment and tax in addition to customer-oriented business conduct policy were held for appropriate consulting services for customers. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 71 Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value Social Initiatives Our Approach As a corporate group that provides financial services to Nurturing the society, the Shinsei Bank Group is aware that the healthy Next Generation Environment Support children, youth Protect our earth development of society is the foundation for the Group’s and physically and and the environment continued existence. As such, we actively promote intellectually challenged people who create we live in Corporate Philanthropic Initiatives as part of our commitour future ment to acting as a responsible corporate citizen and contributing to the development of a sustainable society. Disaster Relief The Shinsei Bank Group promotes employee-driven philSupport the areas anthropic activities, whereby approximately 330 employaffected by the Great East Japan ees throughout the entire Group participated in 33 Earthquake activities in fiscal 2018 (ended March 31, 2019). “MoneyConnection®” Financial Literacy Program In cooperation with Sodateage.net, an authorized speciSince this unique program that connects youth with socified nonprofit organization, the Shinsei Bank Group holds ety was launched in 2007, the program has expanded to “MoneyConnection®,” a financial literacy program that cover 37 prefectures. The aims to help younger people avoid situations where they Shinsei Bank Group will conare not in employment, education or training (NEET). tinue to proactively support This program was developed with the understanding the program, so that even that “a lack of accurate knowledge regarding money and more students have an oppora lack of monetary sense” is one of the reasons that peotunity to take the course. ple lapse into a NEET situation. We offer this program L No. of Schools Where the Program Was Held with the goal of providing opportunities, mainly to high No. of Student Participants school students, who are facing the first big choice in (Schools) 1,058 schools (Thousands) their lives regarding their future paths to enable them to 1,200 136,232 students 180 consider work, monetary aspects, and the future. 1,000 150 Employees are able to participate as class supporters at 800 120 high schools, and through the pre-program orientation where they learn about the background of the program 600 900 and about the situation facing youths. In addition, 177 schools 400 600 through their interactions with students in the classroom, 27,053 students employees are able to learn about how the risk of young 200 300 people lapsing into NEET situations, which has a big 0 0 impact on society, is a social issue that ought to be (FY) 2008 2018 addressed. L Cumulative no. of schools where the program was held (left) L Cumulative no. of student participants (right) Post-quake Recovery Support Activities in the Tohoku Region of Japan Soon after the Great East Japan Earthquake, Shinsei Bank over time, our employees have continued to work to Group employees began and have continued to provide understand the current situation and to place imporsupport to local communities in various ways. These include tance on empathy while traveling to the region to provide support, collecting internal continuing to provide the donations and opening a stall within the Bank to sell food kind of support that is and supplies made at businesses that support the employrequired at each particular ment of handicapped individuals in Miyagi Prefecture. point in time. Although the ways in which employees have connected with the affected region have continued to change Stall within the Bank 72 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 For Shareholders and Investors Fiscal 2018 IR/SR Strategy The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group 1. Create environment for the CEO to engage in constructive dialogue with the market 2. Issue Integrated Report and proactively utilize this in dialogue with the market 3. Create environment to facilitate the utilization of IR/SR/ESG information as management information 4. Promote mutual communication between investors/analysts and the company from only feedback from them 5. Enhance communication with those in charge of exercising voting rights and those charged with the responsibility of shareholder stewardship L IR Activities (Fiscal 2018 Results) L Top Management’s Commitment to IR (Number of IR Meetings in Fiscal 2018) Individual meetings (including individual meetings at conferences) 208 (127 companies) Participation in conferences held by securities companies Executive IR/SR 5 times CEO Total (Total of domestic and overseas) Officers Officers Creating Value over the Long Term Financial results briefings and telephone conferences 8 times 58 79 71 208 Number of participants at financial briefing session (including live streaming) More than 280 28% 38% 34% 100% Dialogue with directors, executive officers and managers by market 3 times ­participants and experts IR activity reporting at Board of Directors’ meetings, Group Executive 5 times Committee meetings and General Manager meetings FY2018 Achievements and Issues The number of repeated meetings between the CEO We issued our first Integrated Report and the CEO and the same investors declined while the number of conducted an Integrated Report Roadshow both in meetings with executive officers remained at the same Japan and overseas. Our Integrated Report was selected Supporting the Creation of level of last fiscal year. The number of meetings with IR as an “Excellent Integrated Report” by asset managers representatives declined due primarily to reduction of of GPIF (Government Pension Investment Fund) who are research costs for investors since the introduction of entrusted with domestic equity investment. Sustainable Value MiFID2 and a decline in appetite for Japanese financial Feedback of IR information to employees of the stocks. In fiscal 2019 we plan to focus on cultivating new Group has been enhanced in addition of reporting to investors by refining our targeting methodology. the management. For example, we issued IR reports for We commenced full-fledged engagement by the CEO the employees, and organized seminars on ESG by the and executive officers in charge of IR with proxy voting subject matter experts and market valuation of the advisory firms and the responsible investment officers of Group by the market participants. Through the dialogue domestic institutional investors. In fiscal 2019, we aim to with investors about ESG, we will make more efforts on strengthen the framework for engagement meetings supporting each business line to resolve social issues. Business and Financial Results with investors and analysts. Formulation of Group ESG Management Policy The Company formulated a “Group ESG Management environmental issues, the Policy also clearly defines our Policy” which clarifies the basic concepts and direction approach to investment and financing in both ESG and of the Shinsei Bank Group's efforts to address environspecific businesses (please refer to page 46 for the mental and social issues. In addition to our basic “Group ESG Management Policy”). approach to corporate governance, social issues, and https://www.shinseibank.com/corporate/en/esg/ Feature: IR/SR Seminars for the Management Given Market Participants and Experts We initiated numerous events to receive direct feedback from the market, as a part of measures to utilize IR, SR and ESG information as an important management tool and also to promote on an exchange of information and dialogue based on feedback from investors and analysts. For instance, a buy-side analyst discussed with the Board of Directors about integration of ESG and investment, and a subject matter expert illustrated new trends in disclosing nonfinancial information in the medium-term management plan at the presentation to the executives. Furthermore, a ­sell-side analyst provided the managers with a market view on the Group. We will continue to create opportunities to directly provide the Group with opinions of the capital market and encourage to make the most of IR, SR and ESG information for the Group’s management. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 73 Supporting the Creation of Sustainable Value Environmental Initiatives The Shinsei Bank Group’s Renewable Energy Initiatives Since 2012, Shinsei Bank has been accumulating knowlevels of efficiency, a careful assessment of many factors how about deal origination, risk management and other is made. This assessment includes the power generation matters through the provision of financing for renewable efficiency of the power plant in question, as well as techenergy projects involving solar power, wind power, bionologies used to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, and mass and geothermal energy and has been expanding other considerations pertaining to each individual power the base of domestic project financing investors as well plant, with reference to guidelines such as the OECD as promoting syndication with regional financial instituArrangement on Officially Supported Export Credits, tions. As we enhance our efforts to diversify power and in full consideration of the situation in each country sources, in fiscal 2018 we financed a wind power project and international conditions relating to coal-fired therin Ishikawa Prefecture and an offshore wind power projmal power plants (please refer to Page 46 for the “Group ect in the United Kingdom. As of March 31, 2019, wind ESG Management Policy”). power accounts for approximately 8% of the approxiL Project Finance mately ¥260 billion total balance of domestic project Balance: project type, includes commitment basis finance (including committed amounts), and 21% of the (as of the end of March 2019) approximately ¥170 billion total balance of overseas project finance (including committed amounts). As a market leader in domestic renewable energy projects, the Shinsei Bank Group will continue to contribute to Japan Overseas the development of the renewable energy market in Japan and to solve environmental and energy issues through the renewable energy business using diverse power sources. L Mega solar 71% L PPP129% L Thermal power (coal) 11% L Gas etc. 24% Under the Group ESG Management Policy, the Shinsei L Wind power 8% L Wind power 21% Bank Group prohibits new investment and lending to L Thermal power (biomass) 8% L Thermal power (coal) 13% L Thermal power (gas) 2% L Others 6% coal-fired thermal power plants, in principle. However, in L Thermal power (biomass) 4% the case of ultra-supercritical pressure coal-fired thermal L Thermal power (gas) 3% 1 Public Private Partnership power plants or power plants with the same or higher 2 Finance to LNG related facilities and receiving terminal etc. Business Model Addressing Societal Needs by Promoting Reuse Harnessing its expertise and corporate network cultivatincluding China and other countries in Southeast Asia. In ed through the leasing business, Showa Leasing is focusfiscal 2018, the transaction value totaled ¥6.7 billion (up ing on its business as a broker-dealer buying and selling 10% from the previous fiscal year), and the transaction used equipment. Tozai Boeki Co., Ltd., which became a value has been on the rise in recent years. Going forwholly-owned subsidiary of Showa Leasing in November ward, the Shinsei Bank Group will continue to promote 2015, holds three parade auctions a year, where particithe reuse of well-mainpants bid on used construction machines that are driven tained used Japaneseout and auctioned in front of bidders one at a time. made machinery that Many buyers from developing countries come to these meets environmental auctions, and the Japanese-made construction machinstandards. ery auctioned off are exported overseas where they support infrastructure-building in emerging markets Construction machines destined for ­overseas export Reverse Mortgages for Seniors —Curbing the Rise in Unoccupied Homes by Helping People Stay in their Homes for their Entire Life APLUS, a subsidiary of APLUS FINANCIAL, has been real estate operators since 2017. This initiative provides offering pre-owned housing purchase/resale loans to financing to real estate operators for purchasing 74 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 ­ re-owned housing, renovation work, as well as various p pay bills due to a decline in income and other factors in other expenses, thereby helping to raise the value of order for them to continue to stay in their home with The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group pre-owned homes through renovation and invigorate the peace of mind and continue to have a fulfilling life. Using market. This program contributes to the revitalization of their homes as collateral, reverse mortgages help peothe market for pre-owned homes, primarily targeting ple stay in high-quality “final abodes” that allow them to young people and families with children. live a safe, healthy, and comfortable life by providing In addition, with the rapidly declining birthrate and mortgage refinancing or renovation funds for the rest of aging population, there is also a need to provide finantheir life. As a result, reverse mortgages also help curb cial support to allow elderly people to continue to have the increase in unoccupied homes. fulfilling lives independently in their homes for the rest Through these initiatives, the Shinsei Bank Group is of their life. In 2018, we started offering reverse mortproviding solutions to help address the low birthrate and gages to seniors with the aim of helping seniors over the aging population as well as the associated problem of age of 60 who own their own home but are struggling to the rise in the number of unoccupied homes. Creating Value over the Long Term Addressing the Plastic Problem through Investment —Supporting a Company Developing Material as a Plastic Alternative With environmental pollution from ocean plastics and TBM is accelerating its efforts to contribute to the transiother waste having become a global problem, the tion to a sustainable circular economy. Examples include Shinsei Bank Group made an investment in TBM Co., upcycling recyclable LIMEX as a more valuable plastic Ltd., a Japanese venture company that develops, proalternative and developing and spreading the use of duces, and sells LIMEX, a new material made primarily biodegradable LIMEX. In from limestone. LIMEX is drawing attention as a material addition to expecting Supporting the Creation of that is both eco-friendly and economical. Using LIMEX, returns on this investwhich employs a very limited amount of petroment, the Shinsei Bank leum-based material, as an alternative to plastic, will Group will support TBM’s Sustainable Value allow for manufacturing costs to be reduced going forinitiatives to help realize ward, while limestone, the raw material for LIMEX, is a sustainable society via LIMEX, an alternative to plastic abundant in Japan, with a self-sufficiency ratio exceedfinancing and business matching. ing 100% and there are no concerns about depletion. Participating in Arakawa Clean Aid to Address the Plastic Problem Business and Financial Results —Raising Employees’ Awareness of Environmental Problems and Contributing to the Local Community The Shinsei Bank Group has been participating in the learn that collecting it before it gets to the ocean is critiArakawa Clean Aid program run by the Arakawa Clean cal because plastic waste left in the riverbed is degraded Aid Forum, an NPO, since 2009. More than 380 people by ultraviolet light as well as the wind and waves, and in total have participated in waste pickup surveys in the eventually becomes microplastic which is even harder to Arakawa River riverbed to check the amount and types recover. In addition to raising the environmental awareof waste. The most prevalent types of scattered waste on ness of employees, this program also provides an opporthe Arakawa River are plastic waste, including plastic tunity to recognize that beverage bottles, plastic food bags, and plastic containwe are responsible for ers. Even after cleaning up the waste, new waste floats solving environmental ashore again and starts to accumulate in about a month. problems as a member It is said that 50-80% of the waste in the ocean comes of the local community. from land, and participants in the program learn through firsthand experience that a large amount of waste is Arakawa Clean Aid participants and the waste they collected flowing out from Tokyo Bay and into the ocean, and also SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 75 Business and Financial Results Financial Summary Shinsei Bank, Limited, and Consolidated Subsidiaries For the fiscal years ended March 31, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018 and 20191 FY2008 FY2009 FY2010 FY2011 For the fiscal year (Billions of yen) : 1 Total revenue 183.1 264.2 262.6 202.9 General and administrative expenses 182.0 170.8 145.3 130.3 Net credit costs 129.0 112.2 68.3 12.2 Income before income taxes (119.0) (123.0) 57.7 15.3 Profit attributable to owners of the parent (143.0) (140.1) 42.6 6.4 Balances at fiscal year-end (Billions of yen): Securities 2,174.1 3,233.3 3,286.3 1,873.4 Loans and bills discounted 5,876.9 5,163.7 4,291.4 4,136.8 Lease receivables and leased investment assets 232.5 213.7 206.2 197.4 Total assets 11,949.1 11,376.7 10,231.5 8,609.6 Deposits and negotiable certificates of deposit 6,272.1 6,475.3 5,610.6 5,362.4 Total liabilities 11,181.7 10,741.8 9,620.3 7,982.0 Total equity 767.4 634.9 611.1 627.6 Per share data (Yen): Common equity 284.95 232.72 205.83 212.67 Basic profit (72.85) (71.36) 21.36 2.42 Dividends — — 1.00 1.00 Ratios (%): Return on assets2 (1.2) (1.2) 0.4 0.1 Return on equity3 (22.4) (27.6) 8.5 1.2 Expenses-to-revenue ratio 99.4 64.6 55.3 64.2 Total capital adequacy ratio (Basel II, Domestic Standard) 8.35 8.35 9.76 10.27 Capital ratio (Basel III, Domestic Standard) — — — — Ratio of nonperforming claims classified under the Financial Revitalization Law to total claims 2.51 6.70 6.78 6.66 1 Since all yen figures have been truncated rather than rounded, the totals do not necessarily equal the sum of the individual amounts. 2 Return on assets is calculated by dividing profit (loss) attributable to owners of the parent by the average of total assets at the beginning and end of the period presented. 3 Return on equity (fully diluted) is calculated by dividing profit (loss) attributable to owners of the parent by the average amount of (total equity – share warrants – noncontrolling interests) at the beginning and end of the period presented. 4 Shinsei Bank consolidated its shares with a rate of ten shares of common stock into one share on October 1, 2017. Common equity per share and basic profit per share are calculated as if the consolidation of shares had occurred at the beginning of FY2016. L Total revenue L Profit attributable to owners of the parent (Billions of yen) (Billions of yen) 300 80 60 250 52.3 229.7 40 200 20 150 0 0 -150 (FY) 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 (FY) 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 • While earnings have been lifted since fiscal 2010 on factors • The Shinsei Bank Group recorded losses in fiscal 2008 and such as gains from repurchasing preferred securities and items 2009 on the effects of the global financial crisis sparked by the such as gains on the sale of assets on which loss disposals had collapse of Lehman Brothers but the Group has continued to been recorded in the prior years, total revenue has steadily book profits every year since fiscal 2010. The Group is working grown since fiscal 2012 when such one-off gains dropped out to improve the quality of earnings by adding more heft to of the picture. From fiscal 2016 onward, we applied “selection core profits and limiting profits from nonrecurring and and concentration” tests to our businesses in accordance with high-volatility sources. the Group’s strengths and the growth potential of each business to identify growth areas, and we have actively invested management resources into them. 76 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group FY2012 FY2013 FY2014 FY2015 FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 199.0 203.0 235.3 216.6 228.5 232.0 229.6 130.9 135.0 144.2 141.3 144.2 142.9 145.7 5.5 0.2 11.8 3.7 31.8 37.2 29.3 53.8 46.0 72.7 62.8 51.7 55.4 54.5 51.0 41.3 67.8 60.9 50.7 51.4 52.3 1,842.3 1,557.0 1,477.3 1,227.8 1,014.6 1,123.5 1,130.2 4,292.4 4,319.8 4,461.2 4,562.9 4,833.4 4,895.9 4,986.8 203.5 227.7 227.0 211.4 191.4 171.4 176.5 9,029.3 9,321.1 8,889.8 8,928.7 9,258.3 9,456.6 9,571.1 Creating Value over the Long Term 5,457.5 5,850.4 5,452.7 5,800.9 5,862.9 6,067.0 5,922.1 8,345.6 8,598.5 8,136.0 8,135.6 8,437.5 8,600.6 8,674.5 683.6 722.5 753.7 793.1 820.7 8,560.0 896.6 233.65 247.82 275.45 294.41 3,163.89 4 3,376.394 3,636.92 19.24 15.59 25.57 22.96 194.65 4 199.014 211.24 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 10.00 4 10.00 0.6 0.5 0.7 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.5 8.6 6.5 9.8 8.1 6.3 6.1 6.0 65.8 66.5 61.3 65.3 63.1 61.6 63.5 12.24 — — — — — — Supporting the Creation of — 13.58 14.86 14.20 13.06 12.83 11.85 5.32 3.81 1.42 0.79 0.22 0.17 0.20 Sustainable Value L Common equity per share L Nonperforming loan ratio under the Financial Revitalization Law (Nonconsolidated) (Yen)(Yen) (%) 400 4,000 8 Business and Financial Results 3,636.92 300 3,000 6 200 2,000 4 100 1,000 2 0.20 0 0 0 (At the 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 (At the 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 end of Mar.) end of Mar.) • Common equity per share has continued to increase on a • As we have sharply reduced claims classified as nonperformsteady buildup of profits. ing loans stemming from the global financial crisis sparked by Note: Shinsei Bank consolidated its shares with a rate of ten shares of common stock the collapse of Lehman Brothers, the nonperforming loan into one share on October 1, 2017. ratio under the Financial Revitalization Law has fallen to its lowest level, and our asset quality has improved. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 77 Business and Financial Results Review of Fiscal 2018 Results of Operations (Unit: ¥ billion) YoY % (FY) 2017 2018 B(+)/W(-) Consolidated Total Revenue 232.0 229.7 -1% Net Interest Income 128.7 133.8 +4% Noninterest Income 103.2 95.9 -7% Expenses -142.5 -144.7 -2% Ordinary Business Profit (OBP) 89.4 84.9 -5% Net Credit Costs -37.2 -29.3 +21% OBP after Net Credit Costs 52.1 55.6 +7% Others -0.7 -3.3 -371% Provisions of reserve for losses on interest repayment 6.0 2.3 -62% Income Tax, etc. -3.8 -2.5 +34% Net Income 51.4 52.3 +2% Total revenue decreased by 1% year on year to ¥229.7 Income tax expenses decreased reflecting final disposal billion, reflecting a decrease in noninterest income due of legacy assets. mainly to absence of gains on stock transactions recorded in the previous fiscal year despite an increase of 4% in Net income increased to ¥52.3 billion. net interest income as we grew the average balance of operational assets in growth business areas. Net Interest Margin (NIM): increased to 2.46%, reflecting improvement in yields on loan assets coupled with Total expenses were at ¥144.7 billion, an increase of 2% flattish overall funding rate. year on year due to an increase in new core banking system related IT expenses. L Net Interest Margin (NIM) Since total revenue was below the original plan, (%) expenses-to-revenue ratio increased to 63% from 61.5% 3.0 2.73 in fiscal 2017. 2.5 2.0 2.46 Net credit costs significantly decreased to ¥29.3 billion, 1.5 reflecting net credit recoveries in Institutional Businesses 1.0 as well as release of reserve due to a decline in loan bal0.5 0.27 ance and better collections in unsecured loan. This was 0 partly offset by one-time credit provision in APLUS (FY) 16 17 18 Financial related to its delinquent loan portfolio. L Yield on Interest Earning Assets L Net Interest Margin L Rate on Interest Bearing Liabilities As for Excess Interest Repayments (Kabarai), we released reserve of ¥2.3 billion on a net basis. APLUS recorded ¥3.5 billion of additional provisions which was fully offset by ¥5.6 billion of reserve release in Shinsei Financial and ¥0.1 billion reversal in Shinsei Personal Loan. 78 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 L Risk-Monitored Loan Ratio Asset Quality NPL Ratio based on Financial Revitalization Law The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group (%) Risk-Monitored Loan Ratio (Consolidated) stood at 6.0 1.56%, 5.0 Nonperforming Loan (NPL) Ratio based on Financial 4.0 Revitalization Law (Nonconsolidated) stood at 0.20%. 3.0 Both ratios remained at a low level. 2.0 1.56 1.0 Capital Adequacy 0.20 0 Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio (International Standard; (End of Mar.) 14 15 16 17 18 19 Fully Loaded Basis) was 12.0%. Increase in risk assets L Risk-Monitored Loan Ratio (Consolidated) reflects asset growth in project finance and real estate L Nonperforming Loan Ratio based on Financial Revitalization Law (Nonconsolidated) nonrecourse loans in structured finance (including securiCreating Value over the Long Term tization exposure) and APLUS FINANCIAL, resulting in a decline in common equity tier 1 ratio. L Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio (¥ trillion) (%) 10 16 Shareholder Return 8 12.0 A total ¥13 billion in acquisition of treasury shares was 12 6 included in fiscal 2018, aiming to improve per share 6.6 8 value, considering current share price, financial/capital 4 and market environment. 2 4 As a result of steady profits and share buyback, EPS 0 0 increased by 6% to ¥211 and BPS increased by 8% to (End of Mar.) 17 18 19 ¥3,636 compared to fiscal 2017. L Risk Assets (International Standard; Fully Loaded Basis) Supporting the Creation of In fiscal 2019, a share buyback program up to ¥23.5 L Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio (International Standard; Fully Loaded Basis) billion has been approved by the Board of Directors, resulting in total payout ratio of 50% towards the result Sustainable Value of fiscal 2018 net income. L Per Share Value1 (¥)(¥) Shinsei Bank has decided the shareholder return for 4,000 300 fiscal 2018 up to the maximum available share buyback 3,636.9 250 program by taking into consideration the capital policy 3,000 211.2 200 as stated in the Revitalization Plan that, “we will maintain 2,000 150 or improve the total payout ratio within the range of 100 average Japanese banks” as we think that the current 1,000 50 share price is undervalued and it does not reflect its true 0 0 Business and Financial Results share value. (FY) 14 15 16 17 18 However, the scheme/amount of shareholder return L BPS (left) and the total payout ratio will be decided at each time L EPS (right) period based on prevailing share price, financial/capital 1  eserve stock split (10 stocks to 1 stock) was executed in October 2017. Per share R data for previous years has been adjusted to conform to current period presentation position and market conditions at the time. The total payout ratio based on this year’s shareholder return does not necessarily make any reference to future total payout L Total Payout Ratio (%) ratios. 50 40 50 30 20 10 0 (FY) 14 151 16 17 18 1 E  xcluding ¥2 billion relating to acquisition of treasury shares in order to attain full ownership of Showa Leasing SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 79 Status of SME Management Improvement and Regional Revitalization Initiatives To improve the management of Small and Medium-sized Enterprises (SMEs) and contribute to regional revitalization, Shinsei Bank engages in initiatives such as those described below, providing our expertise and, depending on the initiative, cooperating with regional financial institutions and the SME Business Support Cooperative. With respect to supporting SMEs and local businesses that have technologies or business models with unrealized growth potential as well as new business fields or business domains that contribute to regional economic revitalization, the Bank goes beyond merely satisfying funding needs to provide financing that emphasizes cash flows and multifaceted solutions to such management issues as business strategy planning and implementation support and other complementary functions. Through such efforts, the Bank aims to expand the operations of growth-stage SME clients and contribute to the development of new business opportunities that accompany innovation. Examples of Shinsei Bank Initiatives Supporting management improvement and business recent years business results have declined due to changes expansion in the business environment, such as a decline in the numA car dealership: Amid concern that the market will shrink ber of residents living in the commercial area, the aging of due to the declining birth rate and population aging along the population, and competition with drug stores. The comwith the growth of the sharing economy, the company pany ended up posting losses and was considering going needed to strengthen its financial position as well as its under the umbrella of a sponsor that is large in scale and sales capabilities in order to demonstrate its presence amid possesses abundant know-how. The company initially the restructuring trend in the industry. The company was sought support from its main bank, but when these talks hit also facing the issue of disposing of unprofitable, non core a snag, the company approached us for help. By accurately businesses, and the Bank helped the company quickly grasping the characteristics of the stores and product mix, resolve the urgent problem of enhancing its equity capital and utilizing our nationwide network, the Bank succeeded in by providing equity financing through the underwriting of recruiting a strong sponsor capable of leveraging the compreferred stock. Currently, the company is expanding its pany’s potential from outside the region. The business domestic sales area and growing its overseas business as a transfer was concluded based on the conditions that the means of effectively utilizing the equity funds procured, and company desired, including maintaining the company’s is expected to further enhance its corporate value. employees, and the Bank was highly commended by both the company and its main bank. Supporting management improvement A regenerative medicine startup: Having applied its unique Business succession support cell lamination technology, the company has had success in A regional meal service company: As one of the few busiputting into practical use a device for producing three-diness operators conforming to the standards set by local govmensional cellular tissue. The company’s innovative technolernment, in addition to being entrusted with providing the ogy is expected to lead to dramatic advances in meals for local schools the company had supplied dishes regenerative medicine, but the company also aimed to and ingredients for food supermarkets and hospitals. In develop an improved device capable of producing three-direcent years, however, the company had been suffering a mensional cellular structures in a shorter time, therefore a deterioration in business performance due to factors such as partnership with a company possessing extremely precise a decrease in the number of pupils. Despite having worked manufacturing technologies was indispensable in realizing on a raft of management improvement measures, the comthat aim. Recognizing the possibility that the advanced pany had reached the point where it had ceased rebuilding equipment design know-how and other technologies posunder its own power. Through its main bank, a local financial sessed by a semiconductor-related venture company that institution, Shinsei Bank was approached to cooperate in the Bank has a business relationship with could meet the inviting an outside sponsor. The company concerned predemands of the company in question, Shinsei Bank sented local social conditions to be taken into consideration, matched the two companies and, as a result, by overcoming such as keeping its workers in employment and the continuthese issues they promoted the development of an ation of the school lunch program. Shinsei Bank utilized its improved device. In the years to come, the company’s prodnetwork, backed by its abundant experience and track uct will be utilized by many research institutes and universirecord on business revitalization M&A, and succeeded in ties, and it is expected that it will greatly contribute to the engaging a prominent sponsor that met the conditions development of regenerative medicine. desired by the company. Following the business succession of the new sponsor, performance improved in an extremely Supporting business rehabilitation short period of time. The local government, which was conA regional supermarket: Through management by local cerned about the continuation of the school lunch program, capital, this supermarket had met the daily shopping needs and the local financial institution have both been unstinting of people in the local community for many years, but in in their praise of Shinsei Bank with regard to this initiative. 80 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Glossary Management/Finance The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Common equity per share Common equity per share is calculated by dividing common equity by the total number of common shares outstanding at the end of the term. Earnings per share Earnings per share is calculated by dividing net income by the total number of common shares outstanding for a period of the term. ESG An acronym for Environment, Social and Corporate Governance, which refers to perspectives important to the long-term growth and development of a company. Excess Interest Repayment Prior to the interest rate reduction implemented as part of the revisions to the Money (Kabarai) Lending Business Law, the interest rates on some consumer finance products offered by the Shinsei Bank Group’s subsidiaries exceeded the upper limit stipulated by the Investment Law. Following a ruling by the Supreme Court in January 2006, customers who paid more than the upper limit stipulated by the Investment Law have been allowed to Creating Value over the Long Term request a refund of the extra interest paid. Accordingly, consumer finance companies have recorded reserves in order to cover losses on (grey zone) excess interest repayments. Net Credit Costs Net Credit Costs are the sum of reserves for loan losses set aside (credit costs) according to the credit standing of borrowers, write-off (losses), reversal (gains) of reserves for loan losses and recoveries of written-off claims resulting from their disposal. Nonperforming loan ratio under Nonperforming Loan ratio is the ratio of nonperforming claims under the Financial the Financial Revitalization Law Revitalization Law to total claims. Ordinary Business Profit (Loss) Ordinary Business Profit (Loss)—the indicator of profit (loss) from core business after expenses—is calculated by subtracting “expenses” from “total r­ evenue.” “Net credit costs” are excluded from this calculation. Supporting the Creation of Profit attributable to owners of Profit attributable to owners of the parent indicates the final profit over a twelve-month the parent ­fiscal term in accounting terms. Total Return Ratio The Total Return Ratio shows the magnitude of a company’s shareholder returns. Sustainable Value Total Revenue Total Revenue is composed of “Net interest income” such as interest from loans and “Noninterest income” such as fee income, as indicated by gross profit from core business operations. Business Advisory Shinsei Bank’s advisory business proposes solutions to meet customers’ diverse needs in Business and Financial Results areas such as M&A, corporate restructuring and fundraising in Japan and overseas. Alternative investment Alternative investment is a new investment method, such as private equity and real estate investment, not traditional asset management such as equity or bond. API API, abbreviation of Application Programming Interface, means to link and coordinate more than one software. Business Succession Support The provision of investments and loans to meet capital requirements for the transfer of shares, etc. to customers considering family members or employees as business successors in order to facilitate the smooth handover of business ownership. Derivative Derivative is a collective term referring to transactions that are derived from or linked to other underlying transactions such as interest rate, bond, foreign exchange and equity transactions. They are also called “financial derivatives” since most of the transactions originate from financial products. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 81 Business and Financial Results Glossary Economic Ecosystem The Economic Ecosystem refers to the entire industry environment and all of its constituent moving parts and their interactions, much like the ecosystems of the natural world. Fiduciary Duty The responsibility held by a trustee towards their beneficiary. In finance, this refers to the responsibility that financial institutions have towards their customers and their entrusted assets. Finance as a Service Financial product is unbundled and provided as each of functions rather than as a package. Nonrecourse Loan Nonrecourse Loans are finances for which repayment is made solely from the cash flows generated from specific businesses or assets (typically, but not always real estate), with no recourse to the sponsor. SPC (Special-Purpose Company) Sell beneficiary right Transfer proceeds Nonrecourse Current owner loan Trust beneficiary Real estate trust Trust beneficiary rights rights Tokumei Kumiai (TK) investment Customer Trust bank (Sponsor) Principal Transactions Principal Transactions generally refer to a bank’s proprietary investments. Shinsei Bank proactively makes proprietary investments in the Credit Trading and Private Equity businesses in order to meet customers’ needs for corporate restructuring, business succession and growth funds. Private Equity In general, Private Equity refers to privately placed shares and shares that are not traded in stock exchanges or over-the-counter markets. Private equity investments can be classified into venture capital, which is an investment to growing companies, and investments to acquire control of mature companies in order to implement restructuring. Shinsei Bank is proactively engaged in venture capital investments, investing in up to 5% of total shares with representative rights of customers planning a public share offering as well as m­ aking buyout investments related to business divestments from mature companies. Project Finance Project Finance refers to loans to finance specific projects for which the principal source of repayment is the cash flow generated from the project itself. Project Finance is often used for medium-to-long term projects in energy, n ­ atural resources and infrastructure. RPA (Robotic Process RPA refers to technology that allows for the streamlining and automation of the simple Automation) tasks such as white-collar labor. 82 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 Shopping Credit Shopping Credit is a service that allows customers to pay for goods or services in installments without using a credit card. The Shinsei Bank Group offers this service primarily The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group through APLUS. Shopping Credit System (4) Lump-sum payment (1) Merchant partner agreement Merchant Partner (3) Advance payment agreement Creating Value over the Long Term (2) Sales agreement for product/service (5) Repayment in installments Customer (1) APLUS concludes a merchant partner agreement with the merchant partner (2) Customer purchases a product or a service from the merchant partner (3) Customer applies to APLUS for installment sales credit (4) APLUS pays the purchase price for the product/service as a lump sum to the merchant partner (5) Customer repays the purchase price to APLUS in installments Specialty Finance Specialty Finance at Shinsei Bank refers to M&A finance, LBO finance and other types of finance that focus on the cash flows and value generated by businesses and assets. It is a type of structured finance. Structured Finance Structured Finance refers to finance requiring special structures. In general, it takes the Supporting the Creation of form of project finance or nonrecourse finance which focuses on the cash flows or value generated by a specific project or asset. Shinsei Bank is primarily active in real estate finance, project finance, M&A finance and c­ orporate restructuring finance. Sustainable Value Syndicated Loan Syndicated Loans are loans provided jointly by a syndication of multiple financial institutions (lender group) based on a single loan agreement. UI/UX UI (User Interface) is the space where interactions between humans and machines occur, such as font or graphical content. UX (User Experience) refers to a person's experience by using a particular product or service. Unsecured Loan A type of loan/product offered by financial institutions such as banks and consumer finance companies that enables a consumer to borrow without security. Business and Financial Results SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 83 Business and Financial Results 019/07/10 8:13:49 / 19509946_株式会社新生銀行_総会その他（Ｃ） Financial Statements (Consolidated) Please see Shinsei Bank’s Integrated Report 2019 Data Appendix for supplemental financial information (including Notes). CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET Shinsei Bank, Limited, and its Consolidated Subsidiaries As of March 31, 2019 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2019 2018 2019 ASSETS Cash and due from banks (Notes 4, 24, and 38) ¥ 1,355,966 ¥ 1,465,663 $ 12,244,592 Receivables under securities borrowing transactions (Note 38) 2,119 2,629 19,135 Other monetary claims purchased (Notes 5 and 38) 30,994 36,332 279,888 Trading assets (Notes 6, 24, 38 and 39) 204,415 205,295 1,845,901 Monetary assets held in trust (Notes 7, 24 and 38) 305,879 234,924 2,762,137 Securities (Notes 8, 24, 25 and 38) 1,130,286 1,123,522 10,206,669 Loans and bills discounted (Notes 9, 24, and 38) 4,986,839 4,895,963 45,031,963 Foreign exchanges (Note 10) 29,546 32,511 266,813 Lease receivables and leased investment assets (Notes 24, 35 and 38) 176,553 171,429 1,594,311 Other assets (Notes 11, 24, 38 and 39) 851,287 856,213 7,687,266 Premises and equipment (Notes 12, 24 and 35) 45,341 50,261 409,442 Intangible assets (Notes 13 and 35) 67,189 59,484 606,733 Assets for retirement benefits (Note 21) 10,931 13,261 98,711 Deferred tax assets (Note 32) 15,096 14,705 136,325 Customers’ liabilities for acceptances and guarantees (Note 22) 456,759 395,301 4,124,607 Reserve for credit losses (Note 14) (98,034) (100,840) (885,272) Total assets ¥ 9,571,172 ¥ 9,456,660 $ 86,429,222 LIABILITIES AND EQUITY Liabilities: Deposits, including negotiable certificates of deposit (Notes 15, 24 and 38) ¥ 5,922,145 ¥ 6,067,096 $ 53,477,923 Debentures (Notes 16 and 38) － 423 － Call money (Notes 38) 145,000 － 1,309,373 Payables under repurchase agreements (Notes 24 and 38) 59,098 55,919 533,671 Payables under securities lending transactions (Notes 24 and 38) 510,229 433,462 4,607,458 Trading liabilities (Notes 17, 38 and 39) 182,363 184,582 1,646,776 Borrowed money (Notes 18, 24, 25 and 38) 684,077 739,578 6,177,334 Foreign exchanges (Note 10) 471 102 4,256 Short-term corporate bonds (Note 38) 191,000 175,700 1,724,761 Corporate bonds (Notes 19 and 38) 92,335 85,000 833,800 Other liabilities (Notes 20, 24, 38 and 39) 347,383 367,734 3,136,925 Accrued employees’ bonuses 8,598 8,489 77,649 Accrued directors’ bonuses 44 51 404 Liabilities for retirement benefits (Note 21) 8,232 8,366 74,337 Reserve for reimbursement of debentures 3,764 4,130 33,991 Reserve for losses on interest repayments 63,025 74,687 569,131 Acceptances and guarantees (Notes 22, 24 and 38) 456,759 395,301 4,124,607 Total liabilities 8,674,529 8,600,625 78,332,396 Equity: Common stock (Note 26) 512,204 512,204 4,625,290 Capital surplus 78,506 78,506 708,925 Stock acquisition rights (Note 27) 99 318 896 Retained earnings 346,562 361,368 3,129,519 Treasury stock, at cost (Note 26) (37,729) (89,540) (340,699) Accumulated other comprehensive income: Unrealized gain (loss) on available-for-sale securities (Note 8) 10,041 5,187 90,673 Deferred gain (loss) on derivatives under hedge accounting (16,391) (14,457) (148,018) Foreign currency translation adjustments (1,527) (1,573) (13,798) Defined retirement benefit plans (Note 21) 378 2,089 3,415 Total 892,143 854,103 8,056,202 Noncontrolling interests 4,498 1,930 40,623 Total equity 896,642 856,034 8,096,825 Total liabilities and equity ¥ 9,571,172 ¥ 9,456,660 $ 86,429,222 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. 84 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 2019/07/10 8:13:49 / 19509946_株式会社新生銀行_総会その他（Ｃ） CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME The Approach of the Shinsei Bank Group Shinsei Bank, Limited, and its Consolidated Subsidiaries For the fiscal year ended March 31, 2019 Thousands of Millions of yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) 2019 2018 2019 Interest income: Interest on loans and bills discounted ¥ 140,177 ¥ 134,858 $ 1,265,827 Interest and dividends on securities 12,531 11,705 113,158 Interest on deposits with banks 1,162 1,069 10,501 Other interest income 971 871 8,774 Total interest income 154,843 148,504 1,398,261 Interest expenses: Creating Value over the Long Term Interest on deposits, including negotiable certificates of deposit 7,802 9,021 70,457 Interest and discounts on debentures 0 3 1 Interest on other borrowings 3,356 3,432 30,311 Interest on corporate bonds 466 952 4,210 Other interest expenses 9,401 6,318 84,900 Total interest expenses 21,027 19,728 189,878 Net interest income 133,816 128,775 1,208,383 Fees and commissions income 55,332 50,129 499,665 Fees and commissions expenses 23,981 25,059 216,558 Net fees and commissions 31,351 25,070 283,107 Net trading income (loss) (Note 28) 6,673 8,542 60,265 Other business income (loss), net: Income on lease transactions and installment receivables, net 37,525 37,030 338,865 Net gain (loss) on monetary assets held in trust 2,535 2,760 22,897 Supporting the Creation of Net gain (loss) on foreign exchanges 6,719 9,466 60,675 Net gain (loss) on securities 378 9,936 3,415 Net gain (loss) on other monetary claims purchased 809 1,193 7,307 Other, net (Note 29) 9,886 9,253 89,279 Sustainable Value Net other business income (loss) 57,854 69,641 522,438 Total revenue 229,696 232,030 2,074,194 General and administrative expenses: Personnel expenses 56,509 56,249 510,288 Premises expenses 19,679 20,065 177,713 Technology and data processing expenses 23,265 20,810 210,088 Advertising expenses 10,951 11,052 98,897 Consumption and property taxes 10,406 9,389 93,976 Deposit insurance premium 1,645 1,775 14,862 Other general and administrative expenses 23,275 23,637 210,179 Business and Financial Results General and administrative expenses 145,734 142,981 1,316,002 Amortization of goodwill and intangible assets acquired in business combinations 2,811 3,987 25,386 Total general and administrative expenses 148,545 146,969 1,341,389 Net business profit (loss) 81,150 85,060 732,805 Net credit costs (recoveries) (Note 30) 29,348 37,270 265,024 Other gains (losses), net (Note 31) 2,782 7,621 25,123 Income (loss) before income taxes 54,584 55,411 492,904 Income taxes (benefit) (Note 32): Current 3,810 1,266 34,410 Deferred (1,306) 2,574 (11,800) Profit 52,080 51,570 470,293 Profit (loss) attributable to noncontrolling interests (239) 156 (2,160) Profit attributable to owners of the parent ¥ 52,319 ¥ 51,414 $ 472,453 Yen U.S. dollars (Note 1) Basic earnings per share (Note 33) ¥ 211.24 ¥ 199.01 $ 1.91 Diluted earnings per share (Note 33) ¥ 211.22 ¥ 198.98 $ 1.91 See accompanying “Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements,” which are an integral part of these statements. Shinsei Bank executed a 1-for-10 reverse stock split on October 1, 2017. The above earnings per share data is calculated as if the reverse stock split had been implemented at the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 31, 2018. SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 85 Business and Financial Results Equity and Credit Rating Information Stock Information (As of March 31, 2019) L Shares Outstanding and Capital (1,000 shares, millions of yen) Shares outstanding Capital Capital surplus Date Change Balance Change Balance Change Balance Notes 2-for-1 reverse share split for common shares July 29, 2003 (1,358,537) 2,033,065 1 — 451,296 — 18,558 Post reverse split common shares outstanding 1,358,537 thousand shares Use of call feature for Series 3 Class-B preferred shares July 31, 2006 (99,966) 1,933,098 1 — 451,296 — 18,558 Issuance of 200,033 thousand common shares Retirement of Series 3 Class-B preferred shares -300,000 thousand shares Cancellation of treasury shares (common) November 16, 2006 (85,000) 1,848,098 1 — 451,296 — 18,558 -85,000 thousand shares Mandatory acquisition of Series 3 Class-B preferred shares August 1, 2007 (100,000) 1,748,098 1 — 451,296 — 18,558 Issuance of 200,000 thousand common shares Retirement of Series 3 Class-B preferred shares -300,000 thousand shares Third-party allocation of shares (common shares) February 4, 2008 117,647 1,865,746 1 25,000 476,296 25,000 43,558 Subscription price ¥425, par value ¥212.5 Use of call feature for Series 2 Class-A preferred shares March 31, 2008 194,600 2,060,346 — 476,296 — 43,558 Issuance of 269,128 thousand common shares Retirement of Series 2 Class-A preferred shares -74,528 thousand shares New shares issued through International Offering March 15, 2011 690,000 2,750,346 35,907 512,204 35,907 79,465 (common shares) Subscription price ¥108, par value ¥52.04 10-for-1 reverse share split for common shares October 1, 2017 (2,475,312) 275,034 — 512,204 — 79,465 Post reverse split common shares outstanding 275,034 thousand shares Cancellation of treasury shares (common) May 18, 2018 (16,000) 259,034 — 512,204 — 79,465 -16,000 thousand shares 1 Figures include number of preferred shares outstanding L Largest Shareholders L Beneficial Ownership/Type of Shareholder Common Stock Thousands of Japanese Financial Rank Shareholders % Institutions and Common Shares Insurance 1 SATURN IV SUB LP (JPMCB 380111) 32,368 12.49% Companies 23.63% 2 Deposit Insurance Corporation of Japan 26,912 10.38% Japanese Securities 3 THE RESOLUTION AND COLLECTION CORPORATION 20,000 7.72% 259,034 Companies 0.70% 4 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED 13,760 5.31% thousand Other Japanese THE MASTER TRUST BANK OF JAPAN, LTD. (TRUST common shares Corporations 10.68% 5 12,680 4.89% ACCOUNT) Foreign Institutional 6 SATURN JAPAN III SUB C.V. (JPMCB 380113) 11,044 4.26% Investors 53.18% 7 STATE STREET BANK AND TRUST COMPANY 8,671 3.34% Foreign Individual JAPAN TRUSTEE SERVICE BANK, LTD. (TRUST Investors 1.90% 8 8,483 3.27% ACCOUNT 9) Japanese Individuals and 9 J. CHRISTOPHER FLOWERS 7,675 2.96% Other 9.88% JAPAN TRUSTEE SERVICE BANK, LTD. (TRUST 10 6,238 2.40% ACCOUNT) Notes: 1 “Japanese Financial Institutions and Insurance 11 GOLDMAN SACHS INTERNATIONAL 4,750 1.83% Companies” includes the Resolution and Collection Corporation. Total (includes treasury shares) 259,034 100.00% 2 “Other Japanese Corporations” includes the Deposit Insurance Corporation. Notes: 1 As of March 31, 2019, a group of investors, including affiliates of J.C. Flowers & Co. LLC., holds 3 “Japanese Individuals and Other” includes treasury 55,366,348 common shares or 22.57% of Shinsei Bank’s outstanding common shares, excluding shares. treasury shares. 2 As of March 31, 2019, in total, the Deposit Insurance Corporation and the Resolution and Collection Corporation hold 46,912,888 common shares or 19.12% of Shinsei Bank’s outstanding common shares, excluding treasury shares. Ratings Information (As of May 31, 2019) Long-Term (Outlook) Short-Term R&I A(Stable) a-1 JCR A(Stable) J-1 S&P BBB+ (Stable) A-2 Moody’s Baa2 (Stable) Prime-2 86 SHINSEI BANK, LIMITED Integrated Report 2019 For further information, please contact: Group Investor Relations & Corporate Communications Division Shinsei Bank, Limited 4-3, Nihonbashi-muromachi 2-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8303, Japan Tel: 81-3-6880-8303 Fax: 81-3-4560-1706 URL: https://www.shinseibank.com/english/ E-mail: Shinsei_IR@shinseibank.com 4-3, Nihonbashi-muromachi 2-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo 103-8303, Japan TEL: 81-3-6880-7000 URL: https://www.shinseibank.com/english/
