Social Development Direct Communication on Progress (COP) July 2019 Contents Statement of Commitment ....................................................................................................... 3 The UN Global Compact Universal Principles Human Rights Principles .................................. 4 1. Human Rights Principles ................................................................................................... 5 2. Labour Principles .............................................................................................................. 6 3. Environmental Principles................................................................................................... 7 4. Anti-corruption principles................................................................................................... 9 Social Development Direct 2 Statement of Commitment To our teams, stakeholders, clients and partners Re: SDDirect’s support for the UN Global Compact Social Development Direct (SDDirect) is a leading provider of high-quality, innovative and expert social development assistance and research services. We work to build inclusive societies in which all women, men, girls and boys are valued and empowered to make choices about their own development. With integrity as a core organisational value, we are committed to human rights, labour standards, environment and anti-corruption. Our aim is to support nations to uphold their commitment to this global partnership to reduce extreme poverty and targets through the Sustainable Development Goals. SDDirect remains committed to the United Nations Global Compact and its ten principles. The following Communication on Progress describes the ways in which the principles are embedded into our projects and our day-to-day operations. Sue Phillips Managing Director Social Development Direct 3 The UN Global Compact Universal Principles Human Rights Principles Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labour Principles; Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Environment Principles Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Anti-Corruption Principles, and Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The Sustainable Development Goals https://www.un.org/sustainabledevelopment/sustainable-development-goals/ Social Development Direct 4 1. Human Rights Principles • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights • Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 1.1 Assessment, policy and goals SDDirect work with clients to provide expertise on gender equality and social inclusion through: research, evidence and learning, evaluation, technical assistance and programme design, delivery and monitoring. SDDirect is committed to an inclusive workplace that embraces and promotes diversity and equal opportunity. We value and respect the unique contributions of people with diverse backgrounds, experiences and perspectives. We leverage this to enhance our understanding of the needs of our customers and provide innovative solutions and exceptional delivery. SDDirect believes in treating people with respect and dignity as an individual and as part of this, we do not tolerate unlawful acts of discrimination. Our expectations are articulated in the Code of Conduct. We have in place a Safeguarding Policy, which sets out our commitment to the safety and rights of all individuals regardless of their gender, age, race, ethnicity, impairment needs or gender identity and intends that their welfare will always be the paramount consideration. In the delivery of its projects as all aspects of operations, SDDirect is committed to proactively protecting individuals from abuse with a zero tolerance approach to bullying, harassment and sexual exploitation and abuse. Our Whistleblowing policy outlines our commitment to upholding ethical values and practices and promotes a business culture that enables staff, business partners and others to feel comfortable raising concerns without fear of retribution. It allows for the reporting of concerns including, but not limited to human rights, corruption, fraud, human trafficking, slavery, health and safety, safeguarding and terrorism. 1.2 Implementation SDDirect recognise the risk of working in a supply chain. Prior to contracting all SDDirect subcontractors will need to complete a due diligence form and share accompanying evidence to show adherence to these standards and submit to SDDirect for consideration. Where partners are not compliant SDDirect may consider whether strengthening measures are required or if this can be followed up during inception. Where appropriate a partner may entail a full resubmission of their self-audit at the end of inception phase. SDDirect regularly follow up with partners to make sure that they strengthen their implementation of safeguards throughout a project period. In addition SDDirect will track all safeguarding cases across the portfolio. These will be placed on a tracker held by the Associate Director of Programmes and escalated to the Managing Director as necessary. All subcontractors will be mandated to report all safeguarding incidents. SDDirect reviews the implementation of this policy on an annual basis to maintain its consistent reflection of good practice, and learning from the changing and evolving environment. Social Development Direct 5 1.3 Achievements • GESI framework was developed and rolled to ground projects in an initial pollical economy, gender and social inclusion power analysis to ensure that strong power, gender and social inclusion focus is embedded in projects from the start. This has supported country level team to develop theories of how change is expected to happen. • From the 2019 staff survey we saw that 100% of staff feel confident that management would act in the correct way to any Whistleblowing reports. • SDDirect manage 4 Helpdesk in which 100% of helpdesk users scored the services 4 or more out of 5 for quality of delivery. • In the last year, 80% of projects were scored A+ in annual reviews and 20% were rating A. 2. Labour Principles • Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining • Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour • Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour • Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 2.1 Assessment, policy and goals SDDirect aims to create a workplace that encourages diversity and equal opportunities for all. Keeping staff and consultants safe is an important aspect of this and duty of care is embedded in all aspects of our business operations. Our aim is that stakeholders of SDDirect feel respected and able to give their best. We are committed to transparency in all business dealings, including taking a zero-tolerance approach to corruption, bribery, fraud, tax evasion, human rights violations, sexual abuse and modern slavery. SDDirect also has an Equality and Diversity Policy which encourages initiative, promotes teamwork and builds on the individual strengths and aptitudes of every employee. These aims are reinforced by a commitment to equality and diversity through: • Promoting equality of opportunity for all persons • Promoting a good and harmonious working environment in which all persons are treated with respect • Preventing occurrences of unlawful direct discrimination, indirect discrimination, harassment and victimisation • Taking lawful affirmative and positive action, where appropriate SDDirect ensures that our supply chain conforms to global best practice principles through due diligence processes which makes an assessment of companies of the Ethical Trading Initiative, Safeguarding policies, and application on projects. Our commitment to the universal labour principles are demonstrated by our Ethical Framework, Safeguarding Policy and our dedicated Child and Vulnerable Adults Policy. Social Development Direct 6 2.2 Implementation SDDirect ensures that the views of our staff are represented through a number of means including an annual (anonymous) Staff Survey, but primarily through our Business Health Check team (BHC). The BHC team consists of 6 staff with representative from each team. Its role is to provide an interface between management and staff through representing staff in discussions with management, regarding proposed changes to company policy and operational issues and raising issues with management on behalf of staff. The BHC team carries out the following tasks: • Offering staff the opportunity to raise issues in confidence which the BHC team will then raise with management on their behalf. • Engaging SDDirect Managing Director as necessary. • Providing feedback to staff via team meetings and individual contact as appropriate. 2.3 Measurement of outcomes SDDirect has developed a Safeguarding Policy this year, and have assigned internal safeguarding responsibilities in the company. The Safeguarding Team has representation from each level of governance: Board level, Leadership Team, and Management Team. Safeguarding violations and other misconduct can be reported to line managers, safeguarding team, and via our whistleblowing email which is held externally. We conduct investigations into safeguarding incidents, log them and track them in registers. We also notify clients and relevant authorities and record safeguarding incidents in a log and register. Strengthening the induction process for new joiners to ensure they are fully inducted into all policies and processes. In addition we are now undertaking regular training of our staff on our policies with relevant review processes incorporated. 3. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 3.1 Assessment, policy and goals SDDirect is aware of the impact of its business operations and activities on the environment. Through this policy, the company commits to minimising its environmental impact whenever and wherever possible. It also adheres to the environmental policies of clients. SDDirect is a signatory and active participant in the UN Global Compact and as such is committed to the three environmental principles contained in the Compact: SDDirect ensures that all members of the organisation adhere to this policy and carry out their activities in a manner that reflects a concern for the natural environment. Social Development Direct 7 Most importantly the company seeks to inspire an attitude where environmental concerns are embedded in the company’s priorities and impacts the way the company works on a dayto-day basis and reviews and updates its policies and practices regularly to continually improve standards and benefit from best international practice. 3.2 Implementation SDDirect implements it’s goals by encouraging all staff members to consider the following: Professional Code Print on recycled paper “Think before you print!” culture – is it necessary to have printed copies? Printing Print 2-sided and 2 pages to a sheet if for internal use Print with draft quality unless for formal or external use Include a tagline at the bottom of emails: “Please consider the environment before printing this email” Print in black and white where possible Do not accept carrier bags, napkins and cutlery when purchasing lunch Food and drinks Packing Recycle packaging as much as possible Commitment on disposal/ re-useable coffee cups? Sourcing of foods and drinks purchased by the company? Ensure all computers are shut down and screens are turned off Office Equipment Ensure heaters and fans are turned off and, if portable, unplugged Dispose of office accessories responsibly Could we do anything low cost to improve the insulation of the office – e.g. some basic draught-proofing? Ensure all lights are switched off at the end of each Office Facilities working day Carbon offsetting where possible Flights Partnership with companies with better environment records Only take flights when work can’t be done remotely? Travel Cycle to work scheme Prioritise public transport SDDirect has formed an Environmental committee who have developed and received Board approval for the Environmental Policy. The Committee is chaired by the Finance Director who reports annually to the Board on implementation of the policy. Social Development Direct 8 3.3 Measurement of outcomes SDDirect is pleased to report that the past 12 months have seen major steps taken to reduce our environmental impact. During the year under review SDDirect has: • Implemented and trained staff on the policy. • Moved to a shared workspace which includes comprehensive recycling and energy saving through motion sensor lighting. This has also reduced SDDirect’s office footprint, which has in turn reduced energy consumption significantly. • Implemented a cycle to work scheme and had staff participation. • Implemented a remote working policy which has reduced staff commuting travel by an average of 40%. • Implemented the think before you print culture and put in place a paperless office to reduce printing and paper wastage. It is estimated this has reduced printing by 50%. • Removed all portable heaters and fans from the office to reduce inefficient energy consumption. • Implemented a new video conferencing tool in order to reduce unnecessary travel. 4. Anti-corruption principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 4.1 Assessment, policy and goals SDDirect is committed to conducting all its business operations around the world in an honest, fair, transparent and ethical manner. SDDirect is committed to fulfilling Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. SDDirect’s policy is to comply with all applicable UK (including but not limited to The Bribery Act 2010) and international anti-corruption laws and not to engage in any corrupt activity. SDDirect does not accept any form of corruption and/or bribery in or in connection with its business activities. As part of its participation in the UN Global Compact we are committed to continuous improvement of standards and keeping up to date with evolving international standards of best practice. 4.2 Implementation SDDirect has a clear anti-bribery policy which all staff are required to read, understand and follow. All staff read the policy during their induction in the first weeks of their employment. SDDirect monitors the implementation of the Policy and coordinates periodic training for SDDirect Personnel and Third-Party Associates, as appropriate to the risks faced by them. Social Development Direct 9 All staff shall complete the following online training during their induction period upon joining the business http://www.doingbusinesswithoutbribery.com/ 4.3 Measurement of outcomes SDDirect’s Risk Committee monitors all incidents of corruption and reports on them on a sixmonthly basis to the Board of Directors. SDDirect is pleased to report that there have been no incidents of corruption alleged at the company from either internal or external agencies during the last 12 months. Social Development Direct 10
