LES CIMENTS ARTIFICIELS TUNISIENS Communication sur le Progrès (COP 2018) LaEntreprise Citoyenne, Socialement et Ecologiquement Responsable 26 Février 2019 To our stakeholders I am pleased to confirm, once again, that CAT-COLACEM reaffirms its support of the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact expressed in our letter of adhesion of 01/08/2012 In this fifth annual communication on progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the global compact and its principle into our business strategy, daily operations and culture. During the year 2018, the CAT-COLACEM continued to act actively, within the local network of Tunisian companies, officially presented by IRSET that are engaged in a policy of social responsibility. Our company has chosen signatory status and will continue to promote the 10 principles of the global compact, putting in place actions to advance the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) to ensure the sustainability of these activities. We also commit to share this information with our relevant stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely Yours Giuseppe Colaiacovo Managing Director Objectives of the CAT Improve your brand image Improve relations with local residents Implement its societal commitments Improve social dialogue Increase competitiveness Respect human rights Disseminate good practices of CSR Control social and environmental risks Ensuring transparency and quality for our customers and stakeholders Sustainable development: The cement industry can grow if it has a dynamic vision of the context in which it operates and if it is able to transform its relationships with the community and nature. CAT has fully invested in the innovation and transformation of these facilities by adopting the most advanced standards for the protection of workers, the environment and populations On the social responsibility front, CAT has set aside important resources for social activities within the factory and in the life of the surrounding community. The CAT manages, with great responsibility, the significant environmental impacts of its activities for sustainable development. Our commitment has been materialized by the signing of a pact, with all Tunisian cement plants, for sustainable development. The CAT has adopted a Sustainable Development Strategy within the framework of an Integrated Management System, Quality, Health and Safety at Work and Environment. Our Engagements ● Integrate the concept of sustainable development at the heart of the logic of our company and in our relations with our interested parties ● Pursue the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in the framework of the 2030 Agenda ● Respect all the regulations concerning environment, health, safety and human rights in all our activities ● Rationalize the consumption of natural resources and mitigate the impact of our activity in the air, in the soil and in water ● Promote energy efficiency and reduce the carbon footprint through the use of renewable energies, alternative fuels and substitute materials ● Continually improve the environmental performance of our business by acquiring the best technologies available and economically bearable, ● Give priority to the health and safety of all our employees and all the people operating on our site ● Develop working conditions for the satisfaction of our employees and our external service providers ● Participate as part of our social responsibility, to the extent of our means, and in a way acting to international, national, regional and local initiatives aimed at preventing and mitigating the environmental and social impacts of our activities for the improvement the quality of life of our community ● Respect the principles of the United Nations Charter for Human Rights, ● To make available to our various partners, in all transparency, our progress and our environmental and social performances CAT participation in the day promoting the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) HUMAN RIGHTS: Assesssment, policy and goals CAT-COLACEM still supports with the strongest possible Article 7 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which states, “All are equal before the law and are entitled without any discrimination to equal protection of the law. All are entitled to equal protection against any discrimination in violation of this Declaration and against any incitement to such discrimination. We reaffirm our commitment and we will continue to train our leaders and our people to respect human dignity and strive continuously to build a society in which everyone is treated with dignity and respect. We will always continue to act for the respect of human dignity and our suppliers are aware of the importance of respect for human rights within their organization and the importance that the CATCOLACEM gives this factor for the development of its relationships with its suppliers and partners . We will continue to monitor our suppliers' compliance with human rights. Any business partners who do not effectively manage and improve when necessary will be placed on probation. Each time our company has confirmed that one of its suppliers systematically violates the human rights it will be eliminated from the list of approved suppliers. CAT participation in the 7th Business and Human Rights Forum held in Geneva from 26-28 November 2018 Measurement of outcomes Implementation We check with our subcontractors that they do not work for people without social coverage, and we require all our contractors to sign an undertaking in which they undertake to respect human rights and not to children working. We developed working medicine and have established visits annual medical for each worker Finally, To monitor the health of our employees and to avoid work-related accidents caused by health problems, we conducted respiratory and audiometry tests for all CAT staff. Measurement of outcomes Any contravention of human rights will be documented and the responsible partner will be placed on probation and given a timeframe to address and resolve the issue. Continued non compliance will result in the partner relationship being terminated. Senior management will audit critical suppliers annually without any warning to ensure that they are working within the defined guidelines of human rights. LABOUR: Assesssment, policy and goals In accordance with Tunisian Employment Law employees of our company are free to subscribe to labor unions as well as collective bargaining. Yet as the Employment law specifies, collective bargaining must be engaged in prior to a company strike. Also, CAT-COLACEM acknowledges that when an individual chooses to accept employment at this company it is with his or her own volition and in no way is coerced. Our company policy follows the rules set out by the Tunisian Employment code, which among other right states that Tunisian workers have the right to unionize or join existing labor unions, there is a nominal hours workweek, and the amount of overtime that employers may request is limited. We supersede these laws because CATCOLACEM also provides non-wage benefits such as transportation and meals or compensation for these. Additionally, our company frequently negotiates merger and acquisition deals with foreign companies. Since CATCOLACEM is firmly against the idea of child labor, we require all companies we deal with, to respect the Employment law in compliance with the Tunisian labor legislation. For the control and prevention of workers in our society and all stakeholders on our site, we have established a Corporate Advisory Committee (CAC) and a Health and Safety Committee (HSC) who are responsible for implementing and monitoring programs aimed preserving the health and safety of all employees. Implementation The manner in which our company ensures the application of the policies in the desired form is by companyprovided sensitivity and diversity education, workshops outlining labor rights, new employee orientation programs that inform the employee at the time of their hire of labor rights. Periodic meetings are held to discuss the problems encountered during the work. These meetings are an opportunity for workers to address their grievances. Awareness sessions and training for employees on labor rights, health and safety are assured. The Occupational Health and Safety Committee, which meets every two months, analyzes and proposes actions to prevent accidents and improve working conditions in the factory Training : The CAT considers that training is the mainstay of the development of its activities and that its human resources are the most important element for the success and durability of the company. For the TAG, training is the driving force of the company's development and contributes to improving the skills of its employees and changing their attitudes to enable them to work in a more rational way In order to improve protection of health and safety of people working in the factory, our company has set up a management system that has been certified OHSAS 18001 and certification was renewed for one year. Measurement of outcomes Monitoring performance on the issue of labor rights is very important to our company because of the relationship between a content workforce and high productivity. The mangers of the company tries to mitigate all issues with a proactive stance. As of the time of application there were no incidents of violations of the Global Compact Labor principals. The managers feel that the lack of an issue is demonstrative of the company’s high regard for labor rights and its continuing attempts to educate company employees about their rights. The table below shows the improvements recorded since 2012 in the number of work-related accidents. Evolution of the number of work accidents (2008 – 2018) ENVIRONMENT: Assessement, policy and goals Our company is committed for several years to preserve the environment in order to minimize the impact of its activities on its neighborhood. As a company which could very easily see its livelihood destroyed by the effects of climate change, CAT-COLACEM is on the very forefront of supporting programs that encourage environmental protection. One of our priorities is to protect the natural environment in Tunisia and before choosing a new subcontractor is required of him signing a commitment to respect the environment. Since 2007, the date of the signing of the sustainable development charter of the Tunisian cement sector, CATCOLACEM has continued in its policy of preserving the environment and controlling its environmental impacts.To control its environmental aspects and reduce the impacts of these activities, CAT-COLACEM is committed to a policy of reducing non-renewable energy resources and CO2 emissions. We began using waste as fuel for the production of clinker. The project “Partial substitution of fossil fuels with biomass” has been approved by the CDM DNA for Tunisia and was registered as a CDM project. This project has reduced CO2 emissions significantly. Our company has set up an environmental management system complies with ISO 14001 (2015). Written company policy on environmental issues, including prevention and management of environmental risks Policy requiring business partners and suppliers to respect the environmental principles and describe specific goals in the area of environmental protection for the upcoming year. To improve our energy performance, an energy management system complying with the requirements of the ISO 50001 standard has been initiated Implementation CAT-COLACEM is implementing the policies by working with employee in the area of education, acquiring assistance from the local organizations CITET, ANPE, ANGED and ANME, as well as investing in new energysaving technology and recycling programs. Several actions are taken:  Use of olive pomace as alternative energy to replace fossil fuels  Realization of an environmental impact study for the use of RDF as alternative fuel .  Establishment of several conventions to manage the waste produced by CAT  Realization of awareness actions for waste management  Installation of a new gas analyzer to control its emissions and control its impacts on the environment and in particular on neighboring populations  Redevelopment of old quarries after the exhaustion of reserves of raw materials.  Activities aimed at improving the energy efficiency of products, services and processes Development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies  Establishment of an energy management system (ISO 5001) to reduce energy consumption  Contribution in the rehabilitation of the south cost of Tunis Lake in front of the cement plant  Programming the installation of a new gas analyzer to be installed in the kiln chimney  Distribution of responsibilities for environmental protection within the company  Awareness improving and training of employees on environmental protection  Initiatives and programmes to reduce waste materials (e.g. recycling) and consumption of resources (energy, fossil fuels, water, electricity, paper, packaging, etc.)  Educate providers and outsourcing companies asking them to sign a pledge to respect environment  Construction of a large green area in front of our factory  Use of building waste to remodel quarries. Measurement of outcomes  Identification of environmental aspects and periodic measurement of environmental impacts  Periodic review of results by senior management  Surveys neighbors and complaints  Monitoring the level of atmospheric emissions for greenhouse gases  Specific progress made in the area of the environmental protection during the last reporting period  Renewal of ISO 14001 (2015) certification ANTI-CORRUPTION Assessement, policy and goals  STATEMENT AFFIRMING ANTI-CORRUPTION In order to promote the culture of anti-corruption, the parent company (COLACEM) established a guide “Code Ethique des Entreprises Externes COLACEM”. In this document, which has been translated into French, our company has clearly defined the vision of the company as well as the means to fight against corruption. This guide will be translated and distributed to all companies controlled by COLACEM The CAT-COLACEM is committed to furthering the UN global Compact in the area of Anti-Corruption. The country of Tunisia is a party to the UN convention against corruption and both CAT-COLACEM and its employees are sensitized against the anti-corruption. It must be said that CAT-COLACEM has a zerotolerance policy for corruption, bribery and extortion. The following company policy according to bylaws can be evidence of this: “It is the policy of CAT-COLACEM to pursue all of its business transactions in an honest and ethical manner. In doing business,CAT-COLACEM punishes any person associated with the company may offer, pay, promise, authorize or receive any bribe, kickback or other illicit payment. Our 2018 goals are to continue to provide education for all level of employees up to management about corruption as well as what to do if one should encounter it. Implementation  Participation in industry initiative or other collective action on anti-corruption  Control of all business transactions and purchases through a centralized management system (SAP)  Awareness raising or training of employees about the company's policies regarding anti-corruption and extortion (e.g. mailings, internet, internal communication, etc.) Measurement of outcomes CAT-COLACEM is pleased to report that there have been no incidents of corruption alleged at the company from either internal or external agencies. Because of the company’s zero-tolerance policy, it is obvious that there is a great deal of social and legal pressure not to participate in such acts. Information about how the company deals with incidents of corruption External audits to ensure consistency with anti-corruption commitment including annual review by senior management. Specific progress made in the area of anti-corruption during the last reporting period. Investigations, legal cases, rulings, fines and other relevant events related to corruption and bribery
