2018 Sustainability Report 2018 Sustainability Report Scope Report (102-46, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54, 102-56) América Móvil has published a Sustainability Report annually since 2010; it descriContent bes our accomplishments regarding our employees, social development, and the environment in a clear and transparent manner in order to enhance our communication with our main stakeholders. This report includes América Móvil’s results for the period between January 1st and December 31st, 2018. It was drafted based on Message from the CEO the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards methodology, using the “in accordance” core option. Unless otherwise specified, we report information corresponding to the 25 countries where we operate, which we have grouped by region. Company Profile The content of this report is based on our materiality assessments, our commitment to the UN’s 10 Principles of the Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals, and the methodology suggested by the Sustainability Index of the Mexican Stock Exchange. Updating Sustainability Adhering to our commitment to share true and transparent information, Valora Consultores verified several of the indicators included in this report. The scope of the indicators that were subject to verification and the report issued by Valora Connecting with Principles Consultores are referenced in the sections entitled GRI Content Index and Independent Assurance Report. Activating Safety Content Sharing Development Message from the CEO 3 Company Profile 5 Updating Sustainability 14 Uploading Quality of Life Connecting with Principles 25 Activating Safety 52 Sharing Development 61 Uploading Quality of Life 87 Appendix Appendix 97 2 Message 2018 Sustainability Report Content from the CEO (102-14) Message from the CEO América Móvil is making considerable strides in reaching its goal of consolidating its position as Company Profile a world leader in Information Technologies and in the development of connectivity-based solutions, both of which are essential for the comprehensive Updating Sustainability development of societies. Such leadership is based on making solid investments Connecting with Principles to address the growing communication needs of our subscribers, both personally and at the business level, using state-of-the-art technology. As a company committed to Activating Safety the Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, we are firmly committed to strengthening América Móvil as a catalyst for development and for improving the quality of life Sharing Development of people, on a solid sustainable basis. Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 3 2018 Sustainability Report Content With this in mind, our Sustainability Executive Year after year, we invest in the modernization of our Furthermore, this year we strengthened our policies Committee established a new strategy known as infrastructure, expand our transmission network, reand our Code of Ethics ensuring that our employees “Smart Sustainability” that includes nine objectives new our systems, and automate the operation of our at all levels of the organization are familiar with and Message from the CEO for our work, in alignment with the UN Sustainable networks. In 2018 we invested $15.1 billion Mexican committed to complying with them. Development Goals. pesos more than the previous year. We wish to thank our investors for their continued Today, anyone connected to the internet can gain Additionally, as pioneers in the adoption of new trust, our customers for the opportunity they give Company Profile universal access to content, information, education, technologies, this year we were able to introduce us to serve them with the best comprehensive teleand entertainment using a mobile device. We are li4.5G services in our main markets. This technology communications solutions, our employees for their ving in an era of good fortune in technology. With this supports speeds up to 10 times faster in compatible loyalty and dedication, as well as our suppliers, disgreat opportunity, comes a commitment to continue devices, which considerably reduces latency in the tributors and society as a whole for allowing us to be Updating Sustainability to be an agent of change, promoting inclusion, econetwork. This innovation enables us to promote an agent of change by connecting them to the world. nomic growth, and well-being in every country where hyper-connectivity and the internet of things. With we operate. the NarrowBand-IoT and LTM technologies we are It is with great pleasure that I present América Móvil’s able to connect millions of telemetry sensors that 2018 Sustainability Report, where you will find detaiConnecting with Principles América Móvil is an ally of digital transformation: we consume low amounts of energy and allow us to led information about our progress and achievements offer the best communications options and, at the monitor millions of devices. All of this will enable us to for the year. I reiterate our commitment to continue same time, we develop new state-of-the-art solucontinue to facilitate and promote the “Digital Life”. to make advancements that benefit our clients and to tions. Our focus point is on providing a comprehencontribute to the development of well-being. Activating Safety sive experience to both consumers and companies, We have also undergone an internal transformathat meets with all their expectations. tion—our culture, our processes, and our focus—to better serve the interests of our subscribers and We are able to do this because América Móvil has the market. We have improved our training proSharing Development always been present, offering much more than just cesses and, in particular, we have implemented a one communication channel. We recognize that teprofound transformation across all our company Daniel Hajj Aboumrad lecommunications enable technology to play an indivisions. We are currently participating in the deveCEO América Móvil creasingly more relevant role in improving the quality lopment of projects with multi-functional equipment Uploading Quality of Life of life for people, offering our customers the possibithat facilitates the promotion of innovation and conlity of being even closer and better connected throutinuous improvement. gh our networks, data centers, cloud, satellites, and submarine cables. Appendix 4 Company 2018 Sustainability Report Content Profile Message from the CEO América Móvil is the leading company in integrated telecommunications services in Latin America and Company Profile the largest telecommunications company worldwide in terms of total accesses, only behind China and India. Updating Sustainability We offer a portfolio of value-added services and our worldConnecting with Principles class communications platform allows us to provide innovative communication solutions. Activating Safety América Móvil has presence in 25 countries in America and Central and Eastern Europe: Mexico, United States, Brazil, Peru, Colombia, Ecuador, Argentina, Paraguay, Uruguay, Chile, Sharing Development Costa Rica, El Salvador, Guatemala, Honduras, Nicaragua, Panama, Puerto Rico, Dominican Republic, Austria, Belarus, Bulgaria, Croatia, Slovenia, Macedonia, and Serbia. Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 5 2018 Company Presence Sustainability (102-1, 102-3, 102-4) Report In Latin America, América Móvil operates under its brands Telcel, Telmex, and Claro. In Europe it operates under the A1 brand through Content Telekom Austria, and in the United States under Tracfone. Belarus Message from the CEO Austria Slovenia Croatia Company Profile Serbia United States Macedonia Bulgaria Updating Sustainability Dominican Republic Mexico Puerto Rico Honduras Guatemala Nicaragua Connecting with Principles El Salvador Costa Rica Colombia Panama Ecuador Activating Safety Peru Brazil Sharing Development Paraguay Uruguay Chile Uploading Quality of Life Argentina Appendix Corporate Headquarters 6 2018 Sustainability As of December 31st 2018, América Móvil had 360 million Report Content accesses 276 million wireless subscribers (voice and data), and 84 million revenue generating units (RGUs1). Message from the CEO Million accesses Company Profile Mobile Fixed-Lines, Broadband and Pay TV Updating Sustainability 2013 270 2013 69 2014 289 2014 78 2015 286* 2015 81 Connecting with Principles 2016 281 2016 83 2017 279 2017 83 2018 276 2018 84 Activating Safety * Starting in 2015 we have a prepaid CHURN policy in place to automatically cancel lines that show no activity during a specific term (established for each operation); accordingly, starting on that same year, we registered a downturn in the number of mobile services accesses. Sharing Development Uploading Quality of Life 1 The RGUs of the fixed services include the number of fixed voice and data services accounts and Pay TV (which include the number of users of both Pay TV services as well as other digital Appendix services). 7 2018 Main Brands and Businesses in the Countries Where We Operate Sustainability (102-2, 102-6) Report Country / Main Main Equity Number of Accesses Percentage of Operation Region Brands Businesses Stake (thousands) (millions of accesses) Telcel (4) 100.00% Mexico 97,785 27% Telmex Infinitum 98.80% Content Brazil Claro 98.20% 91,702 25% Claro 99.40% Colombia 36,852 10% Telmex 99.30% Southern Cone Message from the CEO Argentina Claro 100.00% Chile Claro 100.00% 33,170 9% Paraguay Claro 100.00% Uruguay Claro 100.00% Andean Region Company Profile Ecuador Claro 100.00% 22,200 6% Peru Claro 100.00% Central America Costa Rica Claro 100.00% Updating Sustainability El Salvador Claro 95.80% Guatemala Claro 99.30% 20,829 6% Honduras Claro 100.00% Nicaragua Claro 99.60% Connecting with Principles Panama Claro 100.00% Caribbean Dominican Republic Claro 100.00% 8,433 2% Puerto Rico Claro 100.00% United States TracFone 100.00% 21,688 6% Activating Safety Austria and Eastern Europe Austria A1 Belarus A1 Bulgaria A1 Sharing Development Croatia A1 51.00% 27,261 8% Macedonia A1 Serbia A1 Slovenia A1 Uploading Quality of Life Total 359,919 100% (1) Includes voice services, roaming, SMS, MMS, e-mail, browsing, Mobile voice and data and value-added services(1) entertainment, and game apps. Fixed-line voice, data, and broadband, and IT services(2) (2) Includes local services and national and international long distance. (3) Includes Claro video and Claro música services. Pay TV Appendix (4) Services provided through subsidiaries that are not concessionaires Content sales(3) of telecommunications services. 8 2018 Infrastructure Sustainability (203-1) Report At América Móvil we are firmly committed to make a In 2018, at América Móvil we invested Content continuous effort to expand and improve our infrastructure, incorporating state-of-the-art technology 151.8 billion in order to be able to offer our customers the best Mexican pesos to expand, improve, and upgrade our connectivity solutions available today. infrastructure. Message from the CEO Accordingly, we have centered our efforts on builOur submarine cable, which has been operating since 2014, conding from the ground up the best fiber-optic network nects our subsidiaries located in the US1 and in Central and South in Latin America to carry data and long-distance serAmerica. The cable is more than 189,000 kilometers long; it includes vices all the way from Argentina to the Southern US a 17,500-km AMX-1 system and 11 landing points. The transmission Company Profile border and back. At year-end 2018, there were more capacity of the submarine cable is 90Tbit/second. When operating than 260,000 kilometers of fiber-optic cable in our at full capacity, the cable is able to process 1.125 billion calls simulnetwork. In addition, we expanded construction of taneously, broadcast 11 million HD channels at the same time, and the AMX-1 submarine cable network that connects download 2.8 million songs per second. Updating Sustainability Brazil with Florida with 12 landing points, making it the largest of its kind in Latin America. FurthermoWe also have 859,000 kilometers of land fiber-optic cable; 241,990 re, we have tripled the size of our urban fiber-optic base stations2, of which approximately 65% employ 3G, 4G, or 4.5G cable, which now spans almost 600,000 kilometers. technologies. Connecting with Principles We renewed our satellite fleet—complementing our The latest research carried out by the World Health Organization fiber optic network—by launching three new satellishows that the probability of exposure to electromagnetic fields tes; our plan is to launch a seventh satellite over the from telecommunications base stations having a direct effect on the Activating Safety course of 2019. Our satellite network, which is opepopulation’s health is low. Nonetheless, at América Móvil we strictly rated by Star One, is currently the largest in Latin abide by international practices and standards that specify the miAmerica, offering coverage over Mexico, the US, and nimum distance at which base stations should be installed and the Central and South America. power they should radiate, as well as by the laws of every country Sharing Development where we operate. In addition, we continued working on virtualizing our servers, which has enabled us to improve our overall We have 27 Data Centers in eleven countries—15 are installed in Laperformance as well as our availability, flexibility, and tin America and 12 in Europe—to manage the cloud-based solutions Uploading Quality of Life scalability, while at the same time reducing costs. we offer. With this, we now have a redundant and resilient ne1 América Móvil does not own any mobile telecommunications facilities nor does it hold twork with enough capacity to meet any unexpected any mobile spectrum concessions in the US. Instead, we purchase airtime through increases in demand. agreements with mobile service providers and resell airtime to our customers. 2 In Latin America and Europe. Appendix 9 2018 Economic Performance Sustainability (201-1) Report 2017 2018 Million Pesos (MXN) Million Pesos (MXN) Million Dollars (USD) Content 1,021,634 1,038,208 52,747 Economic Value Generated Message from the CEO 989,479 983,691 49,977 Economic Value Distributed Company Profile 32,155 54,517 2,770 Economic Value Retained* Updating Sustainability * Considering that the economic value (102-7,102-45) retained is equal to the annual net profit. Note: For more information on our financial performance please click here. Connecting with Principles Data Centers: Percentage of Service Revenues1: Activating Safety Data Centers 2017 2018 Argentina 1 1 Brazil 3 4 Sharing Development Chile 4 1 Colombia 2 2 Ecuador 1 1 Fixed bundles2 33.9% Mexico 2 2 Mobile prepaid 32.5% Uploading Quality of Life Peru 4 2 Mobile postpaid 31.6% Dominican Republic 1 2 Fixed voice 1.9% Austria 3 4 1 Does not include revenue from other telcos, Bulgaria 0 6 which include interconnection and roaming. Belarus 0 2 2 Includes Fixed Broadband Pay TV and Fixed Appendix Total 21 27 Voice in doubleand triple-play bundles. 10 2018 Sustainability Report Content Our Mission Our mission is to ensure that people in every one of the countries where we operate have access to high quality products and services with the latest Message from the CEO technologically advanced telecommunications, at affordable prices, in order to bring as many people as we can closer together. Company Profile Updating Sustainability Our Vision To be the fastest-growing telecommunications company and preserve our Connecting with Principles leadership in the telecommunications industry. Activating Safety Our Strategy Sharing Development To achieve our Mission we implement new strategies to maintain our leadership position in each of the markets in which we operate. Uploading Quality of Life We offer our customers innovative products and services of the highest quality and most advanced technology and invest in our networks to optimize their capacity and coverage. We also implement new technologies that allow us to be more efficient, care for the environment, and improve the daily experience Appendix of our subscribers. 11 2018 Our Values and Principles Sustainability (102-16) Report Our values and corporate ethics principles are the qualities that differentiate and guide us. We always keep them in mind and put them into practice on a daily basis as an essential Content foundation of our culture of excellence, productivity and leadership. Message from the CEO Honesty Business Creativity Cost Management We are committed to the highest ethical and corWe believe in corporate creativity as a means to We take care of our company’s assets as if they porate governance standards. We must act hoprovide society with sufficient elements to adwere our own. They are the product of our work, nestly and with integrity at all times. By conducdress the social problems affecting the countries and they are intended for the benefit of our custoCompany Profile ting ourselves with integrity we foster confidence in which we operate, and we put this creativity in mers and our society. and trust among ourselves and in our relationships practice in our daily activities. with our customers, suppliers, and other business Social Responsibility partners. Such conduct also promotes respect Productivity We take on a leadership role to always work in faUpdating Sustainability towards our organization, which ultimately contriWe are committed to improving quality and optimivor of sustainable development in the communities butes to the success of our business. zing our productive processes by means of conwe serve, regarding diverse issues including edutrolling costs and expenses and adhering to the cation, the environment, health, sports, the arts, Human Development highest standards for our industry worldwide. and culture. We are committed to ensuring that our Connecting with Principles We believe in the unlimited potential for the peractivities foster well-being in these communities. sonal and professional growth of all people. This Optimism and a Positive Attitude is why we respect and promote human rights in all We believe that when faced with adversity, a posiSustainability of our activities. tive attitude and an optimistic perspective are esWe use resources rationally in order to strike a baActivating Safety sential for solving problems. lance between productivity, efficiency, and respect Respect for the environment. In this effort, we comply with We value all our employees, customers, suppliers Compliance with the Law local and international best practices. and commercial partners. We respect human riOur activities are also governed by applicable laws Sharing Development ghts and we treat everyone in the same way. We do and regulations in every country where we operate. not tolerate any form of discrimination, and we are We strictly abide by and comply with all of these open to different cultures, customs, and beliefs, all laws, regulations, and other rules in effect in each of which add value to our business community. of our markets. We aim to be regarded as a ComUploading Quality of Life pany that operates in strict adherence to the law at all times. We also abide by our internal policies. Appendix 12 2018 Our Objectives Sustainability Report Customer Satisfaction • Increase our Net Promoter Score (NPS)1. We monitor our customer satisfaction levels using the NPS. Content • Maintain CHURN rate2. We aim to retain our customers’ loyalty; by monitoring our CHURN rate we are able to determine the percentage of customers who drop our service. Message from the CEO • Improve the quality of our services. We make investments in network infrastructure to improve our customers’ mobile communications and browsing experience. Company Profile Growth • Increase the number of subscribers. We believe that the products and services we offer will allow us to attract a growing Updating Sustainability number of subscribers. • Meet our revenue budget. We continue to innovate and work to identify new opportunities and improve customer service. Connecting with Principles Leadership • Retain market share. Teamwork across all divisions is key to retain our long-standing market leadership. Activating Safety Profitability • Keep operations within budget. We manage our resources efficiently in order to be able to reach our projected results every Sharing Development year. Uploading Quality of Life 1 Index that measures the difference between the number of subscribers who recommend our services, and those who don’t. 2 CHURN rate. The number of mobile subscribers who drop our service during a specific period Appendix compared to the number of subscribers at the beginning of the period. 13 Updating 2018 Sustainability Report Content Sustainability (102-42) Message from the CEO Company Profile Sustainability has become a priority to America Movil’s planning and operation, as we are certain this will allow us to maintain of market leadership. Updating Sustainability Over the past few years we have made significant efforts to strengthen our Sustainability Strategy as well as to set the objectives that can help us Connecting with Principles better contribute to economic, social and cultural development in the communities we have presence, leveraging the benefits that the digital era provides. Activating Safety Sharing Development Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 14 2018 The process to update the sustainability strategy The strategy has four pillars: Sustainability for América Móvil began in late 2017 and continued Report throughout 2018. The first step consisted in carrying • Development, given that the products and serout an in-depth materiality analysis which allowed us vices that América Móvil offers can be a relevant to identify those issues that constitute a priority for catalyst and promoter of economic activity in the Content our stakeholders. communities and as part of personal growth. With this in mind, in February 2018 the Audit and • Safety, because the products and services that Corporate Practices Committee constituted, with América Móvil offers, as well as the projects in Message from the CEO the Board recommendation, the América Movil which it participates, help improve safety for peoSustainability Steering Committee. This Committee ple and communities either directly or indirectly. resumed the themes selection that have been previously addressed and defined 9 Sustainability • Quality of life, considering that the products and Company Profile objectives for 2020. services that América Móvil offers help people enjoy more free time, have better health, and stay Ultimately, these 9 goals became the basis for the more connected to their loved ones. new sustainability strategy for the company, which we Updating Sustainability named “Smart Sustainability”, whose purpose is to • Principles, values and ethics management in position América Móvil as a catalyst for development América Móvil ensures that the company has a and for improving quality of life for people through significant reputation, which extends to its value connectivity. chain. Connecting with Principles Activating Safety Sharing Development In order to develop the America Móvil’s sustainability strategy, we followed several guidelines and methodologies including ISO 26000, Uploading Quality of Life SA8000, RobeccoSAM, GRI, and the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, among others. Appendix 15 2018 Smart Sustainability Sustainability Report Uploading Quality of Life Activating Safety Content América Móvil’s services, products, and projects help people have América Móvil’s services, products, and projects contribute to freemore free time, enjoy better health, and be better connected to their dom of expression and to improving safety for people and communiloved ones. ties, directly or indirectly. Message from the CEO Related indicators: Related indicators: • Lower emissions. • Safety devices and solutions for people and industries. • Recycling. • Information Security. • Cloud-based and device-based health services. • Privacy of information and communications. Company Profile • Connecting projects for vulnerable communities. • Response to emergencies and natural disasters. • Reduction in the need for mobility in order to get service. • Conservation programs. América Móvil helps me care for my safety and gets me closer to having a better quality of life. Updating Sustainability I am proud of being part of the América Móvil family. Connecting with Principles Connecting with Principles Sharing Development América Móvil’s values and ethics management make it possible for América Móvil’s services and products can become a company to have a great reputation. This includes working with our a strong driver and/or catalyst of economic activity Activating Safety suppliers, distributors, contractors, and employees. and personal growth. Related indicators: Related indicators: • Ethics and corporate governance. • Training through aprende.org. Sharing Development • Talent development. • Narrowing the digital divide. • Attracting and retaining talent. • Financial services. • Customer service and satisfaction. • Promoting entrepreneurship. • Promoting innovation. • Developing small suppliers. Uploading Quality of Life • Managing the value chain and minimizing risks. • Volunteering. • Stakeholder engagement. • Local jobs. • Relationship with associations and organizations. • Work environment. I have access to a new future because Appendix I am part of América Móvil. América Móvil helps me to be connected to the brand at all times. 16 2018 Sustainability Management Sustainability Report Updating the company’s materiality assessment enabled us to focus our efforts on those issues on which we can truly have the positive impact we aim to have. By defining our relevant topics we were able to establish a solid basis on which Content to redesign the sustainability strategy for América Móvil, in alignment with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. This year we created the Sustainability Executive Committee that reports directMessage from the CEO ly to the Board of Directors. Its main objective was to develop the sustainability strategy known as “Smart Sustainability”. Once the strategy was established, the committee determined nine 2020 objectives and adopted the role of supervising and coordinating all company efforts to ensure that they follow the strategy. Company Profile ent to the UN SD lignm Gs Updating Sustainability A Connecting with Principles y rate g teria Ma ustainability St lity Assessmen Activating Safety S t the Sharing Development te da Up Uploading Quality of Life Crea it y te a Sustainabil Exec e utive Committe Appendix 17 2018 Materiality Sustainability (102-21, 102-29, 102-31, 102-47) Report In 2017, we carried out an extensive materiality assessment involving our main stakeholders in the maContent Adapting to ESG risk Modernizing jority of the countries where we operate. We carried climate change management infrastructure out the assessment following the methodology suggested by the GRI Reporting Standards, based on Energy eﬃciency Managing supplier impacts Natural disaster aid plans Relevance for Internal and External Stakeholders two criteria: the relevance of sustainability issues for Message from the CEO all the stakeholders, and their potential impact on economic, social, and environmental issues. Ethical behavior and Preservation and Minimizing waste reporting mechanisms restoration generation of biodiversity The assessment was carried out in four stages: The Company Profile Environmental footprint for Participation in Minimizing emissions Information security first consisted of carefully designing the surveys to inthe life cycle of our products associations and and privacy clude relevant issues concerning social, environmenand services organizations tal, economic, and operational issues in alignment with Responsible marketing Occupational health Connectivity, the UN Sustainable Development Goals. During the and safety responsible and ethical Updating Sustainability use of technologies second stage, we surveyed more than 28,500 people in the majority of our operations1, including internal Promoting competitiveness Narrowing the User satisfaction Developing tools stakeholders (Board members, top management, and digital divide and complaint for the ﬁght employees) and external stakeholders (academia, resolution against poverty Connecting with Principles NGOs, associations, chambers, authorities, corporate Performance evaluations Employee training Job creation customers, mass customers, communities, distribuprograms and career plans tors, investors, press, and suppliers). The third stage consisted of analyzing the impact with América Móvil Activating Safety Access to cloud-based tools Eﬃcient water use Diversity and equal opportunity Developing producers experts and members of the Sustainability Operating and entrepreneurs Committee during which we analyzed the most relevant indicators for our operations. The fourth and last Tools that increase productivity Fight against child stage consisted of determining the material issues for and forced labor Sharing Development América Móvil. Social, Environmental, and Economic Impact of the Operations The following chart shows the result of our materiality assessment: Uploading Quality of Life 1 Except Brazil. Peru and Austria incorporated materiality Appendix assessments that had been done previously by subsidiaries employing the same methodology. 18 2018 Sustainability Executive Committee Sustainability (102-18, 102-19, 102-20, 102-26) Report In February 2018, the Audit and Corporate Practices The following are among the main responsibilities of The Sustainability Executive Committee includes the following positions and Committee constituted the América Móvil Sustainathe committee: their corresponding responsibilities: Content bility Executive Committee in response to a recommendation made by management. The goal of this • Identify material issues. Committee • Observe the Committee and ensure that it complies committee is to define the strategy needed to bring • Establish long-term goals to manage issues deeCoordinator with its responsibilities, in particular and in general. the company’s performance in sustainability to the med a priority. • Assess the performance of all Committee members. Message from the CEO next level and oversee its execution. The commit• Design mechanisms to translate the strategy and • Coordinate how responsibility for each of the sustaitee reports periodically to the company’s CEO and its objectives into actions within the operations. nability objectives is assigned to the members of the Board of Directors. During 2018, the Committee held • Assign responsible parties to achieve the objectiCommittee and demand recognition by their superiors four ordinary sessions and two extraordinary sesves and oversee compliance. for a job well done. Company Profile sions. Additionally, and in order to have the points of • Facilitate compliance with the goals or objectives. Committee • Develop the agenda and minutes for the Committee’s view of experts outside our operation, two indepenSecretary ordinary and extraordinary meetings. dent directors participate in the Sustainability ExeThe following are the members of the América Móvil • Convene directors to Committee sessions, including cutive Committee. Sustainability Executive Committee: Updating Sustainability external and/or independent members. • Work as a liaison between the Committee and external • Ángel Javier Alexander Flores International and/or independent guests. Human Resources Board of • Alejandro Cantú Jiménez General Counsel and Objectives • Responsible for complying with one or several goals. Directors Connecting with Principles Chief Regulatory Office Supervisor • Coordinate the development of work plans to reach • Paula M. García Sabido Public Affairs Manathe goals under his or her responsibility. ger– (Chairman of the Sustainability Executive • Present progress on the goals to the Committee and Committee) other audiences. CEO Activating Safety América Móvil • Daniela Lecuona Torras Investor Relations Officer Business • Responsible for establishing the strategic guidelines ba• Marcela Velasco Cámara Director of Corporate Representative: sed on agreements reached for each country / operaMarketing Director or tion. When needed, this person can convene a meeting Sharing Development Deputy Director of the Sustainability Executive Committee, including all Sustainability Executive Committee • Mauro Accurso ICT Expert for Latin America for a business or parties responsible for the business, division, or country (external) division in order to discuss and address specific issues • Gustavo Alanis Ortega CEO for the Centro Uploading Quality of Life Mexicano de Derecho Ambiental (external) Corporate Coordinator Independent Appendix Directors and Experts Deputy Directors 19 2018 Sustainability Objectives Sustainability Report As a first step in the process to ensure continuity of América Móvil’s leadership, and to promote the adoption of international best practices within the company, the Sustainability Committee Content established nine 2020 objectives. Issues 2020 Sustainability Objectives with respect to 2018 Message from the CEO 1. Use 50% of clean energy sources and commit to streamlining operations in order to minimize energy consumption. Renewable Energy Company Profile 2. Perform evaluations on more than 80% of our employees. 3. Improve work environment satisfaction result from 78% Human Capital to 80%, increasing participation from 87% to 89%. Updating Sustainability 4. Increase by 20% the number of subscribers in the Group’s education platforms, maintaining an average of 2.5 courses per user. Education Connecting with Principles 5. 5. Increase by 1% the average brand NPS for each country where we operate. Customer Service Activating Safety 6. Align 35% of our suppliers with our Supplier Code. 7. Assess 100% of our Tier 1 suppliers in sustainability performance. Value Chain 8. Offer training to 30% of our local suppliers. Sharing Development 9. Achieve 0 fatalities. Health & Safety Uploading Quality of Life Each of the internal members of the Sustainability Executive Committee chose to lead the efforts of at least one of the priority topics and worked with their corresponding teams within the company to implement them. Appendix 20 2018 Stakeholder Engagement Sustainability (102-40, 102-43, 102-44) Report We have identified nine América Móvil stakeholder groups with whom we maintain a constant two-way communication. In order to ensure communication we Content have established several contact channels. Message from the CEO Stakeholders Communication Channels Frequency Main Expectations Stakeholders Communication Channels Frequency Main Expectations • Social networks • Market Research • e-mail • Telephone calls • Call center • Training and development Company Profile • Website • Quality of the service • Trade magazines Continuous • Salaries and benefits • Chat • Follow up on complaints • Manuals / Daily / • Respect for human rights • • Advertising Monthly • Code of Ethics Mobile phone apps Continuous and suggestions Employees • Self-help modules • Coverage and connectivity • Satisfaction surveys • Health and safety Customers • Suggestion box • Competitive costs • Whistle-blower Website • Written letters Updating Sustainability • Blogs • e-mail • Whistle-blower Website • Call center • Trade magazines Continuous • Transparency and • Corporate • Manuals / Monthly / accountability Communications • Advertising Annual • Health and safety • e-mail Distributors • Satisfaction surveys Connecting with Principles • Press information on • Transparency and • Whistle-blower Website website Continuous accountability Communications • Call center • Timely information • Research and Media • Events • In-person meetings Development • • Special events In-person meetings Monthly / • Transparency and • Whistle-blower Website • Information shared by the Annual accountability Activating Safety sector Associations • Timely information • Events and presentations • Whistle-blower Website and industry • Promoting best practices • Quarterly conference participation calls • Operating and financial • Transparency and • Partnerships • Compliance with the law, Continuous reports / Quarterly accountability • Agreements regulations, and norms Sharing Development • Website • Timely information • In-person meetings Monthly / • Managing taxes and / Annual • e-mail • Profitability • Information requests Annual contributions Investors • Telephone calls • Audits • Investment and job Authorities • In-person meetings • Whistle-blower Website creation • Whistle-blower Website Uploading Quality of Life • Telephone calls • Programs and social • Investment in development • Transparency and events projects • Whistle-blower Website Continuous • Events and in-person Continuous accountability • In-person meetings • Good neighbor / Annual • Health and safety • Whistle-blower website • Environmental stewardship meetings • Supplier development Community • Whistle-blower Website Suppliers Appendix 21 2018 Relationship with Associations UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Sustainability Report and Organizations In order to align countries and companies with a common goal, the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development As part of our long-term sustainability has 17 goals. Its purpose is to eradicate poverty, protect the planet, and ensure prosperity for all. Content strategy we established partnerships with several associations and organizations Aware of the importance of contributing to these goals, as one of the most important telecommunications that conform to principles and are aligned companies in the world, América Móvil has taken concrete steps that have a positive impact on eleven of to our sustainability objectives. these goals. Message from the CEO Global Compact In 2018 we ratified our adhesion to the United Nations Company Profile Global Compact. Since 2016, at América Móvil and our subsidiaries we have made a tangible effort to SDG América Móvil projects and actions with a SDG América Móvil projects and actions with a high impact on these goals high impact on these goals observe the Ten Principles of the Global Compact and to align our operation to them. • Volunteering, page 68 • Aprende.org, page 62 • Social development projects, page 69 Updating Sustainability • Aid in natural disasters, page 59 These Principles are: (i) support and respect Human Rights, (ii) eliminate complicity in the abuse of Human • Aprende.org, page 62 • Value chain, page 44 Rights, (iii) respect for freedom of association and • Train for a Job, page 63 • Disposal of handsets and accessories, • Internet for all project, page 67 page 80 Connecting with Principles recognize the right of collective bargaining, (iv) eliminate forced or compulsory labor, (v) effectively • Renewable energy, page 77 • Our employees, page 33 • Initiatives to reduce emissions, energy abolish child labor, (vi) eliminate job and occupational • Aprende.org, page 62 consumption, and fuel consumption, page discrimination, (vii) support preventive methods for 78 • Refurbishing electric and electronic Activating Safety addressing environmental problems, (viii) promote equipment, page 80 environmental responsibility, (ix) promote the • Work benefits, page 36 • Disposal of handsets and accessories, page 80 development and dissemination of environmentally friendly technologies, and (x) eliminating all forms of • Digital customer service channels, page 50 • Research and development, page 88 • Conservation of biodiversity with the WWFSharing Development corruption, including extortion and bribery. • Infrastructure, page 9 Telmex Telcel Foundation Alliance, page 81 • Single RAN Project, page 79 • Accessibility, page 95 • Internet for all project, page 67 • Conservation of biodiversity with the WWFTelmex Telcel Foundation Alliance, page 81 • Aprende.org, page 62 Uploading Quality of Life For more information on the United Nations For more information on the UN Sustainable Global Compact please visit: Development Goals, please click www.unglobalcompact.org here. Appendix 22 2018 GSMA and the We Care Program Sustainability Report (102-12) América Móvil has been an active participant since 2012 of the We Care Program led by GSMA (Groupe Speciale Mobile Association), which represents the interests of mobile service operators all over the world, Content including more than 750 operators and more than 400 companies in 219 countries GSMA includes handset manufacturers, software companies, equipment suppliers, and internet companies, as well as financial services, health, media, transportation, and public utilities services. Message from the CEO The initiatives of the We Care program are aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals, allowing the mobile industry to become a catalyst for reaching those goals. The initiatives in this program and the América Móvil subsidiaries that participate in each of them are the Company Profile following: Participating Participating Initiative Description Initiative Description subsidiaries subsidiaries Updating Sustainability • Colombia Helping connect people with no access to the • Honduras Enhance access to information and coordinate • Guatemala internet or to mobile technology. • Mexico aid to people affected by natural disasters or • Mexico Response to natural humanitarian crises. • Peru Digital inclusion Connecting with Principles disasters and • Honduras humanitarian crises • Argentina • Argentina Develop initiatives that help decrease the num• Brazil • Brazil ber of mobile devices that get stolen. • Colombia Activating Safety • Costa Rica • Costa Rica Finding ways in which to protect children from • El Salvador • Dominican The GSMA Blacklist is an IMEIs centralized dacontent found online. • Guatemala tabase of stolen terminals that is managed by Republic • Honduras • El Salvador Child protection GSMA, to which operators can connect in order • Mexico Combating • Guatemala to upload or download information that will la• Nicaragua device theft • Honduras Sharing Development ter serve to deny access of stolen handsets to • Mexico their networks. • Nicaragua • Panama Aims to reduce the gender gap in mobile internet Implementing campaigns on how to ecologiUploading Quality of Life and money services in lowand medium-income cally dispose of mobile devices and recycling • Colombia countries, and to unblock significant commercial them, as well as conducting reforestation and • Mexico • Mexico and socioeconomic opportunities. We now know Environmental environmental stewardship activities. that when women prosper, so do societies, comstewardship panies, and economies. Connected Women Appendix 23 2018 Risk Management Sustainability Report (102-15, 201-2) Prompt detection and management of potential risf. Pressure from authorities, NGOs, or consumers ks allows América Móvil to ensure sustainability at its in the telecommunications industry to share inContent operations. Accordingly, we identify potential risks for formation that could enable a faster response in our operations, including macroeconomic, regulatory, case of emergency. environmental, market, physical, social, and corruption risks, among others. g. Changes in consumer trends to purchase proMessage from the CEO ducts and services that, in addition to their inThe following are among the risks we have identified trinsic benefits, create environmental and social this year that could have a direct impact on the sustaivalue, depending on their personal preferences. nability of our business: Company Profile Once potential risks have been identified, we estaa. Delivery delays from our manufacturers and sublish measures through internal and external meppliers. chanisms to manage and mitigate them. These mechanisms include: a self-assessment of our maUpdating Sustainability b. Government or regulatory actions that could have nagement; the risks, ethics, sustainability, and safety a negative impact on our operations. committees; internal and external audits. The Internal Audit division assesses risks related to fraud and c. Changes in regulation that imply increasing our corruption and identifies processes in the company Connecting with Principles use of renewable sources of energy, with no tranthat are susceptible to them. sition period. For more information on the risks faced by América d. Changes in regulation concerning the allowed liMóvil, please review our 2018 Annual Report in Form Activating Safety mits for greenhouse gas emissions. 20-F1. e. Vulnerability of our infrastructure or power outages resulting from natural disasters or climate Sharing Development change. Uploading Quality of Life 1 Form 20-F is available here. Appendix 24 Connecting 2018 Sustainability Report Content with Principles (102-5, 102-19, 102-22, 102-23, 102-24, 102-25, 102-35, 102-36) Message from the CEO Company Profile The principles behind our actions at América Móvil are the basis of the excellent reputation we have in society and with our stakeholders. The framework of Updating Sustainability the principles with which we operate have enabled us to be sustainable over time and will allow us to maintain our leadership position in the industry. Connecting with Principles Activating Safety Sharing Development Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 25 2018 Corporate Governance and Sustainability Report Ethics Management Our Corporate Governance and Ethics MaBased on equity ownership reports filed with the US Content nagement practices serve as our guide for Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), the the way we act. Throughout time, we have following table shows the parties who owned more strengthened these practices that consothan 5.0% of the shares of any of the company’s lidate us as one of the most important teclass of shares as of March 31st 2019: Message from the CEO lecommunications companies in the world. Number Corporate Governance Shareholder of Shares Percentage of Series1 (millions) Company Profile At América Móvil we place particular attention and AA Shares determination on ensuring that our Corporate GoverFamily Trust2 10,894 52.9% nance practices are sound because we are certain Inversora Carso3 4,381 21.3% that they are the basis for sustainable development Carlos Slim Helú 1,879 9.1% Updating Sustainability at our company. We make constant revisions and imL Shares provements to our policies and implement new tools Inversora Carso3 6,020 13.4% that enable us to manage them successfully. Family Trust2 5,998 13.4% Carlos Slim Helú 3,072 6.8% We adhere to international best practices in CorpoBlackRock, Inc.4 2,918 6.5% Connecting with Principles rate Governance, which serve as a benchmark for our investors and Board of Directors in their deci(1) Percentage figures are based on the number of shares outstanding as of March 31st 2019. sion-making process. Activating Safety (2) The Family Trust is a Mexican trust that holds AA Shares and América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. is a public variable stock L Shares for the benefit of members of the Slim family. In addition to shares held by the Family Trust, members of the Slim corporation (sociedad anónima bursátil de capital Family, including Carlos Slim Helú, directly own an aggregate of variable) organized under the laws of Mexico and 3,558 million AA Shares and 9,570 million L Shares, representing 17.3% and 21.3%, respectively, of each series. Based on equity Sharing Development under some of the laws of the countries where our ownership reports filed with the SEC, none of these members of subsidiaries operate or where our shares are traded. the Slim Family, other than Carlos Slim Helú, individually directly own more than 5.0% of any class of our shares. Our shares are currently listed for trading in Mexico, (3) Includes shares owned by subsidiaries of Inversora Carso. BaUploading Quality of Life on the Mexican Stock Exchange (BMV:AMX) and in sed on equity ownership reports filed with the SEC, Inversora Carso may be deemed to be controlled by the Slim Family. For more information on the equity stake of América Móthe United States, on the New York Stock Exchange vil and its main subsidiaries, as well as the Corporate Go(NYSE: AMX/AMOV). (4) Based on equity ownership reports filed with the SEC. vernance structure and how it works, please review our 2018 Annual Report in Form 20-F, which is available at: https://s22.q4cdn.com/604986553/files/doc_financials/ Appendix annual/2018/Informe-Anual-2018.pdf 26 2018 Sustainability Report At América Móvil At América Móvil, the Shareholders Meeting is our highest governance body. our Corporate Governance policies ensure We hold ordinary and extraordinary Meetings. Extraordinary Meetings are held Content that the business is managed under ethics and to address specific issues such as reforms to the company bylaws, company transparency principles, mergers or divestitures, transforming the legal structure of the company, and while our decision-making process is based on our mission, vision, values canceling trading of the company’s shares on the Mexican Stock Exchange or and philosophy. on any other foreign Stock Exchange. All other matters need to be addressed Message from the CEO during Ordinary Shareholders Meetings. We adhere to all governance principles included in the following documents: The Ordinary Meeting must be held at least once a year to discuss (i) approval of • The América Móvil, S.A.B. de C.V. Bylaws1. the financial statements for the previous year; (ii) name directors, determine their Company Profile remuneration4, and analyze their independence; (iii) determine which members • Our Code of Ethics2. of the Board of Directors will participate in the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee; (iv) approve the sum the company will assign to the share buyback • Our Corporate Governance Policies. program; and (v) determine the way in which income will be allocated. In addition, Updating Sustainability any operation that involves 20% of the company’s consolidated assets or more • Our Control Policies Applicable to Transactions Involving América Móvil Shain a single year, must be approved by the Shareholders Meeting. res and other Securities issued by AMX3. The Shareholders Meeting monitors progress on decisions made by the Board Connecting with Principles • Mexican securities laws and regulations in all the international markets where of Directors, which includes 14 directors selected by the holders of Series AA our shares are traded, including the Mexican Securities Law (Ley de Mercado and Series A shares, voting together, and by two Board members, who are in turn de Valores), the Sole Document for Issuers (Circular Única de Emisoras), the selected by holders of Series L shares. internal bylaws of the Mexican Stock Exchange (Reglamento Interior de la Bolsa Activating Safety Mexicana de Valores), and the Best Corporate Practices Code (Código de MejoCarlos Slim Domit is the Chairman of the Board of Directors and Patrick Slim res Prácticas Corporativas) published by the Consejo Coordinador Empresarial. Domit is the Vice-Chairman; neither holds a management position within the company. • Applicable laws and regulations in every country where we operate. Sharing Development 1 Our bylaws are available at: For more detailed information on the members of the https://www.americamovil.com/Spanish/gobierno-corporativo/estatutos-sociales-vigentes/default.aspx Board of Directors, please view our 2018 Annual Report Uploading Quality of Life 2 Our Code of Ethics is available at: in Form 20-F available at: https://www.americamovil.com/Spanish/gobierno-corporativo/codigo-de-etica/default.aspx https://s22.q4cdn.com/604986553/files/doc_financials/ 3 Our control policies are available at: annual/2018/Informe-Anual-2018.pdf https://www.americamovil.com/Spanish/gobierno-corporativo/polticas-de-control/default.aspx 4 The members of the Board of Directors and the Audit Committee and Corporate Practices Committee received approximately 5.3 million pesos, while the relevant executives received close Appendix to 70.1 million pesos during the reporting period. 27 2018 The Board of Directors met 6 times in 2018, with an average attendance rate América Móvil is also obligated to present annual reports on the main activities of Sustainability of 88%. Attendance for the last meeting of the year, during which the effectivethe Board of Directors and the Audit and Corporate Practices Committee to the Report ness of the Board was assessed, was 94%. To operate correctly, the Board is Mexican Banking and Securities Commission (Comisión Nacional Bancaria y de supported by two auxiliary committees: the Executive Committee and the Audit Valores), which publishes the reports on its website. and Corporate Practices Committee It also periodically receives reports from the Content Sustainability Committee and the Ethics Committee. Our Internal Audit division is responsible for performing three main audits: (i) a Risk Management Audit that reviews several operating processes, as well as the integrity of our operations and how they are performing; (ii) a SOX Audit, which Executive Committee ensures that we are meeting with the requirements of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Message from the CEO and that our public financial information is accurate; and (iii) Special Audits, whoThe current members are Carlos Slim Domit, Patrick se goal is to offer support to different divisions within the company to review a Slim Domit, and Daniel Hajj Aboumrad. specific process or activity. Company Profile This body of the Board of Directors has the faculty to approve and offer opinions and alternatives to the Board of Directors on certain issues specified in the company bylaws. Updating Sustainability Diversity Policy for our Top Management Audit and Corporate Practices Committee and Board of Directors The current members are Ernesto Vega Velasco, RaObjective and Scope fael Moisés Kalach Mizrahi, Pablo Roberto González In accordance to best corporate practices, América Móvil promotes diversity Connecting with Principles Guajardo, and Carlos Bremer Gutiérrez, all of whom and recognizes the value of having people with diverse backgrounds occupy are independent directors. positions at different divisions and levels within the company and in the administrative bodies. Activating Safety Its responsibilities include overseeing the management, guidance, and execution of the company’s General Principles businesses, for which it reports on the internal conOur organizational chart and administrative bodies include professionals in diffetrol and internal audit mechanisms applicable to the rent fields and of varying academic track records, age, and gender who share a company and its subsidiaries. Likewise, the Commitstrong social commitment and reflect plurality in the views of our stakeholders in Sharing Development tee analyzes operations with related parties in order relation to the services the company offers. to identify potential conflicts of interest. The selection process for América Móvil’s top management and Board members Our shareholders constantly review the functions carried out by the Board of is based on the merits of each candidate, taking into account the experience, inUploading Quality of Life Directors and its Committees. The securities regulations currently in force and dependence, and knowledge base that will contribute to managing the company applicable to our company in Mexico establish the basis upon which the Board of in an optimal and efficient manner. Directors is obligated to report to the shareholders activities carried out during the fiscal year. Appendix 28 2018 Ethics and Human Rights Sustainability Report Management (102-17, 205-2, 412-2) Ethics Committee At América Móvil we are convinced that The members of the Ethics Committee are: Content acting based on our values is essential to ensuring the continuity of our operations • Ángel Alexander Flores, International Human and is part of our culture of integrity. Resources. Our Code of Ethics serves as the ethical • Alejandro Cantú Jiménez, General Counsel and Message from the CEO guideline for the decision-making process Chief Regulatory Office. and establishes the obligations of every • Fernando Ocampo Carapia, Chief Financial Officer. América Móvil employee, which include: to • Carlota Peón Guerrero, Legal Counsel and read and understand the Code of Ethics, Chairman of the Ethics Committee. Company Profile comply with is principles, behave in an • Gabriel Juárez Lozano, Deputy Director ethical manner, and report any deviations Comptroller and Accounting for América Móvil. from the Code. The Committee, which was created in February Updating Sustainability In February 2018, the América Móvil Ethics Commit2018, holds monthly ordinary sessions, and makes tee implemented a strong communications program quarterly reports to the Audit and Corporate Pracfor the new Code of Ethics and started operating the tices Committee. América Móvil Whistle-blower Website to concentraConnecting with Principles te all reports coming from every operation. With this The following are among the main functions of the we reaffirmed our commitment to our corporate vaEthics Committee: lues and with international best practices in this area. • Review and modify the Code of Ethics. Activating Safety • Create and review all the company’s policies, bylaws and other internal procedures. • Review reports presented by all operations. • Discuss relevant recurring issues identified in reSharing Development ports and implement actions to address them. • Follow-up on the investigations of reports and apply the corresponding sanctions. • Consult with external experts for certain investiUploading Quality of Life gations. • Oversee compliance with internal policies. • Coordinate training programs to familiarize employees with internal policies and other bylaws. Appendix 29 • 2018 Create a comprehensive compliance program for América Móvil and follow-up All reports need to be made through the América Móvil Whistle-blower Website. Sustainability on such program. Whistle-blowers can opt to remain anonymous. A report number and password Report • Address questions and concerns related to ethical issues, organizational beare generated for each report, and the whistle-blower can view the status of havior and culture, and offer recommendations on topics included in the Code the report at any time. Once the report is received, the Corporate Manager of Ethics and compliance with internal policies and bylaws. standardizes the information and sends it to the country manager if he believes Content • Evaluate potential risks, alert the corresponding division in case of imminent the information is subject to being assessed to determine its validity. Reports risk, and follow-up on preventive measures. on issues not covered by the Whistle-blower Website will be rejected. Upon • Make periodical reviews of changes in the law that could have an effect on receiving the report, the country manager will share it with the Local Ethics compliance. Committee and will support the Committee in managing and monitoring the Message from the CEO report until it is determined whether it is valid or not. The Code of Ethics is available for all employees to review on the corporate website. New employees are introduced to it as part of their induction process. In order Reports on a member of the Local Committee or any of our top executives, will to reinforce and ensure that all employees are familiar with it, during 2018 we debe assigned to the América Móvil Corporate Committee who will be in charge Company Profile signed a course on the Code of Ethics that will be offered online at every América of responding to it. Reports on any of the members of the Corporate CommiMóvil operation worldwide. The training course will be launched in May 2019. ttee, the Committee itself, or the Corporate Manager, will be redirected to the rest of the team, who will be in charge of responding to it. The Ethics CommitDuring 2018, only Claro Brazil paid a significant fine1 for complying with the legal tee will decide the validity of a report, assigning a deadline and person responUpdating Sustainability fee related to hiring people with disabilities by the company. sible for carrying out the investigation and, if the report is valid, determine any corrective measures. Whistle-blower Website Throughout 2018 we carried out local campaigns to announce the single WhistConnecting with Principles During 2018 we launched our single Whistle-blower Website for the whole comle-blower website. At some of our operations, employees have received online pany2, in order to improve our reporting channels. Reports that can be made training on the procedure and benefits of the Whistle-blower Website. on the Whistle-blower Website include instances of fraud, false or inadequate information, use or disclosure of restricted or limited information, theft, use or In addition, this year hundreds of hours were allocated to investigating potential Activating Safety inadequate disposal of resources, bribery, corruption, conflicts of interest, illegal deviations from the Code of Ethics reported through the website. The correspayments, extortion, money laundering as well as other kinds of reports such ponding administrative sanctions were applied in those cases deemed valid. as damage to the integrity, health and safety of the people, injury to a person’s dignity, biased or discriminatory treatment, attacks on freedom of speech, persoSharing Development nal data or any other human rights, environmental damage, work-related harassment, or sexual harassment. Uploading Quality of Life 2 The América Móvil Whistle-blower website is available at: https://denuncias.americamovil.com Appendix 1 A significant fine is defined as a fine of USD$100,000 or more. 30 At our operations in Europe, 2018 Between January and December 2018 we received Sustainability 1,087(1) reports through the website from all our opein 2018 we implemented several measures to ensure familiarity with Report rations; 274 were under review, 331 were deemed the company’s Guiding Principles. As a result, 92% valid, and 482 were deemed invalid. Across América Móvil we have allocated 52,802 hours to investigaContent ting reports made on the website. Of the total reof employees ports received, only 4% referred to privacy of inforare now familiar with these principles. mation issues. Message from the CEO The Whistle-blower Website has been very well received by employees and our main stakeholders Allocation and because it offers whistle-blowers the certainty that implementation of Corporate Valid reports will be adequately addressed, and that they America Móvil Committee corrective measures Whistle-blower Website and system update Company Profile can opt to remain anonymous in making a report, if with closing of valid Whistle-blower they wish. report Report generated Accepted Corrective measures for employees involved in reReport received # of the report by top management System update and password Invalid Updating Sustainability ports of violations to the América Móvil Code of with closing of Review by the invalid report Invalid* Ethics, include programs aimed at improving behaCorporate Ethics Committee Accepted viors and monitoring by the local Human Resources division, in addition to chats on ethics. FurthermoReview by the Local Local Manager and Accepted Ethics Committee Supervisors Connecting with Principles re, administrative and verbal disciplinary sanctions Corporate were imposed, and controls were implemented seeDetailed investigation Manager and Supervisors king to prevent further violations to the company’s Closing Rejected Code of Ethics. Local Committee Valid* Activating Safety Rejected Corrective measures implemented in Europe are System update with closing of worth mentioning, as they include orientation discusinvalid report sions, consulting with a psychologist specializing in Sharing Development work-related issues, and discussing the topic with all * Prior to updating the report in the system, the Corporate Manager oversees the investigation process carried out by the Local Committee. Once the Corporate Manager grants its approval to parties involved. In addition, the employees involved the Local Committee’s decision and process, the update is processed into the system. in the report are supervised in order to certify that improvements have been made and that the person Uploading Quality of Life involved has implemented a behavioral change. Measures include anything from offering greater support For more detailed statistics on the América Móvil Whistle-blower Website, click here. and advice, to a job transfer or dissolution. Appendix (1) Does not include Telmex and Europe. These operations have a similar process in place and are currently undergoing 31 the standardization process. 2018 América Móvil Policies Sustainability Report Human Rights Policy The respect for Human Rights is particularly important for América Móvil, since Content we are convinced that we can play a key role in promoting compliance with huAt the majority of the countries we have implemented man rights at all our operations and across our supply chain. All our operations an anti-corruption clause in every contract are obligated to know and apply our Human Rights Policy1, which is based on the we sign with suppliers. UN’s Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the Declaration Related to the FunMessage from the CEO damental Labor Rights adopted by the International Labour Organisation (ILO), Our Anti-Corruption Policy clearly states that América Móvil strictly prohibits giving or receiving and the Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights adopted by the UN. bribes, be it directly or indirectly, in cash or in the form of gifts, entertainment, trips, loans, fees, This policy is also aligned with the company’s Code of Ethics and with the ten vacation time, job offers, personal services, or any other valuable offering. Furthermore, we are principles of the United Nations Global Compact. committed to: Company Profile Inclusion and Diversity Policy • Adhere to anti-corruption laws in the countries where we operate; • Comply will all applicable financial information laws and regulations; At América Móvil we promote diversity and inclusion The goal of our Inclusion • Perform all negotiations, purchases, and financial transactions in adherence to our internal Updating Sustainability and Diversity Policy2 is to establish the principles, criteria, and guidelines that procedures and keep records that can be reviewed by an audit; will ensure a culture of inclusion and diversity in the workplace, offering equal • Ensure that all payments we make are exclusively for goods and services offered to our company; opportunities for all not only in terms of income but also for their permanence • Adopt internal controls and report any cases in which an employee commits an act of corrupand growth within the company. tion; and Connecting with Principles • Promote practices to help in the fight against corruption across our value chain. Testament to the growing role that women are playing across our organization is that both recently created committees, the Ethics Executive Committee and the Sustainability Executive Committee, are chaired by women. Activating Safety In 2018 we offered Anti-Corruption Policy a course on anti-corruption to América Móvil top management in Mexico and Latin America at the facilities of CIDE (Centro de América Móvil is firmly committed to contributing to the fight against corruption. Investigación y Docencia Económicas) Sharing Development Our Anti-Corruption Policy3 is based on legislation that is applicable to our opeto sensitize them on the policy and the relevance of ensuring that it rations and international best practices. The goal of the policy is to ensure that permeated to all levels in the company. all activities performed by our company or in its name are founded on the ethics and values we are known for, condemning corruption, bribery, fraud, or any other Uploading Quality of Life illegal act across our production chain. 1 Our Human Rights Policy is available here. 2 Our Inclusion and Diversity Policy is available here. 3 Our Anti-corruption Policy is available here. Appendix 32 2018 Talent Development Sustainability Report (102-7, 102-8, 102-41, 401-1, 405-1) At América Móvil we are convinced that the growth of our employees constitutes one of the strategic pillars driving our growth. We Content attract and retain great talent and have grown into a professional and committed team. Attracting and retaining talent Message from the CEO Company Profile As of December 31st 2018 the América Móvil family includes Updating Sustainability 189,448 employees. 39% are women and 61% are men, 98% are full-time employees, and only 2% are part-time. In addition, we have 19,174 employees in our other businesses. Connecting with Principles Presence of women in our workforce Activating Safety Level Percentage of women 2nd level manager 25.27% 1st level manager 23.32% Sharing Development Executive 18.49% Total women in management positions 23.97% Women in management positions with a commercial role 35.33% Uploading Quality of Life Of the total part-time employees with a permanent position within the company (less than 40-hour work week), 49% are women. This reflects that offering flexibility in the work allows women to adapt work to the rest of their activities. Appendix 33 Employees by country or region and gender by type of contract 2018 Sustainability Report Full-Time Contract Part-Time Contract Content Country / Region Women Men Women Men Message from the CEO Mexico 35.79% 63.23% 0.37% 0.61% Brazil 41.57% 58.43% 0.00% 0.00% Colombia 37.57% 50.86% 6.49% 5.07% Southern Cone 41.98% 57.28% 0.24% 0.50% Company Profile Andean Region 43.89% 55.85% 0.11% 0.14% Central America 32.50% 67.46% 0.03% 0.02% US 45.88% 50.49% 0.61% 3.02% Caribbean 34.89% 44.43% 12.72% 7.95% Updating Sustainability Europe 38.16% 58.45% 1.42% 1.97% Total 38.00% 60.35% 0.74% 0.91% Our employees are at liberty to belong to a Union or engage in collective bargaining agreements in accordance with the applicable labor laws in every country Connecting with Principles where we operate. 65% of our employees are unionized. Employees by category and gender Activating Safety Sharing Development Position Women Men Entry level 11.44% 11.81% Employees with no staff 24.24% 41.81% Uploading Quality of Life Employees with staff 2.25% 5.09% 2nd level manager 0.49% 1.44% 1st level manager 0.26% 0.85% Executive 0.06% 0.27% Appendix Total 38.74% 61.26% 34 Our employees as of 2018: 2018 Sustainability 189,448 For América Móvil it is important to maintain a low employee turnover, Report in 2018 our turnover rate was 12.90%. 191,156 194,431 employees employees employees Percentage of new positions filled by internal candidates Content 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Number of Percentage filled Message from the CEO Country / Region new positions by internal candidates Mexico 549 47% Colombia 87 57% 173,174 195,475 191,851 Southern Cone 1,191 26% Company Profile Andean Region 63 71% employees employees employees Central America 72 10% Caribbean 10 90% Percentage of employees by Region Total 1,972 Updating Sustainability 9.87% Europe This year we created 1,972 new positions across the organization, of which 35% were filled with internal candidates. Connecting with Principles 0.45% 4.85% US Caribbean Activating Safety 5.61% 46.77% Colombia Mexico The work done by our subsidiaries in Sharing Development Guatemala and the US is particularly relevant. In 2018 their turnover rate for people younger than 25 years old was 0%. 18.09% 5.06% Brazil Likewise, the total turnover rate for our operation in the Uploading Quality of Life Central America Southern Cone subsidiary was 1%. Appendix 4.28% 5.01% Andean Region Southern Cone 35 2018 Work Benefits Sustainability Report (401-2) In 2018, there were 1,517 América Móvil employees All our employees, with no exception, receive a fair with a disability, distributed as follows: salary and the benefits stipulated by laws in the Content countries where they work. Furthermore, we offer • 72% have a motor disability, with Brazil emploadditional benefits including the following: life insuying the highest number of people with this type rance, private health insurance, temporary or permaof disability. nent disability insurance, dental insurance, parental Message from the CEO leave, financial aid for purchasing school supplies, • 15% have a visual disability, with Brazil employing preferential prices for purchasing our devices, shuttthe highest number of people with this type of le service to and from our work centers, financial aid disability. to cover funeral expenses, and paid bereavement Company Profile leave in the event of a death in the family. • 7% have an auditory disability, with Brazil employing the highest number of people with this type We adhere to what is stipulated by law in every counof disability. try where we operate when our employees leave our Updating Sustainability company whether their reason for leaving is termi• 2% have an intellectual disability, with Colombia nation, retirement, or because they resign voluntarily. employing the highest number of people with this type of disability. It is important to point out that in many of the counConnecting with Principles tries and regions where we operate, the entry level • 3% have a visceral disability, with Colombia emcompensation we offer for both men and women ploying the highest number of people with this (whether they are unionized or not) is equal, reflectype of disability. ting our culture of gender equality. On the other Activating Safety hand, many of our subsidiaries offer performance • 1% have multiple disabilities (two or more of those bonuses to their full-time employees with permanent mentioned above, with Colombia employing the hipositions. Likewise, they offer additional benefits to ghest number of people with this type of disability. employees, including scholarships, financial aid to Sharing Development cover funeral costs, and food stamps. Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 36 Employees who received performance evaluations by region 2018 The majority of our subsidiaries have an internal maternity and paternity policy Sustainability in place. For example, in 2018 Brazil offered 819 female employees maternity and gender 2018 Report leave, and Telmex México benefited 1,031 employees with paternity leave. Likewise, the average retention rate after paternal leave in Mexico, Brazil, Colombia, Central America, Andean Region, Southern Cone, Caribbean, and Employees evaluated Content the US is more than 85%. Percentage of total Performance Evaluations workforce evaluated (404-3) Country / Region Women Men Message from the CEO Every year we carry out performance evaluations across the organization to Mexico 29,485 52,010 92% identify areas in which our employees can improve their skills and to detect speSouthern Cone 4,014 5,478 100% cific talents. Evaluation processes are carried at all levels within the company Andean Region 2,902 3,799 83% Company Profile and analyze performance in competencies such as establishing productive reCentral America 2,574 5,674 86% lationships at the workplace, focus on customer service, leading work teams, a US 346 428 91% vocation for service, leadership, innovation in sustainability, talent development, Caribbean 3,900 3,670 82% and communication skills, among others. Updating Sustainability We also assess goal achievement and establish performance and professional Work Environment and personal growth plans for every employee. This allows us to measure the individual contribution to reaching the company’s strategic goals. At América Móvil we carry out annual work environment satisfaction surveys in Connecting with Principles order to understand our employees’ perception of the company, and to identify Many of our subsidiaries carry out the performance evaluation process by emhow each of the divisions in our subsidiaries is performing in terms of several ploying the Success Factors platforms, other countries do so with internally-dework-related topics such as respect within work teams or satisfaction with emveloped tools. ployee benefits, among others. Likewise, the survey allows us to have a very Activating Safety specific idea of what our improvement goals should be and, based on this, design The 2020 objective of our sustainability strategy known as “Smart Sustainability” specific actions plans for each division that include those items where opportuestablishes that we need to evaluate more than 80% of our employees. Given that nities for improvement were detected or identify best practices, when needed. we are currently very close to reaching that objective, we will strengthen our evaSharing Development luation processes so that we can exceed our expectations. Since 2011, we have been applying the working environment survey every year at all our subsidiaries, except for those in European countries. In 2018, more than 85% of our employees across the Group participated, for a score of 78.5%. Uploading Quality of Life In 2018 we carried out close to One of the 2020 objectives of our sustainability strategy is to improve result of 100,000 our working environment survey from the current 78% to 80% satisfaction, and to increase the level of participation from 87% to 89%. To achieve this, we will 360º performance evaluations, covering 65% of our employees. strengthen our efforts to communicate and engage our employees in the proAppendix cess to assess our work environment. 37 2018 Training Sustainability Report (404-1, 404-2) At América Móvil we make a constant effort to promote the growth of our employees. Content A key component of this effort is to offer constant training, both online and in person, to our employees in every division and at every level. Message from the CEO The cornerstone of these training courses is to update our employees on the new telecommunications solutions we offer our customers, in response to the In 2018, we trained 169,120 Company Profile new ecosystem of the digital world we are living in today. This includes the growth and connectivity of the Internet of Things (IoT). employees1 at América Móvil, for Updating Sustainability 5,624,093 training hours on topics such as customer service and satisfaction, Connecting with Principles leadership, communication, coaching, negotiations, conflict resolution, project management, effective conversations, time management, sales, personal and professional growth, ethics, languages, Activating Safety This year we offered an average of telecommunications, teamwork, emotional three training intelligence, adapting to change, flexibility, and cultural transformation, among others. courses Sharing Development Accordingly, 90% of our employees participated in at least one training course. per employee at Telmex México. Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 1 Permanent full-time and part-time employees. 38 2018 Hours of training by region and gender 2018 Sustainability Report Hours per full-time and part-time permanent employees Content Average hours / employee Country / Region Women Hours Men Hours Mexico 824,944 (1) 2,264,958 (2) 35 Message from the CEO Brazil 179,092 404,576 17 Colombia 324,411 361,710 65 Southern Cone 87,422 127,735 23 Andean Region 116,380 153,132 33 Company Profile Central America 100,120 206,532 32 Caribbean 208,785 250,166 50 US 6,222 7,907 17 Total 1,847,377 3,776,716 30 Updating Sustainability (1) Telcel and Telmex operations account for 656,825 women hours. (2) Telcel and Telmex operations account for 2,054,942 men hours. Connecting with Principles So that the training and development programs in which our employees participate address specific needs in each operation, our subsidiaries perform their own process to detect training needs (DNC for its acronym in Spanish). The following are among the training programs implemented in the company: Activating Safety • Programs for developing managerial skills, including training high-performance teams, project management, and coaching programs. Sharing Development • Technological training. • Developing managerial abilities. Uploading Quality of Life • Human development programs, such as communications, negotiations, and interpersonal competencies workshops. • Developing competencies such as creativity and innovation, as well as agile Appendix methodologies. 39 2018 The following are among the best practices in talent Sustainability development: Report • In Argentina we implement a permanent and constant program to develop leader teams as Content the main drivers behind the company´s desired culture and objectives. This year there were two In Chile this year we continued key programs: a manager-oriented course and a implementing the Accountability program, practical leadership workshop for supervisors. aimed at strengthening integration among the Message from the CEO strategic leadership top management team in • In Colombia, as part of the Comprehensive Leaorder to create awareness of their responsibilities dership School, we implemented the comprehenin driving and consolidating the PRO culture as sive mapping and communication programs, and the basis for continuous improvement within Company Profile the change management program. We also conevery work team. solidated the unique offering that puts the CapaThis year we expanded its execution to five divisions. cítate Carso website at anyone’s reach. Updating Sustainability • In Puerto Rico we designed four laboratories to provide courses to contractor companies, offering them a training experience that is completely in tune with the reality of working on the ground, Connecting with Principles allowing for a more effective construction process, minimizing mistakes and improving the use of materials and assets. This year we also offered training on the voice network, base stations, user Activating Safety experience, and company orientation. In Honduras we carried out the ETA Direct course, • In Nicaragua we restructured the orientation with the goal to train the totality of the Claro TV program, promoting the integration and sense personnel in multimedia uses, so that we can Sharing Development of belonging for employees. To date, 54% of our offer our customers a better service. employees have already taken this course, and We also offered courses in supervisor the other 46% are in the training process now. training and teambuilding. Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 40 2018 Continuous Improvement Claro Guatemala offers two university degrees: Both are Bachelor’s Degrees Sustainability in Business Administration, one with a specialty in Sales and Services, Report At América Móvil we are particularly concerned with implementing continuous and the other with specialty in Telecommunications. improvement processes and mechanisms and we offer regular training to our 200 employees are currently enrolled in these study programs. employees on this. In addition, we offer and MBA with a specialty in Marketing Management, Content in which 35 employees are currently enrolled. In 2018, In 2018 we implemented 64,276 the 9Box methodology of the Boston Consulting Group Message from the CEO employees1 globally for designing a managerial training program and to update received formal training on different continuous-improvement-related issues, Management capabilities (360 performance evaluation and with an investment of $84.4 million pesos. individual feedback). Company Profile Train Yourself Carso The goal of the Train Yourself Carso (Capacítate Carso) platform is to permanently train and develop our employees. By employing this platform, employees Updating Sustainability are able to view the courses that have been assigned to them based on their job profile, the allotted timeframe to complete them, as well as the courses they have already taken, including those they’ve done off their own accord. Connecting with Principles On the other hand, the platform enables the team in charge of the training programs to obtain statistical information, including everything from the particular information on a given employee to general statistics on a specific subsidiary or group. The team will also be able to share courses offered in one operation to Activating Safety the rest of the Group, thus encouraging the exchange of best practices across the whole company. In Ecuador, the number of courses offered online increased 32%, Sharing Development and ten courses were designed and enabled in the Train Yourself Carso platform. With this, employees were able to complete 10,410 courses Uploading Quality of Life on the platform. Appendix 1 Does not include Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay, Panama, Honduras, or Telcel. 41 2018 Sustainability Report Certifications 1. ISO 14001:2015 1. ISO 9001: TELMEX / COMCEL 2. Environmental Gold (UNAM) 2. RUC: TELMEX Content 3. ISO 9001:2015 3. IEC 27001: TELMEX 4. NMX-CC-9001-IMNC-2015 4. ISO 27002: TELMEX COLOMBIA 5. ISO/IEC 38500:2015 Ruling 5. ISAE 3402: TELMEX 6. SSL 6. ISO 20000: TELMEX 7. UNE-ISO/IEC 27001:2013 7. OEA 8. PCI DSS 8. ISO 27001 Message from the CEO 9. ISO / IEC 27001:2013 10. ISO/IEC 20000-1:2011 1. ISO 90001: Claro URUGUAY 11. CISCO MASTER SEGURITY SPECIALIZED PARTNER 12. UNE-ISO/IEC 20000-1:2011 1. ISO/IEC20000-1:2011 13. ISO 22301:2012 2. PCI DSS 3.2 14. Gold Partner-CISCO Company Profile 3. AT-C 320 (SSAE16), through the SOC1 Type II Report 15. 5 Stars-HUAWEI Enterprise Cloud communication CHILE 4. SAP Hosting 16. 5 Stars-HUAWEI IP Network 5. Cisco gold 17. Esmeralda-AVAYA 6. ISO 270001:2013 Collocation Service 18. Authorized Reseller-JUNIPER TELMEX 19. Report Type II ISAE 3402 /SOC-1 1. ISO 90001 20. SAP IN CLOUD AND INFRASCTRUCTURE OPERATIONS Updating Sustainability 21. EMC GOLD PARTNER ECUADOR 2. OHSAS 18001 3. TIER-3 22. MICROSOFT PARTNER GOLD DATACENTER 23. MICROSOFT PARTNER GOLD CLOUD PRODUCTIVITY 24. MICROSOFT PARTNER GOLD CLOUD PLATFORM PERU 1. ISO 90001 25. MICROSOFT GOLD PARTNER SMALL AND MIDMARKET SOLUTIONS 26. MICROSOFT PARTNER SILVER CLOUD PRODUCTIVITY COSTA RICA 1. Escencial Costa Rica Connecting with Principles 27. MICROSOFT PARTNER SILVER CLOUD PLATFORM 28. MICROSOFT SILVER PARTNER SMALL AND MIDMARKET SOLUTIONS 29. Cisco Master Cloud and Manage Service Master DOMINICAN 1. OEA 30. ATP Cisco Application Centric Infrastructure REPUBLIC 31. MICROSOFT GOLD PARTNER 32. SAP Certified in HANA Operations Services 1. ISO 9001: Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Macedonia Activating Safety 33. SAP IN HOSTING SERVICES 2. EMAS: Austria, Slovenia 34. ORACLE GOLD PARTNER 3. ISO 14001: Austria, Croatia, Slovenia, Servia, Macedonia 35. ICREA N5 4. ISO 50001: Austria 36. NFPA75 Ruling 5. ISO 45000: Bulgaria, Croatia EUROPE 6. ISO 270001: Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Slovenia, Macedonia 1. ISO 90001 7. IEC 270001: Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Slovenia, Macedonia Sharing Development 2. ISO 27001 8. ISO 27002: Austria, Bulgaria, Croatia, Slovenia, Macedonia TELCEL 3. IEC 27001 9. ISO 20000: Austria, Bulgaria, Macedonia 4. ISO 27002 10. 1OHSAS 18001: Bulgaria 1. ISO140001: EMBRATEL, CLARO 2. ISO 27001: CLARO Uploading Quality of Life BRAZIL 3. IEC 27001: CLARO 4. ISO 27002: CLARO Appendix 42 2018 Health & Safety Sustainability (403-2) Report Caring for the health and safety of our employees and contractors, as well as Besides the corporate programs and guidelines of • This year in Ecuador we carried out occupational that of our customers who visit our Customer Service Centers is one of our main our subsidiaries, we implement measures at our opemedical exams on more than 85% of employees, Content strategic goals in our effort to prevent accidents and injuries. This is why we rations aimed at improving the health and safety of each of whom received a personalized medical constantly review the physical conditions of our facilities so that employees, conour employees and customers who visit our facilities. record. tractors, and visitors are never in any danger. Likewise, we strictly adhere to all The following are among the most relevant measuhealth and safety regulations in every country where we are present. res and results obtained that are worth mentioning: • In El Salvador this year, in collaboration with the Message from the CEO Instituto Salvadoreño del Seguro Social, (Social To achieve our prevention goals, we provide annual training to our employees • In Chile the Superintendencia de Seguridad SoSecurity Institute of El Salvador) we carried out on several topics related to health and safety. In 2018 we offered courses on cial (Social Security Superintendence) applies a dental health event for personnel in the four how to have a healthy workplace, handle stress, and on health and nutrition. Furthe SUSESO/ISTAS 21 survey at several comadministrative buildings. Likewise, we offered Company Profile thermore, each of our subsidiaries has specific programs in place and takes the panies in the country to measure psychological chats on Electric Risks for technical personnel necessary measures to comply with our prevention and health and safety goals. demands at the workplace, active work, and the who work with electricity, aimed at preventing development of abilities, the company’s social work-related accidents. Work-related injuries and illnesses in 2018 contribution and leadership quality, compensaUpdating Sustainability tions, and double presence. This year, 598 of our • In Peru, every employee got an average of 5.3 Number of injuries Cases of work-related illnesses employees took the survey, with the following rehours of training on health and safety. sults: The company’s result in the psychosocial risk protocol was deemed as “Low Risk”, which • In Puerto Rico we updated all our departmental Connecting with Principles catalogues us as a “Healthy Company”. Emergency Response Plans, taking into consiCountry / Region Women Men Women Men deration the experience gained from Hurricane Mexico 602 1,240 10 17 • In Colombia, we implemented the Claro Te Cuida María. Brazil 74 238 1 1 (Claro Takes Care of You) smartphone app, aligActivating Safety Colombia 104 87 20 3 ned with our strategic digital transformation goal. Southern Cone 53 31 4 0 The app contributes to managing work-related risAndean Region 24 16 0 0 ks since it can be used to report potential dangers Central America 22 57 0 0 and emergency situations, to ask for an inspection Sharing Development Caribbean 67 104 66 116 of administrative or service locations, or on means US 1 0 0 0 of transportation. Total 947 1,773 101 137 Uploading Quality of Life Consideraciones: (1) The total number of injuries and work-related illnesses does not include data from Europe. (2) The table does not include the 1,070 contractor cases. (3) The table includes 534 injuries and 4 illnesses that occurred in transit. Appendix 43 2018 Managing the Value Chain Sustainability Report (102-9, 204-1, 308-1, 408-1, 409-1, 414-1, 414-2) Each of the links in América Móvil’s value chain is of vital importance and the result of the final conjunction of all its elements is what Content helps us offer a high-quality customer experience. This is why we maintain close commercial relationships with all leading industry and telecommunications suppliers to offer the best service with the best products, technologies and devices, to all mobile-service Message from the CEO units for residential and commercial markets. We have contracts with more than 100,000 suppliers globally. Our supplier relationship is based on a strategic centralized model that allows Company Profile us to achieve economies of scale and synergies for our subsidiaries. Likewise, we have strategic suppliers in every country to address local issues, particularly in terms of network maintenance works, customer service platforms, and call centers. Updating Sustainability Procurement Support and Labor Relations C o m p r e h e n s i v e s o l u t i o n Connecting with Principles Ensuring employee compliance and alignment with our Code of Ethics Registration, pre-screening, Contractor Performance and selection management evaluations Activating Safety Based on risk level Labor HSE • Quality • Planning • Security • Compliance • Delivery • Other Sharing Development Market search and Contract and Contract execution Operating and supplier selection allocation and management commercial Uploading Quality of Life processes closing Continuous cycle Interaction of several divisions at diﬀerent moments in the process Appendix 44 2018 As part of our commitment to Sustainability contribute to the economies of Report the countries where we operate, on average more than This year we continued developing the global pro75% gram to identify our key direct and indirect suppliers. Content The objective of this program is to develop plans that will enable us to minimize risks across our value of our suppliers are local, chain. Supplier assessments were based on the fothat number can be higher than 90%. llowing criteria: Message from the CEO Percentage of local suppliers1 • Large-volume suppliers • Suppliers of key components • Suppliers for whom there are no substitutes Company Profile • Suppliers near areas of high biodiversity Percentage of • Suppliers based in areas with human rights risks Country local suppliers Telcel 90 Of the total number of suppliers assessed in 2018, Telmex 92 Updating Sustainability 1,209 were identified as critical. Resulting from our Colombia 68 effective management of the procurement process Guatemala 71 and our suppliers, we only found issues that need Costa Rica 67 to be addressed in 5% of our direct and 4% of our El Salvador 85 Connecting with Principles indirect suppliers. Honduras 60 Nicaragua 90 In terms of our value chain, we have established three Panama 71 2020 sustainability objectives to be included in our Southern Cone 10 Activating Safety “Smart Sustainability” strategy, defined as follows: Peru 92 Ecuador 94 1. Align 25% of our suppliers with our Supplier Code. Puerto Rico 57 2. Assess 100% of our Tier 1 suppliers in sustainaDominican Republic 76 Sharing Development bility performance. US 92 3. Offer training to 30% of our local suppliers. Europe 77 To achieve this, we will align the efforts of all our subUploading Quality of Life 1 At América Móvil, a supplier is deemed local when it operates in sidiaries and will carry out joint measures based on the same country where its products and services are acquired general guidelines. by us. Appendix 45 2018 Sustainability Clause in Supplier Contracts Sustainability Report For several years now we have included a sustainability clause in our supplier contracts addressing topics such as environmental stewardship, protection of In Ecuador, every year more suppliers their employees’ human and labor rights, as well as the legality of the inputs they process and obtain Content use for making their products, ensuring that they are not sourced from conflict the environmental license granted areas. Currently, more than 85% of our handset suppliers globally have signed by the Ministry of the Environment, contracts including our sustainability clause. as well as the Occupational Health and Safety norms issued by the Ministry of Labor. Message from the CEO The clause states the following Suppliers ensure that the materials and/or products that have been used directly or indirectly by any sub-contractors across the value chain are of legal and susCompany Profile tainable origin. Suppliers ensure that the materials used in making their products Telmex assesses its suppliers during the are not sourced in conflict areas, or areas adjacent to them, and that, corresponpurchasing process by weighing in the Labor dingly, buying them can’t be used to finance armed conflicts or human rights vioand Governance Responsibilities lations. América Móvil can at any time demand proof of this and suppliers must mentioned in our Code of Ethics and Supplier Manual. Updating Sustainability be able to show that their products are “conflict-free”. Suppliers ensure that no human rights are being violated and that they have leWe also established environmental requirements for office supplies to be gitimate policies and mechanisms in place to ensure that human rights are being recyclable and for cleaning products to be biodegradable. Connecting with Principles respected in their own business and in those of their suppliers. Suppliers commit to preventing and mitigating any negative impact on human rights resulting from their activities, products, or services. Activating Safety Suppliers ensure that they adhere to all applicable environmental laws and regulations in their operations. Additionally, suppliers ensure that they have a plan to In Colombia we established the Online Registration service prevent and treat the waste they generate. in order for suppliers to manage their own information creation and modification process, and to be approved by our consultants Sharing Development in supplier assessment. We also included in the assessment metrics components for Human Resources management and Occupational Health and Safety, which account for 40% of the total supplier score. Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 46 2018 Supplier Assessment Sustainability Report At América Móvil we have a Supplier Assessment program in place in order to evaluate different aspects in our local suppliers, such as how they manage their environmental impact and their performance in terms of social and labor responContent sibility, among others. We started implementing this program in Colombia in 2016 and we are currently applying it in several Latin American countries. This assessment provides results Message from the CEO through a project-specific platform, enabling us to monitor and make pertinent decisions for managing and continually improving our value chain. Areas and issues we evaluate include the following: Company Profile • Environmental Impact. Including environmental stewardship policies and procedures; environmental impact metrics; implementation of waste, water, and energy management programs. Updating Sustainability • Human Resources Management. Including the defined and documented organizational structure; a manual of job descriptions and personnel; training and development programs; performance metrics. Connecting with Principles • Health and Safety at the Workplace. Including occupational health and safety policies and manuals; the manner in which occupational risks and dangers are identified and prioritized; documented and upgraded emergency responActivating Safety se plan; health and safety indicators, defined and periodically assessed. Sharing Development This year Uploading Quality of Life in Colombia we started implementing supplier performance evaluations based on demand, a tool that helps us identify user satisfaction with the hired suppliers. The goal is to transfer this best practice to other operations. Appendix 47 2018 User Experience Sustainability Report In line with the technological transformation we are witnessing, América Móvil is evolving to ensure the preference of our Content consumers by offering a user experience that is increasingly more satisfactory and based on their particular needs. This is why this year we began a transformation Message from the CEO process from a company that offers a seres Mu vice to a customer into one that connects rvic ltise d with user experiences, placing our custoe and impro services Mor ice mer at the center of our strategy. ve ev Company Profile We have open communication and continuous imd provement processes in place in order to meet their communication and technology needs. Integrated Customer Updating Sustainability services support We offer them products and services that are reliaConvergence ble, flexible, innovative, attractive, and with a greater scope, and put our customers at the center of our Connecting with Principles decision-making. During 2018 we started adapting our internal processes to create an interconnected it y iq u system at the operation level in order to offer a uniCu ub om st eran d que customer experience. We are constantly making o ri e es S er v i c e c o nt i n u i t y nte d s e r vi c Activating Safety technological adaptations that will enable us to face the exponential growth in data traffic, video downloads, smartphone use, and cloud-based services, as well as the Internet of Things. Sharing Development Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 48 Today 2018 We are located wherever customers are looking for us and we offer them 90% of Sustainability Report service through their preferred channel: transactions are done on self-service channels, thus addressing the trend in consumer behavior toward self-service, while 10% are carried out in Content channels that offer personal service, including our Customer Service Centers and our Call Center. At America Movil, we work to improve the experience of our customers. Among the initiatives we carried out this year, it stands out the agreement upon all operations to change our approach from Customer Service to Message from the CEO Traditional Channels Self-Service Channels Customer Experience. In 2018, we organized a workshop where we had the presence of all our operations, in • Virtual IVR order to align customer strategy and we defined two approaches: (1) evaluate customer satisfaction integra• Visual IVR ting components of Big Data Analytics and artificial intelligence, so that with this information, every Country/ • Agent chat Operation could develop strategies to enhance customer experience. (2) Since all markets are different and • Customer Service Centers (CSCs) Company Profile • Virtual Chatbot many of the strategies to better address the customer will be local, we decided to establish an align metric to • Agent IVR • USSDs measure customer loyalty among countries/operations that could help us identify if the strategies that every • Social Networks operation puts in place, works. This metric is the Net Promoter Score (NPS) indicator. By focusing on the • App customer and analyzing its behavior it allows us to understand the root cause of what is not working, prevenUpdating Sustainability • Web ting bad experiences to happen or solving problems in advance. To evaluate NPS, during 2018 we conducted more than 340 thousand surveys in our Latin American operations, giving us the possibility understand if the experience of our in the use of our services in their different devices and applications and how their interacPercentage of service by channel1: tion with our channels were impacting positively on customer loyalty. Connecting with Principles To measure NPS, we ask our customers how likely they would be to recommend our service, based on their own experience. The following are a few examples of the positive responses we obtained in some of our operations: Traditional Channels Self-Service Channels Activating Safety Country / Region Millions of transactions % Millions of transactions % Net Promoter Score Argentina Colombia Chile Ecuador Dominican Republic Mexico 116.12 10% 1,073.40 90% Mobile NPS: 41 36 1 24 43 Brazil 167.31 18% 761.74 82% NPS 1st mobile 34 32 -7 24 24 competitor’s brand Colombia 99.82 7% 1,388.72 93% Sharing Development Southern Cone 36.91 5% 776.55 95% Honduras El Salvador Chile Peru Dominican Republic Andean Region 55.72 7% 759.89 93% Customer Fixed-line NPS: 39 30 4 9 32 experience NPS 1st mobile Central America 19.82 14% 117.25 86% 36 25 -20 -29 9 competitor’s brand Caribbean 26.35 25% 79.52 75% Uploading Quality of Life US 21.50 10% 202.67 90% Our 2020 sustainability objective established as part of our “Smart Sustainability” strategy is to increase Austria and by an average of 1% the brand NPS for each country where we operate. To achieve this, we will continue to 73.22 22% 265.05 78% Eastern Europe work tirelessly to increasingly offer a customer experience that is more comprehensive and more responsive Total 616.78 10% 5,424.81 90% to their needs and expectations. Appendix 1 Total transactions per channel by country or region in 2018. 49 2018 Digital Channels Sustainability Report América Móvil has a division whose goal is to ensure We also have a centralized Web Content Manager, that our customers have a complete and satisfactory that is handled locally by each operation. Currentexperience in a digital environment. This division is ly, more than 300 of our employees work remotely Content constantly monitoring our commercial websites on this platform, thus standardizing the way in which and creating solutions to manage them, while at the these websites look, behave, and evolve. same time implementing innovative digital customer service processes that help us improve and simplify The number of transactions done through Message from the CEO the life of our subscribers. our digital channels has been increasing steadily over the past few years. Their main goals include implementing functional web architectures, the digitalization and automation Company Profile of processes centered on consumer needs, generating savings for the whole company, and innovation in digital solutions. Updating Sustainability With our digital channels, today our customers can: Today more than 980 million view our whole catalogue of products and services, compare plans and prices, monitor their consumption levels, express their satisfaction level, pay invoimanagement and support transactions are Connecting with Principles ces, increase credit in their pre-paid phone lines, get done through digital channels. answers to their questions in our FAQs section, and chat with our advisors. Activating Safety In response to the digital era, all of América Móvil’s Digital sales of products and services grew twice service tools are aimed at creating a simpler and as much in January-December 2018 than the same more efficient experience for our customers. Accorperiod of the previous year. At year-end 2018, more dingly, close to 100% of our regions have a Claro/ than 50 million customers had registered in the Sharing Development Telcel website, Mi Claro Web, Facebook, Twitter; América Móvil self-help websites. We receive 5.406 more than 80% of the operations have a Store, Mi billion monthly visits through all our channels. 70% Claro app, Instagram; and a third of the countries and of customers prefer to browse our sites using their regions have Whatsapp. Macedonia uses VIBER, an mobile devices. Uploading Quality of Life app that is similar to Whatsapp. Appendix 50 2018 Sustainability Report USSDs represent 55.48% Content of self-service transactions, apps are in second place with 14.64%, and IVR (virtual) is in third place, with 13.16%. Other self-service channels employed by our customers include: IVR visual, Chat (with an agent), Chatbot (virtual), Networks, Web, among others. Message from the CEO Company Profile In Ecuador, Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, and Peru we implemented the Digital Signature project. Updating Sustainability This project is part of the redesign of the service experience at our stores that strives to offer a unique experience focused on creating a higher level of trust, efficiency, functionality, and satisfaction. Connecting with Principles In addition, the initiative is aligned with our sustainability strategy in that it limits the use of paper. For example: Before, in order to hire a service, a customer had to sign 12 papers; today, thanks to our Paperless process, the number of signatures is reduced to 2, and for renewing a service only one Activating Safety signature is required. • Change of plan / product • Sales Sharing Development • Ownership transfer • Financing of postpaid and financed a kit • Renouncing to mobile postpaid service • Liberating equipment Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 51 Activating 2018 Sustainability Report Content Safety Message from the CEO Company Profile Safety is one of the top priorities for people, governments, and community as a whole. New technological trends and the way in which we are Updating Sustainability interacting as a society, have made us focus on safety issues. At América Móvil we work constantly so that the solutions and services we offer not only allow Connecting with Principles people to feel safer when using them, but also to move one step forward and contribute to the safety of the societies where we are present. Activating Safety Sharing Development Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 52 2018 Information Security Sustainability Report Given that information security at our operations is crucial, every year we review and improve our Information Security Strategy, whose goal is to protect América Móvil’s infrastructure and the Content confidentiality, integrity, and availability of its information from the standpoint of prevention, continuous improvement, and sharing best practices among all the companies in the Group. Message from the CEO We have a General Information Security Policy in place which describes the general guidelines required for each operation to establish its local regulatory framework and to communicate the policies that all. In addition, in order to be able to send alerts out in a timely manner, we have established an inter-country Company Profile communication mechanism. Updating Sustainability Information Securit y Strategy Information Security Committee Connecting with Principles Compliance with the Legal and Regulatory Framework Activating Safety Processes Processes ISO 27001 Information Security Management System Sharing Development Technology Technology Uploading Quality of Life People People Integrity Availability Conﬁdentiality Appendix 53 2018 Each country determines a Strategic Information Security Plan, which is updated Sustainability either annually or bi-annually. We have an Information Security Executive Report Committee, which meets annually, and an Information Security Managing Committee that meets once a month. These Committees are in charge of managing América Móvil’s Information Security Strategy globally. The members Content of the Executive Committee are: This year we offered training on information security issues to more than 122,572 • Ángel Alija Guerrero, Director for Mobile Operations • Jorge Arteaga Castillo, Deputy Director for Audit AMX Message from the CEO • José Gilberto Fragoso Gómez, Information Security Manager internal employees and 46,862 • Carlos García Moreno, Chief Financial Officer • Paula M. García Sabido, Government Relations Manager • Macario Lopez Albarrán, Director for Operations and Maintenance external parties Company Profile • Daniel Tapia Mejía, General Counsel across the whole América Móvil Group. • Oscar Von Hauske, Director for Fixed-Line Operations Each subsidiary has its own local Information Security Committee. These inter• Coordinate the committees of each of the companies in the Group. Updating Sustainability disciplinary committees include employees from different divisions (computer • Supervise improvement measures in incidents reported by the companies. systems, engineering, finances, operations, and maintenance services, among • Support other divisions in the process of complying with information security guidelines. others), and are chaired by the local heads of information security. • Coordinate and ensure that all efforts and resources invested in tools, controls, and monitoring are consistent with ensuring availability, integrity, and confidentiality. Connecting with Principles The functions of the Information Security Committees include the following: • Report to the CEO any incidents that could compromise critical information, as well as the potential impact and remediation plan. • Adopt information security policies and procedures at the corporate level. • Establish strategies to comply with the guidelines that contribute to increase Each of our operations has an annual awareness plan and strategies to ensure that information Activating Safety confidentiality, integrity, and availability of information assets. is made available to all employees. In 2018 we offered online and in person courses and we • Implement mechanisms that contribute to complying with best practices to maintained constant communication via email, the Intranet, and screen savers information on protect information assets. corporate computers on issues such as phishing, Internet of Things, malware, cyber-attacks, • Coordinate the assessment and implementation of projects supporting inforransomware, and protection of personal data, among others. Sharing Development mation-security-related activities. • Oversee plans for communicating security guidelines. • Analyze security-related incidents to determine solutions and preventive actions. • Evaluate new and existing infrastructure that supports critical business proUploading Quality of Life cesses. Appendix 54 Training sessions on information security and privacy carried out in 2018 2018 Sustainability by country or regionn Report Argentina, Dominican Issue Mexico Brazil Colombia Chile Ecuador Peru Central America Puerto Rico Paraguay, Uruguay Republic Cybersecurity Content IoT Risk Management Accesses Control Case Message from the CEO Secure Password Protection of Personal Data Identifying and Managing Sensitive Information Company Profile Safe Desktop/ Virtual Space/ Computer Equipment Phishing Identity Theft Social Engineering Social Networks Identifying and Managing Security-Related Incidents Handset Security Updating Sustainability Malware Ransomware Visible Credentials Use of Original Software Connecting with Principles Safety Policies Physical Safety e-mail Fraud Prevention / Free Browsing Activating Safety Safety Decalogue Good Online Habits Safe Remote Work Sharing Development Wireless Networks Confidentiality of Information Adequate Use of Computers Outside the Corporation Unsafe Apps Uploading Quality of Life APIS and Micro-services Security Check List in Developing Web Apps Appendix 55 2018 To stay updated on the most recent trend, at least once a year we organize the Sustainability América Móvil Security Symposium In 2018 we held two symposiums, one in Report Mexico City on May 21-25, with the participation of 29 heads of Information Security in our subsidiaries in Argentina, Brazil, Central America, Colombia, Ecuador, Puerto Rico, Dominican Republic, Chile, Peru, and Mexico. In addition, six speciaContent lists from the Instituto Politécnico Nacional participated with presentations on the most recent information security trends. The second 2018 symposium was held in Buenos Aires, Argentina, on December 3-7. Issues addressed during both symposiums included information security trends, the internet of things, stanMessage from the CEO dards, challenges, opportunities, digital transformation, and accesses controls. Currently, our operations that are certified under the ISO 27001 Safety Management Systems are: Company Profile • In Mexico: the Telcel Personal Data Protection Process, the Network Operation Centers (NOC) at Scitum and Telmex, and Datacenter Triara’s Colocation Service. Updating Sustainability • In Brazil: the Security Operation Center. • In Colombia: the Security Operations Center (SOC), Managed Security, Connecting with Principles Collocation, e-mail Security for corporate customers, Datacenter Triara, and Telmex Colombia. • In Chile: Claro Chile’s Collocation Service. Activating Safety • In Europe: we have the Certificate in Austria, A1 Digital, Bulgaria, Macedonia, Croatia, and Slovenia. Sharing Development This is a system that manages information security within a company to efficiently safeguard important data, both financial and confidential, minimizing the risk of illegal or non-permitted access by third parties. Our goal is to increase the number of ISO 27001 certified companies every year. Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 56 As part of our 2018 continuous 2018 Sustainability improvement processes, Report Telcel was ISO 27000 certified in its effort to remain at the cutting-edge in security issues and offer the greatest benefits to our customers. Content We perform constant revisions to our security system, updating it whenever necessary and applying the most advanced technologies to protect important and/or confidential information of the companies. Message from the CEO The main benefits obtained from the ISO 27001 certification include the following: Company Profile • Within the company: It has generated a • In the financial aspect: It reduces costs linked considerable commitment in addition to records to incidents in order to minimize the cost of our and control measures that enables us to ensure insurance policies. Updating Sustainability information security within the company in a tangible manner. • In the human aspect: It produces a sensitization of our staff in relation to the importance of hand• In terms of compliance with the law: It certifies ling information correctly, as well as adequately Connecting with Principles that the company complies with all legal applying security measures that need to be adopinformation security requirements. ted and the personal and organizational responsibility in relation to the information to which they • In terms of compliances with public bidding have access or that is available to them because Activating Safety requirements: It shows the company’s of the position they hold within the company. commitment and alignment with safekeeping information security and proves that it is ingrained During 2018, thanks to our prevention efforts and the in the DNA of our corporate strategy. continued work done by the Information Security diSharing Development vision, we had no incidents deriving in sanctions at • In the commercial aspect: In a market that is any of our subsidiaries. increasingly more competitive, this is a strong point in our favor as it generates credibility and Uploading Quality of Life trust among our customers. Appendix 57 2018 Privacy Management Sustainability Report Protecting personal data and privacy in communications constitutes one of the top challenges for telecommunications companies. At America Móvil we place particular attention on Content safeguarding these issues. The goal of our Personal Data Privacy Policy1 is to establish the necessary guidelines for the adequate use of personal information and the physical, technical, Message from the CEO and administrative security measures that all our operations, employees, subcontractors, and authorized third parties need to comply with. The policy includes three main guidelines: Company Profile Integrity: Personal information must remain complete and exact, for which we will establish the corresponding measures. Updating Sustainability Availability: Information must be available to its owners or authorized users at the exact moment they need it. Confidentiality: Personal data will be used exclusively by authorized Connecting with Principles personnel who have the necessary justification to use it. Our operations have several information security and personal data protection guidelines in place. In face of continuous innovation in the industry, we are worActivating Safety king on enriching and standardizing them in order to maintain the trust of our customers in terms of how we handle their personal information. Furthermore, our Privacy Policy establishes the guidelines for privacy in commuSharing Development nications, which is a key principle for the way in which we operate our company not only because of legal stipulations but also because of the trust that each of customers has for our company. Uploading Quality of Life With the goal of having all of América Móvil’s employees strictly comply with the guidelines of this policy, we carry out frequent communication, training, and awareness campaigns striving for a global and updated understanding of our policy. Appendix 1 Our Personal Data Privacy Policy is available here. 58 2018 Emergency Response Sustainability Report We prepare for contingencies and natural Predictable events disasters constantly by developing emergency response protocols and establishing Content plans to reestablish affected services as soon as possible. Meteorological Hurricanes We participate in GSMA’s initiative and collaborate Message from the CEO with the authorities and other companies in our industry to share best practices and strengthen our response protocols for these types of events. A good practice in case of a natural disaster is to use Summits Company Profile Presidential visits SMS as a way to communicate with others, particularly when networks are saturated and there is no connection to the internet. This is so because the technology used for SMS registers texts one after the Updating Sustainability other in the order in which they are sent by the user Social Elections, traffic and the system delivers them in that same order. jams, marches, and demonstrations. To be prepared and ready to face them, we classify Connecting with Principles events as predictable or unpredictable. Unpredictable events Activating Safety Geological Volcano eruptions, earthquakes Sharing Development Technological Fires, explosions, Uploading Quality of Life chemical risks Meteorological Appendix Storms, tornadoes 59 2018 Sustainability Report Telmex Plan C and Telcel Natural Disaster Protocol Content Both Telmex and Telcel have protocols in place to respond to contingencies cauThanks to these measures, we were able to ensure communication for both the sed by natural phenomena that will help minimize damages caused by climate victims and rescue personnel since the moment the eruption occurred. From events of great magnitude to our infrastructure, while at the same time ensuring Sunday June 3rd to Tuesday June 5th we recharged 61,000 phones at the stathat we have the human and material resources needed to reestablish service as tions we installed. Message from the CEO soon as possible. We apply these protocols in all areas that are susceptible to facing natural phenomena. The plans include both preventive and corrective measures Company Profile Humanitarian Aid for Victims of Hurricane Willa and Updating Sustainability Tropical Depression 19 in Mexico Eruption of the Volcán de Fuego in Guatemala In 2018, the Mexican states of Sinaloa and Nayarit were strongly affected by The Volcán de Fuego in Guatemala erupted on June 3, 2018, affecting thousands intense rain downpours and floods provoked by hurricane Willa. Through the Connecting with Principles of people. On the same day of the eruption, Claro Guatemala offered aid to the Carlos Slim and Telmex Telcel foundations we enacted the Aid Plan by delivevictims by crediting 25 minutes of available airtime for calls to other operators ring 12 tons of supplies. The Telmex volunteers directly delivered food packages, and to the United States. Additionally, during the night we installed a mobile ansleeping mats, blankets, and water jugs to the victims, in collaboration with the tenna with 2G, 3G, and 4G technology in the town of San Juan Alontenango, in authorities and the Mexican army, benefiting 11,784 people. With these actions Activating Safety order to ensure communication in the affected area. we reiterated our social commitment to help victims of natural disasters. The following day we installed three mobile phone recharging modules, each In addition, the cities of Culiacán and Los Mochis, in the state of Sinaloa were with 28 connectors, as well as 21 telephone plants with available airtime in the also affected by tropical depression 19. The Telmex volunteers offered aid to the Sharing Development shelters set up in Escuintla and the Operations Center of the Coordinadora Naaffected communities by collaborating with humanitarian efforts and delivering cional para la Reducción de Desastres (CONRED) in San Juan Alotenango, Sain-kind donations. catepéquez. Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 60 Sharing 2018 Sustainability Report Content Development Message from the CEO In America Móvil, one of our main objectives is to promote social development as a whole and wiCompany Profile thin the communities where we have a presence. We are convinced that social development, as well as the preservation of the environment, are Updating Sustainability fundamental to maintain our leadership, while at the same time, it allows us to positively contribute building a better world, aligned with the United Connecting with Principles Nations Sustainability Goals. At América Móvil we believe that finding a solution to world Activating Safety poverty is required for economic growth, progress, and social development. Our duty in the countries where we operate is to continue being a catalyst of development and inclusion by Sharing Development inviting people to participate in a more active manner. Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 61 2018 Aprende Program Sustainability (203-2) Report Aprende offers At América Móvil we are committed to new opportunities and the possibility employ our technology and resources to for improving quality of life. Content narrow the digital divide and help improAccess to this platform can be gained through ve people’s quality of life. We are certain the Aprende mobile app and the that, with education, we can promote development in the communities where we www.aprende.org website. Message from the CEO are present. Through the Aprende.org project we have partnered We are committed to employing technology and our with the Carlos Slim Foundation to make a contriburesources to narrow the digital divide and help transCompany Profile tion to eliminating access barriers to education and form the quality of life of our people. Accordingly, our training worldwide by putting educational content and 2020 goal established in our “Smart Sustainability” tools at the reach of our customers, that before were strategy is to increase by 20% the number of users of inaccessible to them, contributing to their growth. the Group’s different learning platforms, maintaining Updating Sustainability an average of 2.5 courses per user. This includes, Aprende.org is a free-of-charge digital platform that among others, the Aprende, Capacítate para el emfavors inclusion by making available to its 8,840 subspleo (Train for a Job), PruébaT, and Khan Academy cribers job-training courses as well as cultural and platforms. To achieve this goal, we will continue with Connecting with Principles educational content that can be offered to the popuour important effort to communicate with and offer lation as a whole, from preschool to Master’s educatraining to the most vulnerable populations in the use tions, with no distinctions for gender, origin, socioecoand exploitation of these tools. nomic standing, or previous education. Furthermore, Activating Safety Aprende.org makes available to its customers several With this effort we support the first and fourth Suscourses in Spanish from prestigious universities such tainable Development Goals of the United Nations. as MIT, Harvard, Berkeley, and the Sorbonne, among On the one hand, by granting access to free educaothers, thanks to the partnerships we have establition we supply tools that facilitate social mobility; on Sharing Development shed with Coursera, Udacity, and EDX. the other, we contribute to ensuring inclusive, equitable, and quality education and promoting learning América Móvil also contributes to bringing this platopportunities for all. form closer to a greater number of users by deliveUploading Quality of Life ring smartphones to people with no previous access to one in several communities neighboring certain of the company’s operations. We also offer them free browsing on the platform through our networks in Appendix Mexico, Panama, and Dominican Republic. 62 2018 2018 Aprende National Tour Sustainability Report This year we carried out the second Aprende national tour, visiting the Mexican During the course of the second national tour, cities of Chihuahua, Guadalajara, Mexicali, Monterrey, Acuña, Veracruz, León, we visited Culiacán, Oaxaca, Mexico City, and Cancún. During the tour we trained more 11 cities in Mexico and Content than 6,000 low-income people on how to use the platform. Additionally, we gave trained more than 6,000 participants a smartphone, free-of-charge. Two years after the first tour took place, the Carlos Slim Foundation and the Tellow-income people Message from the CEO mex Telcel Foundation continue to bring technology closer to people, enabling in how to use the Aprende platform, thus them to have access to world-class educational content through the Aprende. promoting education and digital training to org platform. The platform offers them the possibility of getting training on one or improve quality of life. several trades and to obtain official certifications for their studies, which in turn Company Profile grants them better opportunities in life. The Aprende Tour reiterates our commitment to employ technology and resources to narrow the digital divide and help transform quality of life for people in the Updating Sustainability communities where we are present. Capacítate para el Empleo (Train for a Job) Training for a Job strives to Connecting with Principles The Aprende platform includes a section entitled Capacítate para el Empleo (Train contribute to develop productive for a Job) that offers online tools for all people who wish to obtain free training on competencies with no borders for all several trades and technical-operational activities in different production sectors, sectors in the economy. regardless of their previous experience. Activating Safety For example, at Claro Guatemala 1,043 employees have taken several of the Train for a Job Program: courses offered by the Train for a Job program. In addition, more than 29,000 This Carlos Slim Foundation initiative has allowed Claro people in the country are currently enrolled in a program offered by the platform. employees and members of society to increase their Sharing Development knowledge base in several areas. At Claro Guatemala, 1,043 employees Train for a Job Guatemala 2018 are enrolled in the program, and 171 have satisfactorily Uploading Quality of Life Internal 171 1,043 completed a course. In addition, the effect that the program has had on members External 4,607 29,285 of society is significant, with Appendix Graduates Enrolled 29,000 participants enrolled. 63 2018 PruébaT Sustainability Report Colombia: The Carlos Slim Foundation, the Ministry of Labor, the Servicio PúThe PruébaT (Test Yourself) program is included on the Aprende platform. Its blico de Empleo (Public Employment Service), and the Departamento Adminisobjective is to offer learning experiences for teachers, students, and parents, trativo de la Función Pública (Administrative Department of Public Function) free-of-charge. The program strives to strengthen knowledge and capabilities Content used the platform as a training tool for, among others, young people who have that are indispensable in life. a relationship with government entities across the country through the Estado Joven (Young State) program. As of December 2019, there were 190,000 CoThis section includes tools that enable the educational community to get familombian users registered on the platform and more than 3,000 young people liarized with the PISA test, an internationally-recognized test developed by the Message from the CEO received training as Public Servants, later being employed by different ColomOrganization for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD). The goal is bian state entities. to evaluate the knowledge base of young people all over the world and to enable them the acquire abilities which are essential for them to participate in socieNicaragua: Claro, which is a socially responsible company, joined forces with ty, with particular emphasis on mathematics, language, and science. The test is Company Profile schools and social organizations to offer young people training on the advantaapplied every three years, rotating the emphasis on each of these areas. ges of the Aprende.org digital platform that includes the Train for a Job and PruébaT programs, in addition to other educational tools and programs that contribuKhan Academy te to personal and professional growth, benefiting more than 400 people in 2018. Updating Sustainability By means of a joint venture between the Carlos Slim Foundation and Khan Ecuador: The Capacítate con Claro (Train with Claro) program was launched in Academy, the contents of this platform are translated into Spanish in an effort to February 2016 as part of the platform of programs and efforts aimed at offering provide access to Spanish speaking users. Ecuadorian people more development and well-being opportunities based on Connecting with Principles learning. At year-end 2018, 55,630 courses had been concluded. Khan Academy is an educational platform that offers several educational resources via videos that subscribers can use to strengthen their learning skills, regardless of their prior education. The platform grants access to information on different topics at the basic, intermediate, and higher education levels through videos. Activating Safety Results of Aprende.org Female Male Undefined Registered Schools Video lessons Variety of Programs Total Users Courses Hits Countries Territories Sharing Development Users Users Users / Academies (adapted by the FSC) courses Aprende 1.094.602 45,45% 54.55% 67.105.087 168 41 Capacítate para el empleo 2.679.015 44,89% 55,11% 7.241.021 268.076.714 228 Uploading Quality of Life PruébaT 3.968.464 45,37% 41,71% 12,92% 19.905.023 96,972,885 30.983 173 8.612 Khan Academy 13.819.862 24.253.465 147,532,381 188 6.896 Aprende.org Total 21.561.943 51.399.509 335.181.801 30.983 168 41 6.896 8.84 Appendix Courses / Users 2.4 64 2018 Narrowing the Digital Divide Sustainability Report At América Móvil we are constantly working on initiatives and projects that contribute to narrowing the digital divide in the countries and communities where we operate. The Latin America and CariContent bbean region faces considerable challenges in terms of the adoption, use, affordability, and access to information technologies. Based on data from the International Telecommunications Union, fixed-line Message from the CEO broadband penetration in the region is 10%, compared to 28% in other OECD countries, while mobile broadband reaches 30% of the population, compared to 72% in the OECD countries. Based on a study carried out by the Inter-American Development Bank1, a 10% increase in broadband services in the region would Company Profile result in an average increase of 3.2% in the Gross Domestic Product (GDP) and a 2.6% increase in productivity. The current digital transformation era has repercussions on the way in which we Updating Sustainability live and perform our activities, both personal and professional. This includes our daily actions, such as banking transactions done on an app and complying with important government requirements, such as paying taxes. Accordingly, people with no access to the internet or a smartphone are left behind. As technological Connecting with Principles advances continue to penetrate our lives, the digital divide will continue to grow. As telecommunications companies we can, in addition to other actors, play a role to help narrow the digital divide. That is why at América Móvil we allocate resourActivating Safety ces to contribute to this cause. Sharing Development Uploading Quality of Life 1 Prats Cabrera, Joan Oriol y Puig Gabarró, Pau. “Telecommunications Governance: Toward the Digital Economy”. Inter-American Development Bank 2017. https://publications.iadb.org/en/telecommunicationsAppendix governance-toward-digital-economy 65 2018 Sustainability Report In 2018, Telcel joined the “Nos Importa México” (We Care for Mexico) campaign. Content In collaboration with other Mexican operators, and with the support of GSMA and the Asociación Nacional de Telecomunicaciones de México (ANATEL); this campaign is aimed at promoting gender equality and empowering Mexican girls and Message from the CEO women, thus contributing to the 5th Sustainable Development Goal. The following are among the actions that will be included in this campaign: Company Profile • Promote that more young women and girls study and work in the fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. • Incorporate the Gender Perspective at the highest leadership Updating Sustainability levels across the telecommunications industry. • Share the Mexican mobile industry experience with the Women 20 (W20) dialogue in order to make progress in the Connecting with Principles global efforts to eliminate the gender digital divide. Reconectados (Reconnected) Project Activating Safety In collaboration with the Carlos Slim Foundation and the Telmex Telcel Foundation we developed the Reconectados (Reconnected) program, in order to help senior citizens, who are not connected to the digital world, to participate in it by learning how to use technoloSharing Development gy to have access to better living conditions. In 2018 we trained Uploading Quality of Life 6,000 seniors in the use of digital tools in two events: The Senior Citizen Festival: 5,300 Appendix Iztapalapa Digital Village: 700 66 2018 Promoting internet access at our communities Sustainability Report Globally we have developed the Internet for All (Internet para • In Honduras we offer the Internet es Todos-Conexión al mundo (Internet Todos) initiative whose goal is to include in the digital era the elderly, is Everyone-Connection to the World) program, providing broadband access children from low-income families, people in remote locations, to the internet at education and government centers (schools, academies, Content and people with disabilities, among other groups. Activities in this and libraries), community centers, and public sector remote-access centers. project include workshops on education and awareness on the Thanks to this project, we benefited 3,600 people this year. safety of the internet, environmental stewardship, and the use of social networks, among others. • The goal of our Regional program in Lima, Peru is to offer comprehensive Message from the CEO connectivity of the region with nine provinces in Lima, promoting local, regioThe following are the most relevant activities we carry out in each of our countries: nal, and national integration as well as making a strong contribution to the development of the benefited population. Thanks to this project, several public • Pérez Zeledón Villages in Costa Rica. This project consists of offering speinstitutions including police departments, schools, and health establishments, Company Profile cialized chats, workshops, and experience zones that allow participants to now have free access to the internet, benefiting more than 181,000 people. learn basic internet concepts, corrective and productive uses, and training on This project, in which we collaborate with the Fondo de Inversión en Telecohow to face the considerable impact of social networks and technology. Furmunicaciones, FITEL, will be developed over the course of 18 months to build thermore, participants get the opportunity to experiment with virtual and augand operate the Access Network for a period of 10 years. Updating Sustainability mented reality. Thanks to this project, we benefited 7,000 people this year. • In Dominican Republic we are collaborating with the National Network of • In Europe, the “A1 Internet for All” program is helping children, young peoPoints of Access to the Internet, which will provide free access to the network ple, adults, and seniors to actively participate in and personally benefit from to low-income people, students, and government employees, thus contribuConnecting with Principles the digital transformation that is increasingly expanding into new areas of the ting to narrowing the digital divide. economy and society. In February 2018, in Macedonia we launched a media literacy for children aimed at teaching them how to use the internet safely and • In Mexico we offer the Casa TELMEX (Telmex Home), an initiative to promoto educate them on potential risk of social networks. The workshops were te digital literacy and acquire knowledge for using essential digital tools. It is Activating Safety carried out in two languages, Macedonian and Albanian. More than 30,000 aimed at a segment of the population that doesn’t have the resources (equippeople participated in these courses. ment and connectivity) to approach technology. • In Chile, we have the Aula Móvil (Mobile Classroom) program, which supports • Also in Mexico we have our permanent Iztapalapa Digital Village, a project Sharing Development the most vulnerable sectors across the country by offering digital literacy to aimed at narrowing the digital divide by offering the population digital knowlow-income youngsters and women. how free-of-charge year-round. • In Brazil we offer the Naves del Conocimiento (Knowledge Vessels), which Uploading Quality of Life provides internet access to highly vulnerable communities in the municipality of Rio de Janeiro, promoting inclusion, education, and civic responsibility through technology, benefiting close to 124,000 people. Appendix 67 2018 Volunteering and Development Projects Sustainability Report At América Móvil we carry out a continuous effort to contribute to the growth of society and the communities where we are present. We achieve this by means of our own internal initiatives or by joiContent ning efforts with several organizations, government institutions, and associations. We very carefully select those initiatives that we will handle or contribute to, Message from the CEO taking into account their potential impact, the number of people who will participate, and the benefits they will bring. Volunteering Company Profile We have several volunteer programs at some of our subsidiaries through which, in collaboration with different associations and foundations, we sponsor projects that promote the development of the communities where we are present. Updating Sustainability In 2018, we had 8,470 Connecting with Principles volunteers, of whom 56% participated in different efforts during their workday. Activating Safety We invested a total of 48,509 hours in volunteer efforts, Sharing Development of which almost 23% were carried out during the normal workday. Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 68 2018 Social Development Projects Sustainability (413-1) Report One of the goals of América Móvil consists in having a positive impact on the communities where we operate. This is the reason Content why we carry out several internal social development programs, or we support organizations and institutions that implement projects whose goals are aligned with ours. Message from the CEO The following are among the most relevant programs and projects we carried out over the course of the year: Mexico: Company Profile • The Biblioteca Digital Telmex (Telmex Digital Library) is a free comprehensive education initiative equipped with state-of-the-art technology, that establi• At Telmex we carry out several programs to shes a bridge in the teaching-learning process through creative world-class sponsor and contribute to the development of Updating Sustainability activities for the development of children, youngsters, and adults, enabling children and seniors living in vulnerable situations, them to excel in their academic and professional performance. The Telmex Disuch as the Sonrisas Telmex (Telmex Smiles), gital Library furnishes spaces with equipment and internet access at schools Book Narration and Reading Sessions, Visits and education-oriented public spaces, offering service through which we loan to Foster Homes, Accompaniment Activities Connecting with Principles computer equipment to be used at home and digital literacy activities, educaat Migrant Homes, Campaña Por un México sin tional accompaniment, job training, human development, and entrepreneursHambre (Campaign for a Mexico with no Hunger), hip with the use of technologies. Thanks to this program, more than 5 million Collecting Food Supplies, Reforestation, the users have benefited. permanent Red Cross Fund Raising Efforts, and Activating Safety Collecting Gifts to be distributed at foster homes • In the framework of the commemoration of the National Organ and Tissue and children’s hospitals, among others. All these Donation Day, Telmex carried out several activities nationwide to create awaprograms benefit more than 110,000 people. reness and inform the Mexican population about the importance of organ Sharing Development donation. We visited 37 locations; handed out 5,360 green ribbons to emplo• Telmex supports the Teletón every year, contribuyees; 15,112 people received information on organ donation; and 95 volunteers ting to the inclusion of girls, boys, and adolescents contributed to this initiative. who have a disability, cancer, or autism, and promoting and safeguarding human values. With this Uploading Quality of Life program we benefit more than 35,000 people. Appendix 69 2018 Sustainability Report Slovenia: Content • In Slovenia we have a program whose goal is to offer children a safer internet. To achieve this, we have developed our own A1 Guard (Parental Control) app, which helps parents control which Message from the CEO websites their children can visit. Colombia: • Amigos del Alma (Soul Mate Friends). In partnership with the Best Buddies Company Profile Foundation, we developed a program to design strategies aimed at creating Brazil: social and labor inclusion spaces for people with cognitive disabilities. Currently, six such young people are performing the job of Customer Service • The Doble Escuela (Double School) program contributes to forming young Auxiliaries at some of our Customer and Sales Centers (CAV for its acronym telecommunications technicians at technical schools in socially vulnerable Updating Sustainability in Spanish) in Bogotá. Every customer who has been served by a Soul Mate areas in the municipality of Rio de Janeiro, who are later employed by Claro Friend has been satisfied with the service and recognizes that at Claro we Brazil. Currently there are 119 young people enrolled in this program. believe in the potential of people with cognitive disabilities and give them the opportunity to prove themselves. • Educonexão is a program that connects schools with the Subscriber TV and Connecting with Principles Broadband service and offers training courses for teachers on the use of • The Familia es donde me siento protegido (Family is where I feel protected) digital technologies in the classroom. The objective is to transform Brazilian Christmas Campaign of the Instituto Colombiano de Bienestar Familiar asks education by employing technology and improving the teaching-learning refor donations of gifts for girls and boys, youngsters, and adolescents living in lationship by updating the infrastructure of municipal public schools. Thanks Activating Safety vulnerable conditions. We have developed a communications strategy inviting to this program we have benefited more than 9,000 teachers and students. our employees to donate gifts. In exchange, they received a sticker with the “Regalé una sonrisa” (I gave a smile) message. With this campaign we donated • Campus Mobile is a project aimed at promoting education, innovation, and 2,600 gifts. the entrepreneurial spirit in young university students wishing to create, deSharing Development velop, and start projects with a social impact. Thanks to this program we have benefited more than 600 youngsters. • The goal of the Distorsión Edad-Serie (Age-Series Distortion) program, we Uploading Quality of Life carry out in collaboration with UNICEF, is to reduce the considerable schooling lag of children and adolescents in the country, particularly in the Northern and Northeastern regions, in order to reduce or eliminate the school evasion rate. Thanks to this program we have benefited more than 2,200 youngsters. Appendix 70 2018 Puerto Rico: Sustainability Report • In this country we carry out several programs for the development of vulnerable communities, including the donation of toys at Christmas and Three Kings Day at pediatric hospitals and foster homes, and clinics specializing in blood Content pressure, mammography, influenza, and diabetes programs, among others. Thanks to this project, we benefited more than 1,700 people this year. Message from the CEO Dominican Republic: • The Copa Intercolegial Claro (Claro Inter-collegiate Cup) is a sports platform Company Profile that includes soccer (male and female), basketball (male), bowling (mixed), and volleyball (female). Its goal is to promote sports and healthy competition, in addition to leadership, teamwork, and discipline. This year more than 3,200 from 286 schools participated in this program. Updating Sustainability • We collaborated with the 2018 International Education Congress entitled Aprendo (I Learn). This is the most important annual activity in terms of contributing to education policies and updating the public agenda in terms of Connecting with Principles education. It has been held uninterruptedly for 21 years, making it the most influential event in its specialty in the Dominican Republic and the Latin America and Caribbean region. 1,300 teachers participated in this year’s edition. Activating Safety Sharing Development Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 71 2018 The We Care Program Sustainability (102-12) Report The goal of the We Care Program is to help subscribers of mobile services enjoy the transforming benefits brought about by mobile technologies in a safe and Content reliable environment. This program goes hand in hand with the Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations and has become an efficient way for the mobile industry in Latin America to make their local contributions a reality. Message from the CEO The five initiatives in this program and the América Móvil subsidiaries that participate in each of them are the following: 1. Digital inclusion Company Profile 2. Child protection 3. Environmental stewardship Updating Sustainability 4. Natural disaster response 5. Combating device theft Connecting with Principles Activating Safety In addition, this year we launched the Women Sharing Development Connected program Uploading Quality of Life as part of a G20 comprehensive agenda. The goal of this program is to accelerate digital and financial inclusion for women, reducing the gender gap in low-income countries, thus offering better commercial and socioeconomic opportunities. Appendix 72 2018 For women worldwide, a mobile phone is a tool that Sustainability makes their life richer. Studies show that: Report • 89% of women state a mobile phone allows them • A significant gender gap exists in the use of mobile to be in contact with friends and family. phones, particularly for transformational services. Content • 74% of women state that a mobile phone saves • Women know less about the mobile web and unthem time. derstand it less than men. Message from the CEO • 68% of women state that they feel safer when Because of the latter, we are implementing this inithey are carrying a mobile phone. tiative aimed at narrowing the gender gap by promoting connectivity for women, particularly those • 58% of women state that they feel more autonoliving in developing communities, which contributes Company Profile mous and independent. to the UN Sustainable Development Goal of “achieving gender equality and empowering all women • 60% of women in 10 out of 11 countries state that and girls”. having a mobile phone saves them money. Updating Sustainability Access to connectivity presents an opportunity to contribute to gender equality and to empower women and girls. A recent study shows that in lowand Connecting with Principles mid-income countries:: • Women are 10% less likely than men to own a mobile phone. This means that there are 184 million Puerto Rico: Activating Safety women who don’t own a mobile phone. Claro Puerto Rico and Girls in Tech established a partnership to promote • More than 1.2 billion women don’t use the mobile the Capacítate con Claro web, as it is 26% less likely for women to use it (Train with Claro) platform Sharing Development than men. as part of the programs aimed at girls and women. The program offers the training courses taught by Girls in Tech volunteers in schools, digital buses, and at entrepreneurship, arts, trades, and Uploading Quality of Life multimedia centers. Appendix 73 2018 Driving Awareness Program Sustainability Summary of the conferences held in Mexico Report One of the main concerns for América Móvil is the high incidence of traffic accidents related to the use of distractors such as moScope by state Content bile phones. In response to this, every year we implement initiatives that contribute to creating awareness about this problem. Aguascalientes Conferences 6 Participants 990 545 Baja California 1 80 conferences In Mexico we have participated since 2012 in the Pilotos por la Seguridad Vial Baja California Sur 5 1,430 Universities High Schools Public Events (Drivers in Favor of Road Safety) in collaboration with the Carlos Slim FounCampeche 9 2,972 346 139 60 Message from the CEO dation and other public and private institutions. Since the program first began Chiapas 25 7,178 and as of 2018, 545 conferences on road culture for drivers, passengers, and Chihuahua 5 712 pedestrians have been offered. 60 professional Mexican drivers participate in Coahuila 7 1,183 these conferences. Close to 143,000 High School and University students naColima 2 770 303 Company Profile tionwide, from 155 public and 108 private schools and 40 organizations have Mexico City 91 34,382 participated in this program. Durango 10 5,600 Guanauato 42 6,288 institutions served In Costa Rica we carry out the “¡Ring, ring, pum!” program aimed at children Guerrero 4 863 Public Private Organizations Updating Sustainability between the ages of 4 and 10, with no distinctions made for social standing or Hidalgo 27 9,188 155 108 40 education. With this project, Claro was invited to participate in the road safety Jalisco 47 13,313 week organized by the Consejo de Seguridad Vial (Road Safety Council) of CosMichoacán 2 800 Results ta Rica during which information on the project was shared with participants as Morelos 10 3,991 Connecting with Principles well as recommendations to decrease the number of road accidents. More than Nayarit 2 183 500 people benefited from this program this year. Nuevo León 17 4,399 Oaxaca 36 8,167 Students States visited In Peru we participated in the “Manejar y Chatear NO VA” (Driving and Chatting Puebla 9 1,455 Activating Safety 142,842 32 is a NO GO) and the “Run, Trin, Pum”, programs which seek to create awareQuerétaro 10 7,186 ness about the risk of using messaging apps while driving. This year the camQuintana Roo 15 2,470 35.4% of the conferences were held in Mexico City and the Estado de México. paign impacted more than 18,000 young people. San Luis Potosí 2 740 Sinaloa 12 2,380 Sharing Development Sonora 6 860 Tabasco 3 485 Tamaulipas 6 7,084 In 2018, Telmex Colombia was granted Tlaxcala 1 240 Uploading Quality of Life the Bogotá Galardón de Oro de la Secretaría de Movilidad Veracruz 16 3,054 Agreements signed 60 pilots in the (Gold Award of the Ministry of Mobility) Yucatán 12 1,933 Jalisco campaign in recognition for the contribution the company has made to the road safety Zacatecas 1 160 Hidalgo of motorcycle drivers, pedestrians, and other road users. Estado de México 104 12,306 Federal Police Appendix Total 545 142,842 74 2018 Promoting Entrepreneurship and Sustainability Report Innovation in the Community One of the approaches of América Móvil to In Europe Content make a contribution to the development of we developed the the communities where we are present is to support institutions and organisms aiA1 Co-Creation med at promoting entrepreneurship and program whose goal is to invite startups Message from the CEO innovation projects. In this way we not only and co-create new technological solutions contribute to the development of vulnerain Big Data, security services, cognitive ble sectors of the population but also to automation, and online marketing automation to the evolution of the most cutting-edge profoster digital transformation and for participants Company Profile jects in telecommunications, services, and to benefit from business cooperation. the use of mobile technologies. In Brazil we carry out the Rinobot project in collaboLikewise, Telmex México has made available to eduration with the Universidad Federal de Juiz de Fora. cation institutes its ACADÉMICA website, which has Updating Sustainability The goal of this project is to foster the development established more than 500 agreements with High of robotics project at the University level, generating Schools, Universities, and International Research innovation and new technologies. During 2018, 40 Centers to offer a space which fosters creation, trastudents participated in this project. ining, and development. The website offers more Connecting with Principles than 160 online courses through which to date more In Mexico we collaborate with the Comunidades de than 424,900 teachers and students have received Conocimiento (Knowledge Communities) project training. Furthermore, in this program we collaborawhich brings together public and private entities as te with a digital library that enables us to host freeActivating Safety well as civil associations with expertise in an issue of-charge content such as dissertation theses, mathat is of interest for the community. With this progazines, and research, offering more than 400,000 ject, TELMEXHub establishes a relationship with educational materials to the more than 400,000 these communities and shares and communicates subscribers on the website. Sharing Development information with them. The main topics broached by the program include innovation, entrepreneurship, In Chile we collaborate with the entrepreneurship technological development, and digital tools. and innovation center of the Adolfo Ibáñez University, to establish synergies and include different views Uploading Quality of Life and experiences pertaining to these issues. Appendix 75 2018 Environmental Stewardship Sustainability Report Protecting the environment and biodiversity, as well as achieving efficiencies in the use of resources and managing waste correctly are all a priority for América Móvil. Our focus is placed on Content constantly reviewing our processes and operations in order to implement actions that contribute to reaching these goals. Energy Message from the CEO (302-1) Given the nature of our operations, we consume energy constantly. This is why we center our efforts on making our consumption of this resource more efficient. Company Profile One of the 2020 sustainability goals that we have included in our “Smart Sustainability” strategy is to use 50% clean energy and commit to streamlining operations in order to minimize energy consumption. To achieve this, we will continue Updating Sustainability to implement projects that are showing good results, while at the same time introducing new projects that have a high impact in terms of energy. During 2018, across all our operations our energy consumption was 5.9 million Connecting with Principles Megawatts/hour (MWh). Energy consumption by country or region: Activating Safety Country / Region MWH Consumed Mexico 2,319,849 Brazil 1,264,838 Colombia 443,720 Sharing Development Southern Cone 457,718 Andean Region 238,548 Central America 326,230 Caribbean 254,501 Uploading Quality of Life US 8,961 Austria and Eastern Europe 679,275 Total 5,993,640 Appendix 76 Fuel consumption by region or country 2018 Sustainability Report In addition, we use different fuels to supply our car Country / Region Gasoline (lts) Diesel (lts) Biodiesel (lts) LP Gas (lts) Ethane (lts) Natural Gas (m3) fleet and power plants in order to enable our base Mexico 43,723,450 7,900,713 0 335,570 0 0 stations to offer connectivity to consumers in remoBrazil 5,575,185 903,462 0 0 4,494,491 26 Content te areas with no access to electricity. During 2018, Colombia 105,152 9,336,835 0 0 0 0 we consumed 53 million liters of gasoline, 49 miSouthern Cone 125,719 2,283,627 0 0 0 0 llion liters of diesel, and 50,000 liters of biodiesel. Andean Region 325,510 1,525,508 49,652 11,534 0 0 In addition, since some of our operations require LP Central America 0 3,684,579 0 0 0 0 Message from the CEO gas, ethanol, and natural gas, in 2018 we consumed Caribbean 3,373,720 15,242,120 0 111,898 0 0 554,000 liters of LP gas, 4 million liters of ethanol, US 5,603 0 0 0 0 21,144 and 26 thousand cubic meters of natural gas. Austria and 546,539 8,246,692 0 195,164 0 5,283 Eastern Europe Company Profile Total 53,780,878 49,123,535 49,652 654,166 4,494,491 26,453 Emissions Renewable Energy (305-1, 305-2) Updating Sustainability One of the most important initiatives we have impleAt América Móvil we constantly monitor the direct and indirect greenhouse gas emissions of our operations. mented to reduce our impact on the environment is This allows us to take measurements and develop projects aimed at decreasing them. During 2018, our to employ renewable sources of energy, mainly wind total greenhouse gas emissions added up to 2,335,726 tons of CO2e, almost reaching our 2018 objective Connecting with Principles and solar. During 2018, 31% of our MWh consumpof 400,000 tons of CO2e of direct greenhouse emissions scope 1 and 1,900,000 tons of CO2e of indirect tion came from renewable sources1. greenhouse emissions scope 2. Currently, close to 68% of the countries where we Greenhouse gas emissions by country or region during 2018 Activating Safety operate employ energy from renewable sources. Scope 1 Direct Emissions Scope 2 Direct Emissions Refrigerants Total Emissions Country / Region (Ton CO2e) (Ton CO2e) (Ton CO2e) (Ton CO2e) Mexico 113,579 1,172,920 557 1,287,056 Brazil 19,086 58,064 77,150 Sharing Development Colombia 24,912 88,744 113,656 Southern Cone 5,643 169,151 174,794 Andean Region 5,626 110,075 115,702 Central America 9,735 114,975 124,710 Uploading Quality of Life Caribbean 194,613 100,350 294,963 US 60 4,606 4,666 Austria and 1 This number includes renewable energy supplied by local 25,142 117,888 143,030 operators, the energy obtained by market operators, and selfEastern Europe Appendix generated energy. Total 398,396 1,936,773 557 2,335,726 77 2018 Initiatives to Reduce Emissions, A1 Telekom Austria Group Sustainability Report Energy Consumption, and Fuel improved its energy Consumption efficiency by 24% (302-4) Content We have corporate initiatives in place whobetween 2017 and 2018. se goal is to reduce our emissions and our Total energy consumption in 2018 was energy and fuel consumption, which are approximately 810,900 MWh, from an electricity implemented across all our operations. consumption of close to 300,600 MWh, Message from the CEO of which 62% was generated using In addition, each of our operations carries out severenewable sources. ral initiatives tailored to the particular needs of every country. The following are among our most successCompany Profile ful initiatives: During 2018, Telcel implemented the “Nuevo estánThe goal of this project is to supply energy to our dar de enfriamiento en RBS tipo Shelter”. (New low-pressure units. We currently have 10 such power Updating Sustainability RBS Shelter cooling system). Based on this standard stations in operation, and we hope to have 62 by 2019. we were able to uninstall 982 HVAC units at 491 base Likewise, operations in Brazil installed LED lighting in stations, replacing them with sustainable technoloorder to reduce energy consumption by 52%. gies that don’t employ R-22 refrigerant gas, thus eliConnecting with Principles minating 2.9 tons of R-22 gas from our network. The In 2018, the Austrian subsidiary expanded its phonew technologies employ R-407 gas and even use tovoltaic systems at the Arsenal A1 Technology fresh air to ventilate the interior of shelter-type base Center in Vienna. In addition, they installed 312 solar stations. This reduces the use of traditional cooling panels on approximately 516 m2. Among other things, Activating Safety compressors that consume large amounts of energy. the electricity produced is used to operate the data center and the exchange for fixed-line and mobile In Brazil we are currently purchasing energy from networks. Power is estimated to be close to 94 KWp the Energy Free Market, which is completely geat maximum operation and it is expected that it can Sharing Development nerated by sources certified as renewable, such as produce 90,000 KWh a year, equivalent to the elecwater, wind, solar, and biomass. In addition, we are tricity needs of 25 single-family homes. Expansion of employing renewable energy parks across the counthe photovoltaic system was partially financed with try, specifically solar energy, wind, biogas, water, and the revenue from the mobile phone recycling initiatiUploading Quality of Life certified cogeneration. ve. We also implemented a program making our 240 vehicles available for our employees to share. The goal of A1 Group is to reduce CO2 emissions by 25% by 2030. Appendix 78 2018 Sustainability Report At Telmex México our goal was to consume a maximum of 1.90 KWh daily per person by 2018, which represents a reduction of 5% with respect to the 2017 Content goal. Not only did we achieve this goal, but we saved an additional 232,000 KWh. In Ecuador, this year we carried out the initiative to eliminate generators that For the fifth consecutive year, were no longer needed given that the public network is now supplying electricity our network in Austria was certified as carbon neutral. Message from the CEO uninterruptedly. This resulted in savings of 153,000 liters in our diesel consumpIt was evaluated and validated by TÜV SÜD based on the international PAS tion that were formerly used by the network of emergency generators to produ2060 standard. ce energy. Company Profile In Europe, employing the latest RAN at the A1 Telekom Austria Group subsidiaries SingleRAN Project ensures energy efficiency within the company. Accordingly, we are replacing old (302-5) components as part of the LTE rollout and employing innovative cooling techniques such as aspiration at the point of access, containment of cold hallways, and Based on the constant effort of all our operations, we are about to embark on Updating Sustainability heat recovery. These systems contribute to reducing electricity requirements by the last stage of the SingleRAN Project. In 2018 we completed the rollout in the up to 75% compared to conventional refrigeration systems. majority of our base stations. In 2018, our operations in Peru were granted an environmental management cerThe SingleRAN Project has the following results: Connecting with Principles tificate for laying 800 kilometers of fiber-optic cable in protected areas and environmental buffer zones, in the Peruvian jungle. This constitutes the first time a • Greater network flexibility and efficiency. telecommunications company has been granted this certificate. It is a testament • Better network capacity and coverage. to the fact that the investment project did not have a negative impact on the Pe• A 50% reduction in the space required for the site, a 60% reduction in the Activating Safety ruvian Environmental Management System. weight of the tower, and a 40% reduction in energy consumption. • Achieving service synergies that will contribute to accelerating the 3G, 4G, Resulting from a Telmex México initiative, this year we carried out the Expo and 4.5G expansions. Ambiente 2018 (2018 Environmental Expo), whose goal is to promote environ• Facilitating traffic migration between 2G, 3G, 4G, and 4.5G. Sharing Development mental awareness among children and young people in the state of Baja California. The central issue of the expo this year was contamination from plastic. Interactive workshops were offered to build products with recyclable materials and the expo also included talks promoting the reuse of plastic waste. Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 79 2018 Waste Sustainability (306-2, 301-3) Report Another important goal for América Móvil is to reduce our impact +99% on the environment and to improve the way in which we dispose of of the waste generated in Mexico and Content the waste we generate, with our preferred methods being repurthe Andean Region was recycled, posing, recycling, and controlled confinement for waste that can 98% in Brazil, 97% in Central America later be reclaimed. and 93% in Colombia. Message from the CEO In 2018, we repurposed 3,934 tons of discarded technological waste through diThe following are some of the initiatives carried out fferent suppliers. Likewise, we generated 4,526 tons of hazardous waste, which by our subsidiaries: we disposed of in accordance to the regulations of the countries where the waste was generated. In Peru we collected and recycled 392.7 tons of Company Profile Waste Electrical and Electronic Equipment (WEEE) Non-hazardous waste by disposal method by country or region by implementing an awareness plan and partnerships with our stakeholders, including the community, Recycled Repurposed Landfill Incinerated Total 2018 Country / Region (Tons) (Tons) (Tons) (Tons) customers, and government entities. This number is Updating Sustainability Mexico 5,348 0 50 0 5,399 three times the annual WEEE’s waste management Brazil 2,114 0 32 0 2,147 goal established by the Ministry of the Environment. Colombia 1,546 0 117 6 1,668 Southern Cone 967 0 311 0 1,279 Colombia: By refurbishing 1,042,696 devices (CPEs, Connecting with Principles Andean Region 712 250 9 0 972 corporate, external network and platforms) in 2018 Central America 1,021 0 32 0 1,053 we were able to reduce by 745.4 tons the amount Caribbean 1,569 0 672 0 2,241 of electric and electronic equipment waste. Because Austria and this waste is reintroduced into the useful life cycle, 3,528 0 797 1,244 5,569 Activating Safety Eastern Europe we have prevented international traffic of the 58 40Total 16,807 250 2,022 1,250 20,330 ft containers that would have been required by the import process, thus generating a reduction in the Disposal of Mobile Phones and Accessories greenhouse gas emissions (carbon footprint) that Sharing Development would have resulted from transporting them. América Móvil occupies a privileged position; this implies that we have a great responsibility as we are the link between the companies that make mobile devices At our operations in Europe, and the end consumer. In order to collaborate in the adequate disposal of devices, this year we recycled 80,386 Uploading Quality of Life we actively participate in the collection of recyclable equipment. We offer our consumers ways in which they can adequately dispose of discarded handsets, equipment, which we then send to specialized companies or organizations that for a 9% increase with respect to 2017. Appendix reuse as many of the components as possible and adequately dispose of anything 80 that can’t be recycled or repurposed. 2018 Water Sustainability Report At América Móvil we use water mainly for human consumption. There are some cases in which we use water for our operations, such as the Data Center refrigeration systems. In those cases, we use high-efficiency closed cycle systems. Content Even though water is not a material issue for us, we are attentive to using it responsibly. América Móvil consumes 4,576,650 cubic meters of water. Biodiversity Message from the CEO (304-2, 304-3) One of América Móvil’s environmental goals is to contribute to the conservation of biodiversity. To achieve this, we have established Company Profile partnerships with local governments and associations whose goals are aligned to ours. As a company, we are able to have a positive impact on the environment by integrating mobile technologies into the protection of species. Updating Sustainability Connecting with Principles Activating Safety Conservation Program for the Monarch Butterflies Sharing Development Since 2003 the WWF-Telmex Telcel Foundation Alliance has been implementing a Conservation Program for the Monarch Butterflies whose goal is to preserve biodiversity in Mexico, including their migration and hibernation. The program has been successful in, among other things, eradicating clandestine logging, creating Uploading Quality of Life sustainable community businesses, protecting and restoring forests, developing an economic strategy as an incentive for conservation, and publishing six scientific articles deemed as the technical basis for managing the Reserve. Appendix 81 2018 Every year we systematically monitor the hibernation Sustainability of the Monarch butterflies. This year we registered a Report 144% increase in the area (2.48 hectares) as compared to December 2017. Content Since the program’s inception, we have reforested • Reinforced tourism-related activities on three more than 13,501 hectares by planting almost 15 mifarms by furnishing architectural infrastructure, llion trees produced in 13 community forest nurseries. offering training, and supplying equipment to the These were established by the WWF-Telmex Telcel people who receive visits from 100,000 tourists a Message from the CEO Foundation Alliance and our national and internatiomonth during the hibernation months. nal partners, which continue to maintain them. • Put together community brigades to which we The following are the most relevant achievements donated equipment and offered training and suCompany Profile of the program: pport in the process to certify them in the environmental collaborative oversight of 39 farms • Held the sixth Regional Monarch Butterfly Forum, that protect more than 43,600 hectares of fowhich is an inter-institutional coordination straterests in the Monarch region. Updating Sustainability gy to address thematic and geographic priorities in the region. • Offered environmental awareness training to 40,604 people by means of workshops, puppet • Sponsored the creation of 8 sustainable forest shows, radio messages, and a museum exhibit. Connecting with Principles management programs and 3 community ecological territorial ordinances. • Established 3 modules for the sustainable transManaged the “Concurrent Funds” strategy with the Activating Safety formation of wood based on an infrastructure economic incentives of the Monarch Fund and paid that can saw down 3,000 cubic meters of wood, for CONAFOR’s Hydrological Environmental Servigenerating revenue for 6 million pesos for the ces, benefiting 35 out of the 38 properties located agricultural communities that own the land. on the nucleus of the Reserve, with an additional inSharing Development vestment of 58 million pesos over a 10-year period. • Established a network of 31 mushroom producThe Monarch Fund has invested 37.6 million pesos tion modules and a module to process and deliver since 2003. 25,185 bags of inoculated substrate, generating Uploading Quality of Life revenue for 2.6 million pesos for the families that produce them. Appendix 82 2018 Program to Protect Jaguars Sustainability Report We have been implementing the Program to Protect Jaguars for 13 years, in partnership with the National Alliance for the Conservation of Jaguars and the Content WWF-Telmex Telcel Foundation Alliance. The goal of the program is to promote and spearhead projects that contribute to the environmental policy and establish a link between different sectors in society to Message from the CEO ensure the preservation of jaguars, their prey, and their habitats in Mexico. The following are the most relevant achievements • In 2018, we held the “International Symposium Company Profile of the program: on the Ecology and Conservation of Jaguars and other Neo-tropical Felines” in Cancun. Experts • Held the forum entitled El Jaguar Mexicano en el from 22 countries participated in the event that Siglo XXI (The Mexican Jaguar in the 21st Censhowcased the work done by researchers, stuUpdating Sustainability tury), with the participation of experts from all dents, and members of civil society about the jaover Latin America to assess the living conditions guar and other neo-tropical felines. of jaguars across the Continent. We have held this forum uninterruptedly for 12 years. • Formed the Alianza Latinoamericana para la ConConnecting with Principles servación del Jaguar (Latin American Alliance for • Created the Jaguar protection centers known as the Conservation of Jaguars), with the participaCentros de Resguardo de Jaguar (RESJAGUAR) tion of at least 60 academics and conservation and built the first site in Oaxaca. These are spaexperts, to address issues by means of a ContiActivating Safety ces allocated exclusively to rehabilitating and nental Alliance. The goal is to connect study stratemporarily safeguarding jaguars who could potegies that ensure the conservation of jaguars, tentially be liberated at a later date or, if not, kept their prey, and their habitat for the long-term. in captivity at other places. Sharing Development • In order to create greater awareness of the im• Identified 57 biological corridors across Mexico to portance of protecting jaguars and to establish ensure connectivity between jaguar populations. a closer relationship with indigenous communities, we produced posters in eight indigenous Uploading Quality of Life tongues about the condition of the jaguars, their prey and habitat. Appendix 83 2018 Conservation of Marine Species in the Sustainability Sea of Cortez Report 2018 marks the tenth anniversary of the Conservation of Priority Marine Species in the Sea of Cortez Content Program. This program, in which we collaborate with the WWF-Telmex Telcel Foundation Alliance, is the only one in the Gulf of California that focuses on 15 marine species that are either threatened or in danMessage from the CEO ger of extinction, divided into three large groups: • Updated the gray whale, hunchback whale, and whales, marine turtles, and sharks. orca population catalogues to identify individuals, understand their site loyalty, and estimate their poThe work done in the framework of this program inpulations. The program has identified 7,500 gray Company Profile cludes putting together groups of leaders and exwhales, 6,000 hunchback whales (40% of the poperts in research and conservation, fostering scienpulation in the Eastern Pacific), and 300 orcas. ce in the region, and promoting adequate handling and protection of the different species and their ha• Sponsored 21 students who are getting their BaUpdating Sustainability bitats. Work is being done on three strategic fronts: chelor’s, Master’s, and Doctorate degrees in stu(1) science and research, (2) conservation and madies related to marine mammals in the Gulf of Canagement, and (3) environmental communication lifornia and the Mexican Pacific Ocean. and education. Connecting with Principles • Collaborated as well in organizing meetings of The program also offers training programs to relathe Sociedad Mexicana de Mastozoología Marina ted stakeholders and implements an awareness pro(Mexican Marine Mammalogy Association) dugram for Middle and High School students across ring which, every two years, researchers and stuActivating Safety the country. dents nationwide meet to present their studies and exchange ideas. • The number of gray whales at the San Ignacio lagoon has been deemed stable since 2011. By • Published the first marine mammal guide for the Sharing Development continually monitoring gray whales, the program Gulf of California, in Spanish. is able to use the species as an indicator of the effects of climate change. • Created photo identifications of 233 individuals in the area of Los Cabos during the 2018 census. Uploading Quality of Life • Satellite tracking of gray whales proves there is a Constantly monitored hunchback whales at Los connection between the three reproduction and Cabos enables authorities to generate the zoning rearing zones in the Baja California peninsula. criteria for the shelter. Appendix 84 The following are the most relevant achievements 2018 Sustainability of the program with respect to sharks: Report • Established the first Mexican research group for version of official norm NOM-059-SEMARNAT tagging sharks, with the participation of 20 re(Mexican red list) to contribute to its protection. Content searchers from five national institutes. To date, • Placed acoustic tags on 17 bull sharks in the 158 sharks from 12 species have been tagged, Cabo Pulmo National Park (PNCP for its acronym and 36 stations have been installed in Northwesin Spanish), in addition to other tags. tern Mexico. • Placed satellite and acoustic tags on six giant Message from the CEO • Created photo identifications for 147 white shamanta rays at PNR. rks and 512 whale sharks and placed acoustic • Created photo identifications for 15 giant manta rays. tags on 58 individuals. These are the first manta rays to be tagged and • Placed more than 20 acoustic receptors, 63 identified after 15 years of absence from the site. Company Profile acoustic transmitters, and 110 satellite tags on sharks, turtles, and whales to determine their miThe following are the most relevant achievements gratory routes and destinations as well as behaof the program with respect to turtles: vioral patterns, loyalty to specific sites, and conUpdating Sustainability nectivity between areas. • Designed and developed a collaborative strategic • Trained 500 fishermen and expert scientists on plan to reduce the incidental capture of yellow turtthe conservation and management of whale shales in the Gulf of Ulloa, in collaboration with 16 go• Carried out the first study on contamination from micro plastics in fin whales rks and white sharks. vernment entities and civil society organizations. Connecting with Principles in the Gulf of California. The study indicated that phthalate levels are low • Offered training to 70 tourism service providers • Placed satellite tags on eight hawksbill sea turtles. compared to those in fin whales in the Mediterranean. However, it found high on how to apply rules to view the species and • Sponsored the protection of a 200-kilometer concentrations of chemical compounds used by the construction and electric transit in the area. stretch of nesting beaches for three species equipment industries. • Created a shelter for whale sharks in the La Paz of turtle in Los Cabos, liberating approximately Activating Safety bay. Participated in the creation of Official Mexi100,000 offspring every year, particularly olive • Designed a protocol to monitor cetaceans in the Gulf of California and excan Standard 171 for swimming with whale sharks. ridley sea turtles. panded the reach of the Comisión Nacional de Áreas Naturales Protegidas, • Published the first book on the white shark in La• More than 10,000 people participated in the maCONANP, (National Protected Areas Commission) in relation to marine tin America, in Spanish. rine turtle and shark conservation festivals in six Sharing Development mammals. • Obtained the first results of the GPS device placommunities in the state of Baja California Sur ced on 85 vessels that are authorized to take touand one in Sinaloa. • Signed an agreement to coordinate efforts and promote research in Protected rists to view whale sharks and swim with them. • Held awareness campaigns on the whale shark Natural Areas (PNA) in the Gulf of California and the Mexican Pacific ocean. A total of 45,041 passengers in 6,928 trips have and white shark in the Pacific Aquarium at Long Uploading Quality of Life participated in this activity. Beach, California, with the participation of more • Produced informational materials on species of whale (gray and hunch• Collaborated with CONANP in developing a Risk than 5,000 people. back) and a poster describing monitoring rules based on Mexican norm Management Manifest (MER for its acronym in • Performed the first climate change study in nesNOM-131-SEMARNAT. Spanish) for the hammerhead shark enabling ting areas by placing 156 thermal-sensors in 12 Appendix the authority to include this species in the new nesting beaches. 85 2018 Nature at Your School (La Naturaleza en tu Sustainability Escuela) Program Report This very successful program of the WWF-Telmex • A student’s guide, including the same elements Telcel Foundation Alliance has been operating since as the teacher’s guide and a self-evaluation forContent 2014. Its goal is to create awareness among Meximat and collaboration model. can students of the need to protect vulnerable spe• Insert on the specifications of each work. cies and their habitats. Through presentations made • Presentation for the exhibit session. by scientists and the Alliance’s spokespersons, stu• Illustrative videos for the presentation. Message from the CEO dents are asked to create a collaborative work of art. • Invitational videos, documentaries, and a video The most representative works are put on exhibit at memoir of each stage. the Soumaya Museum and the most outstanding stu• A traveler’s guide for expeditions. dents are invited to visit the field research programs. • Press releases, key messages, and Q&As for Company Profile press conferences. Each edition of the Nature at Your School program has focused on a different species. The 2018 edition Winners of the 2018 edition of the Nature at Your was entitled “Escúchame” (Listen to me) and was School Program were: Updating Sustainability centered on hunchback whales. The program visited 16 states; 16,000 students from 147 schools parti• Winners: cipated. This year, the program’s website received • María Fernanda Moreno Moreno more than 25 million visits in one week, making it the • Ana Karen Hernández Jacinto Connecting with Principles week with the highest number of votes ever. • Carmen Montserrat Granados Gómez • Jessica Michelle Mesa Arias Every edition of the program, in collaboration with personnel specialized in teaching, technology, com• Title of the work: Mushu y Akira al rescate de su Activating Safety munication, and environmental education, has desigespecie (Mushu and Akira to the rescue of their ned and published the following digital and printed species) informational materials: • School: Preparatoria Oficial 126 de Cuautitlán Sharing Development • Micro-site to exhibit the works and vote, hosted Izcalli on the lanaturalezanosllama.com website. • The “Para saber más” (To know more) document. • Pamphlet with information on the species. Uploading Quality of Life • Art catalogue of the exhibit in the Soumaya Museum, with photographs and curator information on the works. • A teacher’s guide with academic competencies, Appendix didactic sequences, and teaching methodology. 86 Uploading 2018 Sustainability Report Content Quality of Life Message from the CEO Company Profile At América Móvil the products, services, and solutions we offer our customers help them enjoy benefits that can produce a better quality of life Updating Sustainability such as the reduction in the need to move around resulting from the services offered by mobile devices, or the health services we host on the cloud. Connecting with Principles Accordingly, we are constantly working to be able to offer state-of-the-art products and services that directly impact the quality of life of our clients and Activating Safety society as a whole. Sharing Development Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 87 2018 Innovation Sustainability Report The world is currently undergoing a digital transformation which allows for better connectivity, both between people and between devices. This transformation is known for offering increasingly Content more benefits in our private and professional lives. At América Móvil we are working constantly so that our infrastructure, products and services are able to incorporate such a transformation. Likewise, we are maMessage from the CEO king preparations for future requirements of communication technologies, such as the 5G network, the Internet of Things (IoT), or new cloud-based services. A quick look at mobile communications technologies Company Profile Voice and first Voice and high-speed High broadband data services since data services and minimal latency 2002 2013 >2020 Updating Sustainability 9.6-236 Up to Targeted kbps 400 Mbps > 1 Gbps Connecting with Principles 1G 2G 3G 4G 4.5G 5G Activating Safety We No data 0.3-42 Mbps presented the transmission 4.5G GigaRed Voice Voice and Offers 10 times more speed Sharing Development telephony broadband services than the 4G network 1985-2002 2008 2018 Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 88 In Chile this year we implemented innovations in the development of apps, devices, and services. 2018 Sustainability One such example is the Alkueli Watch, which started out as a smart watch to read the state Report In order to be prepared internally for of mind of children on the Autism spectrum. It has since been complemented with an app that new market requirements, helps doctors follow the patient’s progress. The information is also relayed to parents and tutors we constantly allocate resources to research and develop on their smartphones. Furthermore, the watch sends the child rewards and stimuli in the form Content new procedures, products, and services. of images and pictures developed by specialists. The system integrates other toys that interact with the watch and the app. To achieve this, we are incorporating the Agile methodology in some of our work processes and teams. This methodology is based on the principle that interacIn Ecuador, innovation projects for the year included improvements in the collect-call service and Message from the CEO tion between people within an organization, particularly as part of a work team, in the process to sell devices on the digital store, among others. Innovations were also made in diis crucial because it promotes constant collaboration with customers and end rect-to-customer sales, such as MB packages, new plans for Soccer TV, and sales of accessories. users of the product or service by identifying needs, streamlining response times, and making the planning process more flexible and adaptive as the project In order to constantly improve our customer service, and to move on from simply being a store Company Profile progresses. Accordingly, we are forming multi-functional teams to remain at the that sells handsets to a convergent business center, in Ecuador we are implementing several cutting-edge of our industry and meet changing market needs. innovations at our Customer Service Centers, which include offering technological, the Internet of Things (IoT), mobile, and fixed-line solutions, among others. This has enabled us to increase All our subsidiaries are working tirelessly on innovation and continuous improsales of mobile services by 25% and by 300% in IoT services at the Dorado Customer Service Updating Sustainability vement topics and have made great strides and accomplished important goals, Center known as Casa Conectada (Connected Home). among which the following are worth noting: In Europe, during the year we marketed the movement analytics, smart houses, TV advertising At Telmex México we are carrying out an innovation process based on business analytics, cash records, and ad orientation projects. Connecting with Principles cases about how to project customer needs. This has resulted in improvements in key divisions such as design, sales, market research, and finances. Likewise, Likewise, we are implementing the “Empowering Ideas” program, that promotes entrepreneurthis year we introduced 19 innovative services, basically related to wireless busiship among our employees by offering them the opportunity to explore their ideas without inness connections, managing bases, optimizing sites, Customer Relations Manacurring in a financial risk. The winning project for 2018 was called “Offensity”. It consists of a Activating Safety gement (CRM), cyber-intelligence, and cloud security, among others. protection package for smalland medium-sized companies against cyber-attacks. Also at Telmex México, this year we started to generate automatic reports on the progress accomplished in different projects that can be communicated online. In order to share with others information Sharing Development This allows all parties involved to have a clear understanding of the status of any on América Móvil’s innovation processes, we collaborate with project under development in real time. internationally renowned In Colombia and Europe we created a channel in which all employees can partiUploading Quality of Life cipate in processes having to do with innovation, cost reductions, areas of improeducation institutes. vement, new products or services, and business models, among others. In addition, we sponsor entrepreneurship to promote project management Appendix capabilities for newly formed companies. 89 2018 Internet of Things (IoT) Sustainability Report Our lives have changed in ways we never could have imagined, because of technological advances. We now communicate in Content different ways, and the way in which we buy things, use transportations, and even how Responding to this vision and commitment, in 2018 we work have also changed. To address we were the first to launch the 4.5G these changes, cities have had to moderniNetwork in the majority of our operations, Message from the CEO ze themselves and upgrade their telecomoffering higher speeds and better connectivity to munications networks. millions of users. This new digital era has transformed us into a tranThe evolution in technology has generated a growth Company Profile sactional society in which all processes and ecoin connectivity and data traffic worldwide. According nomic and social activities have gradually become to Cisco’s data, in 2020 there will be 4.5 billion inmore automated. Every day it appears as if those teternet users and 50 billion connections. Additionachnologies that make our activities easier are more lly, each time a new device is connected, such as a Updating Sustainability readily available for everyone. car or a television, potential connections will grow by another 50 billion, since each object has the ability By employing a mobile device we are now able to to interact with the others. Likewise, in 2022 there carry out a series of tasks that a while ago were will be 29 million devices all over the world connecConnecting with Principles unimaginable, such as having food delivered to our ted to the internet, of which 18 million will be devices homes or making our supermarket purchases from associated with the Internet of Things (IoT). home, asking for transportation by means of an app, monitoring our health, and sharing data with At América Móvil we are aware that the challenge Activating Safety our doctor without having to visit his office. These of constant reality changes in our industry, is centeare just a few examples of the many things we can red on a continuous modernization of our physical do from our smartphones. infrastructure. Furthermore, in order to accompany our industry, cities, and people in the digital transSharing Development Just five years ago we would have been unable to do formation, we must be able to develop new digital any of these things. We couldn’t even imagine then services and solutions. how much we would be able to do. Today, these are all indispensable things and we can’t imagine living Uploading Quality of Life without them. In the same way in which we witnessed these technological advances over the past five years, we will see even more progress over the next five years in technologies aimed at making our daily Appendix lives easier and improving our cities. 90 2018 Sustainability Report We will continue to allocate our efforts and resources to this commitment. In 2019 we will invest Content 169 billion pesos in reinforcing our fiber-optic cable and our regional infrastructure. Message from the CEO It is at this new digital ecosystem that, among others, the IoT, cloud-based services, Big Data services, information analytics, e-commerce, Over the Top (OTT) Company Profile services, and Artificial Intelligence, all converge. For them to work well, they have to be connected at all times and latency needs to equal zero. This is why it is crucial that we have enough capacity and the necessary infrastructure for our network to serve the transaction volume and data traffic that this demands. Updating Sustainability Beyond that, we are working on expanding our offering of proprietary services and solutions in order to continue the transformation process from a traditional telecommunications company to one that offers its own unique products and Connecting with Principles services for the new digital era. All the challenges, opportunities, trends, changes, and advances being faced by our industry because of the technological evolution and the demand for a digital Activating Safety transformation in every city in the world, will be part of the debate and discussion of the next edition of Mobile360 Latin America which will be held in Mexico on June 4-6, for which América Móvil is once again the Host Sponsor. Sharing Development At América Móvil we strive to contribute to the path that digital transformation in Latin America will take. The goal is to achieve development in our nations, to narrow the digital divide, and to have an impact on achieving a better quality of life for the inhabitants of the region by offering them smart solutions that will provide Uploading Quality of Life them with greater safety, comfort, and productivity. Appendix 91 2018 Health Services Sustainability Report Health Services is among the areas in which technology and telecommunications can have a major impact on the quality of Content life for people. Fully aware of this, at América Móvil we allocate resources to projects that will enable people in the communities where we operate to enjoy these benefits. Message from the CEO In Colombia we are implementing the MiDoctor In Mexico we implement the Sistema Integral de (MyDoctor) program through which more than Información en Vacunas SIIVAC (Comprehensive 2,000 doctors with different specialties are avaiVaccine Information System). This is a digital vacCompany Profile lable to offer virtual medical consultations, without cine system to help people who are applying vaccithe need for our mobile service subscribers to have nes in the field. The system identifies and monitors a credit card. children in Mexico who have been vaccinated and offers timely and reliable information that aids in the Updating Sustainability In Chile we developed the Kommandant app, which decision-making process. The goal of the informaallows users to create a fast and efficient record of tion system, which was developed in collaborations the firefighters responding to an emergency by plawith the Carlos Slim Foundation, is to provide timely cing fire-resistant IoT tags on their uniforms. These and real information on the coverage of the Mexican Connecting with Principles tags transmit information such as how long firefighvaccination system in order to focus efforts better ters have been handling the emergency, how much and to complement the vaccination program for the oxygen they have left, what tasks they have handled, population as a whole. This will enable people to reand other such data. The information is reviewed in ceive the highest number of vaccines possible, deActivating Safety real time by the event supervisor, allowing him or her pending on their own personal needs. to make decisions in a timely manner. The system includes a symptom surveillance capaIn Austria, we developed the Medical Data Network bility, which consists of a continual and systematic Sharing Development which connects doctors, hospitals, labs, and other collection, analysis, and interpretation of disease-remedical institutions in order to share updated and tilated data in order to assess the current health of mely information. the population and opportunely identify an outbreak or epidemic in order to intervene and control it. Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 92 2018 The SIIVAC includes: Sustainability Report • An Electronic Vaccination Record (CEV for its acronym in Spanish) which The strategy is centered on the person and is supported by a series of Digital compiles, manages, and monitors every child’s adherence to the National Health tools. The MIDO Proactive Prevention Strategy focuses on taking meVaccination Program and includes the information in the National Record. It trics for opportune detection and evaluates, in a systematic and comprehensive Content also manages the Protégelos (Protect Them) app, whose goal is to integrate manner, risks such as obesity, high blood pressure, diabetes, dyslipidemia, and into the CEV all vaccines offered by the private health sector in Mexico. The kidney disease. It also helps identify patients before they get sick, as it bases its CEV has been implemented in 17 Mexican states. proactive evaluation on a preventive approach. It includes: Message from the CEO • The free VacunAccion app, whose goal is to offer adequate and sufficient • The MIDO Module and the MIDOv4.0 online system, aimed at proactively information on vaccines, allowing people to make educated decisions in this preventing disease through modules installed in health units and public plaregard. The app enables parents to monitor their children’s vaccine schedule ces that help detect chronic diseases in a timely manner. It does so by making from their handsets. a personalized classification based on intelligent algorithms through which Company Profile up to 21 different profiles can be identified by risk factors, offering immediate To date, SIIVAC has records for more than feedback, whether in person or by digital means. 1,207,000 children • MIDO v4.0 Information System. This innovative digital platform has been Updating Sustainability five years of age or younger and operates in 3,599 health units enriched with Big Data elements which make it easier to identify in a specific with 7,039 people in charge of applying vaccines. and immediate manner up to 21 different risk profiles based on responding to It also has detailed information on more than a questionnaire and taking basic measurements. The system can also include 17.4 billion doses of vaccines that have been applied. people who are already undergoing treatment. Connecting with Principles • MIDO at School is a specific algorithm used to detect risk factors and nutritional disorders in children 5 years of age and older, which has been impleThe goal of the CASALUD Strategy, created by the Carlos Slim Foundation, is to mented in collaboration with the Mexican Ministry of Health and Ministry of Activating Safety address one of Mexico’s main public health problems, particularly among low-inEducation in the framework of the Health at Your Schools strategy. come populations, by opportunely identifying chronic illnesses including diabetes, high blood pressure, and obesity. It achieves this by re-engineering preven• MIDO Pregnancy offers the required evaluation of pregnant women who are tion and first-contact health services processes. at risk of developing high blood pressure, gain excessive weight, or develop Sharing Development diabetes, by employing a series of tools and sophisticated algorithms. The CASALUD Strategy operates in partnership with the Mexican Health Ministry and state governments, as part of the National Strategy Against Diabetes, Overweight, and Obesity. Its main measures include: proactive prevention, conUploading Quality of Life tinued and quality medical attention for chronic diseases, monitoring supplies, ensuring the availability of medications and lab exams, training the health team, For more information on this program please visit the following website: and managing the operations. https://www.salud.carlosslim.org/innovacion/vacunologia/ Appendix 93 2018 In addition to all this, we have developed mobile apps Sustainability and solutions aimed at assuming responsibility for The CASALUD Strategy has Report one’s own health and for self-care, such as: My Health been recognized by Deloitte as Coach, Triumph over Diabetes, Children Growing Up one of the top ten most innovative Healthy and Smart, and the Observatorio Mexicano models used to detect chronic illnesses Content de Enfermedades No Transmisibles, OMENT (Mexiworldwide. can Observatory of Non-Transmissible Diseases). There are several technological tools that support • The Portafolio Digital de Salud (Digital Health Message from the CEO the CASALUD Strategy: Portfolio) is an interactive compilation of support tools that reinforce the work done by health pro• La Cédula de Estructura de Unidades de Safessionals and improve the quality of care that inlud y UNEMES (Structure Record of the Health cludes a selection of practical clinical guidelines, Company Profile Units) is an online platform that enables the user a portable electronic medical record and a Vadeto see the state of a Health Unit’s infrastructure mécum. It is available on: the internet, an Android to handle chronic diseases. It has 6 components: app, and download. 1. General information on the Unit, 2. Medications, Updating Sustainability 3. Lab, 4. Equipment, 5. Connectivity and 6. Heal• REVISO (Reunión Virtual de Seguimiento de th Personnel operating the unit. la Operación) (Virtual Meeting to Follow-up on Operations) whose goal is to strengthen the way • PIEENSO Plataforma Interactiva de Educación in which the Ministry of Health manages the healConnecting with Principles En Salud Online (Interactive Online Health Eduth system. Measures include promoting coordication Platform) offers training for the team openation and communication with and within the rating the strategy with content adapted to five state health systems; standardize and automate different profiles: 1) doctors, 2) nurses, 3) nutritiothe operation of the program and its processes; Activating Safety nists, psychologists, health promoters, 4) techniexchange best practices both in operation and in cians, auxiliaries, and 5) administrative staff. They management; and inform and communicate. offer this through the Course on Preventing and Caring for Chronic Diseases and the CertificaThe CASALUD Strategy has been implemented Sharing Development tion on Diabetes Competencies, both backed by in 27 Mexican states. Currently, CASALUD operarenowned national and international universities tes at 12,489 first-contact Health Units nationally and institutions. and monitors 1,806,739 patients diagnosed with a chronic disease. Uploading Quality of Life • AbastoNET online platform to monitor the availability of medications and lab inputs. This is achieved by sending daily notifications on prescriptions that have not been filled and lab tests that For more information on the CASALUD Strategy, please visit the following website: Appendix have not been performed, as well as by issuing https://www.salud.carlosslim.org/innovacion/casalud/ automatic scarcity reports. 94 2018 Accessibility Sustainability Report Given that inclusion is a priority for América Móvil, every year we make an effort to make our communications channels more Content accessible to all. Accessible technology is a Human Right According to data of the Instituto Nacional de Estaestablished in the 2008 Convention for the dística y Geografía, INEGI (National Institute of StaRights of Persons with Disabilities Message from the CEO tistics and Geography), in an estimated 6.1 million signed by 173 countries. homes, out of the total 31.5 million homes in Mexico, there is a person with a disability (19 out of 100). Of these, almost half (49.4%) are living in poverty. The Company Profile web and information and communications technologies have consolidated as an effective tool to help The initiative also benefits people who are browsing people with disabilities enjoy their human rights and the internet with other devices designed for sebasic freedoms. Support and assistance technoloniors, people with temporarily-reduced capacities, Updating Sustainability gies operate as a means to balance opportunities for or people with slow internet access or who live in disabled people. remote areas. Because we are convinced that connectivity geneWe make sure that everyone can have access to conConnecting with Principles rates empowerment and helps narrow the inequalitent published on our americamovil.com, telcel.com, ty gap, at América Móvil we have worked on having and telmex.com websites. Web accessibility implies websites that are accessible to all. that people with disabilities, the elderly and/or people who are not familiar with the internet are able to Activating Safety To achieve this goal, we participate in the Web Acuse and browse these websites with the same effeccessibility Initiative whose goal is to develop stratetiveness than the rest of the population. gies, guidelines, and resources that will help implement accessible websites for people with hearing, These websites comply with or surpass the requireSharing Development cognitive, neurological, physical, visual, or languaments established by the Web Content Accessibility ge disabilities, through assistance technologies. Guidelines 2.0 Level A. We have also been Level A The initiative was launched by the World Wide Web certified by an external verifier, and we will work on Consortium (W3C), an international community that permeating these efforts to the rest of the websites Uploading Quality of Life develops open standards to ensure the long-term of our subsidiaries. growth of the internet. Appendix 95 2018 Our websites include the following features: In December 2018 we offered a Sustainability workshop on accessibility of Report digital content in which 65 • Keyboard access to links to the main content of each site. Content América Móvil employees • Option to change text size in every participated. page. Message from the CEO • Every image used can be replaced The goal of the workshop was to create awareness by an explanatory text. on disability issues, highlight the importance of digital accessibility, and for the trainees to understand Company Profile what disability-assistance technologies are available • Use of headings that represent the and how to create accessible files. structure of the website. Employees were selected based on the role they • All hyperlinks are explicit and Updating Sustainability play in generating documents for our website, thus self-explanatory. ensuring that all content is accessible from the moment it’s created. Accordingly, at the end of the cour• We have implemented an alternative se we provided a series of guidelines to reinforce the Connecting with Principles mechanism in case a device is not lessons learned, which are available for consultation able to run Java Script or any other when the need to create accessible files in different script in our website. formats arises. Activating Safety • We have made sure that text color and the backdrop have the necessary contrast for easy reading. Sharing Development • We have used the Cascading Style In Croatia we provide mobile phones to Sheet to control how the pages are people with sight disabilities which have shown. a larger screen and a simplified Uploading Quality of Life navigation menu. In addition, SMS and chat messaging capabilities benefit deaf people. Responding to this fact, our subsidiary in Appendix Belarus offers a reduced special fee for people with auditory disabilities. 96 Appendix 2018 Sustainability Report Content Message from the CEO Company Profile Updating Sustainability Information and contact Connecting with Principles If you wish to share with us your opinion on the contents of this report, please contact us via any of the following channels: E-mail: Activating Safety contacto-rse@americamovil.com Phone number: +52 (55) 2581 3700 ext. 1097 Website: http://www.americamovil.com Sharing Development Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 97 2018 Associations in which we participate Sustainability (102-13) Report We are members or national and foreign associations and organisms that support our industry or in some way benefit society. Content América Móvil Colombia Groupe Speciale Mobile Association (GSMA) Asociación de Exportadores y Manufacturas (ASEXMA) Message from the CEO United Nations Global Compact Andesco International Telecommunication Union (ITU) Reconciliación Colombia 5G Américas Cámara Colombiana de Informática y Telecomunicaciones (CCIT) Asociación Inteamericana de Empresas de Telecomunicaciones (ASIET) Cámara de Comercio Colombo Mexicana Company Profile Argentina Asociación de Industriales de Colombia (ANDI) Cámara de Comercio Argentina Mexicana (CCAM) Costa Rica Cámara de Informática y Comunicaciones de Argentina (CICOMRA) Cámara de Tecnologías de Información y Comunicación Cámara Argentina de Internet (CABASE) Cámara de Infocomunicación y Tecnología Updating Sustainability Cámara de Comercio de los Estados Unidos en Argentina (AMCHAM) Ucaep Austria Cámara de Comercio de los Estados Unidos en Costa Rica (AMCHAM) Next Generation Mobile Networks Alliance Cámara Empresarial México-Costa Rica respACT Ecuador Connecting with Principles ETNO Asociación de Empresas de Telecomunicaciones (ASETEL) GSM Memorandum of Understanding Cámara de Comercio de Guayaquil Brazil Cámara de Comercio de Quito Associação Brasileira de TV por Assinatura Cámara de Industrias de Guayaquil Activating Safety Associação Brasileira de Recursos Telecom Cámara Binacional Ecuador-México Associação Nacional de Operadores de Celulares Cámara de Comercio Ecuatoriano Americana de Guayaquil Conselho de Desenvolvimento Econômico e Social Alianza Antipiratería en DTH Chile El Salvador Sharing Development Asociación de empresas de telefonía móvil (ATELMO) Asociación Nacional de la Empresa Privada (ANEP) ICARE Cámara Americana de Comercio de El Salvador (AMCHAM) Cámara de Integración Chileno Mexicana (CICMEX) Cámara de Comercio Salvadoreña (CAMARASAL) Acción RSE Cámara Salvadoreña de Telecomunicaciones (CASATEL) Uploading Quality of Life Asociación de Exportadores y Manufacturas (ASEXMA) Cámara Salvadoreña Mexicana de Comercio (CASALMEX) Appendix 98 2018 United States Dominican Republic Sustainability The Wireless Association (CTIA) Acción Empresarial por la Educación (EDUCA) Report Guatemala Acción Pro Educación y Cultura (APEC) Cámara de Comercio de Guatemala Asociación de Comerciantes e Industriales de Santiago (ACIS) Cámara de Industria de Guatemala Asociación de Empresas Industriales de Herrera (AEIH) Content Cámara de Comercio e Industria Guatemalteco Mexicana Asociación de Industrias de la Región Norte (AIREN) Honduras Asociación de Industrias de la República Dominicana (AIRD) Cámara Empresarial Honduras-México Asociación Dominicana de Constructores y Promotores de la Vivienda Comité Ejecutivo del Punto de Intercambio de Tráfico de Internet en Honduras (ACOPROVI) Message from the CEO Mexico Asociación Dominicana de Empresas de Exportación (ADOEXPO) Consejo Coordinador Empresarial (CCE) Asociación Dominicana de Empresas de Inversión Extranjera (ASIEX) Asociación Nacional de Telecomunicaciones (ANATEL) Asociación Dominicana de Empresas de Telecomunicaciones (ADOMTEL) Telecom CIDE Asociación Hoteles y Turismo de la República Dominicana (ASONAHORES) Company Profile Nicaragua Asociación Nacional de Jóvenes Empresarios (ANJE) Consejo Superior de la Empresa Privada (COSEP) Asociación Nacional de Usuarios No Regulados (ANUNR) Cámara de Comercio Americana de Nicaragua (AMCHAM) Cámara Americana de Comercio de la República Dominicana (AMCHAM) Unión Nicaragüense de Responsabilidad Social Empresarial (UNIRSE) Cámara de Comercio Dominico Mexicana (CADOMEX) Updating Sustainability Cámara Empresarial Mexicana Nicaragüense Cámara de Comercio y Producción de la Vega, Inc. Cámara Nicaragüense de Internet y Telecomunicaciones Cámara de Comercio y Producción de Santiago (CCPS) Paraguay Cámara de Comercio y Producción de Santo Domingo (CCPSD) Cámara de Operadores Móviles del Paraguay (COMPy) Cámara Dominicana de las Tecnologías de la Información y la Comunicación Connecting with Principles Unión Industrial del Paraguay (UIP) (CAMARATIC) Centro de Regulación, Normas y Estudios de la Comunicación (CERNECO) Confederación Patronal de la República Dominicana (COPARDOM) Cámara de Anunciantes del Paraguay Consejo Nacional Empresa Privada (CONEP) Peru Fundación Institucionalidad y Justicia (FINJUS) Activating Safety Asociación para el Fomento de la Infraestructura Nacional (AFIN) Red Nacional de Apoyo Empresarial a la Protección Ambiental (ECORED) United Way Perú Uruguay Puerto Rico Cámara Uruguaya de Tecnologías de la Información Asociación de Industriales Cámara de Telecomunicaciones del Uruguay Sharing Development Asociación de Ejecutivos de Ventas y Mercadeo Cámara de Comercio de Puerto Rico Alianza de Proveedores de Telecomunicaciones Centro Unido de Detallistas Uploading Quality of Life Puerto Rico Hotel and Tourism Association * Panama does not belong to any Association. Appendix 99 2018 Sustainability Report GRI Content Index (102-55) Content Standard Disclosure Page Reference Number GRI 102: GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES 2016 102-1 Name of the organization 6 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 8 Message from the CEO 102-3 Location of headquarters 6 102-4 Location of operations 6 102-5 Ownership and legal form 25 102-6 Markets served 8 Company Profile 102-7 Scale of the organization 10, 33 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 33 102-9 Supply chain 44 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain There were no significant changes in the supply chain Updating Sustainability 102-12 External initiatives 23, 72 102-13 Membership of associations 98 102-14 Statement from senior decision maker 3 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 24 Connecting with Principles 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 12 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 29 Additionally, the 20F Form is available at: 102-18 Governance structure 19 https://www.americamovil.com/Spanish/relacion-con-inversionistas/informes-financieros/ Activating Safety reportes-anuales/default.aspx 102-19 Delegating authority 19, 25 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 19 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 18 Sharing Development 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 25 Additionally, the 20F Form is available at: 102-23 Head of the highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 25 https://www.americamovil.com/Spanish/relacion-con-inversionistas/informes-financieros/ reportes-anuales/default.aspx Additionally, the 20F Form is available at: Uploading Quality of Life 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 25 https://www.americamovil.com/Spanish/relacion-con-inversionistas/informes-financieros/ reportes-anuales/default.aspx Additionally, the 20F Form is available at: 102-25 Conflicts of interest 25 https://www.americamovil.com/Spanish/relacion-con-inversionistas/informes-financieros/ reportes-anuales/default.aspx Appendix 102-26 Role of the highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 19 100 2018 Sustainability Report Content Standard Disclosure Page Reference Number 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 18 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 18 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting Is reviewed by the Sustainability Committee Message from the CEO Additionally, the 20F Form is available at: 102-35 Remuneration policies 25 https://www.americamovil.com/Spanish/relacion-con-inversionistas/informes-financieros/ reportes-anuales/default.aspx Additionally, the 20F Form is available at: 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 25 https://www.americamovil.com/Spanish/relacion-con-inversionistas/informes-financieros/ Company Profile reportes-anuales/default.aspx 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 21 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 33 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 14 Updating Sustainability 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 21 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 21 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements 10 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 2 Connecting with Principles 102-47 List of material topics 18 102-48 Restatements of information 2 102-49 Changes in reporting 2 102-50 Reporting period 2 Activating Safety 102-51 Date of most recent report 2 102-52 Reporting cycle 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 2 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 2 Sharing Development 102-55 GRI content index 100 102-56 External Verification 104 GRI 201: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE, 2016 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 10 Uploading Quality of Life 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 24 GRI 203: INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS, 2016 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services supported 9 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 62 Appendix 101 2018 Sustainability Report Content Standard Disclosure Page Reference Number GRI 204: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES, 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 44 GRI 205: ANTI-CORRUPTION Message from the CEO 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 29 GRI 206: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOR, 2016 Additionally, the 20F Form is available at: 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices. https://www.americamovil.com/Spanish/relacion-con-inversionistas/informes-financieros/ Company Profile reportes-anuales/default.aspx GRI 301: MATERIALS, 2016 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging materials 80 GRI 302: ENERGY, 2016 Updating Sustainability 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 76 Additionally, view the independent assurance appendix 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 78 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 79 GRI 304: BIODIVERSITY, 2016 Connecting with Principles 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 81 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 81 GRI 305: EMISSIONS, 2016 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 77 Additionally, view the independent assurance appendix Activating Safety 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 77 Additionally, view the independent assurance appendix GRI 306: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE, 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 80 Additionally, view the independent assurance appendix GRI 307: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE, 2016 Sharing Development 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No significant fines were reported in environmental issues GRI 308: SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT, 2016 New suppliers who have passed certain assessment and selection filters based on environmental 308-1 44 engagement criteria. GRI 401: EMPLOYMENT, 2016 Uploading Quality of Life 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 33 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time 401-2 36 employees GRI 403: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY, 2016 Appendix 403-2 Work-related injuries 43 Additionally, view the independent assurance appendix 102 2018 Sustainability Report Standard Disclosure Page Reference Number GRI 404: TRAINING AND EDUCATION, 2016 Content 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 38 Additionally, view the independent assurance appendix 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 38 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 37 GRI 405: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY, 2016 Message from the CEO 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 33 GRI 408: CHILD LABOR, 2016 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 44 GRI 409: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR Company Profile 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 44 GRI 412: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT, 2016 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies and procedures 29 GRI 413: LOCAL COMMUNITIES, 2016 Updating Sustainability 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 69 GRI 414: SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 414-1 New suppliers who have passed certain selection filters based on social engagement criteria 44 Connecting with Principles 414-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 44 GRI 419: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE, 2016 Claro Brazil paid a significant fine (more than USD$100,000) for complying with the legal fee 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic arena related to hiring people with disabilities by the company. INFORMATION SECURITY Activating Safety Countries with a Certified Safety Management Systems 56 Sharing Development Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 103 2018 Sustainability Report Verification Letter (102-56) Independent Review Report to the Management of América Móvil S.A.B. de C.V. (Translation from the original in Spanish. In case of discrepancy, the Spanish language version prevails) Content We were required by the Management of América Móvil S.A.B. de C.V. (hereinafter América Móvil) to provide a limited level of assurance about the content of the 2018 Sustainability Report (hereinafter Report ), prepared according to the contents proposed in the Global Reporting Initiative Standards (hereinafter “GRI Standards”). Message from the CEO Management responsibilities The Management of América Móvil was responsible of the preparation and presentation of the Report, according to the “core” option of the GRI Standards. These responsibilities include establishing such controls as management determines are Company Profile necessary to enable the preparation of limited assurance contents that are free from material misstatement whether due to fraud or error. Our responsibility Our responsibility consisted in providing a limited assurance level of the content of the Report with regard to contents included in the GRI Standards. Updating Sustainability To ensure that the verification process accomplishes with the ethical requirements necessary to ensure the independence of our work as auditors of non-financial information, the review has been performed according to the Standard ISAE3000, Assurance Engagements other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information, issued by the International Auditing and Connecting with Principles Assurance Standards Board (IAASB) of the International Federation of Accountants (IFAC). This standard requires that we plan and perform the engagement to obtain limited assurance about whether the report is free from material misstatement. The scope of evidence gathering procedures performed in an engagement with a limited assurance level is less than the one performed in an engagement with a reasonable assurance Activating Safety level and therefore also the level of security provided. This report must not be understood as an audit report. The actions carried out to perform the review are based on our professional judgement and included interviews, documentation review, analytical procedure and sampling review tests that, in general terms, are described below: Sharing Development • Interviews with América Móvil’s management and staff responsible for providing the information contained in the Report . • Analysis of gathering processes and internal controls performed over quantitative data reflected in the Report regarding the reliability of information, using analytical procedures and sampling review testing. Uploading Quality of Life • Review of the implementation of the requirements set forth in the GRI Standards.  Reading the information presented in the Report to determine whether it is in line with our overall knowledge of, and experience with, the sustainability performance of América Móvil. We detail the revised contents; the scope included TELCEL and TELMEX (Mexico), Claro Brasil Appendix and Claro Colombia. 104 2018 Sustainability Report GRI Content/s1 Review scope according with GRI requirements2: Content Energy: Energy consumption: fuel and electricity. GRI 302-1 Emissions: GRI 305-1 GHG Emissions (Scope 1 and 2) Message from the CEO GRI 305-2 Waste: Non-hazardous waste by type and disposal GRI 306-2 method Occupational Health & Safety: Number of injuries and occupational diseases, by Company Profile GRI 403-2 gender Training & Education : Hours of training by employee category GRI 404-1 (employment contract) and gender 1Revised contents are conform to GRI Standards: GRI 302: Energy 2016, GRI 305: Emissions 2016, GRI 306: Effluents Updating Sustainability and waste 2016, GRI 403: Occupational health and safety 2016, and GRI 404: Training and education 2016. 2For a more detailed information, consult the GRI Content Index of the Sustainability Report. In addition to these GRI contents, we reviewed the content of the Information Security section in the Sustainability Report, except the number of trained employees and the breakdown of the Connecting with Principles training issues for Brazil and Colombia. Conclusions Based on the procedures performed, as described above, on 2018 Sustainability Report from América Móvil S.A.B. de C.V., we conclude that: Activating Safety • Nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the information contained in the Report was not obtained with reliability, the information is not presented properly, or that there are significant discrepancies or omissions. Sharing Development This independent review report has been prepared to attend the request of América Móvil S.A.B. de C.V. Valora Sostenibilidad e Innovación S.A. de C.V Uploading Quality of Life Jose Luis Madrid Appendix Mexico City, 31st May 2019 105 2018 Energy (GRI 302-1) Emissions (GRI 305-1, 305-2) Sustainability Report Mexico Direct emissions Direct emissions Indirect emissions (Scope 1) (Scope 1) (Scope 2) – Source Operation Operation consumption Country consumption Country fuel consumption refrigerant leakages consumed electricity Telcel 910,500.62 (ton CO2e) (ton CO2e) (ton CO2e) Electricity (MWh) 2,319,849.11 Content Telmex 1,409,348.48 Telcel 11,409.14 0 467,119.29 Telcel 676,026.16 Telmex 102,169.43 556.50 705,800.50 Gasoline (L) 43,723,450.02 Telmex 43,047,423.86 Mexico (total) 113,578.57 556.50 1,172.919.79 Telcel 3,723,894.35 Brazil 19,086.14 0 58,063.81 Diesel (L) 7,900,712.55 Message from the CEO Telmex 4,176,818.20 Colombia 24,911.86 0 88,743.92 Telcel 0 LP Gas (L) 335,570.00 Telmex 335,570.00 Electricity (various) EF Mexico electricity: 0.527 ton CO2e/MWh EF Brazil electricity: 0.641 ton CO2e/MWh Company Profile Brazil EF Colombia electricity: 0.2 ton CO2e/MWh EF INFRA (Mexico): 0.438 ton CO2e/MWh Source Country consumption EF Iberdrola (Mexico): 0.420 ton CO2e/MWh Electricity (MWh) 1,264,838.47 Gasoline (L) 5,575,185.00 Fuels (GHG Protocol, v4.1) EF Diesel (fixed source): 0.00264 ton CO2e/L Updating Sustainability Diesel (L) 903,462.00 EF Gasoline (fixed source): 0.0022 ton CO2e/L Ethanol (L) 4,494,491 EF LP gas (fixed source): 0.0016 ton CO2e/L EF Diesel (fixed source): 0.00267 ton CO2e/L Natural gas (m3) 26 EF Gasoline (fixed source): 0.0023 ton CO2e/L EF Ethanol (Mobile source): 0.0008 ton CO2e/L EF Natural gas (Mobile source): 0.022 ton/m3 Connecting with Principles Colombia Source Country consumption EF Refrigerants: IPCC Fourth Assessment Report (200/) Electricity (MWh) 443,719.59 FE R22: 1.81 ton CO2e/kg FE R404A: 3.94 ton CO2e/kg Gasoline (L) 105,151.52 FE R134A: 1.43 ton CO2e/kg Activating Safety Diesel (L) 9,336,834.89 Sharing Development Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 106 2018 Waste (GRI 306-2) Health and Safety (GRI 403-2) Sustainability Only includes non-hazardous waste. Verification of the total accidents for each country (also operation only for Mexico) Report and gender. Mexico Mexico Content Destination Operation Quantity (tons) Topic Gender Operation Number Telcel 509.76 Telcel 103 Recycle Telmex 4,838.66 Women Telmex 499 Total Mexico 5,348.42 Total Mexico 602 Accidents Message from the CEO Reuse Total Mexico: 0 Telcel 66 Telcel 0 Men Telmex 1174 Landfill Telmex 50.4 Total Mexico 1,240 Total Mexico 50.4 Telcel 2 Company Profile Incineration Total Mexico 0 Women Telmex 8 Total waste generation Mexico 5,398.82 Total Mexico 10 Illness Telcel 1 Brazil: stays out of reach from the verification. Men Telmex 16 Updating Sustainability Total Mexico 17 Colombia Destination Quantity (tons) Brazil Recycle 1545.81 Topic Gender Number Connecting with Principles Reuse 0 Women 74 Accidents Landfill 116.70 Men 238 Incineration: 6.28 Women 1 Illness Total waste generation Colombia 1668.78 Men 1 Activating Safety Colombia Topic Gender Number Women 104 Accidents Sharing Development Men 87 Women 20 Illness Men 3 Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 107 2018 Training (GRI 404-1) Sustainability Verification of the total amount of training hours per category, not of the average Report of hours/employees. Mexico Content Type of contract Gender Operation Training hours Telcel 118,145.60 Women Telmex 538,679.23 Total Mexico 656,824.83 Undefined Message from the CEO Telcel 146,575.70 Men Telmex 1,908,367.21 Total Mexico 2,054,942.91 Company Profile The data from the employees with eventual contracts from Telmex was not included because there was not information available. Brazil Updating Sustainability Type of contract Gender Training hours Women 170,100 Undefined Men 370,944 Connecting with Principles Colombia Type of contract Gender Training hours Women 324,411.0 Undefined Activating Safety Men 361,710.0 Sharing Development Uploading Quality of Life Appendix 108
