AEQUO COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS DENIS LYSENKO’S STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT AND ITS TEN PRINCIPLES In 2018 Aequo proudly joined the United Nations Global Compact, the world’s largest global corporate responsibility initiative advancing universal values in business operations. By incorporating the Global Compact principles into strategies, policies and procedures, and establishing a culture of integrity, Aequo has already gained international recognition for its CSR initiatives and ever since has been supporting 10 principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. We are inspired and privileged to be trusted by our respected clients and we strive to enhance our business practices in line with the UN Global Compact, aiming to understand their needs, deliver the highest quality and exceed expectations – it becomes possible only by sharing the same values and aspiration to use Aequo’s strength as a leading Ukrainian law firm to make a positive contribution to our business community and society at large. Denis Lysenko Managing Partner 2 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT The United Nations Global Compact is a non-binding United Nations pact to encourage businesses worldwide to adopt sustainable and socially responsible policies, and to report on their implementation. The UN Global Compact is a principle-based framework for businesses, stating ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption. Under the Global Compact, companies are brought together with UN agencies, labour groups and civil society. ACTING RESPONSIBLY Human Rights 1. Businesses should support and 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in respect the protection of human rights abuses. internationally proclaimed human rights; and Labour 3. Businesses 4. The 5. The effective 6. The elimination should uphold the elimination of all abolition of child of discrimination in freedom of forms of forced labour; and respect of association and and compulsory employment and the effective labour; occupation. recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Environment 7. Businesses should 8. Undertake initiatives to 9. Encourage the support a precautionary promote greater development and diffusion approach to environmental of environmentally friendly environmental responsibility; and technologies. challenges; Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. CONTRIBUTING TO THE DEVELOPMENT The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are a collection of 17 global goals set by the United Nations General Assembly in 2015 for the year 2030. The SDGs are the blueprint to achieve a better and more 3 sustainable future for all. They address the global challenges we face, including those related to poverty, inequality, climate, environmental degradation, prosperity, and peace and justice. In 2018-2019 Aequo has supported 7 goals (3 – Good health and well-being; 4 – Quality education; 5 – Gender equality; 9 – Industry, innovation and infrastructure; 12 – Responsible consumption and production; 16 – Peace, justice and strong institutions; 17 – Partnerships for the goals) incorporating them through the most innovative initiatives such as AEQUO Friends, AEQUO Legal Tech Challenge, projects, policies and day-to-day operations. 4 SHAPING A BETTER FUTURE – AEQUO’S CSR APPROACH We are proud of our culture of corporate social responsibility which governs our daily business, internal and external communications, and our innovative initiatives, including pro bono. At Aequo we strongly believe we can actively contribute to the sustainable economic and social development of Ukraine because being responsible business is a focal point in our day-to-day operations. Our CSR approach is based on three pillars – people, business and environment. These three components constitute our biggest investments. IMPROVING THE COMMERCIAL LEGAL ENVIRONMENT • Law is at the heart of our business. We are committed to strengthening the rule of law. • We actively participate in the elaboration of legislative initiatives at the national level aimed at improving the legal framework for business development in Ukraine. • We strive to serve the growth of the Ukrainian economy and contribute to building a sound business community. 5 THE NEW LAW OF UKRAINE ON LIMITED LIABILITY AND ADDITIONAL LIABILITY COMPANIES The new Law of Ukraine On Limited Liability and Additional Liability Companies , No. 2275-VIII, became effective on 17 June 2018, replacing the outdated provisions of the 1991 Law of Ukraine On Business Companies that regulated the operation of limited liability and additional liability companies (LLCs and ALCs). The key novelties of the Law include the introduction of a corporate (shareholders) agreement, absence of participants' limit, amended requirements for drawing up constitutional documents, establishment of clear decision-making mechanisms to be used by participants and of the procedure for setting up a supervisory board. Furthermore, the Law lifts mandatory quorum and audit commission requirements, makes management and supervisory board liable, establishes the principles of good faith in the interests of LLCs, removes the ban on debt to equity swap, improves the rules for share transfers and protection of title to shares, addresses pre-emptive rights, pledge, exit, expulsion, succession etc. The Law also gives LLCs and ALCs one year to bring their charters in line with the new Law and to have the relevant amendments subject to the state registration, without paying a registration fee. Provisions of the current charters shall prevail until 17 June 2019 (or until the date of any amendments to a charter by a company's decision). Anna Babych, AEQUO’s Partner, Head of Corporate/M&A, is a key driver of the LLC Law reform, who proactively elaborated the Draft Law On Limited Liability and Additional Liability Companies as one of its authors. Aequo’s team invested 190,5 pro bono hours working on the draft law. Anna Babych comments as follows: The adoption of the Law on limited liability and additional liability companies has become one of the most long-awaited events in the history of reforming corporate legislation in Ukraine. The law will change the rules of the game for more than 500 thousand limited liability companies in Ukraine and ensure the liberalization of corporate governance, the maximum flexibility in doing business by the key business players of the country, as well as protection of businesses from hostile takeovers. Besides, the law will contribute to the country's GDP growth by creating favorable conditions for doing business and attracting investments in the Ukrainian economy in the long run. I would also like to acknowledge the high professionalism of the expert group involved in drafting and promoting the law, and to thank everyone for the great contribution to the successful realization of this complex project. 6 RAISING ETHICAL AND PROFESSIONAL STANDARDS • Ethics and professional standards are at the core of our daily work (powered by our Business Ethics Policy; Anti-Bribery and Anti-Corruption Compliance Programme). • We fully recognize and respect the interests of our employees, clients and competitors, and condemn unfair business practices and strongly support anti-corruption initiatives. • We strongly believe that by conducting business in an ethical and sustainable manner we can enhance the country’s leadership and shape a better future for Ukraine. EXPERT VISION We understand business challenges and opportunities. Commercial insight is the driving force of our law firm. This means we offer more than legal expertise. Our in-depth knowledge of the sectors in which our clients operate enables us to provide strategic business advice. We share our clients’ ambition to drive the industry and the economy ahead. Aequo is a multi-disciplinary, industry-focused Ukrainian law firm. Our team is made up of highly qualified and recommended lawyers who work proactively to help clients reaching their business goals. Backed up by solid industry expertise and a thorough understanding of business we develop innovative strategies and provide efficient solutions to the most complex and challenging matters. Our advice is clear and practical. Every year we contribute to publishing industry/practice related reports and infographic reports which are highly appreciated by both our clients and colleagues on the legal services market. 7 8 INVESTING IN TALENTS • We strongly believe that giving the best talent a chance to develop will ensure the long-term success of our firm, our employees and all our stakeholders. • We strive to be a talent-first law firm by creating an enjoyable, supportive working environment and offering different opportunities to allow our people to be the best they can be. • We support young Ukrainian artists, empowering the artistic and creative talent inherent in our people, and promoting Ukraine as a modern nation that is brave enough to embrace change. AEQUO FRIENDS AEQUO Friends is a first-of-a-kind outsourcing platform launched by a Ukrainian law firm. Successful implementation of AEQUO Friends – commended in Managing and Developing Talent by FT Innovative Lawyers 2018: researchers praise Aequo Friends outsourcing platform created by the firm through a “unique talent development initiative in Ukraine. The programme assists with the management of an unpredictable workload and helps develop a talent pool.” Challenge In the extremely competitive environment, the law firms face two major challenges. Firstly, traditional HR tools, like internship and essay competitions, which are overused in Ukraine, fail to win the best talents among generation Y and millennials. To recruit, retain and keep young employees motivated, partners also have to provide work-life balance opportunities even in high seasons. Secondly, law firms have to manage the cost pressures efficiency to meet business clients’ expectations. Objectives The project aims to cooperate with experts, notaries, translators and other contractors, and provide internships for law students in an innovative format. The key objective is to react promptly to unplanned increases in work volumes, enhance business processes, improve the client care experience, build an effective talent pool and to ensure effective outstaffing of lawyers to clients in the future. Originality AEQUO Friends is the first of a kind outsourcing and HR initiative in Ukraine. Even though there is a number of outsourcing platforms in this country, none is specifically dedicated to legal industry. The most 9 relevant do not have much content, often get poor traffic, suffer from lack of interest and as a result are not sustainable. AEQUO Friends platform provides a unique opportunity to gain valuable experience at the first-tier law firm with a flexible work schedule, at the same time being a member of a talented team. The applicants are able to choose the tasks which best suit their professional interests. We use the best gamification practices throughout the platform in order to ensure the highest level of engagement and competitive spirit on the one hand, and collaboration on the other. To name just a few: evaluation system and mentors’ feedback, levels, grades, points, leaderboards, badges, achievements etc. The status and ranking as a result of good performance is one of the main drivers for young lawyers. These technologies have already shown very high engagement rates through different industries and platforms. Impact On 11 March 2019, Aequo launched the second cohort of AEQUO Friends, the first-of-a-kind online legal internship programme by a Ukrainian law firm. One of the main objectives of this innovative platform is to give young talents an opportunity to make first steps in their career as future lawyers by developing their skillset and gaining experience in various practices. In addition, it helps to improve the client care experience and contributes to building an effective talent pool. 142 applications were received from students of 32 top universities, living both in Ukraine and abroad (Denmark, Lithuania, USA). After several selection stages consisting of online testing and Coffee with a Mentor meetings, 14 of the best and the most promising students were selected to become the new AEQUO Friends – participants of the second round of the internship programme. In 2019 our gender ratio of winners was 50%/50%. We believe in equality bringing diversity to AEQUO Friends. 10 INNOVATIONS BOOSTER AEQUO LEGAL TECH AEQUO Legal Tech Challenge 2.0 (ALTC) pursues a number of ambitious goals challenging traditional views on the provision of legal services, disrupting the legal industry through innovation and technology by creating innovation-friendly environment for legal industry in Ukraine. The key objective set by the organisers of the competition is to bring the legal services in Ukraine to a completely new level, constantly increasing lawyers’ efficiency and client care excellence. In May 2018 Aequo announced the second round of ALTC, an annual first of a kind innovation competition in legal services, initiated by a law firm in Ukraine. Within the framework of the competition, anyone can offer a Legal Tech idea, validate and jump-start it. Submitted projects are evaluated by a panel of judges consisting of the leading international and Ukrainian experts in innovation, IT, technology and law. The winner gets USD 15,000 seed-funding. Bearing in mind that the most innovative ideas arise through cross-sectoral partnership, ALTC was set up as a start-up lab, where legal services meet talents from other spheres, fostering Ukrainian legal market disruptive innovations. Unlike other similar initiatives, ALTC is not limited to financially sustainable projects and we are open to support pro bono legal tech ideas. Our intensive 1-month acceleration programme was designed to unlock potential of every idea and boost its development, providing selected teams with: • hands-on mentorship and workshops by experienced experts in law, finance, product development, marketing and sales. Our mentors are entrepreneurs themselves and, thus, have been able to challenge and boost ideas; • visit to the one of the most successful Ukraine’s start-ups Grammarly, including inspirational meeting with the team; • opportunities to connect with potential investors; • ecosystem for peer learning and support; • startup testing and validation. 11 During the application process we received 72 legal tech ideas (while 30 applications is industry average). On 17 November 2018, the finals of the competition took place, with presentation of ideas, keynote speakers, and announcement of the winner. Rent It Bot, a bot designed to solve the legal side of the rental housing problem in minutes, was announced the winner and awarded a prize of $15,000. In particular, we highly appreciate the fact that this online solution brings transparency to rental market in Ukraine. The app has entered into European markets. Furthermore, the expert jury distinguished three finalists in the following categories: • Law – MigrateBot – a bot that helps online active foreigners get a visa and/or a residence permit • Tech – Dom Jurista Analytics – service for predicting court decisions • Love – TopTierLex – a platform to facilitate submission for participation in legal rankings Moreover, we continue strategic cooperation with the winner of Aequo Legal Tech Challenge 2017 Court on the palm, an analytical tool for search, analysis and visualization of lawsuits, making investment in big data analytics, participating in product testing, becoming its first corporate client and helping to promote it among potential users. Last year it successfully monetized the platform. To promote AEQUO Legal Tech Challenge among Aequo’s colleagues, we announced internal Legal Tech Challenge, employees’ ideas contest, as an integral part of our strategic session and Reinvent Yourself 2.0 transformation programme. ENVIRONMENT Our 2020 environmental goals: • paper use reduction by 25% (against 2018); • paper/plastic cups no use (by 100%); and • energy reduction by 10% (against 2018). 12 AEQUO GREEN OFFICE Our office is designed and dedicated to managing environmental footprint. We are deeply committed to reduce our resources consumption (i.e. water, electricity, paper, etc) through practical measures described in Aequo Green Policy guidelines. In order to succeed our colleagues have become a driving force and are committed to finding innovative ways to do so. We recycle our office waste using “Greenko Group” services (through our lessor). All enterprises of the group operate in accordance with the requirements of the international standard ISO 14000. AEQUO WELLNESS & CARE PROGRAMME We are very proud of our friendly, honest and open working environment, where all employees enjoy their work, genuinely respect each other and are valued members of the team and it is our pleasure to take care of THE team. Therefore, Aequo provides health insurance, social package and a performance-based bonus system. In 2018 we have introduced: • premium insurance programme (providing equal for every team member); • #AequoRunChallenge – every year Aequo takes part in running events which has formed a team that competes fair; and • as an empowering women business we have launched a special programme for women upon their return to work after maternity leave. 13
