SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Making history with you SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 Making history with you SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 On October 28, 2018, Banco de Chile celebrated 125 years contributing to Chile's development and the advancement of all persons. Contents 04 08 14 A Message from About this Bank Profile our CEO report ›› Banco de Chile ›› 2018 at a glance ›› Awards and recognition ›› Sustainability strategy and stakeholder engagement ›› Corporate governance ›› Corporate ethics 2 42 72 90 Employees Customers Environment ›› People management strategy ›› Customers at the center of our ›› Emissions: managing our decisions carbon footprint ›› Employee health and safety ›› Quality service ›› Energy efficiency ›› Labor relations ›› Cybersecurity and protecting ›› Waste management and information recycling ›› Transparent customer ›› Inputs communication and information 98 122 128 Community Suppliers Economic ›› Inclusion of persons with ›› Relationships performance disabilities with suppliers and ›› 2018 Economic contractors performance ›› Education and entrepreneurship ›› Selection and evaluation ›› Economic value generated processes and distributed ›› Emergency response ›› Strategic partnerships ›› Contribution to chile’s economic development ›› Corporate volunteering 136 GRI Index and Global Compact 3 102-14 A Message from our CEO I am proud to present Banco de Chile’s 2018 Sustainability Report. This publication is a reflection of our commitment to Chile and our vocation as a universal bank, which has motivated us over the past 125 years to work for the country's development and the advancement of all people. From the outset, Banco de Chile has developed spaces that go beyond the daily business of a financial institution, aiming to make a contribution in order to build a much more informed, responsible and inclusive society. Accordingly, the main strategic priorities of our sustainability management efforts have been planned, implemented and evaluated based on demanding international standards from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI), ensuring we meet our long-term objectives. This report is a reflection of our sustainable and transparent business practices towards our employees, shareholders, the industry and society as a whole, with the purpose of contributing to the country’s development and reiterating that we are and will continue to be Chile's bank, “El Banco de Chile.” 4 This publication is also our second I would like to share some of our most Communication of Progress (CoP) and important milestones in 2018. highlights our achievements in complying with the Ten Principles of the UN Global In terms of results, Banco de Chile posted Compact, an initiative we joined in 2017. net income after taxes of Ch$594 billion in 2018, up 3.2% from 2017, and return In 2018 we enhanced our sustainability on capital of 19.3%. strategy with measures and actions that inspire us and contribute to the wellbeing It also reported strong loan figures, of individuals. These initiatives are based improved efficiency and controlled credit on three major pillars: customers at risk expenses. These achievements the center of our decisions, improving were made possible thanks to a solid operating efficiency and productivity and commercial strategy, which allowed strengthening our commitment to Chile. us to take advantage of improved macroeconomic conditions in 2018. Our industry is changing by leaps and bounds; Banco de Chile has not One of the challenges we faced was a been indifferent to this change. We cyber-attack on May 24th, the first of are undergoing transformation at its kind in Chile. It was a sophisticated multiple levels, with new digital tools operation orchestrated from outside Chile and advances in automation, coupled and was designed to damage the Bank’s with an increasingly concentrated and assets, not our customers. competitive banking sector. This creates for us both the challenge and the need I would like to underscore our team’s to continue to offer our customers an great professionalism and efficacy in attractive value proposition. reacting to the threat, which affected not only the local and international financial That same challenge exists outside the industry but also reached most public financial world as well. Sustainability and private institutions. initiatives cannot be conceived as actions that are unrelated to our business. Modern, In 2018 we implemented a series of forward-looking companies must integrate measures to reinforce our structure in sustainability in order to generate value light of these challenges. In addition to for customers and boost development creating a new Cybersecurity Division, by making real social, educational and we made changes to our technology environmental contributions. infrastructure and reinforced perimeter monitoring, both of which leave us better 5 One of the challenges we faced was a cyber-attack on May 24th, the first of its kind in Chile. It was a sophisticated operation conducted from outside Chile and was designed to damage the Bank’s assets, not our customers. prepared to handle this type of threat. 350 thousand spectators in Santiago We have also conducted diverse internal and other cities in Chile, highlighted and external awareness campaigns to the enormous value of pieces of urban improve the digital security culture in heritage such as our headquarters. our country. This year we also opened the doors of our In response to our aspiration to always headquarters on Ahumada—declared a be the best bank for our customers, we National Monument in 2016—for the first have fortified our alliances to provide time ever, welcoming more than 2,500 an attractive offering of products and people to our corporate building as part services. We recently signed a longof Chile's Cultural Heritage Day. term agreement that will give our customers access to exclusive benefits In matters of inclusion of persons to internationally-ranked shows such as with disabilities, we surpassed the Lollapalooza, Cirque Du Soleil and other 1% level required of our corporation events, thus making us known as the by the Inclusion Law. We have made music and entertainment bank. 100% of our branches throughout Chile accessible and established a special On a corporate level, we consolidated customer service protocol for Persons our position on the Dow Jones with Disabilities (PwD). Sustainability Index Chile after first being listed in 2017. This index, which Coupled with this, in 2018 we marked a measures companies’ progress toward major milestone that fills us with pride: becoming sustainable organizations, we celebrated the 40th anniversary of shows that Banco de Chile improved both the Teletón and Banco de Chile's across all measurement dimensions uninterrupted commitment to this in 2018. institution. This relationship has motivated and mobilized us as a corporation from the Another important recognition was outset, assisted by more than 10 thousand received from Global Compact, awarding volunteers, to reach the goal and help us first place among 56 companies for rehabilitate and integrate thousands of our Ethics Game in the framework of the children and youth with disabilities. UN’s 10 Sustainable Development Goals. During the year, more than 10 thousand In October, we commemorated our people benefited from classroom-based 125th anniversary alongside the and e-learning financial education community at the “Festival of light.” workshops we organized for companies, This celebration, which attracted over institutions and micro-entrepreneurs. 6 We have also broadened our value offering Today, our biggest challenge is to embrace and benefits for entrepreneurs in Chile that Banco de Chile’s history while decisively see our bank as a strategic partner for their moving forward toward the future, ventures. The third version of the Desafío hand in hand with greater productivity Emprendedor Competition attracted over and efficiency, with customers at the 31 thousand participants. Of these, 300 center of our decisions and a strong selected applicants received not only commitment to Chile, in order to continue funding, advising and financial education forging bonds and responding firmly and but also the opportunity to build valuable transparently to the trust, affection and contact networks to develop their projects. support we have consistently received from millions of Chileans. In addition, we took part in 155 corporate volunteering activities (involving over I invite you to review the 2018 11 thousand employees), including Sustainability Report, which chronicles programs like the Teletón, grant funding the path we have taken and sets for us the competitions and environmental future challenge of continuing to improve initiatives, among others. and contribute to the development of Chile and its people. We optimized coordination with our suppliers and contractors, which has enabled us to manage our business with increasing efficiency. These major milestones would not have been possible without the commitment and affection we have for Chile and its people, exhibited on a daily basis by Eduardo Ebensperger Orrego our more than 14 thousand employees Chief Executive Officer through their work, dedication and effort. Banco de Chile I believe that any organization's success and future prospects are based on its concern for its surroundings and the wellbeing of the community where it does business, which we have demonstrated for 125 years. That approach has been our passionate focus since the beginning and gives us the peace of mind and satisfaction that we are on the right path. 7 Festival of light Celebrating Banco de Chile’s 125 years in business Concepción, october 2018 8 102-2 102-10 102-45 102-48 102-49 102-50 102-51 102-52 102-54 About this report As we have done since 2014, Banco the entire Corporación Banco de Chile de Chile presents its Sustainability and thus includes subsidiaries. Figures Report, which details its economic, and data from the past three years are social and environmental performance included to help readers understand, in accordance with the criteria and compare and identify trends. requirements set forth in the GRI1 Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016. With regards to the information reported last year, there have not been any In accordance with these parameters, significant changes in size, structure this document reports on the material or ownership at Banco de Chile, nor aspects of operations in Chile, i.e., have there been modifications to the relevant aspects of its value chain bylaws, criteria for drafting the report that significantly impact the Bank's or calculation methods applied. If any environment as well as aspects or issues indicators have been modified in such a that carry substantial weight in its main way, it will be expressly noted. stakeholders' assessments and decisions. This is also the Bank’s Communication This report presents Corporación Banco of Progress on the ten principles of the de Chile’s performance between January 1 UN Global Compact on human rights, and December 31, 2018. The Bank serves labor relations, environment and antidifferent customer segments through its corruption, to which Banco de Chile brands Banco de Chile, Banco Edwards subscribed in 2017. and Banco CrediChile. Subsidiaries are excluded unless otherwise indicated. The information on economic performance included herein is consolidated data for 1. www.globalreporting.org 9 102-43 102-44 102-54 Compliance with principles for defining report content The content of this report was defined using the core option of the GRI standards on relevance or materiality, the sustainability context, completeness and stakeholder inclusiveness. The following methodology was used to identify material (relevant) aspects: 1 Identification of material aspects Studies: The environmental, social and 2 Prioritization A score of 1 to 4 (where 4 is very relevant 3 Validation The Corporate Affairs and Sustainable governance (ESG) risk assessment on Banco and 1 is irrelevant ) was used to rank the Development Department validated the de Chile conducted by the extra-financial economic, social and environmental impacts materiality process as it relates to the scope risk rating agency RobecoSam for the Dow in terms of priority. The relevance allocated of each aspect, structure and depth of the Jones Sustainability Index Chile (DJSI) was by the Company was crossed with the aspects addressed herein. (See Table of analyzed to identify the primary sustainability national and international industry as well Aspects Relevant to the Bank's Operations). challenges from an investor perspective. as stakeholder perspectives to create the materiality matrix (see Materiality Matrix). Stakeholder consultations: A representative sample of the Bank’s employees was given an online survey to identify their expectations regarding information on the organization’s economic, social and environmental performance. Value chain analysis: The Bank's value chain was reviewed. The structure and identification of positive and negative economic, social and environmental impact was validated in the process of preparing the 2018 report. Benchmarks: Six sustainability reports by Chilean banks and international leaders on sustainability issues were benchmarked to identify the industry’s material economic, social and environmental aspects. 10 102-47 Materiality matrix Very high and high relevance Average relevance 1. Diversity and equal opportunity 11. Managing the environmental impact of transport 21. Providing information to customers 2. Training and development 12. Customer privacy about products 3. Labor relations 13. Employment and quality of employment 22. Non-discrimination 4. Waste 14. Promoting economic and social development 23. Customer satisfaction 5. Energy 15. Financial education and inclusion 24. Procurement practices 6. Inputs 16. Green products and services 25. Marketing and advertising practices 7. Cybersecurity 17. Freedom of association 26. Market presence 8. Occupational health and safety 18. Economic performance 27. Social impact of products 9. Anti-corruption 19. Unfair competitive practices and services 10. Climate change / emissions 20. Social and economic regulatory compliance 28. Indirect economic impact 9 2 13 VERY HIH 5 3 1 15 11 7 16 8 18 Degree of influence on employee and industry assessments 12 4 19 17 10 20 14 24 HIH 6 22 25 21 26 23 27 28 AVERAE LOW LOW AVERAE HIH VERY HIH Importance of economic, environmental and social impact (company perspective) Customer/service aspects Economic aspects Social aspects Labor aspects Environmental aspects Human rights aspects 11 102-46 Aspects relevant to the Bank's operations The material aspects reported herein are those elements for which the process of identifying, prioritizing and validating the economic, social and environmental elements of the Bank's operations resulted in ratings of very high, high and medium importance. The scope—whether the potential impact (positive and/or negative) of each material aspect would be limited to the organization or also affect surroundings— was also measured. Those aspects and their respective scopes are listed below: Impact within the Impact outside the Material issues organization organization Diversity and equal opportunity Training and education Labor relations + freedom of association and collective bargaining Occupational health and safety Employment + non-discrimination Customer privacy (customer information/cybersecurity) Product and service labeling Regulatory compliance (socioeconomic) Emissions (climate change) Energy Waste Materials (supplies) Products and services Local communities Procurement practices Supplier environmental assessment Supplier social assessment Economic performance Indirect economic impact Anti-corruption Unfair competitive practices 12 102-53 102-56 Compliance with principles on information quality This report was drafted under the Each of the organization's economic, supervision of the Corporate Affairs social and environmental performance and Sustainable Development Division. indicators was elaborated based on An external consultant specializing in data and technical calculations using GRI standards was hired to ensure the procedures recognized by national clarity, precision, frequency, balance, standards and aligned with internationally comparability and verifiability of the accepted standards. This year, the report contents, which were provided Company decided not to submit the by the organization's different areas with report for external assurance. special attention given to traceability. Corporate contact information This document reports on the organization's most relevant aspects in terms of governance, performance and perspectives in 2018. It aims to promote interaction and dialog with the Bank's main stakeholders. Interested individuals and organizations may directly contact: Corporate affairs and sustainable development department Ximena Lewis Castro Head of Sustainability Phone: 562 24683598 E-mail: sostenibilidad@bancochile.cl 13 Banco de Chile Headquarters Festival of Light Celebrating Banco de Chile’s 125 years in business Santiago, october 2018 14 01 BANK PROFILE 15 Highlights Global Best Bank Finance in Chile Return on 19.3% average capital and reserves Ch $595 billion in net income 16 Banco de Chile 102-1 102-3 102-4 102-5 102-6 102-7 Bank profile 102-8 BANK PROFILE Banco de Chile Banco de Chile banking corporation was formed in 1893 from Thus, Banco de Chile is known as an omni-channel, multithe merger of the banks Valparaíso, Agrícola and Nacional product, bank with broad segmentation, a specialized proposal, de Chile. For the past 125 years, Banco de Chile has offered an exceptional team, a comprehensive outlook on risk and a comprehensive solutions to meet the lending, savings, growing focus on sustainability. It serves customers through EMPLOYEES investment, advising and cash management needs of individuals four business segments: Retail, Wholesale, Treasury and and companies of all sizes, making it a model for both the Subsidiaries3. financial industry and the business community in Chile. Banco de Chile boasts a team of 13,831 people, a strategic According to Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s international risk alliance with Citigroup and a broad network of correspondent ratings, the corporation is among Latin America’s soundest banks. In 2018, the Bank reported after-tax net income of CUSTOMERS private banks. In 2018, it boasted 2.1 million active customers, Ch$ 595 billion, representing a 3.3% increase over 2017 and 3841 branches in Chile and one of the best digital and mobile positioning it first in the industry in earnings, and a return on banking platforms in the country. The Bank has been recognized average capital and reserves (ROAC) of 19.3%. by specialized international publications for its diverse applications that guarantee safe, fast financial transactions. Similarly, the Bank's work with its customers has earned it considerable growth in the installment loan market, expanding Banco de Chile's business model2 is based on contributing to its base of current account holders and boosting internet and ENVIRONMENT the development of Chile and its people by leveraging its solid mobile banking sales by 144%. competitive advantages and opportunities in the environment. These resources are the basis for value creation, which is carried out through processes that are framed within its strategic priorities. COMMUNITY Branches 2018 Remote channels ATMs 1,490 Banco de Chile 250 Internet banking 24-hour service Telephone banking 24-hour service Banco Edwards/Citi 41 Mobile banking 24-hour service SUPPLIERS BancoCrediChile 93 683 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Caja Chile 1. As of December 31, 2018, Banco de Chile had 384 branches according to the IO6/ SBIF report. 2. See 2018 Annual Report, Strategy chapter (pages 12 and 13). 3. For more information, see the 2018 Annual Report, Strategy chapter (page 15). 17 102-7 2018 at a glance MANAGEMENT AND LEADERSHIP SHARE OF RESULTS BY BUSINESS SEGMENT (LOANS AND NET INCOME BEFORE TAXES) Ch $27,914 38% billion in total loans Total loans Wholesale Segment Retail Segment Ch $595 62% billion in net income Economic value generated 49% Net income before taxes Ch $2,423,927 million Wholesale Segment and Treasury Retail Segment and Subsidiaries 51% Return on 19.3% 45.3% +9.7% average capital Efficiency ratio Growth in total loans and reserves 18 102-7 102-8 EMPLOYEES BANK PROFILE 5,919 EMPLOYEES Women 11,350 Banco de Chile 5,431 Men CUSTOMERS employees 2,481 Subsidiary employees ENVIRONMENT UNIONIZATION RATE COMMUNITY Ethics Game Best organizational anti-corruption 12.6% Annual average 78% practice awarded by Global Compact turnover SUPPLIERS Merco Talent Ranking 1st 2nd ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE place in the Banks and place in Merco Companies Financial Institutions category overall ranking 19 102-3 102-4 102-5 102-6 CUSTOMERS + 140% 2.1 million active consumer loans 91% customers satisfaction levels Telephone Banking CALLS TO TELEPHONE BANKING Mobile application users 2016 4,327,250 2016 750,007 2017 444,628 4,557,729 2018 2017 4,939,608 2018 541,518 New partnership LOTUS PRODUCCIONES The music and entertainment Bank 20 BANK PROFILE MARKET SHARE COMMERCIAL LEASING Website sessions 132,650,066 2016 20.1% EMPLOYEES 163,775,892 2017 No. 1 in the industry CUSTOMERS 171,493,210 2018 ENVIRONMENT Social media 327,472 followers COMMUNITY 176,428 followers 7.1% 15,966 increase in SME SUPPLIERS followers customer base 131,300 followers 161,029,737 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE transactions using applications 25,997 followers 21 102-7 COMMUNITY Social investment (in millions of Chilean pesos) Ch $2,312 2016 Creation of Sustainable Seal Ch$4,334 2017 in partnership with the undergraduate program at the Universidad de Chile School of Ch $9,703* 2018 Economics and Business. DISTRIBUTION OF SOCIAL INVESTMENT (%) IN 2018 COMMUNITY INCLUSION OF EDUCATION AND CARING FOR THE EMERGENCY VOLUNTEERING SUPPORT PROJECTS PERSONS WITH ENTREPRENEURSHIP ENVIRONMENT RESPONSE DISABILITIES 32.5 47.0 17.3 0.7 0.1 2.4 Sustainability pillars VOLUNTEERIN ne Edu repo entrep ation a geny rene nd er ur hip Em  Inlu ment  iron with ion of EI PARTNERH env the di ab per RAT IP or T ilit on  ie  NA BLE DEVELO gf in AI P ar U T T MEN PILLAR CORPORATE VOLUNTEERING VOLUNTEERS HOURS DIRECT NO. OF ACTIVITIES MATERIAL TREES PLANTED BENEFICIARIES COLLECTED** 11,940 141,752 21,123 155 756.85 525 *Social investment includes deductible and non-deductible donations, sponsorships, SENCE training tax credits and other activities included in the budget for the Corporate Affairs and Sustainable Development Department, such as festivities to celebrate the Bank’s 125th anniversary and the Teletón’s 40th anniversary. ** More information is available on page 119. 22 102-7 ENVIRONMENT BANK PROFILE 587 tons Carbon footprint Paper sent for recycling measurement 2018 Direct GHG emissions EMPLOYEES 119 tons (scope 1 and 2) 16,676 tCO2e4 Paper saved in 2018 13.7 tons CO2 emissions avoided CUSTOMERS thanks to BiciChile program Total energy consumption (GWh) 36.8 2016 36.2 ENVIRONMENT 2017 36.7 COMMUNITY 2018 SUPPLIERS SUPPLIERS 120 529 29 contractors with suppliers with critical suppliers and/or contractors active contracts active contracts with active contracts ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 9,058 97% SME supplier base of the purchasing budget spent with local suppliers 4. Preliminary information on external assurance process. 23 Awards and recognition Recognized as one of the 50th most innovative companies in Chile in the Best Place to Best Digital Bank for Innovate ranking People and Companies Given by Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez, GFK in Chile Adimark, Microsoft and América Retail. Given by Global Finance. Best Consumer Digital Bank Consumer Loyalty in Chile 2018 Award 2018 Given by Global Finance Best Digital Banks in Latin America. Given by ALCO. Brand of the Year Best Digital and 2018 – 2019 Mobile Banking Given by World Branding Forum. in Chile Given by Global Banking and Finance. 24 BANK PROFILE 1st place in the Merco Talent ranking, in the category of banks and financial institutions Orgullo 2018 Award EMPLOYEES Given to Banco de Chile for the Given by the Teletón, to celebrate forty third year in a row. years of commitment and support as strategic partners. CUSTOMERS Recognition for the 1st place Best Organizational Lowest Lost-Time Anti-Corruption Practice for Injury Rate in 2017 Banco de Chile’s Ethics Game ENVIRONMENT Given for the third straight year by the Given by Global Compact. National Safety Council in the category of banks and similar institutions. COMMUNITY Global Business and Global Business and Finance Awards 2018 Finance Awards 2018 in the category of SUPPLIERS in the category of Innovative Digital Commercial Bank 2018 Bank 2018 Given by European Magazine. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Given for the first time by European Magazine. 25 102-9 102-10 Sustainability strategy and stakeholder engagement Sustainable management of value chain impact 3. Primary operations Outbound logistics 1. Inbound logistics Everything that needs to 2. be done in order for the product or service to reach Operations the customer IMPACTS: Everything that comes into the bank and enables it to provide its different products and services. IMPACTS: Serves different customers with a range of products and services. IMPACTS: Support activities People and Organization Management Infrastructure 26 Economic Impact BANK PROFILE Economic performance Indirect economic impacts Market presence Environmental Impact 4. Energy Marketing EMPLOYEES Products and services and sales Managing the environmental impact of transport Climate change / emissions Waste Inputs Social Impact (Community) CUSTOMERS Promoting economic and social development Use of publicity Financial education and inclusion 5. and sharing clear, Anti-corruption transparent information with customers Post-sale ENVIRONMENT Unfair competitive practices IMPACTS: service Regulatory compliance Social Impact (Labor Practices) Employment and quality of employment Occupational health and safety Labor relations COMMUNITY Training and development Diversity and equal opportunity Reception of complaints, queries, suggestions and Social Impact (Customer/Service) general assistance Customer satisfaction IMPACTS: Providing information to customers about SUPPLIERS products and services Marketing and advertising practices Customer privacy Social impact of products / services ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Regulatory compliance Cybersecurity Human Rights Impact Technology and Innovation (R&D) Procurement Non-discrimination Freedom of association 27 Sustainability strategy Banco de Chile's corporate strategy has four strategic priorities In matters of inclusion, the Bank surpassed the goal of having to guide all initiatives, with the objective of leading the industry 1% of its workforce made up by persons with disabilities and in reputation, efficiency and recommendation indexes. One of it organized the II Teletón Inclusive Art Biennial. Outside the these priorities, Commitment to Chile, houses all initiatives organization, the Bank developed customer service protocols related to the sustainability strategy, which are subdivided for attending customers with disabilities and adapted its entire into four pillars: inclusion of persons with disabilities, financial branch network to make facilities accessible. education to strengthen entrepreneurship; emergency assistance and caring for the environment. Distributed across In the area of entrepreneurship and financial education, the Bank all pillars is the corporate volunteer work that supports the held an awards ceremony for the 2nd Desafío Emprendedor programs and projects led by the Bank. Competition, which has attracted 69,127 micro and small entrepreneurs since 2016. In terms of disaster response, in The Bank has defined these sustainability pillars to boost the 2018 the Bank enlarged its emergency volunteer team to 60 value generated through its sustainability programs and allot volunteers from the Metropolitan and Antofagasta regions. In a single meaning to the Bank's commitment to society as part environmental matters, the Bank organized the first working of its corporate social responsibility efforts. In addition, in order group to analyze the importance of caring for the environment to monitor progress and maintain close ties to stakeholders, and set guidelines for monitoring and implementing its the Bank regularly performs diagnostics and assessments of environmental policy. its initiatives, ranging from in-house studies to participating in the Dow Jones Sustainability Index. In addition to these initiatives and internal communication campaigns, 33 sustainability training activities were held, In this spirit, the Bank conducted an internal assessment of its reaching 2,663 employees throughout the country. Commitment to Chile program in 2018. This analysis helped identify its employees’ understanding of the programs, the most valued initiatives and ways to optimize sustainability initiatives and methods for publicizing them within the organization. The Bank also confirmed that its employees had a permanent interest in participating in corporate volunteer activities. One of the most relevant initiatives in 2018 was the online publication of the Commitment to Chile Framework of Action in order to explicitly declare its adherence to Global Compact and the United Nations Guiding Principles. The objective of this document is to openly express the Corporation’s interest in “protecting, respecting and remedying” human rights, progressively aligning its practices while creating its own tools, such as policies, regulations and declarations, to facilitate implementation. It also expressly states the principles and guidelines followed and applied by the Bank. 28 Pillars of the sustainability strategy PILLARS OBJECTIVES ACTIONS BANK PROFILE Inclusion of persons with disabilities • Teletón volunteer program. EMPLOYEES • Corporate volunteer program. • Hiring people with disabilities and maintaining a ratio of The Bank strives to be a model of inclusion people with disabilities to total workforce of 1%. through its corporate volunteer program, strategic • Transforming our branches into accessible units with partnership with the Teletón as well as internal and internal mobility. Installing inclusive ATMs. external initiatives to provide equal opportunity to people excluded from the workforce. • Developing digital banking to increase accessibility. • Developing and implementing Inclusive Communication Handbook. CUSTOMERS • Sponsoring paralympic tennis players. • On-site training in conjunction with SME-related areas and several foundations, particularly the Bank’s Consumer The aim is to develop basic tools for accessing Finance Division and the Desafío Levantemos Chile Education and ENVIRONMENT financial products that enable people who are Foundation. entrepreneurship otherwise excluded from the financial system to • Third Desafío Emprendedor Competition successfully launch a business. • Developing and implementing the Count on Chile (“Cuentas con el Chile”) program. As a nation-wide bank, Banco de Chile strives • Launching donation campaigns. to create opportunities to collaborate with local • Volunteer activities. Emergency response COMMUNITY organizations in the face of natural disaster and to • Third call for volunteers for Banco de Chile’s emergency provide support for the impacted area. response team. • Energy-saving program. The Bank addresses this issue from the perspective • Paper recycling program. of working toward a better, sustainable world for Caring for the future generations. Consequently, it measures • Measuring and offsetting its carbon footprint. SUPPLIERS environment and neutralizes its impacts and supports • Supporting environmental foundations. sustainable projects. • Environmental volunteer program. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 29 102-40 102-42 102-43 102-44 Stakeholder engagement Banco de Chile's strategy identifies stakeholders and makes an explicit commitment to each of them. The matrix is constantly reviewed in order to make any necessary adjustments. MECHANISMS AND/OR CHANNELS OF FREQUENCY OF STAKEHOLDERS ENGAGEMENT OBJECTIVES COMMUNICATION ENGAGEMENT Customers • Continuously offer excellent service • Website www.bancochile.cl characterized by integrity, personalization, agility and proactivity in order to build long• E-mails term, trust-based relationships. • Traditional physical channels (branches • Use permanently available service channels and ATMs) to keep customers informed in a timely, • Remote online assistance Ongoing appropriate manner. • Mobile applications • Provide differentiated financial solutions • Facebook, Twitter, Instagram and YouTube featuring quality, innovative products and • Satisfaction surveys services for each customer segment. • Correspondent banks Shareholders • Annual shareholders’ meeting • Be the best investment option, maintaining Annual a leading position in value of shares traded. • Report • Promote operational efficiency and • Investor Relations Ongoing productivity in order to encourage prudent • Conference calls with investors Quarterly risk management based on integrity and transparency. • Website www.bancochile.cl Ongoing Employees • Competency assessment • Offer merit-based development opportunities while offering competitive compensation • Counseling program (“Programa Orienta”) and economic benefits. • Health program (“Mi Salud”) Annual • To promote a respectful, polite work • Paternity program (“Ser Padres”) Ongoing environment in a location equipped with • Team meetings the appropriate technology and infrastructure. • Workplace climate survey • Conventions Community • Promote financial education to optimize entrepreneurship • Facilitate a more equitable society that offers greater opportunities through inclusion of • E-mails persons with disabilities • Letters Ongoing • Manage the business in an environmentally • Website www.bancochile.cl respectful manner • Remote online assistance • Build collaborative supplier relationships, based on transparency, competition, efficiency, respect and objectivity Regulatory and supervisory authorities In terms of regulatory relations, Banco de Chile adopts required measures to comply with current legal provisions and regulatory standards. This ongoing relationship is verified through the channels and mechanisms set forth by law and the regulations issued by each entity within the scope of its authority. 30 102-12 102-13 BANK PROFILE Partnerships and memberships Chambers of commerce and financial associations: Contributions to foundations • German-Chilean Chamber of Commerce and Industry (Camchal) • Mater Kidney Foundation EMPLOYEES • Argentine-Chilean Chamber of Commerce • Foundation for the Conservation and Dissemination of Historical and • Belgian-Chilean Chamber of Commerce Military Heritage • Brazilian-Chilean Chamber of Commerce • Astoreca Foundation • Colombian-Chilean Chamber of Commerce • Chilenter Foundation • Chinese-Chilean Chamber of Commerce, Industry and Tourism • Desafío Levantemos Chile Foundation • Chilean Chamber of Construction • Hogar de Cristo Foundation • Indian-Chilean Chamber of Commerce • Las Rosas Foundation CUSTOMERS • American-Chilean Chamber of Commerce • Teletón Foundation • Santiago Chamber of Commerce XX • Trabajo en la Calle Foundation • Circle of Banking Executives • Pontificia Universidad Católica de Chile / Sotero del Río Hospital Cancer Project Regional organizations International initiatives • Industrial Association of the Fifth Region • Regional Chamber of Commerce and Production ENVIRONMENT • Fifth Region Circle of Banking Managers • Corporation for Regionalization of the Bíobío Institutional and community organizations • Chilean Association of Banks and Financial Institutions • Center for Public Research • Acción Empresa Foundation • Chilena del Pacífico Foundation Global Compact: COMMUNITY • Chile-Spain Foundation United Nations initiative that promotes respect for human rights, labor • Paz Ciudadana Foundation rights, caring for the environment and ethical business practices among • The Institute of International Finance, INC. companies, governments and organizations. Banco de Chile joined the initiative in 2017. SUPPLIERS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 31 102-16 Corporate statement Our mission We are a leading, globally-connected financial corporation with a prestigious business tradition. We provide financial services of excellence to each customer segment, offering creative and effective solutions and thus ensuring value creation for our shareholders, our employees and the community at large. Our vision In everything we do, we constantly strive to be the best bank for our customers, the best place to work, and the best investment for our shareholders. We do so in a way that demonstrates our commitment to the people in our organization and the community in general. Our purpose Our corporation contributes to the development of the country. Our purpose is to create conditions where both people and companies can develop and provide them with solutions tailored to their different stages in that development process. Our values Integrity, commitment, respect, loyalty, sound judgment, responsibility and fairness. Our commitment To our shareholders, our customers, our associates and our community. 32 Banco de Chile Headquarters 33 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE SUPPLIERS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES BANK PROFILE 102-5 Banco de Chile Headquarters Corporate governance LQ Inversiones Financieras S.A. and Inversiones LQ SM Ltda. (LQIF Group), subsidiaries of Quiñenco S.A., and Citigroup Inc., directly control 27.5% of the shares of Banco de Chile and indirectly control 23.7% through Sociedad Matriz Banco de Chile S.A., or SM-Chile S.A. (hereinafter “SM-Chile”). In all, the LQIF Group controls 51.2% of the bank’s shares and its voting rights. Pursuant the strategic partnership agreement between Quiñenco and Citigroup Inc. for the merger by incorporation of Citibank Chile into Banco de Chile, Citigroup Inc. took a shareholding in LQIF, with an initial holding of 32.96%, which it later increased to 50% of that company. This agreement also establishes that Quiñenco must remain the controller of LQIF and the companies that LQIF directly or indirectly controls. As a public securities issuer, Banco de Chile trades shares on local stock exchanges as well as the New York Stock Exchange through the American Depository Receipts (ADR) program5. 5. For additional information regarding the ownership structure and main highlights during the year, see the 2018 Annual Report at www.bancochile.cl. 34 102-18 102-23 102-35 Board of Directors Banco de Chile's board of directors consists of eleven directors the country, the board meets outside Santiago at least twice BANK PROFILE and two alternate directors. The complete board is elected annually. In 2018, the board met in the cities of La Serena every three years. The most recent change was made in March and Linares. 2017. In 2018 the directors Jane Fraser and Juan Enrique Pino Visenteiner resigned from their positions and were replaced The board's responsibilities include: establishing strategic by Álvaro Jaramillo Escallón and Julio Figueroa, respectively. guidelines; approving policies, procedures and mechanisms designed to meet the objectives of the corporate governance The board holds ordinary meetings twice a month, except system; and appointing a Chief Executive Officer. The board in February, when it holds only one meeting. Extraordinary uses an established scope and rating method to assess its EMPLOYEES meetings may be called by the chairman of the board or at annual performance and guarantee the quality of its decisions the request of one or more directors. In order to decentralize and operations. decision-making and learn about realities in different parts of Board of Directors 6 CUSTOMERS DIRECTOR POSITION NUMBER OF COMMITTEES AGE Pablo Granifo L. Chairman 8 60 Andrónico Luksic C. Vice Chairman 1 64 Álvaro Jaramillo E. Vice Chairman 3 54 Alfredo Ergas S. Independent Director 4 52 ENVIRONMENT Andrés Ergas H. Director 2 51 Jean Paul Luksic F. Director 1 54 Samuel Libnic Director 1 52 Gonzalo Menéndez D. Director 5 69 Julio Santiago Figueroa Director 1 47 COMMUNITY Francisco Pérez M. Director 3 60 Jaime Estévez V. Independent Director 4 72 Rodrigo Manubens M. Alternate Director 1 60 Thomas Fürst F. Alternate Director 1 87 Compensation SUPPLIERS Board compensation is approved annually at the ordinary shareholders' meeting, must be at least one third more than shareholders' meeting and may include one or more of the the compensation provided to ordinary board members. For following items: a fixed monthly honorarium, allowances for the year ended December 31, 2018, the total amount paid in attending board or committee meetings, or an annual incentive board fees was MCh$2,511. No provision has been established ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE set by shareholders that is subject to the Bank meeting earnings for pensions, retirement or other similar benefits for board targets during the year. members or other senior executives. Compensation for the members of the Directors' and Audit Committee, which is also set annually at the ordinary 6. The directors' curriculum vitae are available in the 2018 Annual Report. 35 102-18 102-22 Banco de Chile Board committees Board members are responsible for in-depth analysis of specific Committees aspects to ensure that the Bank's board has the information it needs to discuss and approve policies and strategies. They 1. Credit Committee (comprised of are comprised of one or more directors and meet periodically. all directors) Descriptions and responsibilities of the board committees of 2. Portfolio Risk Committee the Bank and its subsidiaries are available in the 2018 Annual 3. Finance Committee (ALCO) Report and on the corporate website. 4. Superior Operational Risk Committee 5. Directors’ and Audit Committee (comprised of two independent directors and one director) 6. Executive Insurance Committee 7. Asset Laundering Prevention Committee 8. Consumer Banking Committee 9. Factoring Committee 10. Leasing Committee 36 Senior Management BANK PROFILE Members of Senior Management7 NAME POSITION OR DIVISION Eduardo Ebensperger Orrego Chief Executive Officer Rolando Arias Sánchez Chief Financial Officer EMPLOYEES Nelson Rojas Preter General Counsel and Secretary to the Board Joaquín Contardo Silva Commercial Banking Division Manager José Miguel Quintana Malfanti Corporate Banking Division Manager Juan Carlos Álvarez Mateos Marketing and Customers Division Manager Juan Palacios Gómez Global Risk Control Division Manager CUSTOMERS Felipe Echaiz Bornemann Compliance Division Manager Cristián Lagos Contardo People and Organization Division Manager Oscar Mehech Castellón Controller Paola Alam Auad Wholesale Credit Risk Division Manager Julio Cubillo Navarro Retail Credit Risk Division Manager Esteban Kemp de La Hoz Operations and Technology Division Manager ENVIRONMENT Salvador Danel Cybersecurity Division Manager STRUCTURE OF BANCO DE CHILE AND SUBSIDIARIES CORPORATE DIVISIONS AND SUBSIDIARIES COMMUNITY BUSINESS CONTROL SUPPORT SUBSIDIARIES Commercial Financial Reporting and Marketing and Customers Banchile Corredores de Bolsa Control S.A. Corporate People and Organization Wholesale Credit Risk Banchile Administradora Operations and Technology SUPPLIERS General de Fondos S.A. Retail Credit Risk Legal Counsel Banchile Asesoría Financiera Global Risk Control S.A. Global Compliance Banchile Corredores de Seguros Limitada Controller ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Socofin S.A. Cybersecurity Banchile Securitizadora S.A. 7. The division managers' curriculum vitae are available in the 2018 Annual Report at www.bancochile.cl 37 102-16 102-22 102-25 Management committees Banco de Chile policies approved by the Board Division managers collaborate on bank operations through the following management committees: 1. Regulatory Policy on Information Technology and Communications 2. Information Security Policy 3. Business Continuity Policy 4. Liquidity Policy Management committees 5. Anti-Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorism Finance Prevention Policy • Managers’ Committee 6. Retail Segment Risk Policy • Disclosure Committee 7. Wholesale Segment Credit Risk Policy • Ethics Committee 8. Complex Products and Services Policy • Executive Operational Risk Committee 9. Website Standards Policy • Quality Committee 10. Operational Risk Policy • Subsidiary Risk Committee 11. Policy on Physical Transportation of Electronic Media 12. Policy on Handling Documents, Logs and Files 13. Accounting Close Policy 14. Accounting Policy The Board’s guiding principles 15. Policy on Prevention of Dishonest Practices 16. Policy on Credit operations with Directors and The board ensures compliance with ethical principles, internal Senior Executives standards and guidelines and external regulations in accordance 17. Policy on Handling Insider Information and Personal with Banco de Chile’s General Corporate Governance Principles. Investments These principles cover conflicts of interest, the directors' rights 18. Mandatory Absence Policy and responsibilities regarding information, as well as the role 19. Policy on Prohibitions for Conditional Credit of the chairman and the board committees. Products 20. Investment Limits Policy The General Corporate Governance Principles establish the 21. Policy on Non-Discriminatory Access to Credit directors’ obligation to keep confidential information about the Products for Individuals Corporation's business and privileged information to which they 22. Policy on Assets Received in Lieu of Payment have access that has not been officially disclosed. Furthermore, 23. Policy on Inter-company Transactions Subject to it prohibits directors from acting upon opportunities for Sections 23-A, 23-B and Regulation W commercial gain that they learn about, to benefit themselves 24. Mergers and Acquisitions Policy or related third parties, when such action would be detrimental 25. Policy on Managing Foreign Investment to the Company. Similar restrictions apply to the members of 26. Code of Ethics the board committees and persons attending these meetings 27. Supplier Management and Selection Policy as guests or advisors. The General Corporate Governance 28. Policy on General Ledger Management Principles also establish guidelines regarding related-party 29. Volcker Policy transactions and how directors, members of board committees 30. Banchile Independent Research Policy and board advisors must deal with potential conflicts of interest; 31. Fiduciary Policy credit operations with directors, senior executives and their 32. Spending and Investment Policy spouses; dishonest practices; and use of insider information 33. Tax Policy by executives, among other issues. 34. Corporate Market Risk Management Policy 35. Policy on Politically Exposed Persons 38 102-29 102-30 Risk management Socio-environmental risk assessment BANK PROFILE Risk management is crucial for Banco de Chile and is an essential Banco de Chile integrates socio-environmental criteria into its component of its proposal for creating value. The board is the evaluation process for granting financing for projects, both body that sets acceptable risk policies, guidelines and thresholds domestic and regional, that might generate an impact of this within the organization, which it does through several board type, wherever executed. committees. Directors are assigned to these committees based on the particular matters addressed by each committee. In The project financing section of the internal regulations for this way, the Corporation looks to respond to the needs of the the Companies Loan Approval Process states that customers EMPLOYEES market, to changes in the industry and to new regulations. The must comply with environmental standards and laws and their Directors' Credit Committee and the Portfolio Risk Committee initiatives must have the respective permits, authorizations, oversee credit risk; the Finance, International and Market Risk licenses and studies required based on the impact they generate. Committee addresses market risk; and the Superior Operational Risk Committee manages operating risks. For large customers, the Bank also has specialized customer service units involved in the process of financing large-scale CUSTOMERS Senior management is responsible for controlling and enforcing projects such as public works concessions that include board-approved policies, guidelines and definitions. In order to building infrastructure and mining or power developments, respond to the needs of both the industry and its customers, all of which may have an environmental impact. Also, based and to effectively control and manage risk, the divisions on the complexity of the financing, it has a team of external responsible for these areas were restructured in 2018. As a advisors that review background information on the project result of this restructuring, four divisions are now responsible and provide a qualified opinion on socio-environmental impact. for risk management: Wholesale Credit Risk, Retail Credit Risk, ENVIRONMENT Global Risk Control and Cybersecurity. The first two divisions— Wholesale Credit Risk and Retail Credit Risk—resulted from the splitting of the former Corporate Risk Division to create a more highly focused and specialized loan approval process. Another component of this restructuring was the creation of the Cybersecurity Division in 2018 to reinforce COMMUNITY the Bank’s security policies and standards related to cyber threats to which it may be exposed. Finally, the Global Risk Control Division was charged with promoting the necessary control environment to ensure proper application of policies and procedures on credit, financial, operational and technological risk. SUPPLIERS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 39 102-17 205-2 205-3 Corporate ethics Ethics management system Banco de Chile’s Ethics and Transparency System consists of In addition to the Ethics Challenge workshops, another type a Code of Ethics and an Ethics Committee. This committee is of mechanism was used to reinforce knowledge in this area: responsible for implementing guidelines on this matter and Two-hour e-learning training sessions on ethics, which were strengthening and regulating the professional and personal successfully completed by 934 individuals in 2018. Similarly, 741 conduct of all employees. It meets on a quarterly basis. The people took part in classroom-based orientation sessions. Each system also includes ongoing, organization-wide training on orientation session lasts 12 hours, one of which is dedicated to ethical conduct and a formal, confidential complaint reporting addressing the Code of Ethics in depth. The Bank also conducted mechanism. In 2018, the Bank's training activity “Ethics Game” internal communication campaigns known as “Let’s Talk About was recognized by Global Compact as an anti-corruption Ethics”, in order to go in depth with messages on this topic (see best practice (see page 63). During the period, the Bank also page 63). These campaigns use audio-visual methods and reinforced the Ethics Alert hotline for filing complaints directly e-mails to offer reflections and advice on the use of the Code with the Ethics Committee and promoted its use on the intranet. of Ethics, internal regulations and complaint reporting hotlines. An ethics training program based on workshops led by each In addition to the Ethics Committee's e-mail address, complaints supervisor was first implemented by the Bank in 2014. In 2016, and inquiries can be filed through direct supervisors, the Head it was baptized the “Ethics Game”, a name it maintained until of People and Organization in the Labor Relations Area or the 2018, when it was transformed into an online platform called People and Organization ambassadors in the branch network. Ethics Challenge. While it conserves the objective of generating In 2018 the Bank encouraged these channels to be used to conversation about ethical behavior in each work group and support employees and supervisors with questions and doubts creating opportunities for participatory reflection on ethics about workplace or sexual harassment. A special e-mail account case studies, this new system segments teams by area and was set up to contact the person in charge of resolving these works collaboratively among the Bank's different divisions. It matters confidentially. The Bank also promoted the idea of also encourages competition between areas since it generates informing the Ethics Committee of any irregularities detected. rankings of the best work teams and facilitates connectivity, giving participants the option to log on from any device with In 2018, the 59 complaints or inquiries received via e-mail were an internet connection. channeled to the Ethics Committee for analysis and assessment. These e-mails are private and exclude anonymous complaints. Workshop evaluations showed an across-the-board increase Of all complaints and inquiries made, seven cases of ethical in indicators, particularly participation, which reached 77% in violations were substantiated. 2018, up from 74% in 2017. Meanwhile, the team’s knowledge of ethics rose from 61% to 80% (see more information in the People chapter, page 64). By year-end, 7,900 employees had participated in the initiative. 40 102-17 205-2 BANK PROFILE Regulatory compliance and anti-corruption: EMPLOYEES internal control and audit systems In order to ensure prudent management and effective auditing, a series of obligations and behavioral criteria that must be the board establishes and permanently assesses internal control followed in order to comply with the provisions of the law, systems. To ensure audit independence, Banco de Chile has and a reporting hotline for employees and suppliers. The crime a framework of action, a hierarchical structure and validation prevention matrix was used to assess the Bank's different CUSTOMERS mechanisms for audit observations and the actions designed to processes; seven major risk focuses have been identified in address the issues identified. Furthermore, the board reviews association with their respective control processes. all corporate policies and approves the auditing plan on an annual basis. It receives periodic information on the degree Similarly, the Bank has a Policy on Prevention of Dishonest of completion. The Directors' and Audit Committee has been Practices, which sets guidelines to ensure compliance with appointed by the board to regularly assess the quality of internal current regulations on contributions or benefits given to control systems and the internal audit function and engage public officials, foreign officials, candidates or political party ENVIRONMENT and coordinate with external auditors. Corporate policies are leaders, in order to prevent any of these conducts, which may designed collectively by different areas and divisions depending be contrary to honest practices or be considered an attempt on the subject of the policy. This design process is coordinated to commit bribery. by the Global Compliance Division, which is responsible for disseminating and enforcing Citibank's global control policies All directors and division managers have been made aware of applicable to the Bank's operations, in addition to some local the organization’s anti-corruption policies and procedures. All regulations arising from international agreements. other employees also receive communication on these matters COMMUNITY through internal channels. The Bank has control policies and procedures for customers, suppliers or competitors that complement laws and regulations and, specifically, amendments to the Penal Code for preventing, detecting and prosecuting corruption (Law 21,121). This amendment incorporates, among other things, corruption between private parties as a new type of crime. Similarly, as a SUPPLIERS result of the new law, the Bank will update and/or complement all internal policies and procedures necessary to guarantee compliance with legal obligations. The Bank has a complementary crime prevention model in accordance with Law No. 20,393, which describes the ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE methodology, corporate bodies and main elements established to prevent the crimes regulated by that law. It also considers 41 Festival of light Celebrating Banco de Chile’s 125 years in business Punta Arenas, october 2018 42 02 EMPLOYEES 43 Highlights 11,350 Banco de Chile employees (excludes subsidiaries) 1st place Organizational practice Ethics Game anti-corruption (given by Global Compact) 52% of employees are women (excludes subsidiaries) 1,416 New hires 44 Employees BANK PROFILE One of the People and Organization Division’s goals is to have Credit Risk Division, which defines conduct and models for healthy, committed and challenged employees who put forth rating customers in the Individual, SME and Micro-enterprise their best effort. Banco de Chile's employees have access segments; and the Wholesale Credit Risk Division, which works EMPLOYEES to initiatives to expand their professional capabilities in a to optimize risk and return for the commercial areas of Large work environment that strives to remain free of accidents, Companies, Private Banking, Factoring and Wholesale. These professional illnesses, work harassment and discrimination. divisions, together with the Global Risk Control division, make For their work, they receive competitive compensation and up the corporate governance structure for risk. benefits to balance their work and personal lives. This is all addressed in the internal regulations and the division’s policies. In terms of new technologies and business security CUSTOMERS requirements, this year the Bank created the Cybersecurity The People and Organization Division also supports all the Bank’s Division, another step towards its goal of being the most secure units as they strive to accomplish its strategic objectives. Thus, it financial institution in the country. This division is responsible offers specialized solutions for managing human capital, aiming for reinforcing execution of an IT security plan for cyber threats to create value for customers and wellbeing for the people that to which the Bank may be exposed, which helps safeguard work at Banco de Chile and its subsidiaries. Each program has critical customer and corporate information. This new division evaluation metrics and mechanisms to respond promptly and enables the Bank to fortify the structure and team specialized ENVIRONMENT effectively to employee needs and current national regulations. in leading efforts to prevent threats and protect critical digital infrastructure and the information it contains. Milestones in 2018 included celebrating the Bank’s 125 years in business and the 40th anniversary of the Corporation's Among its challenges for 2019, the People and Organization partnership with the Teletón. In this context, it organized Division aims to strengthen internal processes that will activities to deepen its employees’ commitment to both translate into improved efficiency by simplifying and controlling organizations throughout the year. For the Bank’s anniversary processes that positively impact the quality of service provided COMMUNITY celebration, the division devised a communication campaign to management and employees. Another focus will be on that featured a range of initiatives, including an institutional managing high-potential individuals, placing emphasis on anthem and the Festival of light, a cultural event of international generating growth spaces for talented employees through a caliber enjoyed by associates from four cities in Chile. To succession and development plan for replacements for executive commemorate the Teletón, the largest corporate volunteer positions. Through these efforts, the Bank hopes to channel the activity in Chile, the division designed innovative campaigns potential and sustained contribution of key individuals within to encourage employee participation (for more information, the Corporation. Likewise, it will implement actions to support SUPPLIERS see Community chapter). employees with performance gaps through plans to drive improvement that positively impacts the Bank's productivity Likewise, in order to respond dynamically to customer and business sustainability. needs and technological trends, the Bank carried out an organizational restructuring process in two primary areas: Recognition Risk and Cybersecurity. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE In 2018, for the fifth consecutive year Banco de Chile ranked First, it chose to segment the risk areas in order to better first among banks and financial institutions in the Merco Talent control and manage the Bank's loan processes, splitting the Ranking1. It placed second on the overall version of the same Corporate Risk Division into two new divisions: the Retail ranking for the fourth year in a row. 1. The Merco study measures and recognizes the country's leading companies in terms of attracting and managing talent. 45 102-8 Banco de Chile and its subsidiaries have 13,831 employees throughout Chile. Of them, women account for 53.4%, or 7,387 associates. In 2018, the Bank engaged in early collective bargaining with nine unions, which successfully culminated with the signing of new collective bargaining agreements. TOTAL EMPLOYEES BY CONTRACT TYPE AND GENDER (NO. OF PEOPLE) 2016 2017 2018 Contract Total Women Men Total Women Men Total Women Men Open-term 11,027 5,566 5,461 11,180 5,769 5,411 11,012 5,715 5,297 Fixed-term 172 102 70 188 104 84 338 204 134 Total bank 11,199 / Promarket 692 / 11,891 11,368 11,350 Subsidiaries 2,730 2,655 2,481 Total 14,621 14,023 13,831 EMPLOYEES BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA (%) 2016 2017 2018 Arica y Parinacota 0.4 0.4 0.5 Tarapacá 0.9 0.9 0.8 Antofagasta 1.9 1.8 1.9 Atacama 0.8 0.7 0.7 Coquimbo 1.7 1.7 1.7 Valparaíso 6.8 6.5 6.5 Metropolitan Region of Santiago 71.7 72.2 72.1 Libertador Bernardo O’Higgins 2.2 2.1 2.0 Maule 2.6 2.5 2.4 Biobío 4.9 4.9 5.0 La Araucanía 2.1 2.1 2.2 Los Ríos 0.7 0.8 0.9 Los Lagos 2.3 2.3 2.2 Aysén 0.3 0.3 0.3 Magallanes 0.8 0.8 0.7 46 404-1 405-1 BANK PROFILE DIVERSITY IN GOVERNANCE BODIES AND EMPLOYEES (NO. OF PEOPLE) 2017 2018 EMPLOYEES Under Under Category Men Women 30 50 Over 50 Men Women 30 50 Over 50 30 30 Managers 119 21 0 80 60 316 144 0 105 69 Supervisors 918 629 28 1,067 452 641 498 24 969 432 Professionals 1,331 1,187 389 1,811 318 1,398 1,232 375 1,882 373 CUSTOMERS Technicians 1,214 1,945 651 2,016 492 1,277 2,023 752 2,035 513 Administrative 1,913 2,091 877 2,511 616 1,799 2,022 804 2,387 630 staff Total 5,495 5,873 1,945 7,485 1,938 5,431 5,919 1,955 7,378 2,017 ENVIRONMENT DIVERSITY IN GOVERNANCE BODIES (NO. OF PEOPLE) 2017 2018 Men Women Under 30 50 Over Men Women Under 30 50 Over 30 50 30 50 12 1 0 0 13 14 0 0 1 13 COMMUNITY TURNOVER BY GENDER (%) 2017 2018 Age Group Percentage Men Women Age group Percentage Men Women Under 20 50.0% 50.0% 50.0% Under 20 125% 200% 50.0% SUPPLIERS 20 29 years 23.1% 25.8% 20.4% 20 29 years 28.7% 30.4% 27.2% 30 39 years 10.7% 11.7% 9.8% 30 39 years 12.7% 12.9% 12.5% ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 40 49 years 6.6% 6.5% 6.7% 40 49 years 7.4% 6.2% 8.3% 50 59 years 6.0% 4.9% 7.6% 50 59 years 5.0% 4.8% 5.4% 60 69 years 6.1% 6.5% 4.9% 60 69 years 6.6% 5.4% 9.4% Total 10.8% 11.4% 10.2% Total 12.6% 12.3% 12.8% * Beginning this year turnover tables will present data by gender. Since tables from previous years did not include this information, only tables from 2017 have been included. 47 401-1 2018 TURNOVER BY REGION (%) 2018 Total turnover 12.6 Arica y Parinacota 14.8 Tarapacá 18.8 Antofagasta 22.3 Atacama 13.2 Coquimbo 11.3 Valparaíso 10.4 Metropolitan Region of Santiago 12.8 Libertador Bernardo O’Higgins 11.0 Maule 8.6 Biobío 6.6 La Araucanía 12.3 Los Ríos 17.5 Los Lagos 14.6 Aysén 25.7 Magallanes 16.9 Banco de Chile Headquarters NEW HIRES BY AGE GROUP, GENDER AND REGION (NO. OF PEOPLE) 2017 2018 Total % Men Women Total % Men Women Under 20 5 0.4 2 3 Under 20 5 0.4 4 1 20 29 years 560 47.3 304 256 20 29 years 757 53.5 348 409 30 39 years 411 34.7 192 219 30 39 years 468 33.1 210 258 40 49 40 49 159 13.4 59 100 150 10.6 51 99 years years 50 59 years 44 3.7 16 28 50 59 years 32 2.3 19 13 60 69 60 69 4 0.3 3 1 4 0.3 2 2 years years Total 1,183 576 607 Total 1,416 634 782 48 103-2 People management strategy BANK PROFILE Banco de Chile has focused on positioning its People, Culture and Strategy Alignment Program for the last six years as it strives to be the best place to work for our employees and the best bank for our customers. This initiative is meant to be an ongoing positive influence that provides the tools required to help employees face organizational challenges in a more EMPLOYEES positive manner. Strategy for aligning people and culture CUSTOMERS HILE Ditrit ENVIRONMENT FOR OUR U or  T BANK TO it hb E M B ER ie HE Neig Ma T nk a n ag  tB in e ormane Human a Image and pita perf formane per COMMUNITY l fo ent r th ell eb x ge HILE Identity Purpo e HILE Et hi SUPPLIERS Ban o d e  hile' tyle TH ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE R EB ET K FO B A N K TO WOR Re gio n   HIL E 49 404-2 Human capital for the best Bank One cornerstone of People, Culture and Strategy Alignment is related to personnel management (orientation and maintenance) and the search for tools to recognize a job well done that are aligned with the Bank’s culture. This pillar is known as “Human capital for the best Bank” and is primarily focused on attracting talent and designing the benefits program. In 2018 the program also focused on workers leaving the organization. In this spirit, the division created an outplacement program to give them tools that boost their employability and workforce reinsertion potential . A. Outplacement program The objective of the Outplacement Program is to collaborate with workers that have been laid off from the Bank to conduct a guided process designed to help with their workplace reinsertion. It uses a training platform that provides support in aspects such as looking for work, writing a resume and properly leveraging work-related networks. In 2018, 223 former employees voluntarily registered on the platform. In 2019 the Bank will continue to improve the program and support employees even after it has terminated its contractual relationship with them. B. Attracting talent In order to attract high-performing students and talented professionals, the Bank has several training programs and other initiatives to position its employer brand. Similarly, once employees join the organization, it offers new hires opportunities for participation and recognition to make them feel like part of an attractive organization. To accomplish this, it seeks different ways to internally convey its strategic priorities, values and ways of doing business that set the organization apart. To these ends, it uses digital media, work and leisure activities with professionals in key business areas as well as initiatives to build loyalty among interns. In 2018 it created trainee positions in the Retail, Microenterprise and Banco Edwards divisions. Over 5 thousand people applied for these positions. Of these applicants, 80 university graduates with less than two years’ experience ultimately joined the Bank’s trainee program. 50 Banco de Chile employees 51 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE SUPPLIERS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES BANK PROFILE 401-2 One major focus is on professional internships. More than Through the site trabajaenelchile.cl one can directly access the one thousand students apply each year for these positions. portal quieroserdelchile.cl, where applicants can enter their Selection includes a recruitment process with group interviews information in an exclusive database and apply for current using a gamification methodology. Around 700 students are vacancies. This site was implemented in 2017 and enhanced selected to fill vacancies around the country. In 2018, an event in 2018 as a single platform for both internal and external was held in Santiago for almost 300 young interns in order candidates applying to work at the Bank. to welcome them and help them build networks. Interns in areas outside Santiago received a welcome kit with several In addition, the Bank consolidated its presence on social items to personalize their workstations. networks during 2018, boosting followers of its Facebook site “En el Chile”, launched in 2017, by 114% to reach 10,885. Similarly, in January 2018 the Bank redefined its recruitment The Bank’s LinkedIn page reported a 34% increase in followers, and selection methodology, which involved carrying rising from 99,141 to 132,943 people, while Trabajaenelchile.cl out a psychological evaluation in-house with a team of had over 355 thousand visits from 275 thousand unique users. psychologists specialized in skill interviews and business advising. The Bank designed, built and began operating the The challenge in 2019 will be to continue providing a Center for Workplace Evaluation (“Centro de Evaluación differentiated hiring experience for new employees, creating Laboral or CEL”), which brought together a team of recruiters innovative ways to introduce them to the Bank, redefining some exclusively for the Bank who conduct searches and phone selection methodologies for critical positions such as trainees screenings to identify approximately 300 candidates each and exploring hiring options using new digital platforms. month for the selection process. In 2018, 21% of external hires came from recruiting efforts by the CEL. The division C. Benefits program also uses the gamification methodology and a test entitled “Measure Yourself at Banco de Chile”, specially designed Banco de Chile strives to help its employees properly balance to evaluate overall mental ability, responsible workplace work and their personal lives. For this reason, it has designed conduct and pro-social and collaborative behavior in order and implemented a series of benefits running the gamut from to select the best profiles for different positions. Each month physical activity to professional assistance (psychological, an average of 290 tests are administered. The CEL offices social, legal, medical and nutritional counseling). have high standards of efficiency and quality, providing a distinctive experience that is highly appreciated by job In order to increase its employees’ knowledge of benefits applicants, who gave the center a score of 6.9 out of 7.0 available to them, in 2017 it made enhancements to the www. on a satisfaction survey. This change has enabled the Bank esparami.cl site, which has become one of the main tools for to reduce average times to fill vacancies, achieving a 15% informing them of benefits. In 2018 this site had 426,414 boost in efficiency. visits. Currently, 84% of employees use this platform. It was also transformed from a merely informational platform by Positioning as the best employer brand introducing a series of functionalities to access benefits such as forms and an online calendar for making appoints for assistance The Work at Banco de Chile digital platform, implemented in and to use some benefits. 2017, was consolidated as a tool for positioning and promoting the Bank as an approachable, innovative organization that Lactation room encourages employee professional development and can even be used by individuals with visual or hearing impairments. It To prolong breastfeeding and accompany mothers as they is one of the most visited networks among employer brand return to work, the Bank designed, built and inaugurated its positioning platforms. In 2018, it boasted an average duration first lactation room, exclusively for employees that work in of 90 seconds of navigation. downtown Santiago. This space gives them a safe, comfortable and hygienic space for pumping and storing breast milk. 52 401-2 Telecommuting and flexibility BANK PROFILE In 2018, the Bank implemented a pilot plan to incorporate As a goal for 2019, the Bank plans to work collaboratively telecommuting and flexible scheduling as benefits. As of with all areas to make these initiatives possible in order to December 2018, five people were telecommuting and 23 increase the number of employees that can take advance of were on a flexible schedule. In August 2018, it launched a new telecommuting and flexible scheduling options. It also intends benefit, making flexible leave options available to all employees to create a new benefits site with more categories and options. through a novel system known as the Point Bank (see box). EMPLOYEES Point Bank In 2018 Banco de Chile created the Point Bank, a Each employee is allocated a certain number of points platform offering employees a grid of flexible benefits every six months and can earn more points during CUSTOMERS aimed at satisfying their particular likes and interests. the year through different collaboration, recognition The Bank hopes to use this platform to broaden the and innovation initiatives. In 2018, points were also offering of existing benefits and help employees improve awarded to employees based on their years of service in work-life balance. recognition of the Bank's 125th anniversary. In addition, as part of the Recognition Program, points were assigned In creating the Point Bank, it conducted several internal to those individuals earning the “Collaboration” and focus groups for employees from different age groups “Chile's Team” awards, which highlight people who ENVIRONMENT to express their areas of interest. It then analyzed and make an exceptional contribution to the Bank’s strategic segmented their responses to co-build the Point Bank. priorities and help improve organizational coexistence. Accordingly, benefits are grouped into five categories: Time Off, Savings, Sports, Recreational Centers In the six months since this platform was launched, and Experiences. Employees can access a series of 81.2% of employees entered the Point Bank to learn alternatives, based on his or her own interests and more about the grid of benefits, exchanging points those of his or her family group, and exchange points for 2,160 benefits in the different categories offered: COMMUNITY for the benefit. • Time off: from an afternoon off work to a super-sized weekend. • Savings: alternatives for discounts. NUMBER OF EXCHANGES PER CATEGORY • Sports: sports classes for children and/or adults such as soccer, tennis or taekwondo. 42.3% • Recreational centers: weekend stays free of Time off SUPPLIERS charge at diverse recreational centers owned by 38.3% Banco de Chile. Experiences • Experiences: includes tickets to movies or concerts and other events at recreational centers. Several challenges lie ahead for 2019: to promote ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE platform use and encourage employees to exchange points for benefits; to segment exchanges by gender and age group in order to ensure that benefits are valued 1% by all employees; to enrich the different categories Sports available today; and to improve coverage to provide an 6.5% Recreational attractive benefit package in areas outside Santiago. centers 11% Savings 53 401-2 Comprehensive insurance Banco de Chile offers its employees supplementary health insurance, catastrophic insurance, dental insurance and life insurance. This is one of the benefits that attracts the most inquiries and use. In 2018, 381,279 reimbursement claims were filed on a total of 698,523 appointments and procedures, with 99% of employees using insurance benefits. A Comprehensive Insurance WhatsApp account was set up in late 2016 to address the large number of questions received. In 2018, 4,076 questions were answered through this platform. Quality of life programs The Bank’s Quality of Life Programs support employees and their families in different areas. • Counseling program (“Programa Orienta”): The counseling program offers guidance and support through professional appointments for social, psychological, legal and retirement services. A total of 6,150 appointments were provided in 2018. The Bank hopes to add professional advising on improving retirement and health plans in 2019. • Health program (“Mi Salud”): The health program strives to maintain or improve employee health, promoting selfcare and a healthy lifestyle. It provided 2,710 professional appointments (medical and nutritional) in 2018. Furthermore, Banco de Chile employees 1,498 employees underwent women’s health screenings and 42 talks and health fairs on specific topics were organized, attracting 4 thousand people. Additionally, the Sports, culture and recreation program continued its anti-smoking and flu shot campaigns, benefiting 4,232 people. The Sports, Culture and Recreation Department, through the ActiveChile Program (“ChileActivo”), organizes activities • Employees with Disabilities program: This program seeks related to sports, culture and recreation that help integrate to support employees with a health issue that causes some employees and their families throughout Chile. All members degree of disability. Some examples include: assistance of the program can take part in an array of activities such as with the process of registering with the National Disability Registry, days off to complete the process and financial help sports cultural workshops and lessons for adults and children in to pay for documentation, as well as economic support for Santiago at the Bank's Stadium and other recreational facilities expenses related to their disability that are not reimbursed throughout the city. Outside Santiago, the program organizes by the employee’s insurance. In 2018, 120 individuals joined recreational, sports and culture activities for employees and their the program and over 260 benefits were provided. families including: movie outings, sports tournaments, holiday celebrations and contests. Employees outside Santiago actively 54 401-2 BANK PROFILE participated in contests organized for special celebrations to Recreation and sports centers commemorate the Bank’s anniversary (“Pinta los 125 años del Chile”) and Christmas (“La Navidad del Chile”). The Bank has facilities available for employees and their families to engage in sports and recreational activities The program currently has: throughout the year: EMPLOYEES • 13 sports programs for adults: Golf, soccer, half-court • Las Brisas de Algarrobo vacation and recreation soccer, taekwondo, physical conditioning, running, table center (52 cabins). tennis, tennis, judo, Zumba, fishing, yoga and swimming. • Los Castaños de Graneros vacation and recreation center (34 cabins). • 6 sports academies for kids: Tennis, taekwondo, soccer, CUSTOMERS gymnastics, judo and swimming. Both centers are full equipped with dining halls, game rooms, landscaped grounds, green areas and playground • 10 cultural workshops for adults and kids: Oil painting, equipment, among other facilities. mixed techniques, photography and a variety of dance classes such as salsa, cueca (Chilean national dance), • Banco de Chile Stadium sports and event center flamenco, tango and full dance. in Santiago. The stadium has tennis courts, soccer fields, a swimming pool, a large indoor gymnasium ENVIRONMENT In addition, the Bank organizes recreational camps for children and other sports facilities as well as food service. of employees during summer and winter breaks. In 2018, ChileActivo organized the Collaboration Cup as part of the • Physical conditioning center in Santiago. The center Bank's 125th anniversary celebration. This activity consisted is equipped with everything our employees need to of a half-court soccer tournament for over 800 employees, stay physically fit. men and women, from branches throughout the country. The finals were held in Santiago and streamed for the entire Bank • BiciChile, in downtown Santiago, is a world-class, COMMUNITY to watch their 160 coworkers compete. state-of-the-art bicycle rack exclusively for Bank employees. Facilities include men’s and women’s changing rooms equipped with bathrooms, showers Other benefits and daily use lockers, a bike repair station (selfservice workshop) and laundry services. This group includes educational benefits such as school bonuses for both children of employees and employees, awards for In 2019, the Bank hopes to launch new sports programs SUPPLIERS children of employees with good grades and the best college and organize activities to continue to integrate entrance exam scores (PSU), which provides a full scholarship associates outside Santiago. It will also inaugurate a for the entire degree program for the student obtaining the physical therapy room at Banco de Chile Stadium. The highest score on the language and math sections. In 2018, Bank will continue work begun in 2017 to remodel 52% of employees received at least one of these benefits. both recreational centers, including improvements to 26 cabins in 2018. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Financial assistance is also provided to offset the cost of day care and preschool for infants and toddlers. In 2018 this benefit helped 85% of employees with children between the ages of zero and four years. 55 202-1 Managing excellent performance Managing Excellent Performance, the second pillar of our dimensions measured by contribution to corporate objectives, People, Culture and Strategy Alignment Program, includes customer focus, team leadership and individual skill levels. instruments for assessing and measuring employee competence, This model has contributed extensively to the evaluation of compensation, training processes and organizational climate. different development, internal mobility and pay increase processes, among others. A. Compensation During the reporting period, it reinforced the total compensation Banco de Chile has a Compensation Policy that ensures model by redefining incentive models for positions with variable compliance with current regulations and internal wage compensation and adopting a more competitive position for scales. This policy helps it maintain a competitive position positions with fixed salaries. Variable compensation efforts in its reference market that creates value for the business focused on improving current commission models to reward while promoting consistently outstanding performance over both individual effort and achievement of the commercial time and practices that differentiate the Bank from other strategy. These changes benefited 20% of positions with employers. To accomplish this, Banco de Chile updates its variable compensation. For fixed salary positions, the emphasis wage scales annually and classifies employees and conducts was on supporting, through the total compensation model, segmented wage analyses that ensure compliance with its the executive segment and key positions in the structure in policy. It also monitors the impact of each action on the whole order to take special care of positions that generate value by and anticipates the effect implementation may have on people, defining the Corporation's development and growth strategies. teams, workplace climate and results in general. In 2018, of the total internal mobility actions triggered by the In terms of compensation, each wage-related action is based normal evolution of the business, 1,743 were related to pay on an analysis of the person’s performance, track record, increases resulting from changes in the duties of positions, position and how he or she ranks among peers, in order to mobility or promotions due to organizational changes. The guarantee equity on the team. For this, it has a team of People internal mobility process resulted in 813 pay increases due Managers in charge of analysis and proposals and another to promotions (7.1% of average workforce received vertical team of Compensation Specialists that ensures that each promotions) and 930 due to development (8.1% of total criterion described above is applied. In addition, the Fixed workforce received horizontal promotions). The challenge for Compensation and Structure Area regularly reviews trends 2019 lies in maintaining these internal mobility percentages in order to guarantee that Banco de Chile's Compensation to develop candidates within the organization. Policy is met in order to attract and retain talent and maintain a competitive position in the market. In terms of support processes, in compliance with current legislation and Banco de Chile's compensation policy, the The Bank has also designed several models to integrate and average minimum wage at Banco de Chile was 2.08 times the strengthen mechanisms of objectivity in order to act not legal minimum wage in 2018. Thus, the Bank has managed to only based on the relative impact of each position within the maintain its leadership in terms of minimum wages. In addition, organization but also the comprehensive, sustained contribution all Banco de Chile employees with indefinite contracts received of the Bank's employees. To do this, it devised a comprehensive cost of living adjustments in January, May and November. evaluation model that brings together the various performance 2016 2017 2018 Legal minimum wage Ch $257,500 Ch $270,000 Ch $288,000 Minimum wage at Banco de Chile Ch $560,000 Ch $560,000 Ch $600,000 1: 2.17 1: 2.07 1: 2.08 * Note: minimum wage at Banco de Chile is expressed gross and considers the monthly base salary, legally required profit distributions, transportation and meal allowances. 56 405-1 BANK PROFILE In an effort to give all associates fair access to recruiting is to narrow the gender gap while boosting the economic and selection processes, internal mobility and compensation participation and progress of women in the Chilean labor market. independent of their gender, Banco de Chile has clear job application policies and procedures to maintain this balance. Indicators of women in the Bank’s organizational structure have Thanks to this, today the Bank boasts similar gender equality evolved positively from one year to the next. In 2018 the Bank indexes in its workforce distribution, which supports its created the rank of deputy manager within the executive level, participation in the Gender Parity Initiative (GPI), a publicwhich enabled a large number of supervisors to be promoted private partnership backed by the Inter-American Development to a higher level. EMPLOYEES Bank and World Economic Forum. The purpose of the initiative EVOLUTION OF FEMALE WORKFORCE IN RECENT YEARS EVOLUTION OF FEMALE EXECUTIVES IN RECENT YEARS. CUSTOMERS 51% 52% 52% 62,2% 61,5% 60,6% ENVIRONMENT 37,8% 38,5% 39,4% COMMUNITY 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Men Women WORKFORCE BY GENDER SUPPLIERS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 48% 52% 57 402-2 B. Training and development The Training and Development Unit is responsible for contributing to associate improvement through programs, tools and evaluations focused on shaping and expanding skills Strategic focuses of training and competencies required for their job in order to positively sessions impact their performance and help create work spaces in line with the Bank’s strategic guidelines. Training is divided into six strategic focuses that encompass the development issues and challenges In addition to designing and implementing high-impact identified by Banco de Chile: programs, the Bank has established the strategy of developing a team of teachers and trainers with the skills necessary to train • Orientation employees and accelerate their learning curve, transmitting a sense of pride in belonging to Banco de Chile and the principle • Efficiency and productivity of being committed to Chile. This year 139 trainers were trained and recognized for their service. • Regulatory courses In 2018, 10,209 people participated in a total of 29,206 spots, • Leadership totaling 258,379 training hours distributed over 1,197 activities. Of these, 1,053 were classroom-based courses, or 59.6% of total • Training enrollment. Furthermore, 87% of people outside of Santiago participated in training sessions in 2018, which is equivalent • Commitment to Chile to 7,865 individuals. Managing training program effectiveness Accordingly, training activities could be redirected based on The Training and Development unit has advanced methodically specific needs, reflecting better performance. Given the in developing programs that help improve the performance of effectiveness demonstrated by this initiative, in 2019 the Bank employees throughout Chile, which positively impacts employee plans to perform the assessment for all account executives. skills and conduct, as well as business indicators. In order to measure the effect of these programs, the Corporation evaluates Another aspect of training are practicums for support area the learning processes in order to identify advancements from supervisors, which include supervisors of all non-commercial training sessions and promote the benefits of participating divisions. Practicums are intended to raise awareness among in them. new leaders of customer needs, teach them on-site about several processes and areas that are key to business operations As a strategy to optimize the training process, a new evaluation and build their contact networks within the organization. The system was implemented in 2018 that revolutionized the training program consists of visits to branches, telephone banking paradigm. In the middle of the year, it began administering the facilities and some departments within the Operations Division. Skill Assessment Test to measure the knowledge and skills of In 2018 more than 100 people participated in these practicums. account executives in areas relevant to their job performance, in order to direct training and development programs for the In 2019, the Bank is committed to maintaining the quality commercial team. As a result, knowledge was assessed before and efficiency of its training programs. To accomplish this, the trainings for 25% of account executives throughout Chile it has one team dedicated exclusively to conducting courses (250 from the Retail segment and 84 from the SME segment), and another responsible for ensuring activities meet a given which generated a map of strengths and gaps to focus on the level of excellence, while strengthening the role of advisor on fundamental needs of associates identified in the assessment. training and development matters. 58 404-2 BANK PROFILE Ensuring quality training The Bank uses a three-level evaluation methodology EMPLOYEES to control and manage training program effectiveness. Total training hours 258,379 • Reactive evaluation Assesses the participant’s general impression of the training activity, its contents and methodology. CUSTOMERS Provides an opportunity to make recommendations. This survey was applied to 88% of activities implemented this year, with an average score of 6.7 out of 7.0. 87% of employees outside Santiago • Learning evaluation participated in training sessions ENVIRONMENT Assesses the knowledge the participant acquired at the training activity. These tests were applied to 74% of activities implemented this year. • Job transfer and training impact evaluation These two levels assess how much of the newly COMMUNITY acquired knowledge people apply in their jobs and the impact this new knowledge has on business indicators. To do this, the Bank created a methodology that crosses information on participants with business and performance indicators. This provides an overall evaluation of the programs, contrasting this information with focus SUPPLIERS groups where participants identify opportunities to transfer what they have learned to their positions. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 59 404-1 404-2 AVERAGE ANNUAL TRAINING BY GENDER AND EMPLOYEE CATEGORY (HOURS WORKED) Employee category 2017 2018 Men Women Total Men Women Total Managers 4,518 671 5,189 2,646 815 3,461 Supervisors 23,394 17,748 41,142 17,810 16,413 34,223 Professionals 50,264 49,389 99,653 42,894 40,103 82,997 Technicians 37,214 56,224 93,438 37,561 48,718 86,279 Administrative staff 44,087 36,175 80,262 42,894 26,693 69,587 Total 159,477 160,207 319,684 125,637 132,742 258,379 External financial inclusion programs 1. Pacific Alliance and Co-op Project In 2017 Banco de Chile committed to implementing 2. Banking skills development programs programs to provide opportunities to young people in Chile as part of the initiative proposed by the Pacific Alliance In 2018 the Bank implemented a program targeted at young to promote economic and social development among its people with little access to jobs. With this focus, it sought member countries. In this framework, in 2018 the Bank to strengthen skills needed in the banking industry, thus welcomed more than 1,300 students to professional fostering their inclusion into the job market. Twelve program internships and trainee programs. participants took part in 40 hours of training on topics such as “Managing the Banking Business,” “Customer Service In addition, the BCH Co-op Project was created to offer Techniques,” “Communication and Conflict Resolution early job experience to young people from technical high Skills” and “Self-Management Tools for Job Performance.” schools in order to positively impact domestic youth In 2019, it will continue to strengthen this initiative, which unemployment and dropout rates. Five eleventh graders aims to facilitate workplace inclusion. from Liceo polivalente Santa Juliana in Recoleta participated in this initiative. Throughout the year, they worked at the Bank two days a week in activities related to their technical studies. They were mentored by an employee that guided their learning and development within the organization. The Bank detected knowledge gaps in the use of Excel and offered all eleventh and twelfth grade students from 1,300 young people completed the school a training course on the software. The co-op professional internships and program will continue in 2019, doubling coverage in order trainee programs at the Bank to continue to promote experiential learning and the Bank’s social commitment. 60 403-3 BANK PROFILE Career development and performance evaluations In 2018, the Bank carried out a comprehensive performance evaluation process that included downward (supervisor evaluates team) and upward (team evaluates supervisor) EMPLOYEES feedback. A future performance matrix was also added, which helps supervisors assess the potential of each member of their teams. This review positions each employee into one of nine quadrants 99.9% of Bank employees received a of potential, which helps provide recommendations to support performance evaluation during CUSTOMERS their individual development and offers tools to the supervisor the period. for approaching the feedback process. The calibration stage was maintained and the entire process was migrated onto the Masconectados platform, which consolidates all training and development processes at the Bank. In 2018, 10,732 employees were evaluated, representing 99.9% ENVIRONMENT of the people that should have been evaluated during the period. The final score obtained on the skills evaluation this year was 4.17, reflecting an increase of 0.07 points over the prior year. PERFORMANCE EVALUATION COMMUNITY 2017 2018 Men Women Total Men Women Total Managers 100.0 100.0 100.0 99.7 100.0 98.8 Supervisors 99.9 99.6 99.8 100.0 100.0 100.0 Professionals 99.8 99.6 99.7 100.0 99.9 99.9 SUPPLIERS Technicians 99.9 99.4 99.6 100.0 99.9 99.9 Administrative staff 99.9 99.9 99.9 100.0 99.9 99.8 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Total 99.6 99.6 99.6 99.9 99.9 99.9 61 Internal mobility INTERNAL MOBILITY The Bank promotes internal mobility in all units to ensure equal 2016 2017 2018 access to development plans. Annual statistics show that, since Development 509 616 1,059 2015, more than 60% of non-entry-level positions have been filled from within the Bank. As a result of development and Promotions 876 782 895 internal promotions, the percentage reached 66% in 2018. In 2017, the new internal mobility platform “I want to be a part of Banco de Chile” was launched to facilitate and centralize internal hiring processes for all parties involved. In 2018 this platform was consolidated and complemented by communications campaigns to promote its use. C. Organizational climate The Bank did not conduct an organizational climate evaluation in 2018, but it did hold 57 dialogue sessions that included a diagnostic activity to identify the strengths, challenges and commonalities of each team, as well as their perception of their leaders. This information enables the Bank to make the needed improvements to have appropriate work spaces. The Bank also organized a weekly conflict resolution working group with different individuals from the People and Organization Division. This group's objective is to promptly respond to work conflicts that impact workplace climate. In order to give all Banco de Chile employees a direct line to advice in the event of potential incidents of harassment, the Bank created a space on its intranet to file complaints, ask questions or seek advice in such situations, which also involves holding confidential, in-person interviews with informants. Through this mechanism, the Bank hopes to take preventative action to ensure respectful work spaces for all employees in accordance with its values and attributes. In parallel, it held 11 talks for 1,192 employees to motivate them to work collaboratively and held build a positive workplace climate. Banco de Chile employees 62 205-2 BANK PROFILE Banco de Chile's style Banco de Chile’s style is reflected in the Ethics Program, which The Bank also reinforced the Ethics Alert channel for directly aims to encourage and ensure that conduct is aligned with filing complaints with the Corporation's Ethics Committee, current regulations and the highest ethical standards. It can when necessary. It also encouraged the use of the intranet also be seen in the Leadership Program, which trains the Bank’s to support employees and supervisors with questions and leaders on the skills and attitudes they are expected to have in doubts about workplace or sexual harassment. The campaign EMPLOYEES order to face the challenges of the future; and, lastly, in internal obtained 73% recall and 78% overall satisfaction, with the communications that help strengthen the corporate culture. main attribute recalled being “we act with integrity and high ethical standards,” at 78%. A. Ethics Before that, in order to reinforce ethical conduct and topics In 2018, the annual ethics game was consolidated and related to workplace and sexual harassment and banking CUSTOMERS transformed into an online platform called Ethics Challenge. The secrecy, the Bank organized e-mail and video-based internal game thus left behind its physical format, allowing employees communication campaigns that illustrate violations, how to to log on from any device with an internet connection. One of avoid them and recommendations from Banco de Chile on the benefits of this new format is that teams can be segmented how to prevent them from occurring. by area and, therefore, can work in collaboration with the Bank's different divisions to discuss specific ethical cases. The Bank also continued offering two-hour e-learning training It also makes teams compete, since the platform provides sessions on ethics, which were successfully completed by ENVIRONMENT information regarding the each member’s ethical knowledge 835 individuals in 2018. Similarly, 741 people took part in and the option of visualizing their level within the organization. orientation sessions. Each orientation session lasts 12 hours, This automatically generates a ranking of the top 10 per level. one of which is dedicated specifically to addressing the Code Although the program ended in January 2019, as of December of Ethics in depth. 2018 more than 7,900 workers had been involved. COMMUNITY Global Compact recognition In 2018 the Bank's “Ethics Game” was recognized by Global Compact as the best anti-corruption practice in the 8th version of the study “Integration System for SUPPLIERS Global Compact Principles.” ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 63 205-2 404-2 ETHICS GAME Year of participation Supervisors % Supervisors Total workforce 2018 1,122 (of 1,451) 77.0 10,199 2017 1,123 (of 1,525) 74.0 8,891 2016 1,009 (of 1,474) 68.5 8,457 TEAM’S ETHICS SCORE % of workers who correctly identified the ethical dimensions in the game. 2016 2017 2018 51.5% 61% 80% B. Leadership programs Leadership programs seek to promote Banco de Chile’s style in the course, which was distributed over 16 hours of by honing the skills of future and current supervisors. These classroom instruction and was evaluated with the same programs are used to teach supervisors how the Bank expects standards used last year. It earned a recommendation index them to lead their teams and to reinforce corporate values. As of 100% and an overall score of 6.8. in years past, the Bank continued to work to deepen knowledge on effective leadership, adding fundamental human rights and • Leading with meaning program: This program is focused on the impact they have on a team's daily interactions as one of individuals with less than one year experience as supervisors the main topics. In 2018, a larger number of programs was within the Bank. Its objective is to provide situation-specific implemented, broadening coverage in terms of topics and leadership tools and generate spaces for reflection and participants. Thus, 119 activities were organized as part of this learning. This year the Bank organized 46 workshops for leadership program, in which 1,259 employees participated. 769 supervisors. In 2019 it plans to launch a prevention program to broaden knowledge of workplace and sexual harassment. • Leadership in action program: This program was launched in 2017 to help select supervisors strengthen their leadership • Building personal leadership: This program is directed skills. The methodology was implemented individually based towards non-supervisory employees who would like to on the employee's specific role and provided strategies that develop leadership skills from the perspective of personal positively impact their work. Given the program's success, in responsibility. In 2018 the Bank organized eight classroom2018 the Bank also began to offer group classes to broaden based courses lasting 16 hours each, in which 151 people coverage. In all, 104 supervisors have participated in these participated. The activity earned a recommendation index development activities. of 100% and an overall score of 6.9. • Today's women leaders program: The objective of this • Beginning to lead teams program: This program is for people program, directed towards high-potential female employees, who are taking on supervisory positions for the first time is to accompany them in developing leadership skills and at Banco de Chile, either through external recruitment or competencies they need to reach positions of greater internal promotion. It is designed to convey the leadership responsibility. In 2018, 36 women participated in the activity, style that the Bank wishes to develop in the individuals which earned a recommendation index of 100% and an taking on this challenge. In 2018, 190 people participated overall score of 6.8. 64 BANK PROFILE EMPLOYEES Banco de Chile’s Ethics Game CUSTOMERS • Today’s leaders: Cycle of talks directed towards supervisors • Unique hallmark: This program is designed to support teams that address topics relevant to today's leaders. This year, in defining their purpose and identity in order to align work topics included Millennials in Chile, team work, fundamental methods and ways in which they relate to one another. human rights and happiness at work. These Santiago-based At first, only the manager or area head participated in the talks were made available to the entire organization in video definition and construction phase. His or her direct reports format on the Bank’s digital platform. were then incorporated through individual interviews. This ENVIRONMENT diagnostic process was complemented with information on • Collaboration: In 2018, work meetings were held with the comprehensive skill assessment, compliance with goals, Bank’s diverse divisions to identify how “Collaboration” is team round tables that involve managers as well as any other defined within the Bank. In a second stage, each division potentially relevant background that gives a broad view of leader worked with their direct reports and a team of the teams. Armed with this information, the leader, together advisors from the People and Organization Division to with their direct reports and support from a consultant, put develop these definitions and decide how the division will together a hallmark that is then conveyed to their respective COMMUNITY work together to make it a reality in their respective area. teams. Two divisions went through this process in 2018. Through instances like this, the Bank hopes to create and build networks and making collaborative work the way to • Más Conectados site: This platform, created by the Training move forward at Banco de Chile. and Development department, has diverse functionalities such as online registration for ongoing classroom-based In addition, the Bank implemented a program in 2018 to and e-learning training courses. The Bank also uses this strengthen the role of supervisors and on-the-job limits site for Comprehensive Skill Assessments and corporate SUPPLIERS in order to report situations and/or conduct considered social recognition programs such as “Chile's Team” and workplace or sexual harassment according to current law, “Collaboration,” as well as the “Gratitude” section, where inform them of the impact of complaints and teach them the any Bank employee can publicly thank another person in consequences of protecting labor rights. In this context, the the organization. Less than one year after launch, this multiBank held 12 two-hour training sessions for 294 supervisors. functional platform has been used by 98% of employees for 24 thousand digital courses, over 2,300 “Chile's Team” ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE • Managing others’ performance: The objective of this and “Collaboration” awards and nearly 2,500 messages of workshop, directed towards supervisors, is to support appreciation. Employees can also access the Point Bank the performance management of their teams, providing (see page 53) through the Más Conectado Site. tools for supporting and monitoring people with skill gaps as well as managing workers they want to strengthen, creating space for development dialogues. Forty eight supervisors signed up for this workshop in 2018 and gave it a score of 6.7. 65 C. Internal communications The objectives of internal communications continue to be to Priority was also placed on publicizing and awareness campaigns garner employee commitment, integration and alignment for internal sustainability projects in order to give them visibility with the Bank's challenges and strategic objectives. In 2018, and encourage participation from employees in initiatives under it placed special emphasis on strengthening a culture of the Commitment to Chile action area, while also publicizing collaboration within the organization as well as support for the activities of each pillar within and outside the organization. and commitment to strategic initiatives. In this spirit, efforts focused on transformation and change management processes The results of internal communications efforts are measured as well as instilling the concept of collaboration as a cornerstone annually through a survey on employee satisfaction with internal to reach business objectives. media, as well as their perception and the value they place on it. It also measures the contribution of communication media In institutional matters, in order to generate pride in a sense to knowledge and understanding of the identity and strategy, of belonging, the Bank put considerable effort into its 125business and customers and aspects of personal development year campaign for the Bank's anniversary, organizing both and wellbeing. In 2018, 71% of respondents agreed that digital and in-person initiatives at branches throughout the communication media conveyed the Corporation's contribution country that reached more than 8 thousand employees. It also to the country’s development. In terms of identification of Bank composed an institutional anthem that was used at all events attributes, those related to sustainability obtained 87% and held throughout the year. This campaign had a satisfaction overall satisfaction with media used was 79%. level of 77%. Additionally, the Bank offers communication channels where Another focus was on cybersecurity and information security, employees can submit internal queries and complaints. The which were addressed during the second half of the year main channel of communication is the intranet, which is in order to publicize these concepts and instill them in the organization-wide and exclusively for employee use. In the organizational culture and promote best practices to prevent communications evaluation, this channel outperformed all this type of crime. In evaluations of internal communications, other channels with a score of 75%. Corporate e-mail addresses this topic obtained the greatest recall and understanding rates are also used. Finally, a Service Center platform provides from employees, of 73% and 68%, respectively. face-to-face, telephone and e-mail support exclusively to the Corporation’s employees. Workers were also encouraged to register as volunteers for the Teletón campaign. In the end, 72.4% of the Bank’s workforce participated and the campaign had a satisfaction rate of 94%. This year the Bank communicated with employees in innovative ways at face-to-face activities and initiatives at offices and branches, impacting over 4 thousand associates. 66 Employee health and safety BANK PROFILE EMPLOYEES Banco de Chile believes that preventing accidents and professional illness should be part of every activity and, thus, requires collaboration from all employees. They are invited to share their opinions, ideas and suggestions in order to control and eliminate CUSTOMERS causes of accidents and professional illness. ENVIRONMENT The Risk Prevention Department is responsible for overseeing A. Safety compliance with occupational health and safety guidelines specified in the Internal Order, Hygiene and Safety Regulations. In the context of the Subcontracting Law, the Bank launched The department strives to minimize the possibility of workplace a pilot program to review and control selected documents for COMMUNITY accidents, professional illness and loss or material damage to the 16 subcontractor companies that provide services in the Bank. Corporation’s assets. Doing so requires risks to be strategically The plan was applied to companies that do work at height, a managed for the entire organization. high-risk condition for any one performing such work. Similarly, it conducted risk prevention evaluations of large companies In keeping with current regulations, internal standards and whose contracts require their workers to be permanently onguidelines from the Bank's workplace insurance provider site at the Bank’s headquarters, such as Entel, Accenture, DB (“Mutual de Seguridad”), statistics are kept on the following Solution and Iron Mountain, among others. SUPPLIERS indices to measure management effectiveness on matters of occupational health and safety: accident, claim, frequency and In the framework of the new Workplace Inclusion Law, in effect severity rates. In addition, because the Bank’s guidelines apply since 2018, the Risk Prevention Department participated actively to employees of subcontractors, its risk prevention protocols in an internal Workplace Inclusion Round Table and also led the apply to them as well. process of evaluating job stations for employees with disabilities. Another of this department’s important roles was to coordinate ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE The most common type of workplace accidents at the Bank accident prevention protocols and stand-by ambulance services are falls from ground level or higher. In 2018, there were 21 for the different corporate volunteer programs. falls reported (24 in 2017). 67 Regarding emergency plans and protocols for Bank facilities, We have been working toward the 2020 National Safety Policy two main activities were carried out in 2018. The first consisted safety goals since they came into place in 2016. In 2018, the of evacuation drills in the eight buildings that make up our following goals set for the year were achieved: headquarters complex, mobilizing around 2,500 Bank and subcontractor employees. The initiative included group • Accident rate of 0.50% meetings for individuals in charge of the process, inspections • Mortality rate of 0% of evacuation routes and recommendations for assisting and • The rate of traffic accidents while commuting was 1.00%. rescuing persons with disabilities. The second activity involved filming two videos explaining the evacuation procedure in the event of an emergency and showing them in the auditoriums of the People and Organization Division and the Core Building. Several persons with disabilities played a special role during the presentations in both auditoriums. Safety report The Risk Prevention Department also participated actively in All accidents and professional illnesses are registered by all tests organized by the Business Continuity Area, including Mutual de Seguridad and the Bank, keeping a detailed validating labor risks for positions used for testing and record of: logistical support in emergency situations, such as ambulance coordinators, paramedics, risk prevention professionals, etc. It • Workplace accident, traffic accidents and also took part in the first drinking water supply cut-off drill in professional illness entries the Metropolitan Region of Santiago, organized by the regional • Total days lost to work-related accidents and mayor’s office, the Chilean national emergency office and the professional illness Superintendency of Sanitation Services. This initiative mobilized • Accident ratings all players involved in recovering operating continuity in this • Causes of accidents type of emergency. • Party affected • Location of accidents Another important milestone was the participation by Oscar • Branch or office where the injured person works Mehech, Controller, in the International Summit 2018 on July • Region with the highest number of entries 10-12, 2018, organized by Mutual de Seguridad. He represented • Monthly variation in lost days the Bank on a corporate panel with the country's leading • Accidents by gender companies to address the topic: Are the Safety Goals of a • Accident rate Developed Country Attainable? The Leaders’ Perspective.” • Claims rate • Severity index In order to reinforce risk prevention knowledge, in 2018 the • Frequency index Bank organized 17 courses on “Risk Prevention Orientation” for the members of Joint Committees on Hygiene and Safety, in partnership with Mutual de Seguridad. In addition, it organized a prevention talk for employees at the Ventanas and Quinteros branches as part of the contamination incident that occurred in the Fifth Region. As a result of the area’s active participation in corporate support activities, a large part of the Risk Prevention team was acknowledged at a recognition ceremony for the Bank’s internal trainers. 68 403-2 BANK PROFILE Safety goals for 2019 EMPLOYEES The goals set for 2019 consider the Bank’s strategic priorities Body (ISB). This group meets periodically to address matters and the guidelines and challenges posed by the National Safety related to preventing criminal activity, as well as protocols Policy for 2020. These are: and procedures in the event of an incident (assault, robbery, unauthorized trespassing, vandalism, etc.) Any criminal incident 1. Continue reducing the accident rate. involving threat, aggression or personal injury activates Mutual de Seguridad's Critical Incident Rescue Team Program, which CUSTOMERS 2. Reach the goal of 0.8% proposed by the National Safety includes professional psychologists who begin by treating Policy for 2020. people in a state of shock. 3. Certify five joint committees at a corporate level and apply Furthermore, the credentials for Banco de Chile’s private security for superior category certification for five teams already guards were up for renewal in 2019, which necessitated 30 certified at bronze level in 2018. hours of retraining. The guards are instructed on legal matters pertaining to private security, use of firearms, first aid and other ENVIRONMENT In the event of criminal activity, all branches, including elements related to their duties. CrediChile, have a security plan, which includes emergency response protocols and calls for the creation of an Internal Safety OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY AND HEALTH INDICATORS 2016 2017 2018 COMMUNITY Accident rate 0.51 0.59 0.50 Claims rate 8.46 16.9 19.92 Severity index 32.86 48.94 40.87 SUPPLIERS Frequency index 2.02 2.36 1.8 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Total days lost to work-related accidents 945 1,432 2,284 Days lost to illness 21 530 1,103 Fatalities 0 0 0 69 403-1 403-3 B. Occupational health C. Joint committees In 2018, reported cases of professional illnesses were related The Joint Committee on Hygiene and Safety at BanChile mainly to psychosocial risk factors, particularly workplace stress. Corredores earned gold certification from Mutual de Seguridad, making it the first committee in the banking industry to reach Incidents of professional illnesses did not increase and this level. remained within normal ranges during the period, in contrast to the banking industry based on cases reported to the In 2018 the number of joint committees increased from 50 to 51 Superintendency of Social Security. The Bank also performed while the percentage of Banco de Chile employees represented a comparative analysis with a questionnaire on psychosocial or covered by these groups was 55%. risks at Banco de Chile facilities. The results demonstrated that the dimensions considered (e.g. psychological requirements, The regulatory framework for Joint Committees on Hygiene active work and compensation, etc.) are not a problem for and Safety in Chile establishes and regulates the duties and the Corporation. activities they must carry out. At the Bank, these committees operate in accordance with a standardized, corporate work Additionally, the Bank formed a National Application Committee plan. This plan considers the following activities: for Health Ministry Protocols, with representatives from the Joint Committees on Hygiene and Safety, unions, the People and • Monthly meetings Organization Division and the Risk Prevention Department, as • Forming the following work commissions: required by applicable regulations. The protocols and technical ››Training and Dissemination Commission: Works with standards that must be safeguarded are related to psychosocial the Risk Prevention Department to manage courses, risk surveillance, surveillance of skeletomuscular disorders in workshops and talks on risk prevention and disseminates the upper extremities, manual handling of loads, workplace information on health ministry and occupational health noise and solar UV exposure. protocols. ››Work-related Accident Investigation Committee. The plan for 2019 calls for implementing the manual handling ››Inspection Commission: Visits work stations and facilities of loads protocol at all branches whose vaults are located on to detect and manage accident risks in order to control, a different floor than the tellers. mitigate and/or prevent them. For 2019 the plan considers a special schedule of activities related to highway safety in the work plan of all Joint Committees on Hygiene and Safety. JOINT COMMITTEES 2016 2017 2018 % of employees on joint committees 56 54 55 No. of joint committees 45 50 51 * The table shows the Joint Committees and percentage of employees they represent. Variability is expected for this type of committee since branches with 25-26 employees can be affected by a change in just one employee. (These committees must be formed in work centers and/or branches with a total workforce exceeding 25 employees.) 70 102-41 402-1 Labor relations BANK PROFILE The People Management and Labor Relations Division new collective agreements valid for the next three years. Prior manages relationships with the nine unions and is responsible to reaching agreements with each union, the Bank established for implementing initiatives that strengthen their leadership a round table to resolve the issue of extending benefits to nonskills, in accordance with internal regulations and the Labor unionized employees once the negotiation processes were EMPLOYEES Relations Policy. These documents establish the Company’s complete, as established by law. The result was an unanimous responsibility for safeguarding a positive work environment, agreement to extend the entire benefit grid agreed with the fostering relationships of respect and good team relations, employer upon payment of 100% of union dues, in accordance sanctioning any type of conduct that could be perceived with current regulations. as workplace harassment or mobbing. The policy also guarantees fair compensation based on objective criteria. The collective bargaining resulted in pay increases for 10,383 CUSTOMERS The only differences allowed are those associated with ability, union member associates, representing 78% of the current qualifications, suitability, responsibility and productivity, or workforce as of December. other similar characteristics of the employee in the position. In conformity with Law 20,348, differences based on elements Unions associated with employee gender are prohibited. • 5th Region North Union Likewise, the Bank safeguards against the disclosure of • 6th and 7th Regions Union ENVIRONMENT information relevant to the entire organization in terms of • 8th Region South Union decision making or resolution of differences regarding how to • Punta Arenas Union address a situation with labor or union ramifications. • BAE Union • Banco de Chile Union During the first half of 2018 it initiated collective bargaining • Citibank Union processes with the nine unions before their agreements were • National Union set to expire. All processes were a success and translated into • Promarket Union COMMUNITY UNIONIZATION AND COLLECTIVE BARGAINING UNIONIZATION RATE 2016 2017 2018 22% SUPPLIERS Non-unionized % unionized 64 72 78 employees ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE % employees covered by collective 36 28 85 78% Unionized agreements 71 Festival of light Celebrating Banco de Chile’s 125 years in business Iquique, october 2018 72 03 CUSTOMERS 73 Highlights Alliance with LOTUS The music and Producciones entertainment Bank 2.1 million active customers 7.1% increase in number of SME current account holders 75.4% Net promoter score 74 Customers BANK PROFILE EMPLOYEES Customers at the center of our decisions One of Banco de Chile's main strategic commitments is to put Therefore, Banco de Chile moved forward with its 2020 customers at the center of its decisions, accompanying them Customer Service Model, a project designed to strengthen through each stage of their life cycle in order to anticipate their branch service for retail and SME customers. The model is needs with flexible, straightforward and transparent service based on three main variables: serving all segments at the CUSTOMERS that offers a unique, long-term experience with proposals same branch, adding more technology, providing spaces for targeted to each segment. self-service through digital platforms available at branches and improving operating processes to make them more efficient, The Marketing and Customers Division, in collaboration with all to improve the customer service experience at branches. the Commercial Division, both of which report to the CEO, are responsible for supervising that these objectives are met. ENVIRONMENT In the ongoing quest to achieve corporate strategic objectives and augment its knowledge of its customers, the Bank created the Data Governance Department. This area is charged with Data governance: toward the developing structures, systems and processes to ensure Bank of the future available, easy-to-understand, reliable and credible data and establish a governance framework that guarantees the data Data governance is an organization's capacity to is used correctly. manage the knowledge it has of the information it COMMUNITY handles, providing a holistic approach to managing, Throughout 2018, Banco de Chile continued to focus on improving and leveraging information in order to help maintaining high-quality customer service, establishing actions gain perception and generate trust in business decisions to build loyalty and providing ongoing advising on products and operations. and services. For that, it creates fitting value propositions and upholds security as a differentiating element in order to be the Understanding that data is a valuable asset, Banco de Chile best bank for its customers. created the Data Governance Department in 2018. Its SUPPLIERS objective is to help achieve corporate strategic objectives As occurs every year, the work of the Telephone Banking by developing structures, systems and processes to Department was key. It performed exceptionally in the Servitest ensure available, easy-to-understand, reliable and credible study performed by Ipsos as the best telephone banking division data, in order to use data in benefit of the business and in Chile, achieving satisfaction levels of 91%, as a result of the to strengthen the customer experience. Similarly, it team’s diligence, warmth and service levels, as well as the focuses on developing an information security strategy, ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE incorporation of new tools to streamline response levels and establishing measures on data privacy and developing achieve comprehensive management. services for customers that enable them to generate value from their own information. Banco de Chile looks to constantly adapt its customer service models based on the demands of a shifting environment, adapting to the needs of new generations of individual and corporate customers, with a growing focus on digital banking and continuous improvements in customer service at branches. 75 To further strengthen the customer experience, it moved Retail Market forward on the digital transformation, providing online and mobile banking solutions, quick, safe, easy-to-use 1. Retail and SME Segment: platforms focused on customer needs in the Retail, SME, Large Companies and Corporate Banking divisions. These Offers products and services for: changes have been reflected in a rise of 6.3% in digital transactions, with customer satisfaction with internet • Middle to high-income individuals. services at 87%. Since being launched, the Bank's suite • Small and medium-sized companies with annual sales of mobile applications has reported a total of 4.9 million of up to Ch$1,900 million. downloads, growing 53% over 2017. Retail Segment performance in 2018 In acknowledgment of its ongoing innovation in web products and services, Banco de Chile was recognized by Global Finance The Retail Banking Division includes all middle and highas The Best Corporate / Institutional Digital Banks Latin income account holders and is subdivided into the following America 20181 and The World’s Best Consumer Digital Banks segments: Youth, Traditional, Preferential and Private Banking. Latin America 2018. It also earned recognition from Best Place This division reported growth of 7.7% in 2018. to Innovate as one of the 50 most innovative companies in the country and the Best Mobile Bank and Best Internet Bank The division is committed to providing services and financial Chile 2018 from Global Banking & Finance Review. advising that contributes to the growth of Chilean families and improves their quality of life, with solutions related to The Bank’s positioning in terms of innovation and digital consumer needs, access to housing, security and savings, banking has been based primarily on the alignment and while boosting the availability of these products through buy-in by senior management, implementation of a flexible digital channels and the broad network of Banco de Chile methodology for developing strategic projects and creation and Banco Edwards branches. In addition, it has a complete of an innovation center with select, highly trained associates, value proposition that covers customer transaction needs with as well as support and alliances with external entities a current account, credit card, debit card and line of credit; specializing in technological solutions. it offers lending products such as consumer and mortgage loans; and deposits and investments to encourage savings The Bank’s efforts during the period also resulted in an in partnership with the subsidiary Banchile Inversiones. It increase of 7.2% in current account holders. It also maintained also offers insurance products through the broker Banchile a low attrition rate, slightly below last year. Seguros. This entire value proposition is offered through the brands Banco de Chile and Banco Edwards. In December 2018, Banco de Chile had 2.1 million active customers, of which 725,000 used CrediChile, 1.3 million For that, it continues to expand its knowledge of its customers were middle-income and high-income individuals and using algorithms that identify key events in their life cycles, SMEs, and 22,000 were large companies, corporations enabling it to promptly identify their needs and provide and multinationals. personalized financial solutions and advising that helps forge closer relationships with them. 1. https://bit.ly/2UoVV9N 76 BANK PROFILE In order to accompany customers since their introduction to For credit cards and lines of credit, the Bank has strengthened the financial world, the youth segment has been reinforced an appropriate value offering for each profile, generating with enhanced products, services and benefits adapted to their incentives so that customers have the right credit card and EMPLOYEES needs. These are provided in an easy-to-use, innovative format sufficient credit limits from day one. It also drives actions to through digital platforms, which are the main channels used by improve customer transactions, which led to a rise of 14% in younger generations. The product and service offering for them the number of transactions over last year and an increase in focuses on each of their new milestones such as starting college, the use rate from 43.5% in 2017 to 46.7% in 2018. All of these getting their first job, purchasing their first car, first home, etc. actions and the focus on the loyalty program resulted in an 11% increase in total billing. CUSTOMERS The Bank has expanded use of social networks to publicize the value proposition created especially for them. Another aspect of In terms of security in the use of credit and debit cards, 100% this segment is to improve financial education, providing them of credit cards issued by the Bank have been renewed with with information on financial products and services and how EMV chip technology. The process of upgrading debit cards they work. These efforts are designed to arm customers with is expected to be completed during the first quarter of 2019. knowledge before they reach certain life milestones and to teach In addition, it developed the “On/Off” blocking service for them to use products responsibly for their own development. mobile banking and has expanded the purchase notification ENVIRONMENT service, which provides customers quick, online information Approximately 38% of the portfolio of individuals with current on transactions with their cards in Chile and abroad. accounts at the Corporation (Banco de Chile and Banco Edwards) are youth customers (Centennials and Millennials). This segment In other products, the Bank's market share in installment accounts for the largest number of new current accounts, loans rose 104 basis points from 18.96% in 2017 to 20.00% currently representing up to 60% of all customers that join the in 2018. The increase during this period can be attributed to Bank each month. several initiatives, including new systems for pre-approved loan COMMUNITY offers for customers thanks to the design and development of In the spirit of deepening its knowledge of customers and new statistical methodologies with a robust base of available providing a suitable offering, the Bank continued to develop data and modeling techniques, enabling the division to better tools to support account executives. As a result, the Bank made evaluate the payment capacity of lending offers. Thanks to this strides on generating a personalized pricing system for retail initiative, the division has improved loan origination processes, customers through a platform that uses available information making them more flexible and effective while adding value for from internal and public sources and evaluates the risk profile the customer. From a loan perspective, in recent months more SUPPLIERS of each customer. This system makes it possible to provide than 50% of installment loans were secured through remote more competitive conditions in line with the customer profile. channels such as cell phones or online, thus improving the It also gives account executives a tool for managing commercial Bank’s efficiency and customer experience ratios. offers that are tailored to customer requirements and anticipate their needs. This was accompanied by a consistent rise in efficiency thanks to efforts by the commercial network, supported by enhanced ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Given the digital transformation facing the industry, responsible tools that help account executives optimize commercial relations and safe use of digital channels must be encouraged through with customers, streamlining service and advising on products communication campaigns that promote cybersecurity education. and services. These campaigns have met with great success among customers and non-customers alike. 77 In order to strengthen digital channels and boost productivity and partner airlines (Sky, Iberia, Delta, Gol and British Airlines). All efficiency, the division generated synergies and improvements customers also have access to personalized service at the Travel in derivations among channels, fortifying the division's omniClub travel agency. Benefits also included pre-travel options channel nature. The Telephone Banking Department worked such as transport to the airport and a modern international actively in 2018, achieving a 140% rise in sales of consumer VIP lounge, thus providing a comprehensive experience. This installment loans over 2017 and the Mobile Banking and Internet year more than 100 thousand customers took advantage of Department increased sales by 144%. The Mi_Banco application these benefits. tripled its share of pre-approved sales in 2018. Since being launched, the Bank's suite of mobile applications (Mi_Banco, In the entertainment sector, the Bank signed an alliance with Mi_Pass, Mi_Pago, Mi_Cuenta, Mi_Beneficio, Mi_Seguro LOTUS Producciones for customers to enjoy the best events and Mi_Inversión) has reported 4.9 million total accumulated and concerts in the country with exclusive discounts, interestdownloads, growing 53% over 2017. free installments and the ability to exchange award-dollars. Some of the most important include Lollapalooza, Cirque du Continuing with the digital engagement strategy, in 2018 Soleil, concerts at Movistar Arena and several other major the Mi_Pass application was consolidated, covering all shows over the next three years. By the end of 2018, more authentication and transaction authorization functionalities than 29 thousand customers took advantage of this alliance. for internet and Mi_Banco transactions. This resulted in 382 thousand downloads, accumulating to date a total of 850 In this same area, the Bank strengthened the MesaGourmet thousand downloads since being launched. A total of 36 million benefit, whereby customers exchange award-dollars for their transactions were authorized, representing an 100% increase entire bill at the best restaurants in Chile. This program has over 2017. The Mi_Pago application reported growth of 192% enabled customers to enjoy their award-dollars in these unique in transactions with respect to the prior year and accumulated culinary experiences with an average savings per customer of a total of 460 thousand downloads since being launched. US$ 100 per outing. Loyalty program efforts in 2018 focused on providing a wide In terms of the product catalog, the Bank launched the new variety of benefits so that customers could enjoy the market’s Friends of Banco de Chile/CCU Club, giving customers the best loyalty program, giving them relevant options in each reward opportunity to make purchases on the country's largest category: travel, entertainment, product catalog and discounts. beverage portal with standing discounts and to exchange award-dollars to give them an incomparable buying experience. In the travel category, Bank customers can exchange awardMore than 2 thousand customers took advantage of this alliance dollars to tour the world, while enjoying exclusive on-board and since it was launched in September 2018. airport benefits, interest-free installments and discounts from 850 thousand downloads 460 thousand downloads since being launched since being launched Mi_Pass Mi_Pago application application 78 BANK PROFILE These benefits are in addition to customary yearly discount SME Segment performance in 2018 campaigns such as the 2018 Christmas Campaign with 40% off on the best brands of apparel, footwear, electronics, etc. Based on figures from the Ministry of Economics, Development EMPLOYEES Approximately 9 thousand customers with Banco de Chile credit and Tourism2, small and medium enterprises represent 51.9% cards took advantage of these discounts at participating retailers. of all companies in Chile and are the largest creators of jobs in the country, helping develop people in the regions where Lastly, the Bank implemented a new account statement for the they are located. Banco de Chile is committed to supporting program that informs customers of the perceived value of the the country’s development by providing the best tools, backing main benefits they have used throughout the year and each and advice to customers in this segment. CUSTOMERS month, helping build loyalty and boost the perception of value. In 2018, the division launched the Agro Model, designed to meet the lending and advisory needs of the agricultural sector, which 2019 Challenges includes farming, livestock and fruit production. Using this model, the division developed a commercial and risk proposal • Maintain the strategy of increasing customer to strengthen farm-related business across all areas of the recommendation levels. Bank, which included specialized account executives with ENVIRONMENT their own targets and differentiated financial services such • Continue expanding customer base and focusing on as the flexible farm loan. increasing youth market share. To accomplish this, the division will continue to improve products, services, benefits Another milestone was the migration of companies customers and channels based on their needs. to the new Banconexión 2.0 web platform, which aims to improve the customer experience with solutions tailored to • Increase market share across all products, maintaining solid each segment and the best standards of usability and security. COMMUNITY customer loyalty strategy and profitability. As of year end, 70% of the portfolio had switched to the new internet platform. • Develop omni-channel approach, leveraging all sales channels while ensuring standardized customer service levels. Also worth highlighting is the growth of the base of SME current account holders, which rose 7.1%. • Further develop Digital Banking Division and boost sales of products through these channels. During this year, the Bank launched a new intranet assistance SUPPLIERS site for Banconexión 2.0 with an innovative design and excellent • Continue developing initiatives that strengthen the value user experience. To assist with customer migration, this new proposition in the most transaction-based segments. site describes in detail each functionality of Banconexión 2.0, such as the process of requesting a password, checking account • Continue to encourage collaborative, inter-area work that and credit card balances, transferring funds, mass payments, drives information and knowledge synergies that help payments on other sites, self-management, changing the user ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE improve value propositions for customers. profile, electronic bill payment, among others. It also includes a wide range of support tools such as: videos on functionalities, • Maintain active advising and accompany customers infographics, FAQs and support tutorials. The division also throughout their life cycle. set up contact channels staffed by specialists to manage all inquiries and potential problems that might arise with the site. 2. https://bit.ly/2IXJ4dk 79 The Companies Web Department relaunched the funds transfer 2. Consumer Finance Segment functionality to strengthen this channel, making improvements and changes to this important service for all customers to Offers products and services for: optimize the user experience and incorporate tools to manage both mass and individual transfers for commercial customers. • Employees and retirees in the C3 and D socioeconomic segments In 2018 the division supported more than 5,400 customers • Micro-entrepreneurs from the SME Banking Division through initiatives managed by the Bank such as “Companies Gatherings” and agricultural Banco CrediChile offers a wide range of financial products and fairs, as well as the Compete+1000 Program from Universidad services, including consumer loans, credit cards, mortgage Adolfo Ibáñez, the Business Development Program offered by loans, micro-entrepreneurial loans, debit accounts, life and the ESE Business School at Universidad de los Andes and the general insurance, direct deposit and savings accounts. Endeavor Entrepreneur Campus. Performance in 2018 The Bank's efforts to improve SME access to governmentbacked loans (FOGAPE3) and CORFO funding (FOGAIN4), Banco de Chile’s Consumer Finance Division has supported the in coordination with these institutions, generated a flow to country’s bank usage rates and extended its reach to people approve sales levels for new customers and customers with with monthly income below Ch$ 500,000 and to micropresumptive income. Through this, the Bank streamlined the enterprises. In addition to gaining access to bank products, sales accreditation process and opened the offer up to a larger they benefit from financial training and education programs. group of customers. The products made available to this segment include “Cuenta Chile”, a debit account that gives its users access to products and 2019 Challenges benefits and a broad network of branches around the country. • Lead the SME market in market presence and customer In 2018, the nationwide Cajas Chile network had 683 preference. locations, or 66% less than 2017, due to a change in the • Attain market share of 22% under the Marco Polo Plan. growth and development strategy for the portfolio that • Expand customer base in target segment, generating market required some alliances to be eliminated. However, in terms presence and ensuring future growth. of total transactions, the channel remained stable, improving • Improve value proposition for customers and develop more productivity per location and geographic coverage, reaching flexible service processes. 85% of all districts in Chile. • Strengthen the partnership network by expanding scope and coverage to provide the best benefits and tools for SMEs. Ninety thousand withdrawals and 91 thousand deposits from/ • Reach more customers through different advising programs. to debit accounts were made in 2018 at Cajas Chile locations. • Improve recommendation index in Metropolitan Region Installment loan repayments accounted for 33 thousand by at least five points. transactions, of which 70% were made in districts where Banco de Chile has no branch. For the first time, the Cajas Chile network formed part of the national collection network for the Teletón, providing greater coverage and proximity for people making donations. 3. www.bancochile.cl/Pyme/financiamiento/Financiamiento con Garantías Estatales 4. www.bancochile.cl/Pyme/Financiamiento/Financiamiento con Garantías Estatales/FOGAIN 80 BANK PROFILE With these added Caja Chile locations to collect donations, increases, sales and purchases of blocks of shares, private capital Banco de Chile reached 90% of the country, or 311 districts. placements, public share tenders, mergers and acquisitions, company valuations, bond issuances, and syndicated loans. It As part of its commitment to financial education, the Bank also manages business relationships with correspondent banks, offered e-learning workshops and courses, as well as the giving the Bank access to international bank funding sources, second version of the Desafío Emprendedor Competition, as well as various bank-to-bank business deals. EMPLOYEES which attracted 31,490 applicants from throughout Chile (see Community chapter). Performance in 2018 2019 Challenges This year, the division reinforced the growth rate of commercial loans in all commercial segments, in line with the market, with • Reach more customers with value offering through different foreign trade and factoring products performing particularly CUSTOMERS channels. well. Transactional services conserved a strong commercial • Continue to promote access to digital and mobile banking. focus, which helped close the year with considerable growth • Expand the range of services for customers through different in demand balances and in the treasury cash flow business. channels. • Streamline processes to improve the customer experience. In structured products, the division reported growth in treasury derivatives and financial advising as a result of efforts to strengthen ties with customers, which led to the ENVIRONMENT Wholesale Market Bank being named Best Investment Bank in Chile by the magazine LatinFinance for the fifth year in a row. The above 1. Large Companies Segment accomplishments, coupled with an ongoing quest to simplify the organizational structure in order to reach customers more Offers products and services for: directly and cover their needs quickly, enabled the division to maintain its industry leadership in market presence and • Chilean companies with annual billing between Ch$1.6 customer preference. COMMUNITY billion and Ch$10 billion and presence in the Metropolitan Region and other areas of Chile. 2019 Challenges 2. Corporate and Investment Banking Segment • Complete customer migration to new Banconexión 2.0 platform. Offers products and services for: • Explore new business niches. • Make customer service models more efficient. SUPPLIERS • Chilean companies with annual billing over Ch$10 billion • Continue to lead in market presence and customer and a specialized customer service model segmented by preference and offer the best structured solutions to meet industry, and multinational companies with annual billing customer needs. over Ch$70 billion. • Design strategies with specific goals tailored to each segment. These commercial segments offer variable-term lending • Seek high levels of efficiency and quality with low ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE products (commercial loans, leasing, factoring, foreign trade); distribution costs for commodities products. transactional banking services such as current account • Aim to provide innovative and flexible transactional services, management, payments, collections, representation and asset offering its capacities through diverse digital platforms for custody both in Chile and abroad; investment banking, capital enterprises of all sizes. markets products and financial risk hedging (derivatives) as • Make most common functions available on on digital well as advisory services for initial public offerings, capital channels (Internet and mobile). 81 Treasury The Treasury offers a range of products associated with asset The Bank continues to build its international presence, issuing and liability management, mainly for: bonds on the Japanese and Swiss markets for an equivalent of US$ 165 million and analyzing alternatives in other countries. In • institutional customers, multinational entities, corporations, the US market, it has continued its commercial paper program, wholesale customers and large companies. under which it issued US$ 1,450 million (first issuances and renewals) in 2018, giving it a year-end balance of US$ 370 million. • Individuals that are private banking and preferential customers. 2019 Challenges Performance in 2018 • Continue increasing penetration in Large Companies and SME segments. In 2018 the number of customers operating with derivatives increased 29% over the prior year. The segment with the • Implement FX Spot transactional platform for customers. most growth was the Regional Large Companies Segment, doubling the number of active customers in derivatives. The • Continue diversifying external funding sources. SME segment also performed well, doubling the number of customers working with derivatives, albeit with a smaller • Continue automating processes to ensure an exceptional customer base. operating environment. There was a sharp increase in transactional capacities through electronic platforms, commercial executives and desks. The Subsidiaries dollar trading platform doubled its user numbers, while commercial executives reported growth of 205% and desks The following subsidiaries offer financial services to complement increased 88%. For the first half of 2019, the Bank hopes to our core banking activities. have its Online FX platform operating for customers. This made 2018 a record year in terms of entries of customers operating • BanChile with treasury products. ›› Administradora General de Fondos (AGF) ›› Securities Brokerage The division has put forth considerable effort to continuously ›› Insurance Brokerage improving both customer-facing and internal processes for ›› Asesoría Financiera (Financial Advising) treasury products. Along this front, due to the impact and ›› Securitization organization-wide nature, multidisciplinary efforts have been made within the Bank to improve processes and the customer experience for the FX Spot product. In terms of funding strategies, in 2018 the Bank placed UF 39 million in UF bonds and Ch $20 billion in Chilean peso bonds on the local market. The bonds were in high demand by financial market players such as pension funds, mutual funds and stock brokerage firms, among others. 82 Quality service BANK PROFILE Banco de Chile aspires to be the best bank for its customers. This means being number one in service quality, aiming to understand and anticipate the needs of its customers, and shifting its focus from product to customer. The Telephone Banking and Customer Division is responsible for driving EMPLOYEES and guiding all areas of the Bank towards achieving this organization-wide goal. 2018 was a year of contrasts: There were positive milestones such as industry awards for service quality from Procalidad (First place, National Customer Service Award--Large CUSTOMERS Banks)5 and Alco and Universidad de los Andes (First place, Consumer Loyalty Award --Banking Sector)6, together with recommendation indexes until May, which were affected by the cyber-attack on the Bank on May 24th (known as 24M). In addition to impacting the Corporation's systems, this incident also affected the Bank's image and daily operations by customers, thus sharply deteriorating satisfaction and ENVIRONMENT recommendation rates as seen in the figure: SATISFACTION AND RECOMMENDATION RATES PRE AND POST-24M COMMUNITY 80,3 77,9 78,5 78,4 77,1 75,5 76,1 74,2 72,6 72,2 72,3 70,7 SUPPLIERS January February Marh April May June July Augut eptember Otober November Deember ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 5. Award given each year by ProCalidad, in conjunction with the consulting firm Praxis and Universidad Adolfo Ibáñez. This recognition from customers is made without information provided by banks, thus guaranteeing impartiality. 6. Consumer Loyalty Award, recognition for Chilean companies that have generated the highest levels of customer loyalty. This award, in its seventh edition, is based on the measurement of the NPS, which determines a customer’s intention to recommend a company to a relative, friend or coworker. This award is an initiative from Universidad de los Andes and Alco Consultores. 83 In this context, the cumulative attrition rate held steady at 6.1% (6.2% in 2017) and the net promoter score was 75.49%. The challenge for 2019 will be to recover recommendation levels achieved up to May 2018. NET PROMOTER SCORE 2016-2018 CUMULATIVE ATTRITION (2016-2018) 76,69% 75,49% 74,48% 6,1% 6,2% 6,1% 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 CUSTOMER SERVICE CHANNEL SATISFACTION (%, 2016-2018) 88.0 86.1 87.0 85.2 85.5 84.1 83.9 83.3 83.0 82.2 81.0 80.2 78.2 79.0 78.1 75.3 74.7 71.0 2016 2017 2018 OUNTER TELLER EXEUTIVE WEBITE MI_BANO (MOBILE BANKIN ) TELEPHONE BANKIN CUSTOMER SERVICE CHANNEL SATISFACTION 2018 (% NET) 83.9% Counter 83.0% Executive 87.0% Mi_Banco (mobile banking) 81.0% Teller 71.0% Website 79.0% Telephone banking 84 The Bank’s service satisfaction measurements—broken down by channel—show a significant increase in satisfaction for the “Mi_Banco” channel, which has consolidated itself as a functional, stable and high-value application. The drop in satisfaction BANK PROFILE with the website can be explained by the 24M incident, which interrupted the normal functioning of the retail and commercial sites. The migration of companies segment customers to the Banconexión 2.0 site may also be reflected in this drop. NUMBER OF PROBLEMS7 AND COMPLAINTS-2017 EMPLOYEES PROBLEMS RECEIVED FORMAL COMPLAINTS RECEIVED 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 154,662 131,115 119,432 5,885 6,365 6,179 CUSTOMERS CUSTOMER REQUESTS, BY CHANNEL 2018 66,020 Telephone banking 24,791 Branch, executives 1,885 Internal channels ENVIRONMENT 19,276 Internet 10,218 Branch, operations Channel / Year 2016 2017 2018 COMMUNITY Telephone banking 46.4% 50.1% 48.2% Internet 21.7% 18.6% 15.8% Branch, executives 22.7% 22.0% 20.3% Branch, operations 7.9% 8.1% 8.4% SUPPLIERS Internal channels 1.4% 1.3% 1.5% Banco de Chile has tools that log all the problems and requests that bank statements received late and/or not received (-22%) and customers file through the various channels of communication. internal formal complaints thanks to the implementation of the ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE At the end of 2018, it reported a decrease in both requests and “Customer Experience Desk,” which allows this type of request complaints in relation to 2017. The most relevant decreases to be addressed by customer service executives and, therefore, are related to fund transfer errors in current accounts (-32%), improves customer response times (-5%). 7. A problem is a customer need that is resolved and, therefore, does not become a complaint. 8. Complaint: customer makes contact with a channel and if request is not resolved it becomes a complaint in one of the different Bank channels. 85 418-1 Cybersecurity and protecting information In 2018 a new issue emerged as the most important on the Although Banco de Chile has always prioritized customer privacy list of the ten main global risks from the World Economic and the security of all applications and back and front office Forum: cyber-attacks. According to this document, exposure systems, in recent years it has made strides on innovations, to this risk has risen as companies increase their dependency applications and systems to react in the event of this type of on technology. In this context, the explosive growth of crime. In response to 24M, the Bank created the Cybersecurity interconnected devices and the digital transformation have Division, which reports directly to the CEO. It will continue to led to a sharp increase in the potential surface for cyberinnovate in new protocols, strengthening and incorporating attacks. The number of interconnected devices in the world tools and solutions that guarantee greater security and better is expected to rise from the current 8.4 billion to 20 billion by prevention against cyber-attacks. The Bank provisioned US$ 2020, increasing the use of artificial intelligence in business 8,672 million in May 2018, which includes operating expenses processes and risk exposure through malicious interventions resulting from this contingency. In addition to efforts to reinforce that are carried out through computers using different electronic the division's tech team with additional human and financial means such as internet, e-mail and attachments. resources, it built a Digital Security Center at its headquarters, which was opened in early 2019. These enhancements will This threat became a reality for the Bank on May 24, 2018, enable the new division to carry out activities in-house that when it was attacked and defrauded of US$ 10 million in its were previously contracted from external suppliers and are own funds, without affecting customers, in an unprecedented critical to programs to prevent this type of risk. situation in Chile. As a result of its prompt detection, the Bank activated its contingency plan and stopped practically all In parallel to all the advances in technology and prevention, transactions planned by the attackers. it has initiated a process of cultural change within the Bank, in collaboration with the People and Organization Division. Just minutes after the attack, the Bank took immediate This process is designed to build a cyber-resilient culture, measures to guarantee their customers the security levels with employees that are aware of and committed to digital they are used to. In other words, it prioritized security and care security, and, thus, will consider this variable from the design of its customers’ funds. It was ultimately determined that the stage for products and services. The Bank is also developing a international cyber-attack had been orchestrated by global short-, mediumand long-term Cybersecurity Guidance Plan gangs of cyber-criminals. that calls for collaboration mainly between the Global Risk Control and Operations and Technology divisions. However, At all times, the Bank maintained fluid communication with efforts to raise the Bank's security levels are also carried out the Superintendency of Banks and Financial Institutions with integration and collaboration from all the Bank's different (SBIF), the Central Bank and the National Consumer Protection business divisions. Agency (SERNAC), as well as its peers in the industry, in order to keep them aware of these attacks and encourage prevention nationwide. 86 BANK PROFILE EMPLOYEES CUSTOMERS ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY SUPPLIERS The Don't pass your password ( Es clave no dar tus claves ) campaign, a ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Banco de Chile initiative promoting digital security for all chileans 87 417-2 Transparent customer communication and information The Transparency Principle is established under both the Transparency Policy of Banco de Chile and its subsidiaries, as well as their Code of Ethics. This principle is manifested in a set of standards and protocols created to facilitate public access to all information related to the conditions of products and services offered by the Bank. The Bank has acquired a public commitment to ensure the veracity of the information provided in each mass advertising campaign, taking care to include both relevant conditions and existing restrictions. A commitment to transparent customer communication and information is essential to the work of every employee in the organization. Banco de Chile, through its Marketing and Customer Division, ensures that customers receive information that is clear, complete, relevant, reliable, comparable, timely and easily accessible. The division is also supported by the Customer Defense Division, which strives constantly to meet customer needs, working to ensure that the Bank provides clear, pertinent information in terms of the values, conditions and characteristics of the financial products and services offered in order to enable informed decision-making. In 2019 it expects to strengthen this work by helping to continually improve customer-facing processes and procedures and create products and/or services offered to them. 88 Image Banco de Chile Headquarters 89 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE SUPPLIERS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES BANK PROFILE Festival of light Celebrating Banco de Chile’s 125 years in business Concepción, october 2018 90 04 ENVIRONMENT 91 Highlights 16,676 tCO2e carbon footprint measurement GHG emissions (scope 1 and 2) 119 tons reduction in paper consumption 13.7 tons of CO2 emissions avoided thanks to BiciChile 92 Environment BANK PROFILE Environmental sustainability working group Caring for the environment is one of the four pillars of The Bank organized this working group in April to Banco de Chile's sustainability strategy1, in response to its stress the importance of caring for the environment corporate objective of leaving a less polluted planet for and set guidelines for monitoring and implementing EMPLOYEES future generations. To accomplish this, the Corporation has its Environmental Sustainability Policy. developed programs and initiatives designed to manage the direct impacts of its operations on the environment. They The Group is made up of individuals from the Bank focus on efficiently managing energy, solid waste and paper selected by the Corporate Affairs and Sustainable as well as reducing direct greenhouse gas emissions (GHG). Development Department, and external consultants, Furthermore, as part of the corporate volunteer program, it who act as a specialized panel to help make CUSTOMERS has designed initiatives to mitigate pollution and restore or environmental definitions and plans. In 2018, the group rehabilitate deteriorated areas. had representatives from the areas of Administration, Financial Reporting and Control, Channel Development, The areas responsible for designing and implementing projects Marketing and Internal Communications. and programs to minimize the environmental impacts of Bank operations are the departments of Administration, which Since being formed, the working group has met nine reports to the Financial Reporting and Control Division, in times and has carried out the following: ENVIRONMENT coordination with the Corporate Affairs and Sustainable Development Department, which reports to the People and • Legal environmental compliance: Verify compliance Organization Division. with current environmental regulations in places where Banco de Chile operates. Some highlights in 2018 include creating an Environmental Sustainability Working Group, drafting the Environmental • Energy and climate change: Identify, quantify, assign Sustainability Policy and conducting a study to quantify and responsible parties and set goals related to energy COMMUNITY characterize solid waste. In 2019 it expects to publish the policy use and greenhouse gas emissions. and implement a comprehensive waste management plan. • Waste and recycling: Characterize, quantify, monitor, assign responsible parties and set goals designed to reduce the amount of waste sent to landfills by reducing, revaluing, reusing and recycling waste. SUPPLIERS • Suppliers: Create incentives for suppliers to maintain an environmental management policy and system that favors caring for and acting responsibly towards the environment. • Operating efficiency and e-commerce: Favor the ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE use of e-commerce and operating efficiency as tools that also reduce the use of resources and lessen the Bank’s environmental impact. 1. For further details on the other pillars of the sustainability strategy, see the Community chapter. 93 305-1 305-2 305-5 Emissions: managing our carbon footprint In order to take charge of its direct environmental impacts and DIRECT GHG EMISSIONS (SCOPE 1) 2015-2018* improve its environmental performance, Banco de Chile hired the engineering firm Proyectae2 for the second straight year to 1,384 quantify greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions produced by Bank operations on a corporate level. 1,220 Carbon footprint measurement was based on the method 941 938** Tons CO2e (tCO2e) established in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol.3 Corporate GHG emissions were quantified using the “Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standards (Revised Edition) from 20044 and for products (intensity indicator) using the “Product Life Cycle Accounting and Reporting Standard” from 20115 as reference. The result of the carbon footprint measurement was total direct emissions (scope 1 and 2) of 16,676 tCO2e. The goals and reduction plans will be implemented in 2019. These include evaluating implementation of a formal plan 2015 2016 2017 2018 to measure and reduce GHG emissions, as well as the idea of involving service suppliers related to the data center, DIRECT GHG EMISSIONS (SCOPE 2) 2015-2018* transportation of valuables and HVAC equipment maintenance. 17,056 15,693** 15,336 15,382 Tons CO2e (tCO2e) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Note: In 2018, the Bank improved its methodologies for managing information and retroactively updated electric power consumption for the years 2015-2017. Therefore, it changed the value of its carbon footprint published in the 2017 Sustainability Report. 2. https://proyectae.cl/ *Calculation method: GHG Protocol Corporate Standard, compatible with ISO 14,064. 3. www.ghgprotocol.org Gases included: CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PHCs, SF6. Data does not include subsidiaries. 4. http://www.ghgprotocol.org/standards/corporate-standard Calculations made by Proyectae and verified by Deloitte. 5. http://www.ghgprotocol.org/standards/product-standard ** Preliminary information for 2018, in external assurance process. 94 302-1 305-5 Energy efficiency BANK PROFILE The Bank’s energy efficiency programs and actions have focused Promoting sustainable on automatically controlling air conditioners and heaters and EMPLOYEES employee transportation upgrading less efficient equipment, as this area represents 60% of the total energy consumption for the organization.7 Banco de Chile promotes an active, healthy lifestyle among its associates. In this spirit, it has provided In terms of performance goals for 2018, it made strides on a employees with a world-class bicycle rack since 2015. technical and economic evaluation to determine the feasibility In 2018, 170 workers from the branches in downtown of purchasing electric power from renewable sources. The CUSTOMERS Santiago accessed this benefit, which resulted in a outcome of that study showed that implementation would be reduction in fossil fuel use and, therefore, the Bank's complex and high cost and, therefore, the idea has been ruled emissions of 13.7 tons CO2. out for now. The Bank did not make significant progress on energy savings measures in 2018. In dealing with the cyberFor the fourth year in a row, the Bank placed first in the attack, it consumed additional energy to operate HVAC, lighting Corporations category in the Cool Place to Bikehzzz, and computer equipment more than usual. Competition held from April to November 2018. ENVIRONMENT In 2018 it continued to upgrade lighting from fluorescent to LED. In 2019 it expects to have replaced 20% of all fluorescent lighting in its main buildings. The Bank avoided emitting: ENERGY CONSUMPTION (GWh) 2016-2018 13.7 tons COMMUNITY 36.8 36.7 CO2 36.2 22.1 21.7 22.0 14.7 14.5 14.7 First place SUPPLIERS In the Corporations category of the Cool Place to Bike competition 2016 2017 2018 Electricity consumption in lighting and others Electricity consumption in air conditioning Total energy consumption ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 6. http://www.coolplacetobike.com/ 7. Lighting and computer equipment accounts for 25% of power consumption. The remaining 15% of energy is used to operate the telephone banking facilities and other equipment. 95 306-2 Waste Management and recycling Another main environmental impact is solid and liquid waste, The second stage, scheduled for the second quarter of 2019, which for the most part is produced in facilities such as dining will be expanded to include waste paper (valued paper), PET halls, the headquarters building and all other offices throughout plastic bottles, glass, aluminum cans and batteries at branches the country. in the Metropolitan Region and the third phase will introduce all of the above in branches outside Santiago. For this last stage, In 2018 the Bank performed a diagnostic to characterize its the Bank is identifying suppliers of logistics services to help set solid waste in order to reduce the amount sent for final disposal up recycling stations for collection and subsequent recycling. (to landfills) by branches. To accomplish this, it leveraged the branch modernization pilot program (“Proyecto 2020”) and The solid waste diagnostic also detected some hazardous chose three representative, accessible offices to quantify and waste, such as batteries. As a result, a plan was implemented characterize their waste. From this, it calculated an annual to properly manage batteries, recycling 913.5 kg in 2018. average waste generation of 1,852 tons for the entire Bank throughout the country. In terms of obsolete computer equipment resulting from technological upgrading processes, the Bank continued This study confirmed that the main solid waste generated by to work with the Chilenter Foundation8 to collect and the Bank's operations was printing paper and similar (40%), sustainably transform its electronic waste. However, due which is easily recyclable and, therefore, is not difficult to to delays with contract renewal, the number of devices manage. The Bank then decided to launch a plan to manage donated fell to 200 in 2018. this type of waste. 8. www.chilenter.com In order to expand this initiative to the entire organization, the plan will be implemented in three stages during 2019. The first, which began in March, will focus on the main buildings (Headquarters and Huérfanos 740), where 50 recycling stations will be installed. SOLID WASTE GENERATED AND FINAL DISPOSAL 2016 -2018 2016 2017 2018 Final disposal Recycling Paper (tons) 146 117 587 (SOREPA and Renova2 SPA) Electronic waste (unit) 1,983 4,944 200 Recovery (Chilenter) Recycled batteries (kg) S/I S/I 913.5 Recycling (Renova2 SPA) Municipal mixed waste, Landfills (Santa 1,220 1,222 1,852 headquarters (tons) Marta and Santiago Poniente) 96 301-1 Inputs BANK PROFILE Paper is not only the Bank’s main source of waste but also the EMPLOYEES primary input for its operations. Therefore, efficiently using paper has become one of the focuses of efforts to manage internal environmental impact. In this spirit, implementation of the Paperless Project continued in 2018, with the goal of progressively increasing document CUSTOMERS digitalization and, with that, gradually eliminating the use of paper. Progress in digitalization led to paper savings of 119 tons. This project is a key component of the Bank’s strategy and is related to sustainability, efficiency and its commitment to the environment. ENVIRONMENT PAPER CONSUMPTION 20162018 (TONS) 2016 734 tons COMMUNITY SUPPLIERS 2017 642 tons ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2018 523 tons 97 Festival of light Celebrating Banco de Chile’s 125 years in business Valparaíso, october 2018 98 05 COMMUNITY 99 Highlights Ch $9,703* million in social investment 21,123 number of people benefiting from corporate volunteer programs 350 thousand people enjoyed the Festival of light” throughout Chile 40 years with Teletón since the first day *Social investment includes deductible and non-deductible donations, sponsorships, SENCE training tax credits and other activities included in the budget for the Corporate Affairs and Sustainable Development Department, such as festivities to celebrate the Bank’s 125th anniversary and the Teletón’s 40th anniversary. 100 413-1 BANK PROFILE Community The Corporate Affairs and Sustainable Development During the year, it conducted a diagnostic of its Sustainability EMPLOYEES Department, which is part of the People and Organization Strategy (see page 28) and organized eight meetings on the Division, is responsible for defining and managing the boardmatter outside Santiago and 33 e-learning activities related approved Sustainability Strategy. Its mission is to implement to specific topics such as emergencies, the Teletón, financial actions to comply with the strategic priority Commitment to education and inclusion, among others, which attracted Chile and direct stakeholder engagement efforts. 2,663 participants. CUSTOMERS In 2018, the department continued to review management One organization-wide milestone during the period was metrics and reinforce corporate communications aligned the Bank's 125th anniversary celebrations, which deepened with business objectives in order to strengthen the internal its commitment to sustainability by focusing on how to culture. Along the same lines, the department has maintained continue to support the country's growth and history from programs that foster social development created in 2016 after a sustainability perspective. a diagnostic conducted at that time. This is all backed by the Corporate Volunteer Program and the creation of partnerships The Bank’s social investment in 2018 doubled from the year ENVIRONMENT with specialized foundations and public and private organisms, 2017, reaching Ch$9,703 million, of which Ch$712 million which have enabled it to further its commitment of building a corresponds to the Sence tax credit donated to diverse more inclusive society. corporations and foundations. Companies in Chile are entitled to invest 1% of taxable salaries in training and deduct this The department also published the Framework for Action for the from taxes. Surplus from this benefit can be reinvested in Commitment to Chile1 on the Bank's website. The purpose of this more company training or donated to a grant fund operated document is to put in writing the Corporation's guidelines for by different non-profit entities. COMMUNITY respecting human rights in line with the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. This, together with good practices in ethics and transparency, earned the Corporation recognition from Global Compact (see page 63). 550,526 people throughout Chile were positively SUPPLIERS impacted by social investments made by Banco de Chile in 2018 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 1. https://bit.ly/2EUouGz 101 413-1 SOCIAL INVESTMENT * 2016-2018 DISTRIBUTION OF SOCIAL INVESTMENT (%) IN 2018 YEARS SOCIAL INVESTMENT IN CH$ 0,7% aring for the environment 2016 2,312,653,592 2,4% Volunteering 2017 4,334,235,511 17,3% Eduation and entrepreneurhip 32,5% 2018 9,703,422,292 ommunity upport projet *Social investment includes deductible and non-deductible donations, sponsorships, SENCE training tax credits and other activities included in the budget for the Corporate Affairs and Sustainable Development Department, such as festivities to celebrate 0,1% Emergeny the Bank’s 125th anniversary and the Teletón’s 40th anniversary. repone 47,0% Inluion of peron with diabilitie Sustainability pillars2 VOLUNTEERIN Edu pone entrep ation a ny re rene nd e erg ur hip Em  Inlu ment  iron with ion of EI PARTNERH env the di ab per RAT IP or T ilit on  ie  NA BLE DEVELO gf in AI P ar U T T MEN PILLAR 2. The Caring for the Environment pillar is addressed in chapter 4 of this report. 102 413-1 BANK PROFILE Assessments Banco de Chile keeps several communication channels open EMPLOYEES with its stakeholders (see page 30), who are looking to gather information to respond to questions and manage concerns regarding different issues. In addition, it actively participates in social media and has a telephone banking call center that is available 24/7 to manage questions and requests. In 2018 a new social media strategy was designed to help publicize the Bank's CUSTOMERS sustainability actions and increase community engagement. In addition, compliance metrics and goals have been developed Levels of Sustainable Seal for all initiatives. In 2018, for the second straight year, the Bank was listed on the Dow Jones Sustainability Index Chile (DJSI) Companies are divided into three levels based on the as a means of assessing its sustainability efforts. All indicators percentage of compliance with environmental, social considered increased over 2017. and economic criteria: ENVIRONMENT Similarly, the Undergraduate School of Economics and Business Level 1 at Universidad de Chile, with support from Banco de Chile, created the Sustainable Seal, in order to encourage responsible business practices, recognize companies that incorporate sustainability into their strategic management and create Company’s complies with at least opportunities for training and ongoing advising on this matter. 50% of the three areas. COMMUNITY Thirteen micro and small enterprises earned this seal in 2018. Level 2 This award certifies that companies earning the seal have implemented good management practices in three areas of sustainability: social, environmental and economic. The Bank Company complies with 75% of the secured participation from micro and small business owners recognized for their sustainable practices in seminars and three areas. SUPPLIERS workshops with renowned speakers and offered advising Level 3 on business plans by specialists. The seal is backed by the Agency for Sustainability and Energy Efficiency, the Agency for Sustainability and Climate Change, the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Economics. Company’s complies with more than 90% of the three areas. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 103 413-1 Banco de Chile: 125 years making history with you To commemorate the Bank's 125 years in business, the Outside Santiago, the Festival of light was experienced Corporation organized two special activities targeted in nine important locations in each city, such as the towards both workers and the community at large. clock tower in Iquique’s Plaza Arturo Prat; the cathedral in Concepción and a monument to Hernando de The first activity was to join, for the first time ever, the Magallanes in Punta Arenas. national celebration of Heritage Day, by organizing two tours of the Bank's headquarters, one for employees The event, organized as a “carbon neutral” event, also had and their families and another for the general public. recycling stations to mitigate the effects of the waste At the event, which was attended by 2,483 people, the generated. The equipment used for the light shows and Bank provided sign language interpreters and special mappings used environmentally friendly technology. access ways for persons with disabilities in order to reinforce its commitment to inclusion. The activity was organized with a second goal in mind, reducing waste generated at the event by participating + 350 thousand in the Zero Waste Challenge (“Desafío Basura Cero”) people participated in the together with the Basura Foundation, which was in Festival of light in Santiago charge of managing waste generated that day. As a gift for the community, Banco de Chile organized an unprecedented light, music and art show, entitled the Festival of light, in different locations in Chile. The 2,483 Santiago version alone brought together more than 350 people toured the Bank’s thousand people. At the event, the most widely seen light Headquarters on Heritage Day show in Chile to date, the audience enjoyed large-scale light spectacles projected onto different emblematic buildings in Santiago, like the Bank's headquarters, the city's main square (Plaza de Armas), the Fine Arts Museum, the riverbank of the Mapocho River and the Municipal Theater. 104 Heritage Day, Banco de Chile Headquarters 105 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE SUPPLIERS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES BANK PROFILE 413-1 Committed to Chile Organizationwide Pillar Pillar Commitments 2018 Continue to support the Teletón Foundation. Strengthen the Internal Persons with Disabilities Inclusion Program, promoting hiring. Develop internal inclusion activities program. Develop external inclusion activities program Inclusion of people with disabilities (PwD) Corporate Volunteer Program Generate inclusion events in regions to create community awareness. Strategic Partnerships Support the 21st version of the Chilean Open Cup wheelchair tennis championship. Train employees on financial education and entrepreneurship. Develop a financial education program for school-aged children. Entrepreneur education Continue with the Desafío Emprendedor Competition, supporting at least 320 people. Continue to support people affected by natural disasters by strengthening the emergency volunteer Emergency team and promoting regional participation. response *The Caring for the Environment pillar is addressed in chapter 4. 106 Activities in 2018 Commitments 2019 BANK PROFILE It maintained its support through 1,300 collection Achieve goal by encouraging points and more than 10 thousand volunteers. all workers to participate and making all collection channels available to the entire country. The goal of hiring 1% of workforce Maintain percentage, prioritize with a disability was achieved. new hires EMPLOYEES The Working Group for Inclusion continued focusing Continue work done by this group, on three areas: physical accessibility, digital making continual improvements to accessibility and inclusion of persons with disabilities. enhancements already made. Participate in SOFOFA Inclusive Companies Network CUSTOMERS All branches were modified to provide better, easier Implementation of 424 access for persons with disabilities and 30 inclusive inclusive ATMs. kits were installed in ATMs for people with visual impairments. A customer service protocol was implemented for Develop and implement Inclusive ENVIRONMENT persons with disabilities. Communication Handbook Main sponsor of Expoinclusión (workplace inclusion fair in Metropolitan Region and areas outside Santiago) for the second year in a row. XXII Chilean Open Tournament and sponsorship of paralympic tennis players Macarena Cabrillana and Alexander Cataldo COMMUNITY A total of 48,239 people were trained through workshops and grants. The Bank organized financial Develop and implement a financial education education and b-learning workshops for 10,300 youth, program for students and workers. adults and micro-entrepreneurs SUPPLIERS The Bank organized the Third Desafío Emprendedor Redesign the final stage of the competition and Competition and received 30,140 applications. launch fourth version of Desafío Emprendedor. Fifteen regional fairs were organized and the three Apply, develop and position the Count on Banco best initiatives received awards. de Chile (“Cuentas con el Chile”) program as the basis for all sustainability initiatives. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE The Bank made a second call in the Metropolitan Make third call for volunteers in the and Antofagasta regions to add members to the Metropolitan and Bíobío regions. emergency volunteer team, reaching 60 active, trained volunteers. 107 413-1 Inclusion of persons with disabilities Physical and digital accessibility Banco de Chile’s commitment to inclusion of persons with All offices in the Banco de Chile branch network were improved disabilities arose 40 years ago from its relationship with the and adapted to offer the public 100% accessibility. In this Teletón. In 2016 this commitment was fortified through a framework, the Vitacura branch was inaugurated as the first formal, structured program to promote inclusion within the office fully equipped to serve persons with disabilities and 30 organization by formalizing a policy, a declaration of principles inclusive kits were installed in ATMs for people with visual and diverse, concrete initiatives. impairments. A. Persons with disabilities inclusion program In addition, a customer service protocol for persons with disabilities was formalized and implemented at all branches. Both the Persons with Disabilities Inclusion Policy and the This protocol establishes how they should be served when declaration seek to promote the incorporation of persons tellers are not easily accessible because, for example, they are with disabilities from a focus on rights, promoting their full located on underground or second floors accessible by stairs. participation and development. This forms part of the Bank’s corporate values and is supported by a new organizational Workplace inclusion of persons with disabilities culture where disability is considered a contribution. The program includes activities in three areas: physical accessibility, In 2017 the Bank analyzed all job positions to prepare the digital accessibility and inclusion of persons with disabilities organization to adequately include new hires. In 2018 actions in the workplace. focused on managing the job life cycle of persons with disabilities by organizing leader gatherings and fostering good practices for processes to incorporate these individuals into teams. Three awareness talks were also organized for 200 employees. The Persons with Disabilities Inclusion Policy Similarly, in 2017 the Risk Prevention Department began considers the principles of justice, respect, nonevaluating ergonomic and physical conditions at work discrimination and equal opportunities with equity. stations for both employees that work at offices and those This serves to recognize effective inclusion as an that telecommute from their homes. In 2018, 57 stations were asset for the Corporation and a hallmark that will evaluated and modified. contribute to Chile’s development. Along with this, the Bank implemented a special benefit program for workers registered with the National Disability Registry, such as special permission for health-related appointments, financial assistance with medical expenses not otherwise covered by insurance and flexible scheduling, among others (see page 54). 108 413-1 BANK PROFILE In 2018 the Bank also surpassed the goal of having 1% of joined forces with Instituto de Estudios Bancarios Guillermo its workforce with disabilities, thus fully complying with Subercaseaux, which provides technical and professional EMPLOYEES Law 21,015. It also organized two COMPIN activities to help training in the areas of banking and finance, thus creating 70 qualifying workers register with the National Disability development opportunities for persons with disabilities in Registry. In the same spirit, the Corporation organized this industry. In 2018, 14 people attended a 40-hour course internal informational fairs and sponsored the first workplace in four-hour sessions spread over two weeks. inclusion fair (Expoinclusión), a two-day event at the Santiago conference center Espacio Riesco that brought together more Pre-hire project modules: CUSTOMERS than 1,500 people. • Communication and conflict resolution (16 hours) In addition, in 2016 the Bank implemented a bank training • Introduction to the banking business (8 hours) project to strengthen the employability of persons with • Customer service (8 hours) disabilities through bank training courses and the development • Developing interpersonal skills (8 hours) of customer service skills. As part of this project, the Bank ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY SUPPLIERS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2018 Teletón Banco de Chile Race 109 413-1 B. Inclusion working group As a result of the participatory process to create an Inclusion Policy, a working group was formed to prepare and implement action plans related to inclusion. This group is made up of 10 people with key roles within the organization. Both the group and the Corporate Affairs and Sustainable Development Department are responsible for coordinating activities derived from the Persons with Disabilities Inclusion Policy. Teletón 40 years, together since the first day Since its founding 40 years ago, Banco de Chile has supported the Teletón Foundation. This partnership has not only enabled the Bank to raise awareness among its workers of the reality of persons with disabilities but has also helped lay the foundation for its current Inclusion Program. In addition to monetary contributions, the volunteer work of 10 thousand associates and its infrastructure and technology to collect donations from around three million people throughout Chile and around the world, the Bank participates in other related initiatives during the year. In 2018 it organized the II Teletón – Banco de Chile GOAL Inclusive Art Biennial at the Gabriela Mistral Center (GAM). This show featured four permanent exhibits, 50 two-dimensional works from Teletón art workshops Ch $32,522,911,111 and a selection of 50 works from the II Plastic Arts Competition for Artists with Disabilities. The objective FINAL FUNDS RAISED of this activity was to recognize and publicize works by artists with special needs in order to incorporate them into the national culture and arts circuit. As part of the Ch $37,954,551,757 biennial, a collective mural by artist Payo Söchting was displayed in the GAM courtyard. This canvas was painted by nearly 200 youth and children with and without physical disabilities at an event organized by the Bank in front of its headquarters. 110 2018 Teletón Banco de Chile race 111 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE BANK PROFILE SUPPLIERS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES 413-1 C. Inclusion initiatives A. Banco de Chile Chilean Open Cup C. Wheel The World (WTW)3 This year 21st version of the Banco de Chile wheelchair cup In order to foster tourism by persons with disabilities, their championship was held on the courts of Banco de Chile’s families and friends, as well as raise awareness about persons stadium. The activity brought together 47 tennis players from with disabilities as active individuals that want to live a full Argentina, Brazil, Guatemala and Chile. life, Álvaro Silberstein and Camilo Navarro visit popular tourist sites, implement accessible routes and leave all necessary B. Support for paralympic tennis players equipment for others to comfortably follow in their footsteps. As committed, new inclusive routes were opened in Cochamó, The Corporation has been the official sponsor of paralympic San Pedro de Atacama, Pucón and Valparaíso. tennis player Macarena Cabrillana (ranked number 1 in Chile and 36 in the world) for the last seven years. In 2018 the Bank began supporting Alexander Cataldo (ranked number 1 in Chile and 26 in the world). Support for paralympic tennis players, Macarena Cabrillana and Alexander Cataldo 3. www.gowheeltheworld.com 112 413-1 Education and entrepreneurship BANK PROFILE In order to improve the development, quality of life and B. Financial education program employability of small and medium business owners, Banco de Chile promotes initiatives that are primarily carried out by For the past four years, Banco de Chile has organized a EMPLOYEES the Desafío Levantemos Chile Foundation4 together with the financial education training program to continue to support the Bank’s Consumer Finance Division. These initiatives aim to country's development and progress. The program also provides promote the development of micro-entrepreneurs throughout complementary grants to provide financial management, Chile by training them through workshops, in-person talks, savings and decision-making tools to people with limited e-learning and b-learning courses, and offering special funding, access to this type of opportunity. grants, product marketing support and tools for responsible CUSTOMERS debt management and financial education. 1. Financial education training A. Banco de Chile Desafío Emprendedor To promote informed and appropriate financial conduct among competition companies, institutions and the general public, Banco de Chile’s Consumer Finance Division organizes a course entitled “Twelve Since the Desafío Emprendedor Competition began in 2016, Principles of Financial Education.” More than 110 thousand 69,127 microand small business owners have participated with young people, adults and micro-entrepreneurs have been ENVIRONMENT original, environmentally-friendly proposals. This initiative aims trained through classroom-based or e-learning versions of to strengthen and give visibility to entrepreneurs throughout this course since 2014. In 2018, 104 micro-entrepreneurs the country through both funding and training on technical were trained in a newly designed b-learning course combining tools applicable to their businesses, such as responsible debt the classroom and e-learning components. A total of 10,300 management, the Canvas Sustainable Business Model5 and people participated in the different versions of this course sustainability. during the reporting period. COMMUNITY In 2018, 30,140 applicants registered for the competition. 2. Grants From this pool of applicants, three hundred projects from throughout Chile were selected for the next round, which were Another training initiative takes the form of grants funded then narrowed down to 20 finalists. Fifteen regional fairs were through SENCE training tax credits donated to diverse also organized as part of the competition, and awards were community organizations in order to enhance the job skills given for the three best initiatives along with two honorable of youth and adults throughout Chile. Course topics include mentions in the areas of track record and family business at a gardening, baking, catering, furniture making and many other SUPPLIERS gathering in the Metropolitan Region. First place was awarded trades. These trade workshops last between 120 and 240 hours to Daniela Berríos, from Valparaíso, for her business KACHIBU, and include a special module on financial education as part which designs and manufactures washable, reusable diapers of the Bank’s entrepreneurship program. In 2018, 32 courses from recycled fabric. were offered over a total of 1,859 hours. ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 4. www.desafiolevantemoschile.cl 5. The Canvas Model was developed in 2011 by Alexander Osterwalder and Yves Pigneur in the book Business Model Generation, where they analyze different types of models and determine the best to use in each case. This tool helps define and create innovative business models simplified into four major areas (customers, value proposition, infrastructure and finances) using a ninepart diagram. 113 413-1 C. Promoting education 3. Banco de Chile PSU scholarship As part of Banco de Chile’s support of the country’s development, Each year, Banco de Chile awards a scholarship to the student it continued to support education on a national level through with the highest national average score on Chile's university the Astoreca Foundation, Higher Education Scholarships and entrance exam in recognition of academic excellence, effort the Conducting Business in Chile/China Program. and perseverance for youth in our country. A full scholarship is awarded, which covers enrollment and tuition throughout the 1. Astoreca Foundation degree program chosen by the scholarship recipient, as well as a monthly stipend for personal expenses. In medicine, it also The Bank has been collaborating with the Astoreca Foundation covers the costs of the specialization of the student’s choosing. for 15 years. Its mission is to contribute to improving the quality of education in vulnerable sectors of Chile, through its three 4. Scholarship recipient gathering schools, San Joaquín, in Renca, and San José and San Juan, in Lampa. These schools offer free, quality education to children As part of its 125th anniversary celebration, the Corporation and youth in low socioeconomic segments. The foundation’s hosted a gathering of over 500 scholarship recipients from the activities have enabled more than 2,400 students to obtain past 10 years. This activity was designed to generate networks the tools necessary for their professional and technical future. and job opportunities. Student outcomes are above average for their district as well as municipal and state-subsidized schools nationwide. 5. Conducting Business in Chile/China program 2. Banco de Chile Co-Op program In 2018 the Conducting Business in Chile/China Program celebrated 11 years of promoting cultural exchange. That year, A Co-Op Program was created in 2017 to offer early job the program funded travel to China for 20 MBA students and experience to young people at technical high schools and professors from Pontificia Universidad Católica and travel to motivate them to continue their studies, thus fostering their Chile for 20 MBA students from the School of Economics entry into the job market. Five, eleventh-grade students from and Management at University of Tsinghua in Beijing. In total, Liceo Polivalente Santa Juliana in Recoleta participated in this 430 students and professors have already participated in the initiative in 2018. (See page 60). exchange program. 114 413-1 Strategic partnerships BANK PROFILE Many of the initiatives undertaken and promoted by Banco de this initiative was to help develop 50 business ventures and Chile would not be possible without the support, commitment 10 social innovation ventures in order to diversify the region's and help of Bank volunteers, and without the coordination and production matrix and contribute to regional development. EMPLOYEES management of diverse community institutions. Along with Ch$250 million in funding, the project included In addition to its strategic partnership with Teletón for over training at the Curicó Business Center, the Acerca Redes 40 years, Banco de Chile has a close relationship with several Foundation in Constitución and the Municipal Theater in foundations that help breathe life into its projects to contribute Linares, where 1,692 applicants participated in 12 hours of to society. classes. After the workshops on topics like strategic marketing, CUSTOMERS sustainability, accounting and finance, a ceremony was held in A. Desafío Levantemos Chile Constitución to announce the winning projects and give them their grants. An entrepreneurship fair was also organized for The partnership between Desafío Levantemos Chile and local microand small business owners. Banco de Chile has benefited 750,386 people throughout Chile since 2012 through diverse projects, campaigns and B. Partnership with INACAP initiatives. Of these, 153,114 received assistance in 2018 in ENVIRONMENT areas such as construction, education, entrepreneurship, In 2017 the Bank signed a cooperation agreement with INACAP training and social inclusion, among others. to support technical assistance and quality training for micro and small business owners. During the period, through the foundation, the Bank’s board of directors collaborated on the implementation of different In 2017, the Bank offered an e-learning course on banking and initiatives. Two particular projects related to inclusive financial institutions, debt instruments and entrepreneurship, entrepreneurship are highlighted below. The first was the among other topics. The goal was to support INACAP COMMUNITY inclusive bakery “La Quequería” in Chile's 4th Region. This students and convert them into micro-entrepreneur monitors initiative was designed to foster job insertion for people with and advisors. physical and mental disabilities from the Adiston Rehabilitation Center in Tongoy. It included building and equipping a bakery INACAP also donated classroom space throughout Chile and training workshops for 60 youth from the center to give for courses given to entrepreneurs selected in the Desafío them the tools they needed to prepare bakery products and Emprendedor Competition. In 2018 the Bank also participated serve customers. in 20 innovation fairs organized by INACAP students. The second initiative was the Maule Future Challenge (“Desafío SUPPLIERS Maule Futuro”), a grant competition in the Maule Region, which was ravaged by forest fires in 2017. The objective of ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 115 Banco de Chile Corporate Volunteering 116 413-1 BANK PROFILE Corporate volunteering EMPLOYEES Corporate volunteering is considered a key tool for the success A. Emergency Volunteer team of the Bank's sustainability pillars. In order to follow through on its commitments, the Bank forms strategic partnerships In 2017 the Bank created a stable group of 15 volunteers with social organizations that increase the national visibility of trained to respond in the event of a national emergency. CUSTOMERS different volunteer opportunities, strengthening an ongoing, During the period, the Bank followed through on its dynamic annual program based on community needs and the commitment to make a second call in the Metropolitan and Bank’s strategic objectives. Antofagasta regions to add a total of 60 active volunteers who are trained and certified in first aid and emergency The Corporate Volunteer Program is designed to encourage psychological support. participation from employees, who act as facilitators of the Bank’s Commitment to Chile. The main initiatives are related Next year, the Bank expects to reinforce its commitment through ENVIRONMENT to inclusion of persons with disabilities, the environment, a new call for volunteers in the Metropolitan and Bíobío regions emergency response, entrepreneurship and financial education. in order to develop opportunities for training and team work and expand the team’s presence in northern and southern Chile. In 2017 the Bank conducted a diagnostic to identify employee interest in participating in this type of initiative. Based on this exercise, it redesigned the program in 2018 in response to their interests, the pillars of its Commitment to Chile and the needs COMMUNITY of the community with a regional focus. In this framework, 155 corporate volunteer activities were carried out throughout Chile, involving 11,940 volunteers and 21,123 beneficiaries. Volunteers Hours Number of people benefiting SUPPLIERS Volunteering 11,940 141,752 21,123 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Banco de Chile Corporate Volunteering 117 413-1 B. Regional focus and family involvement D. Corporate environmental volunteer days All activities organized as part of the Corporate Volunteer The Bank encouraged employees and their families to participate Program have a regional focus. For example, the Meaningful in the following volunteer activities that directly impacted the Christmas Program consisted of activities in 29 districts from community and benefited the environment: Arica to Punta Arenas that benefited 73 institutions. This activity allows employees to support institutions that benefit • Cleaning up rivers, ravines, beaches and wetlands as persons with disabilities by implementing inclusive spaces. part of the We Want Chile to Collaborate (“Queremos a After the Teletón, this is the activity that attracts the greatest Chile Colaborando”) program organized with the Basura number of volunteers. Foundation. • The Let’s Reforest Native Chile (“Programa Reforestemos A similar program, the Meaningful Back to School Program, was Chile Nativo”) program from the Cultiva Foundation to help launched to carry out inclusive education-related initiatives for reforest areas affected by forest fires and/or deteriorated children and adolescents with disabilities, providing support for other reasons from the Metropolitan Region to the 8th for 48 institutions that work with school-aged children with Region. Banco de Chile collaborated on this initiative in the disabilities so they can have a better start to the school year. San Nicolás area in the Bíobío Region. • Improvement of 300 m2 of green areas, vegetable gardens, For both initiatives, the institutions are contacted directly greenhouses and underused and/or unharmonious spaces by the employees themselves to identify their needs and at the Misión de Amor Batuco Children's Home, which develop proposals to address issues while promoting a longprovides refuge for 55 children with cognitive disabilities. term partnership. C. Grant competitions In 2018 the Bank launched a grant competition program designed to fund initiatives and projects presented by employees that want to collaborate with social institutions throughout Chile along three lines of action: institutional infrastructure and equipment, education and the environment. This initiative led to the funding of 28 projects for Ch$80 million and benefited 8,870 people with disabilities. 118 BANK PROFILE #QueremosaChile Colaborando is an initiative that was EMPLOYEES developed as part of National Environmental Day in the country's 15 largest cities. This activity consisted of inviting employees and their families to help gather and recycle waste and beautify beaches, ravines, wetlands and lagoons as part of CUSTOMERS the Bank’s commitment to the environment and the country. Non-recyclable material was sent to landfills for disposal. ENVIRONMENT Outcomes of #QueremosaChile Colaborando program COMMUNITY 0.8 12.4 31.5 52.7 0.3 7,858.1 162.4 714.75 42.7 0.3 Plastic Other Scrap Paper and Organic NonPET* Glass Cans Tetrapak matter Nº4 plastics metal cardboard recyclable SUPPLIERS + + + + + + + + + TOTAL = 8,876 Kg ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE *Transparent plastic used for packaging. Also known as polyethylene terephthalate. 119 413-1 Programs that contribute to the community Chile without Cancer In order to create better opportunities for cancer patients treated in the public health system, the Chile without Cancer Foundation (“Fundación Chile sin Cáncer”) was created in partnership with Universidad Católica, Hospital Sótero del Rio and Banco de Chile. This is the first project in the country that combines public and private funding to increase the number of specialists and generate more cancer research through five areas of action: human capital development, improved hospital infrastructure (Hospital Sotero del Río), joint research with Pontificia Universidad Católica, implementation of a biobank and creation of a cancer registry. Thanks to this collaboration agreement, an Outpatient Cancer Center was constructed at Hospital Sótero del Río. After three years in operation, this center has doubled appointments and patients diagnosed with cancer in the southeast Metropolitan Region now receive timely and quality treatment. Furthermore, oncology appointments have tripled and waiting times for cancer evaluations have been reduced. There was a 70% increase in the number of patients treated, which led to an almost two-fold increase in chemotherapy administered each year. In 2018 Banco Edwards launched a fundraising campaign entitled Testaments to Life (“Testamentos de Vida”) to identify the main problems that emerge from this illness and raise funds to improve treatment for the 45 thousand new cases registered annually. Launch of fundraising campaign for the Chile without Cancer Foundation 120 121 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE SUPPLIERS COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT CUSTOMERS EMPLOYEES BANK PROFILE Festival of light Celebrating Banco de Chile’s 125 years in business Concepción, october 2018 122 06 SUPPLIERS 123 Highlights 9,058 suppliers that are SMEs in purchasing budget 97% of purchases from local suppliers 6 years in a row with ProPyme seal certification 124 204-1 Relationships with suppliers and contractors BANK PROFILE Banco de Chile looks to build a solid, lasting relationship Important milestones in 2018 included obtaining the ProPyme EMPLOYEES with its suppliers and contractors, with a long-term vision Seal for the sixth year in a row and beginning to operate the that promotes mutual benefit, valuing excellence, quality, Artikos interactive digital platform for the Bank's tender transparency, timeliness and competitiveness. processes, which are coordinated and supervised by the Administration Department in order to ensure communication, The Supplier Management and Selection Policy is the main traceability and transparency both during the process and in guide for supplier management. The policy, updated in 2018, relations with suppliers. CUSTOMERS is designed to ensure that all goods and services required by the Bank to fulfill its mission are contracted and acquired For 2019 the Bank will evaluate the possibility of changing through open, transparent, timely processes under competitive its Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) system to give conditions while avoiding conflicts of interest and guaranteeing suppliers a safe, scalable self-service portal to improve online fair treatment for parties collaborating with the Bank. communication and collaborative efforts between the Bank and its suppliers, thus improving its operating processes and The relationship between Banco de Chile and its suppliers the speed, effectiveness and timing of information. ENVIRONMENT must be strictly independent and in accordance with corporate interests, without any kind of commitment or bias for a given As of December 31, 2018, the Bank maintained active contracts supplier, always prioritizing the parameters of utility, quality with a total of 649 suppliers and contractors, of which 29 and budget. were classified as critical. Local suppliers1 account for 97% of the purchasing budget. The Bank had 9,058 SME suppliers The main entity responsible for safeguarding compliance with in 2018, down 0.57% from 2017. this regulatory framework is the Administration Department, COMMUNITY which reports to the Chief Financial Officer. ACTIVE SUPPLIERS AND PERCENTAGE OF PURCHASING BUDGET SPENT WITH LOCAL CONTRACTORS SUPPLIERS 2017 2018 TYPE 2016 2017 2018 SUPPLIERS Number of suppliers with 509 529 active contracts Purchases from 97 98 97 local suppliers (%) Number of contractors with ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 127 120 active contracts Number of critical suppliers Purchases from 3 2 3 and/or contractors with 29 29 other suppliers (%) active contracts 1. The Bank defines local as all purchases made with suppliers located within Chile. 125 308-1 414-1 Supplier and Contractor selection and evaluation processes The Supplier Management and Selection Policy2 is the main ensure the quality of the service contracted in consideration and guide for supplier selection and evaluation processes, which observance of the current labor law. The purpose of this protocol is to help build proper commercial relationships between users aim to ensure that all the goods and services required for the and contractors, ensure compliance with labor obligations, avoid Bank's operation are procured through public, transparent, fines, sanctions and undesired labor conflicts, and safeguard timely processes at competitive market conditions and with the quality of the services hired. the best cost-quality ratio. The regulation also establishes the risk prevention standards, According to the policy, supplier selection begins with an administrative procedures, requirements and local obligations accreditation process that considers legal, commercial, financial that must be observed and complied with by employees of and labor aspects of the company and qualifies it to participate contractor and subcontrator companies while performing their in bidding or quoting processes. Prior to awarding the job jobs. Therefore, it looks to ensure that their work is carried and/or contract, the criticality of the service to be provided is out under the required quality criteria and with controlled determined on the basis of business continuity, information risks that help protect the Bank’s workers, physical assets security, financial results, legal and reputational risk. For service and the environment. outsourcing, the Bank considers additional factors related to customer impact, concentration of services and country risk Although the Bank does not have a specific policy at this time (the latter only when the service provider is outside of Chile). on assessment of aspects related to human rights compliance in the hiring of suppliers and contractors, it does comply with The process also includes other evaluation criteria related to Chilean regulations on the protection of fundamental rights the Policy on Inter-company Transactions, provided in title at work, such as non-discrimination, occupational health and XVI of Law 18,046 on Corporations, and the Operational safety, working hours, maternal protection rights and others Guidelines for Politically Exposed Persons (PEP)3 contained specified in its Internal Health and Safety Regulations and the in the Updated Standards of the Superintendency of Banks Framework for Action for the Commitment to Chile4. and Financial Institutions (SBIF), which considers reputational and business criteria. The main challenge for 2019 lies in complying with Law 21,131, which requires payment within 30 (calendar) days and setting of Hiring of services and the relationship with contracting an exact pay date that accrues interest for each day of delay in companies is further governed by the “Contractor Company paying invoices as well as moratory fees. The 30-day maximum Relationship Protocol , together with the Risk Prevention payment term will apply as of February 16, 2021. Before then, Regulation for Contractors and Subcontractors. This protocol is payment must not exceed 60 days to allow companies to adapt based on the provisions of the Subcontracting Law and aims to to the new regulation. 2. This policy applies to all areas of Banco de Chile and its subsidiaries. 3. https://bit.ly/2CfqVC1 4. https://bit.ly/2EUouGz 126 The Supplier Management and Selection Policy aims to ensure that all the goods and services required for the Bank's operation BANK PROFILE are contracted at competitive market conditions through public, transparent, timely processes and with the best cost-quality ratio. EMPLOYEES The Bank has proactively implemented the following actions: • Issuing formal communications within the organization • Strengthening internal audits to identify the need to update to highlight the importance and impact of the 30-day policies/procedures. CUSTOMERS payment law. • Recording invoices in a timely fashion to ensure documents • Aligning internal policies and procedures with the law's are properly accepted or rejected in order to meet deadlines. objectives. • Scheduling maximum payment dates in systems based on • Establishing ongoing internal control procedures to ensure the date the document is received. compliance with terms set by the law. • Establishing and promoting formal communication channels with suppliers / service providers. ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY SUPPLIERS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 127 Festival of light Celebrating Banco de Chile’s 125 years in business Santiago, october 2018 128 07 ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 129 Highlights Ch $27,914 billion in total loans Ch $595 billion in net income Return on average capital 19.3% and reserves 130 Banco de Chile 2018 Economic performance BANK PROFILE EMPLOYEES The Bank achieved important financial and strategic results, a record number of new customers added during the year. sustained by a successful, consistent business strategy and This enabled the Bank to maintain its leadership in demand an expanding transformation process. These achievements deposits, achieving the industry’s lowest cost of funds. In have enabled it to decisively move forward in fulfilling its addition, it benefited from a more expansionary economic cycle, CUSTOMERS aspirations of leading the industry in returns, net income, characterized by greater inflation, which positively impacted operating efficiency and corporate reputation. its ability to generate financial income. These effects were joined by conservative risk management and effective control In terms of financial results, Banco de Chile posted net income of operating expenses, which constrained non-performing after taxes of Ch$595 billion, up 3.3% from 2017, positioning loan levels and improved its efficiency ratio by 92 basis points. it as one of the country’s most profitable banks, with a return on average capital and reserves (ROAC) of 19.3%, well above In 2019 the Bank will face several important challenges ENVIRONMENT the industry average of 13.0%. stemming from the continued transformation process in all dimensions of the business, consolidating growth in loan volume This performance was based mainly on profitable loan while safeguarding the risk-return ratio, restoring customer portfolio growth with a special focus on the retail segment service and recommendation indexes and making additional and an outstanding year for demand deposits, backed by progress in efficiency and productivity. COMMUNITY FINANCIAL RESULTS FOR THE YEAR (MCh$) NET INCOME 2016-2018 45.3% $595 $576 Efficiency ratio $552 SUPPLIERS 20.1% ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Market share in commercial leasing No. 1 in the industry 2016 2017 2018 131 201-1 Economic value generated and distributed In 2018, Banco de Chile generated economic value of Ch$2,423,927 million. As shown below, most of that figure was used to pay capital providers (49.5%), employee wages and benefits (18.3%), operating expenses (16%), taxes to the State (6.7%), contributions to the Superintendency of Banks (0.4%) and community contributions (0.1%). ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED (MCh$) 2016 2017 2018 Operating revenue 2,239,603 2,256,378 2,423,927 Operating revenue 2,235,090 2,250,321 2,416,672 Income attributable to investments in associates 4,513 6,057 7,255 TOTAL ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED 2,239,603 2,256,378 2,423,927 ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED (MCh$) 2016 2017 2018 Operating expenses -354,268 -363,087 -388,128 Administrative and other expenses 320,979 -327,836 -350,447 Depreciation and amortization -33,289 -35,251 -37,681 Employee wages and benefits -417,918 -409,331 -442,577 Payments to capital providers -1,176,685 -1,118,067 -1,198,878 Shareholders (dividends) -366,654 -342,034 -374,079 Suppliers of financial resources -810,031 -776,033 -824,799 Payments to the State (income tax) -94,345 -120,100 -161,920 Contributions to the Superintendency of Banks -8,856 -9,176 -9,548 Community contributions -1,936 -2,638 -2,082 TOTAL ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED -2,054,008 -2,022,399 -2,203,133 ECONOMIC VALUE RETAINED 185,595 233,979 220,794 132 201-1 BANK PROFILE Economic value distributed in 2018 How Banco de Chile’s directly contributes to Chile’s economy EMPLOYEES 9.1% Retained Mh$ 220,794 The Bank' apital management effort are haraterized by maintaining a proper balane between buine growth and regulatory requirement on apital adequay. CUSTOMERS 0.4% ontribution to the uperintendeny of Bank Mh$9,548 16.0% Operating expene ENVIRONMENT Mh$ 388,128 Inlude payment to over 9,000 ME upplier and ontrator 0.1% ommunity upport Mh$ 2,082 Inlude dedutible and nondedutible donation that Bano de hile provide to the ommunity through it divere projet. 18.3% COMMUNITY alary and benefit Mh$ 442,577 • 13,831 diret worker (Bank plu ubidiarie) • Firt plae in Mero Talent ranking 6.7% SUPPLIERS Tax payment Mh$ 161,920 In 2018, the Bank paid 36% more taxe than in 2017. 49.5% ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Payment to apital provider Mh$ 1,198,878 The Bank reate value for it hareholder by maintaining an attrative return per hare. 133 201-4 Banco de Chile branch Financial contribution from the State In 2018 the economic assistance provided by government to a decrease in donations eligible for government benefits entities to Banco de Chile consisted of Ch $1,700 million in for the same percentage, especially for educational purposes; tax credits for training expenses, which is equal in nominal and Ch $24 million in tax credits for purchases of property, terms to the 2017 figure; Ch$ 98 million in tax credits from plant and equipment, which is slightly more than the Ch$23 donations, representing a drop of 81% in funds received due million received in 2017. ECONOMIC SUPPORT GRANTED BY GOVERNMENT ENTITIES (MCh$) 2016 2017 2018 Tax credit for training expenses 1,600 1,700 1,700 Tax credit for donations 232 526 98 Tax credit for additions to PP&E 23 23 24 Total 1,855 2,249 1,822 134 203-2 Contribution to Chile's economic development BANK PROFILE Contributing to Chile's economic development is a cornerstone and workers, in 2018 the institution carried out a series of of Banco de Chile's long-term sustainability. We work every activities within the framework of its sustainability strategy day to be the best bank for our customers, the best place to that resulted in a social investment of Ch$9,7031 million work, and the best investment for our shareholders. and a positive impact on 550,526 people throughout Chile. A relevant component of our sustainability strategy is the In 2019 Banco de Chile will continue to deepen its commitment EMPLOYEES capacity to adapt successfully to changes in the environment. to Chile, looking for new ways to contribute to the community and the progress of Chile and its people. In addition to the direct economic impact generated by Banco de Chile through the payment of taxes, generation of direct and indirect jobs and payments to providers of capital CUSTOMERS ENVIRONMENT COMMUNITY SUPPLIERS ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 1. Social investment includes deductible and non-deductible donations, sponsorships, SENCE training tax credits and other activities included in the budget for the Corporate Affairs and Sustainable Development Department, such as festivities to celebrate the Bank’s 125th anniversary and the Teletón’s 40th anniversary. 135 136 08 GRI AND GLOBAL COMPACT CONTENT INDEX 137 GRI and Global Compact Content Index DISCLOSURES GLOBAL GRI PAGE NUMBER / URL / REASONS FOR COMPACT STANDARD DIRECT RESPONSE OMISSION NO. TITLE PRINCIPLE General Disclosures 1. Organizational Profile Disclosure 102-1 Name of the organization 17 Disclosure 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 9 Disclosure 102-3 Location of headquarters 17 Disclosure 102-4 Location of operations 17 Disclosure 102-5 Ownership and legal form 17 and 34 Disclosure 102-6 Markets served 34 Disclosure 102-7 Scale of the organization 18 to 23 Disclosure 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 19 and 46 P.6 Disclosure 102-9 Supply chain 26 and 27 Significant changes to the organization and its Disclosure 102-10 9 supply chain No explicit guideline Disclosure 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach available Disclosure 102-12 External initiatives 31 Disclosure 102-13 Membership of associations 31 2. Strategy GRI 102 P.10 General Disclosure 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4 to 7 P.10 Disclosures 3. Ethics and Integrity 2016 Values, principles, standards, and norms of Disclosure 102-16 32 and 38 behavior Disclosure 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 40, 41, 63, 64 4. Governance Disclosure 102-18 Governance structure 35 to 38 Disclosure 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 35 and 37 Regarding the designation of executives responsible for economic, environmental and social issues, while there is no specific policy or procedure, the Board is informed of projects related to sustainability and Identification and management of Disclosure 102-29 the Commitment to Chile economic, environmental and social impact strategic priority at annual meetings with the Corporate Affairs and Sustainable Development Department and the Financial Reporting and Control Division, which report directly to the CEO and the Board. 138 DISCLOSURES GLOBAL GRI PAGE NUMBER / URL / REASONS FOR COMPACT STANDARD DIRECT RESPONSE OMISSION NO. TITLE PRINCIPLE General Disclosures Disclosure 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 39 Evaluation of economic, environmental and social Disclosure 102-31 39 topics Disclosure 102-35 Remuneration policies 35 5. Stakeholder Engagement Disclosure 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 30 Disclosure 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 71 Disclosure 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 10 and 30 Approach to Disclosure 102-43 10 and 30 stakeholder engagement Disclosure 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 11 6. Reporting Practice GRI 102 Entities included in the consolidated financial General Disclosure 102-45 9 statements Disclosures 2016 Disclosure 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries 10 to 12 Disclosure 102-47 List of material topics 11 and 12 Disclosure 102-48 Restatement of information 9 Disclosure 102-49 Changes in reporting 9 Disclosure 102-50 Reporting period 9 Disclosure 102-51 Date of most recent report 2017 Disclosure 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual Disclosure 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 13 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Disclosure 102-54 10 standards Disclosure 102-55 GRI and 138 to 143 Disclosure 102-56 External assurance 13 139 DISCLOSURES GLOBAL GRI PAGE NUMBER / URL / REASONS FOR COMPACT STANDARD DIRECT RESPONSE OMISSION NO. TITLE PRINCIPLE Material Aspects Economic Performance Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11 and 12 GRI 103: Management Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components 131 approach 2016 Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 131 GRI 201: Disclosure 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 132 and 133 Economic Performance 2016 Disclosure 201-4 Financial assistance received from government 134 Indirect Economic Impact Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11 and 12 GRI 103: Management Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components 135 approach 2016 Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 135 GRI 203: Indirect Disclosure 203-2 Significant indirect economic impact 135 economic impact 2016 Procurement Practices Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11 and 12 GRI 103: Management Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components 125 approach 2016 Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 125 and 126 GRI 204: Procurement Disclosure 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 125 practices 2016 Anti-corruption Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11 and 12 GRI 103: Management Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components 40, 41 and 63 approach 2016 Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 40, 41 and 63 GRI 205: AntiCommunication and training about anti-corruption Disclosure 205-2 40, 63 and 64 corruption policies and procedures 2016 Confirmed incidents of corruption and Disclosure 205-3 40 actions taken Anti-competitive behavior Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11 and 12 GRI 103: Management Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components www.bancochile.cl/ approach 2016 Our Bank/ Corporate Governance Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Code of Ethics GRI 206: During the period Unfair covered by Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anticompetitive Disclosure 206-1 this Report no trust, and monopoly practices practices such incidents were 2016 reported. 140 DISCLOSURES GLOBAL GRI PAGE NUMBER / URL / REASONS FOR COMPACT STANDARD DIRECT RESPONSE OMISSION NO. TITLE PRINCIPLE Material Aspects Energy Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11 and 12 GRI 103: Management Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components 93 and 95 approach 2016 Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 93 and 95 P.8 and 9 GRI 302: Disclosure 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 95 Energy 2016 Emissions Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11 and 12 GRI 103: Management Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components 93 and 94 approach 2016 Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 93 and 94 P.7, 8 and 9 Disclosure 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 94 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Disclosure 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 94 Effluents and Waste Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11 and 12 GRI 103: Management Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components 93 and 96 approach 2016 Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 93 and 96 P.8 GRI 302: Effluents and Disclosure 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 96 waste 2016 Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103: Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11 and 12 Management approach 2016 Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components 93 and 126 Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach To date the Bank does GRI 308: not have this type of Supplier procedures, but it New suppliers that were screened using expects to implement environmental Disclosure 308-1 environmental criteria them in the assessment 2016 medium term. Employment GRI 103: Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11 and 12 Management Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components 45 and 49 approach 2016 Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 45 and 49 Disclosure 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 47 and 48 P.6 GRI 301: Employment 2016 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are Disclosure 401-2 52 to 55 not provided to temporary or part-time employees Labor/Management Relations Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11 and 12 GRI 103: Management Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components 45 and 71 approach 2016 Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 45 and 71 P.3 GRI 402: Labor/ Minimum notice periods regarding operational Disclosure 402-1 71 management changes relations 2016 141 DISCLOSURES GLOBAL GRI PAGE NUMBER / URL / REASONS FOR COMPACT STANDARD DIRECT RESPONSE OMISSION NO. TITLE PRINCIPLE Material Aspects Occupational Health and Safety Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11 and 12 GRI 103: Management Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components 45, 67 to 70 approach 2016 Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 45, 67 to 70 Workers representation in formal joint management– Disclosure 403-1 70 GRI 403: worker health and safety committees Occupational health and Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational safety 2016 Disclosure 403-2 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of 69 work-related fatalities Training and Education GRI 103: Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11 and 12 Management approach 2016 Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components 45, 58 and 59 Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 45, 58 and 59 Disclosure 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 60 P.6 GRI 404: Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Training and Disclosure 404-2 50, 60 to 62 assistance programs education 2016 Percentage of employees receiving regular Disclosure 404-3 61 performance and career development reviews Diversity and Equal Opportunity Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11 and 12 GRI 103: Management Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components 56 and 57 approach 2016 Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 56 and 57 GRI 405: P.6 Diversity and equal Disclosure 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 47 and 57 opportunity 2016 Non-discrimination Explanation of the material topic and its Disclosure 103-1 11 and 12 boundary GRI 103: Management Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components 45 approach 2016 Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 45 P.3 During the period GRI 406: NonIncidents of discrimination and corrective covered by this discrimination Disclosure 406-1 actions taken report, there were no 2016 incidents of this type. Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Explanation of the material topic and its Disclosure 103-1 11 and 12 boundary GRI 103: Management Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components 71 approach 2016 Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 71 P.6 GRI 407: During the period Freedom of Operations and suppliers in which the right covered by this report, Association Disclosure 407-1 to freedom of association and collective there were no incidents and Collective bargaining may be at risk of this type. Bargaining 142 DISCLOSURES GLOBAL GRI PAGE NUMBER / URL / REASONS FOR COMPACT STANDARD DIRECT RESPONSE OMISSION NO. TITLEz PRINCIPLE Material Aspects Local Communities Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11 and 12 GRI 103: Management Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components 101 to 104 approach 2016 Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 101 to 104 GRI 413: Local Operations with local community engagement, communities Disclosure 413-1 101 to 120 impact assessments, and development programs 2016 Supplier Social Assessment Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11 and 12 GRI 103: Management Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components 125 and 126 approach 2016 Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 125 and 126 To date, the Bank does GRI 414: not have these types Supplier social New suppliers that were screened using social of procedures, but it Disclosure 414-1 assessment criteria hopes to implement 2016 them in the medium term. Marketing and Labeling Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11 and 12 GRI 103: Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components 88 Management approach 2016 Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 88 During the period GRI 417: covered by Incidents of non-compliance concerning product Marketing and Disclosure 417-2 this Report no and service information and labeling labeling 2016 such incidents were reported. Customer Privacy Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11 and 12 GRI 103: Management Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components 86 and 87 approach 2016 Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 86 and 87 GRI 418: Substantiated grievance concerning breaches of Customer Disclosure 418-1 86 and 87 customer privacy and losses of customer data privacy 2016 Socioeconomic Compliance Disclosure 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary 11 and 12 www.bancochile.cl / Our Bank Disclosure 103-2 The management approach and its components GRI 103: / Corporate Governance Management / Code of Ethics approach 2016 www.bancochile.cl / Our Bank Disclosure 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach / Corporate Governance / Global Compliance During the period GRI 419: covered by Socioeconomic Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the Disclosure 419-1 this Report no compliance social and economic area such incidents were 2016 reported. 143 Banco de Chile Sustainability Report 2018 Published: March 2019 General Editing: Corporate Affairs and Sustainable Development Department Consulting on GRI Standards: Beatriz Calderón, Cerendypia Design: libredeideas.cl Photography: Banco de Chile Archives Printing: Fyrma
