Sustainability Report Smart Software Solutions for the Environment 2018 Page 2 We wish to do KLAPPIR GREEN SOLUTIONS HF Table of contents sustainable business and Reporting method About Klappir 03 04 bring long-term Our business model 05 value to our Key figures Our sustainability strategy 07 08 customers Sustainability governance 09 Stakeholder engagement 08 Environmental impact 10 Social impact 11 Product highlights 14 Materiality assessment 17 Sustainability progress 2018 19 Distribution: • Environmental Agency Iceland “Green accounting” Appendixes: • Company Register of Iceland 1. ESG Statement 2018 • United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) • Nasdaq ESG reporting portal provided by Klappir • Klappir Stakeholders • Klappir Annual Meeting Page 3 Reporting method Our approach to We use the following reporting We do not attempt to formally use any one of the systems provided by UN sustainability is based on frameworks in an integrated fashion Global Compact (GC), Nasdaq (N), or Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Instead to identify and report on material we have a standardized methodology that enables the use of all definitions in the environmental, social the context of a single report and attached statement. We deliver our reports issues and governance issues UN Global Compact In October 2017 Klappir and statements as follows: that are material to our became a participant in the UN Global Compact corporate responsibility initiative. The company has To Nasdaq and to UN Global Compact, we deliver the Sustainability Statement with relevant inventory accounting and this sustainability report built on the statement. The Sustainability Statement is business thereby declared that it will, along with other companies, home and abroad, work against generated by our Klappir Core software. This report contains an overview of the company’s pollution, improve governance skills and protect approach to various aspects of sustainability, as well human rights. Klappir aims to incorporate the as key measurements and an assessment of our Global Compact Principles into its strategies, progress toward our goals. policies and procedures. Critical focus areas are identified; related projects, Greenhouse Gas Protocol This GHG Protocol scope and initiatives are addressed. contains methodologies on how to prepare and present environmental information. It establishes The report, and especially the Sustainability comprehensive global standardized frameworks to Statement, includes data to demonstrate the measure and manage greenhouse gas (GHG) progress Klappir has made in addressing emissions from private and public sector sustainability. operations, value chains and mitigation actions. Nasdaq ESG guidelines: These contains voluntary guidelines for environmental, social and corporate This report covers the operation in governance (ESG) disclosure to support companies Iceland only. Other companies in the listed on these exchanges. The guidelines were group will be covered in the 2019 published in March 2017. They build on United report. Nations Sustainable Stock Exchanges (SSE) initiatives. The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Content Index The ESG basic metrics used in our ESG Statement (Ref. Nasdaq) is referred to in the report and in the statement. GRI: 102-12; 102-47; 103-1; 103-2; 103-3 Page 4 Letter from the CEO About Klappir Green Solutions hf. We at Klappir care for our In an environment of close cooperation with our Klappir’s software and services enable the Klappir invests in sustainability through the customers, we have the capability to provide our company’s clients to improve their products, services and methodologies it environment and are committed to robust methodologies and cost-effective software sustainability, guide processes of legal solutions to society as a whole. This makes Klappir a develops and provides to its clients. building software solutions and trustworthy partner in a world that is moving compliance, increase environmental providing services that enable toward sustainability. transparency and create standardized and transparent sustainability accounting in a Sustainability is supported by Klappir communities, businesses and Iceland is committed to the UN’s goals of robust way. products in following three fields sustainable development and the objectives of Paris regions to carry out transparent 2015 with the goal of cutting emission by 40%. See Iceland’s Climate Action Plan for 2018-20301. Klappir (Klappir Green Solutions hf2) is a company and reliable environmental listed on Nasdaq, First North Iceland. The company COMPLIANCE Reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 40% from Our Comply products stands for compliance with accounting in a cost-efficient way has its headquarters in Iceland and branches in the environmental legislation and regulations, both 1990 levels in only 12 years is an uphill journey for a United Kingdom and Lithuania. and thereby increase efficiency, community that bases most of its income on Klappir has more than 200 customers using its locally and internationally. harnessing natural resources, heavy industries and ensure legal compliance and reduce tourism. products and services, including businesses, EFFICIENCY municipalities and public sector organizations. Our Advance and efficiency products stand for operating cost. The first steps were taken in November 2015 when Klappir software products and services together with improved energy efficiency, waste efficiency, water Our software solutions enable our clients to reduce 104 companies signed the Reykjavík Agreement, methodologies and strong client relationships efficiency and paper use efficiency. their environmental footprints, guide processes of committing themselves to the Paris objectives. underpin the company’s on-going quest to reduce our These companies will contribute to Iceland’s impact on the environment. ENGAGEMENT legal compliance, increase environmental Climate Action Plan, and many of them are Our Engage products stand for information sharing transparency and do environmental accounting in a Klappir software and services are focused on the customers of Klappir. and transparency toward stakeholders. These transparent and robust way. Our software solutions following sectors: products deliver the Environmental Statement and also enable authorities to monitor environmental We are convinced that Klappir’s products, services 1. Maritime (on-sea transport and harbours) the Sustainability Statement. progress. They also simplify the process of and NGO activities will offer great support for submitting data to authorities in a digital and Island’s Climate Action Plan for 2018-2030. 2. Fishing (fishing and processing) standardized format. 3. Aviation (airlines, airports and services) 4. Manufacturing (food, beverages and general) We aim to bring together skills and know-how, 5. Waste services (collection and disposal) companies, international corporations, individual 6. Utility services (energy and water) users, local authorities, national governments and 7. Retail (stores, warehouses and transport) other stakeholders to help us to develop and 8. Financial services (banks, insurance, investors) 1. https://www.government.is/lib implement our software solutions. Dr. Jon Agust Thorsteinsson 9. Real estate and building contractors rary/Files/Icelands%20new%20 Klappir CEO 10. Government, cities and the public sector Climate%20Action%20Plan%20f or%202018%202030.pdf 2. https://klappir.com/ GRI: 201-14 GRI: 102-1; 102-2; 102-4; 102-5; 102-6; 102-7; G4-2 Page 5 Our business model Increased environmental awareness is an Consequently, in the years to come there will be a A strong position on the home market will Growth potential and synergies economical fact. Companies will both respond to growing demand from cities, regions, investors and further support the speed in uptake of the With a direct relation to the Paris 2015 agreement a existing environmental rules and regulations and civil society for efficient software solution to reduce significant market growth in the area is expected. also anticipate what is coming up on the legislative manual workload related to environmental technology. agenda and make themselves able to comply as fast accounting, analytical processing, environmental Software sale framed in by solid and proven and efficiently as possible. predictions and goal settings. methodology to businesses, cities, regions and civil Marketing and sales strategy society through partnership network have the Monitor and interconnect environmental activities By implementing our environmental software The transformation toward stricter environmental potential to grow according to implementation of in a global accounting system will be a part of an solution, companies, cities and regions gets efficient law and regulations is evident in today’s business new law and regulations linked to the Paris enterprise-wide strategy to keep ahead of law and communication platform where their reported environment. This means that individuals, leaders of agreement and operational improvements received regulations, minimise risk and improve environmental accounts will contribute to national industries and communities will engage in a process by the users of the Klappir software. sustainability. accounting system with a full transparency. of increasing sustainable activities. Even organizations with excellent environmental record The ability of Klappir to maintain, develop and The push of law and regulations in the coming years By using our software solutions, both the must be pushed for change if it hopes to stay ahead. communicate benefits of provided services and together with companies own initiatives is likely to companies, regions and public prediction of future software will be one of the key´s to the commercial enlarge exponentially the market for environmental environmental accounting will be based on solid The core of our business strategy is networking success. services. The companies will expect proven and cost foundation and standardized and known through partnership (global & regional) and coefficient software solutions and service that provide methodology. Data and information will be operation through key-customers value chain. One important factor is the speed in which Klappir high value to their businesses. streamed between parties in a trusted and time can successfully address the issue of new partners The marketing and sales path is the customer´s and new geographical markets. The speed of this efficient way. value chain. The key-customers will push on their Market drivers development will naturally be greatly dependent on Before Klappir launched it´s software suit, Market position suppliers to provide solid information on their the Klappir access to growth capital. environmental accounting is mostly being carried By offering comprehensive implementation environmental accounting – the easiest way for the out by manually collecting data and without methodology and robust software solution for suppliers is to use the Klappir software to provide universally recognized methodology. environmental accounting, transparency, the relevant sustainability information to their compliancy to environmental regulations and customer. Companies yearly environmental accounting reports analytical processing to all industries and all levels Our clients will also provide environmental to authorities are most of the time based on of government – brings Klappir in unique position information to their customer by using the Klappir manually collected data from different sources on the market. software. Our clients and their customers will have which is both time consuming and limited in accuracy and transparency. Cost-efficient and at any given time solid information on their own The total and universal nature of our software and overall environmental accounting and will be able to comprehensive software tools to support legislative services gives Klappir a unique marketing position. report accurately to all relevant stakeholders at any compliancy, transparency and environmental Any company anywhere is a potential client – any given time. accounting are needed on all levels, all over the governmental party on any level is also a potential world. In other words, Klappir is reaching out to new client. clients through existing network and building new ones. Page 6 Our business model Klappir Green Solutions hf. is a listed company and We are expanding our business through an the group includes the following companies: Our business units and partners international network of strategic partners at both • Klappir Green Solutions hf, corporate ID no. regional and global-industrial levels. We group our 630914-1080 partners into “Regional Partners” and “Global • Datadrive ehf, corporate ID no. 490615-2100 Partners” (see business workflow). Board (100%). • Klappir International UK (100%) To support both regional and international partners, • Klappir Lithuania (52% owned by Klappir we have a team of specialists with extensive knowledge of our software and how to optimize its CEO International). usage for the sectors we serve. They also have broad knowledge of legal issues related to Ownership structure environmental law and energy efficiency as well as Shareholders on 31 December 2018 were more than the utilisation and structured sharing of knowledge. Product management Product development 300. Two classes of shares have been issued: series Product development and production is a separate Marketing and sales Operation and sales and technology A and B. In a vote at a general meeting, A shares unit with a team of specialists focusing on carry one vote while B shares have no vote. A shares enhancement and further development of our and B shares carry equal rights to dividends from product portfolio. 51% the assets and earnings of the company. A shares 100% 100% are not listed. Klappir Iceland Klappir Lithuania Klappir UK/Int. Klappir’s business partners • Chartco Ltd. is an industrial global partner with its head office in the UK. It sells and supports our maritime software (eLogBooks) to the international market. • Brimborg ehf. is an Icelandic partner selling our Klappir Datadrive solutions to the Icelandic market. • Sýni ehf. Sýni Research Service offers consultancy and services to food and animal feed companies. Also sampling and measurements of sewerage and exhaust along with consultancy in co-operation with Verkís. • Efla ehf. is a consulting company focused on supporting customers using Klappir’s software. They do not sell or promote the software. • Ábyrgar lausnir ehf. is a consulting company specialised in sustainability consulting and responsible investments. Page 7 Sustainability Sustainable Development Goals Innovation (SDG 9) The main focus in 2018 was on enhancing Gender Equality: 25% of our employees are existing products and developing new women. We will strive to improve the gender products. Product portfolio was increased and ratio in the next three years to 40% . the products already developed were integrated with the Klappir Core ecoplatform. Decent Work and Economic Growth: We want to The main focus was on combining the three create the conditions that allow our employees to software products KGS, Datadrive and Ark to have quality jobs that stimulate the economy one enterprise solution. while not harming the environment. In 2018 our innovation was supported by the Climate Action: Our impact from emission is Icelandic Technology Development Fund. limited but our real positive impact comes from our products and services. Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure: Our software is supporting our clients in improving their sustainability. Our positive impact on climate is mainly based on our software products. Peace, Justice and Strong Infrastructure: We deliver software to institutions to improve their All our directors are dependent as they are ability to get solid overview over sectors shareholders of the company. See corporate compliance to environmental law. governance on www.klappir.com For sustainable figures: See attached ESG Partnership for Goals: By increasing number of statement. clients we reach out to more people. Especially we For financials: See attached financial report. are listed company with 328 shareholders we want to work with on the sustainable developments goals. GRI: 102-1; 102-2; 102-4; 102-5; 102-6; 102-7; G4-2 Page 8 Our sustainability strategy We manage our business by Product strategy Operational strategy People strategy Our product strategy is to develop software We want to grow our business in a sustainable way We engage our employees in addressing social and integrating environmental, solutions, services and methodologies which enable and decouple our growth from our environmental environmental issues that are relevant for the our customers to build a sustainable future by impact. This is one of the main reasons we are businesses and communities in which we work. We social, governance (ESG) and ensuring legal compliance, increased energy expanding our business through an international also engage in and encourage open and organized efficiency and minimal waste of resources. network of strategic regional and global-industrial discussions concerning environmental issues among economic considerations into partners. the employees of the companies and organizations our operations, products and Key activities we serve. Develop and deliver sustainable products for our Key activities Reduce our emissions: We are focused on reducing We aim to give our employees the opportunity to services. clients: We work constantly on expanding the space our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions by 40% in 2030 increase their skills both in terms of the job itself of high-quality inventory accounting and analytics. and in terms of expanding their knowledge of As a technology company with a relatively small from our base year 2015 and decoupling Scope 3 Improve our clients use of environmental and emissions (business travel and commuting) from our environmental issues in general. operational footprint, some of our most significant social governance (ESG) data: We provide software growth from a 2015 baseline. During recruitment, Klappir seeks to attract impact comes from our products and services as to collect data and perform analyses. We work enthusiasts in data management and environmental well as the methodology provided by our software. Keep our renewable energy use at 100%: Today we closely with our customers to enhance their user management for software development and We focus on developing new products and services, experience. We aim to provide our customers with use only renewable energy for electricity, heating and service cars (EV). marketing/service. spreading new ideas and leading collaborative solid support and assistance while working with our efforts with our customers, businesses, universities software. Reduce our waste, plastic and paper use: We Key activities and civil partners to develop a sustainable future. measure all waste generated by our operation and Lead standardisation and transparency: We Employees: Klappir invests in the development of We invite different businesses, NGOs and actively use the leading sustainability reporting try to minimize generation of waste. We also strive talent and offers fair terms to it’s employees along governmental authorities to our open platform frameworks to enhance the quality and to minimize landfill waste, plastic and paper use. with benefits which improve employees’ well-being where they can provide their services. compatibility of sustainability-related information. Locate ourselves in energy-efficient buildings and and health and strengthen their family life. Increase the use of reliable data: As assets are the in buildings with the potential to control waste: We Education and life-long learning: Klappir source of environmental load, we actively develop will strive to locate ourselves in buildings that are encourages knowledge creation and offers software and IoT solutions to collect data from energy efficient and where waste management is employees retraining through the internet or individual assets (ships, vehicles, aircraft and easy. otherwise. buildings). We strive to collect the data directly Measure relationships between environmental and from each asset to ensure high quality of the data economic performance: We will not grow our for analytics and accounting. business at the cost of the nature. Keep data safe: We invest in the safety of data and “See our family, health and human rights the security of our software. policy on our website”. “See our environmental policy on our website”. GRI: 102-15; 201-2 Page 9 Sustainability governance Stakeholder engagement Environmentally related governance We aim to create long-term value for our communities, We engage with our Our sustainability experts discuss climate-related stakeholders to drive our issues and help our customers to identify and customers, employees, partners and shareholders. We do so by: determine the most sustainable solutions and paths sustainability effort onwards to explore in relation to the development and • developing innovative sustainability software • providing cost-efficient and reliable implementation of new products. solutions environmental software to businesses, regions Klappir complies with all relevant rules and and cities that simplifies environmental We strive to develop infrastructure which will be • doing business in a financially, environmentally regulations, Icelandic legislation (Law no. 2/1995 on accounting; resilient to physical risks posed by climate change, and socially responsible way corporations), the company’s articles of association legal risks presented by stricter new legislation and • providing software that brings transparency to and the board’s rules of procedure. • anticipating, adapting to and creating new regulation on climate related issues and market or environmental accounting throughout the As a listed company, we communicate with our business opportunities from changes in our reputational risks resulting from the transition to a entire supply chain and to society as a whole; shareholders and other stakeholders in an open and business environment low-carbon economy. honest manner regarding the operation. • delivering and supporting environmental eco• supporting capacity building of our society, systems for the wider community. We provide investors, analysts and other customers, employees, shareholders and stakeholders with timely and accurate information. partners Klappir’s rules of procedure for the boards are published on our website. Stakeholders engagement examples: Channels Example Supply chain An evaluation of suppliers will take place in early Our product development is order-based. We evaluate value to customers through pilot Customers Meetings and service network 2019. A suppliers’ code of conduct will follow later projects. that year. We try to have regular meetings with employees to discuss sustainability topics, our Employees Meetings and internal network products and how we can improve the user experience of our customers. Our Supplier Code of Conduct; (see Supply In 2019, we will introduce regular meetings with our suppliers. These meetings will focus Suppliers Chain) on their overall sustainability impact. We support our community in improving their sustainability. We deliver to them our Communities, regions Regular meetings software and services. We work continuously to create opportunities for discussions on and public stakeholders environmental improvement. Nongovernmental Regular meetings Our main activities are listed under “Social impact”. Organizations (NGOs) Shareholders Annual meetings and irregular meetings We provide shareholders with the Sustainability Report and Sustainability Statement. GRI: 102-18; 102-20; 102-21; 102-23; 102-27; 102-28; 102-33; 102-40 | N: G5 GRI: 102-29; 102-3; 102-42; 102-43; 102-44 Page 10 Environmental impact As a technology company with a Impact from operation Impact on communities relatively small environmental Our own performance in numbers is presented in Our mission is to make reliable environmental Our software product is an integrated solution that footprint, some of our most our Sustainability Statement with relevant inventory compliance, inventory accounting and reporting provides cloud-based data collection, performance accounting as separate attachment. affordable for all businesses and communities. and analytics for significant impact comes from our Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions Today, we have more than 200 users (companies, products and services as well as the Our Scope 1 emissions include those coming from regions, governmental agencies and municipalities). • compliance with environmental laws and regulations; methodology provided through our use of fossil fuel consumed by vehicles used while In 2015, our customer base was less than 10 software and customer providing our services. We mostly use an EV service customers (see chart below). • real-time monitoring of the environmental car to keep our Scope 1 emissions to a minimum. relationships. 250 impact of the business, identifying how nonOur Scope 2 emissions come from the use of financial factors influence the footprint of the electricity and hot water for heating has not We give our customers the critical changed since our reference year 2015. 200 value chain; ability to continuously follow and Scope 3 emissions (supply chain and distribution) 150 • optimization of the environmental sustainability improve their environmental Our Scope 3 emissions include those from our of the whole value chain of businesses and supply chain and emissions related to our business 100 regions, enabling them to reduce emissions and performance in a cost efficient way. trips and commuting. waste; 50 Together with our customers, we Waste Our office is located in an older building in the • automatic validation and reporting of are building solid and reliable center of Reykjavik, where it is difficult to pursue 0 environmental sustainability to stakeholders in a 2015 2016 2017 2018 infrastructures for sustainability. effective waste management. This limits our fully transparent way as required by new capability to track the waste through waste pick up. The software uptake in Iceland (number of governance and social legislations – an Our focus is on developing new However we focus on limiting waste which we customers) automatic process which avoids manual products and services, spreading consciously categorize, weigh and register before it mistakes, enabling trustworthy inventory This wide spread uptake of our software and service is removed from our office space. Thus we have an accounting and providing constant actionable new ideas and leading collaborative excellent overview of our waste throughout the in Iceland shows increased awareness and focus on information on performance; climate topics in Iceland. efforts with businesses, universities, year. We work continuously on improving our software so • provision of key performance information to the the elementary and primary school Energy that we can cover more data sources, extend data responsible leaders and authorities in a system, authorities and civil We buy our electricity and hot water through our collection capacity, enhance the dashboard and transparent, reliable and efficient manner, landlord. They are both 100% renewable (the hot keep user interaction simple. aligned with the Paris Agreement (COP 21). partners to develop sustainable water is geothermal water). future. The fuel we use is limited as we use an EV car as Using our software, users can create their Environmental and Sustainability Statements in a much as possible. standardized and transparent way. GRI: 302-1; 302-2; 302-4 Page 11 Social impact We love to bring key environmental, We bring people together through Klappir contributes to local communities We participate in discussions about climate topics and NGOs and helps fuel their work. Our when asked, and we participated in the TV program social, governance and economic software, services, methodologies Kveikur which focused on public education on NGO activity is focused on supporting components to the level of general and our NGO activities climate change. (ICAP: D27) Iceland´s Climate Action Plan (ICAP)1 know-how and understanding for The software products developed and provided by We have already standardized our method of Klappir is a member of Festa, the Icelandic Centre making “Green accounting” with our software and each and everyone and for all Klappir are interconnected through our Klappir for Corporate Social Responsibility3. It is a methodology, (ICAP: D31) and we can now deliver Core-Platform which directs and shares the generations. These components analytical information with selected stakeholders membership-based not-for-profit association which data to the Environmental Agency. need to act in co-ordination toward and partners. allows any organization in Iceland to become a Auðlindatorgið (Resources Forum) owned by the member. We signed the Festa and the City of sustainable development into the In 2018, we served more than 200 customers – a Environmental Agency of Iceland is now installed on Reykjavík declaration committing 104 Icelandic number which is expected to grow in the coming our Klappir Core Platform, and we provide future. companies to the objectives of the Paris necessary software to support it. years both locally and internationally. Agreement. (ICAP: B12 to B17) Our main impact is based on our We established offices in the UK and Lithuania, We support Landvernd in their initiative to improve We made a web portal for Nasdaq Iceland to collect ESG data provided through our software. state-of-the-art software solutions, signed a global partnership agreement with children’s understanding of sustainability. To do this, ChartCo, a leading global software provider to the Landvernd works with the schools and communities our services and our unique maritime industry and established an office in In 29 November 2018, Klappir received an award around Iceland. (ICAP: D26) methodology, which together Lithuania together with Hof in Iceland. from Festa and the City of Reykjavík for its We work with Kolviður2 to enlarge their customer innovative environmental approach. connect businesses, regions and We are co-operating with The Environmental network through our platform. They are now able authorities in a system similar to a Agency of Iceland, the Icelandic Transport to sell tree-planting directly to our customers Authorities and the Coast Guard of Iceland on through our platform. (ICAP: C18) single unified eco-system. developing software to support businesses in sharing legal information on a digital format. This We work with Votlendissjóður (e. wetland recovery No one can solve sustainability we do to improve the efficiency of sharing and fund) and are one of the founding member. They challenges alone. Therefore we are controlling that information. will be able to sell their services through our platform. (ICAP: C20) proud of connecting people, their We are one of the proud founders of HAFIÐ – The Icelandic Centre of Excellence for Sustainable Use and businesses and authorities into a Conservation of the Ocean. Our CEO is the Chair of 1.https://www.government.is/library/Files/Icelands%20n single force, focused on improving HAFIÐ. ew%20Climate%20Action%20Plan%20for%202018%2020 their sustainability and our 30.pdf community through reliable data 2. http://kolvidur.is/the-kolvidur-fund/ 3. https://festasamfelagsabyrgd.is/english/ provided by our software. Page 12 Employees Our clear and transparent ethical standards serve as the foundation for our work culture and create an environment in which our employees can do their best work. • We are a strong team of three generations which combines a modern approach with solid experience of business success. • We are building a substantial knowledge base with software, finance, engineering, policy, law and computing. • We are entrepreneurs who have extensive experience and knowhow in the environmental and technology sector. GRI: 102-16; 102-17 The Klappir Team Page 13 Policies, related to employees Human rights and labour practices Equal opportunity and diversity Health and safety at Klappir Anti-Corruption Klappir respects human rights and freedom of According to Icelandic law, Klappir is not obliged to Klappir complies with Icelandic legislation in Act Klappir complies with Icelandic financial legislation association in accordance with Icelandic legislation make an equality plan because the company has 46/1980 on working conditions, hygiene and safety (Act 19/1940) and with international standards on and supports people’s pursuit of physical and fewer than 25 employees. Nevertheless the in the workplace. We have a comprehensive health bribery and corruption. psychological health, fair treatment, acceptable and company has established in accordance with Act policy with a health care plan as laid down in the Klappir has zero tolerance for corrupt activities and favourable working conditions and equal rights. no. 10/​2008 on Equal Status and Equal Rights of act. has begun incorporating formal policies into the Women and Men, including comparable wages for We support the fight against all discrimination, This policy will be introduced to the employees in company’s code of conduct related to anti-bribery the same or equally valuable jobs, so that no gender violence against women, children and old people the spring of 2019 and published on the company’s and anti-corruption expectations for company related pay-gaps exist within the company. We and we will fight against degrading and inhuman website. employees and representatives. strive to hire women as well as men in all positions treatment of people everywhere. in the company, and we look for ways to reach out Furthermore, an evaluation of suppliers will take Work-related illnesses and injuries are registered, to women IT professionals. Salaries of females and place in early 2019; a suppliers’ code of conduct will Klappir has not violated human rights and does not including inflammation, headaches, back injuries or males in the company, in comparable jobs, are follow in 2019. The company is aware of the know of any violations in its value chain. The stress-related diseases. Two employees were equal. At Klappir, we have had employees with importance of responsible and ethical procurement company expects general respect for human rights registered sick due to stress in 2018. reduced working capacity and we will, according to and is writing it´s procurement policy. in its value chain and will react appropriately if any our Human Rights Policy, continue to offer jobs to The company respects family perspectives and These policies will be implemented during 2019 violation is discovered. disabled people. offers support for employees’ family lives. We have along with various related procedures. They will be No children work directly or indirectly for Klappir. If written a family policy which will be presented and published on Klappir’s website. the company becomes aware of the possibility that published in early 2019. forced labour can be found in its value chain, then it Klappir complies with legislation (Law no. 95/2000 Remuneration will look closely into any such occurrences. on birth and parental leave/vacation), which is incorporated in both the health and family policies. Klappir’s Remuneration Policy is based on a longterm vision of healthy operation regarding salaries and other payments to employees, members of the board, directors, compliance officers and accountants. The company’s goal is an annual revision of remuneration. High percentage of men in Klappir Klappir strives to recruit women as well as men in every available job within the company, however considerably fewer job 75% 25% applications are received from women compared with men, especially for IT positions. This is a matter of concern for us and we will continue the work on finding ways to attract the attention of women and to encourage them to apply for jobs. GRI: 102-16; 102-17 | N: S2;S4 N: S10;S6;S11;S9 N: S8;S7 N: G6;G5;G7 Page 14 Product highlights Klappir Core Klappir gives its customers a critical We have unique experience in working with Our Klappir Core solution is a software platform that Report Editor: The Report Editor keeps track of of edge by giving them software tools clients on environmental challenges. Our collects and processes environmental data. The data reports and management plans. As example it warehouse is part of Klappir Core. Klappir Core has includes the Environmental and ESG statements as and services to improve their methodology is robust and has proven to the following software components: well as MRV and SEEMP management plans and the environmental performance. be effective and successful. We understand ISO 14001 framework. Environmental Dashboard: The Dashboard gives an both the problems that arise when Together with our customers, we are overall view of the environmental metrics. App Store: The App store is where users can buy developing sustainable processes and the Emissions are divided into Scopes 1, 2 and 3 and enable new applications the work on the building up a solid and reliable requirements made by public authorities, according to the Greenhouse Gas Protocol. Other Klappir Core platform. infrastructure for sustainability in which makes us a valuable partner. environmental metrics (waste, energy, water, paper Market Place: The Market Place is for applications etc.) are presented as monthly use or as regions where companies and the Our services enable our clients to form timestamped transactions. that are specially developed to sell services and products, including sales of fossil fuels, electricity, regional governments work together processes for minimizing their tree planting, etc. Companies can promote and sell to improve the overall sustainability environmental footprint. This involves Asset Framework: The Asset Framework maintains their services on the Klappir Marketplace. methodologies for monitoring emissions a complete overview of the assets which deliver of the region. emissions, waste, use energy etc. The software and waste to create baselines for future makes it possible to link together meters measuring We understand that no company measurements based on a sound environmental load with the asset itself. The Asset can solve sustainability challenges knowledge of existing and upcoming Manager (APP) is built into the framework. alone, therefore we support our environmental legislation and regulations Data Framework: The Data Framework manages all that clients need to comply with. data collection from each asset and from the supply Each of our products is delivered in different versions customers through cooperation, that are not fully described in this report. The chain. It includes data analytics functions an both problem solving and sharing ideas. automatic and manual data collection functionality. versions are most often Standard – Plus – Premium. These versions includes different features and are Our software and services are built User Framework: The User Framework manages therefore priced differently. user access to different levels of the software. to create collective wisdom and a Users within a company have different levels of common and uniform understanding access to applications and software modules. of sustainability. File Cabinet: The File Cabinet stores and distributes documents between stakeholders. All documents created by Klappir software can be stored in the File Cabinet. The main functionality of the File Cabinet is to share documents between stakeholders and throughout the supply chain. Page 15 Klappir Software Apps General for all sectors Maritime and Fishing sector Automotive sector Klappir Environmental Manager: This App activates Klappir ShipComply Klappir Datadrive Klappir PortMaster the Klappir Core features and creates a complete Includes a number of software tools to support ship (vehicle fleet management) Software to create a communications link between Environmental Management System. The main compliance with legislation such as IMO MARPOL Includes products for fleet management of landship and port and port to Environmental Agency interface to the environmental manager is the and EU-MRV. This solution includes eRecordBooks based vehicles (cars, trucks and other mobile and Coast Guard. Information generated by Klappir Environmental Dashboard. for MARPOL Annex I –VI, analytical tools for data devices). The main functionality of Klappir Datadrive eRecord books and SafeSeanet is transmitted from quality and a reporting tool. Additional modules lies in improving fleet performance, tracking fuel Klappir Asset Manager: This App activates the ship to shore. include voyage reporting and environmental usage, driving range and other important Assets Framework in Klappir Core. By that the management plans. operational functions such as off-road tracking, software gives open access to the assets and Klappir Eimskip Carbon Calculator possibility to group assets and link them to Klappir ShipMaster Is software to calculate CO2 emissions from information on weather on roads and services on responsible departments. Includes tools to optimize a ship’s operation in seaborne transport. the vehicle. relation to energy and emissions. The software is Klappir Data Manager: This App activates the Data built to improve the ship’s energy efficiency. Klappir ShipBunker Klappir IoT-Vehicle Framework in Klappir Core. By that the user get Software to order bunkers for ships. It is directly A meter to install in a vehicle to collect operational access to a number of data providers in their value Klappir ShipEfficiency linked to the MARPOL Annex I software and ensures data. In addition, companies can buy and chain. The users also get access to tools to add Software for on-board logging of operational data, a transparent and reliable order process with implement additional software and hardware to manual data into the software. Both automatic data including DailyLog and VoyageLog as well as Voyage control of quality, amount and price. It also includes send data over WiFi. Collected data is streamed collection and manual is quality controlled by the Reports balance and control functions between MARPOL automatically to Klappir Datadrive. App. Klappir ShipInspector Annex I and the order. Klappir User Manager: This App activates the user Software to follow and analyse the data logged in management system. Klappir eRecod books. Aviation sector Waste sector Klappir Report Manager: This App activates the Klappir MRV Report Editor. The Report Manager has number of An app that includes the framework for EU-MRV Klappir Environmental Manager This app activates Klappir Toolbox standardized reports like MRV, ESG. documentation for ships with documents which can all the Klappir Core features as described and (work order management) be aligned to different types of ships. creates a complete Environmental Management A toolbox for truck workload management with a Klappir System Manager: This app provides a System for Aviation. module for collective use of fleet cars. framework for ISO 14001 documents. It creates a Klappir DCS. standardized structure for the documents and An app that includes a framework for SEEMP plans Klappir Icelandair Carbon Calculator Klappir IoT Waste simplifies ISO 14001 work. and procedures. The included templates can be Software to calculate the CO2 emissions for aviation Software App to connect IoT weight system. The aligned to different types of ships. The app also (people and transport). software keeps track of the weighting of waste into includes reports for the IMO. garbage bins (sorted and unsorted). Page 16 Targets and action plan 2015 to 2021 Impact goals Actions 2015 2021 Progress to target Our base year is 2015. We lined up our environmental baseline target % goals for 2015 to 2030. We also set up a short-term goal Own carbon reduction/FTEe for 2015 to 2021. We have already reached 80% of this target. We Reduce our Scope 1 emission Use only EV cars for own use, such as services. 100 % use gasoline/diesel cars only when driving out of Reykjavik, otherwise we use EV cars. Use 100% LED lights in our office space and reduce Reduce our Scope 2 emissions 20% This will be carried out in 2020. the use of hot water for heating. Try to keep our business travel to a minimum and invest in video-meeting equipment. Our employees We will invest in carbon offset projects to offset Reduce our Scope 3 emissions 10% use EV and hybrid cars, a car pool and buses as Scope 3 emissions. much as possible. Change the way we provide food, which will reduce We will work with our landlord to change the Reduce generation of waste and get better plastic and food waste. This will mostly be carried 20% space for waste to improve transparency of space for waste. out in 2020. collections. Impact by own products and services Expand our operation both on a regional level We have established offices in Lithuania and the Strengthen regional and global activity (regional partners) and on an international level 5 projects 75% UK and finalised a partnership agreement with (international partners). ChartCo. We have acquired Ark Technology and Datadrive, Further expand and strengthen our Further strengthen our software product portfolio which brings us products to optimise vehicle 5 projects 50% software product portfolio and services. fleet management along with compliance software for ships. Increase our ability to connect to IoT sensors and We have already connected to IoT system on Extend our software with IoT solutions 4 projects 75% extend our software and services. waste, electricity and WiFi. Engagement Work with the Icelandic Coast Guard, Environmental This is work in progress. We enjoy excellent Agency and the Port Authorities. Also establish solid cooperation with governmental agencies, the Work with NGOs and governmental cooperation with NGOs providing Carbon Offset 10 projects 30% Coast Guard, Kolviður and Votlendissjóð. Our agencies to expand the eco-platform (planting trees and wetland). Expand our support of cooperation with Faxaflóahafnir is also very Hafið. good. Be a voice on sustainability and support Participate in public discussions on climate and We participate in public discussions and in 2 projects 40% capacity building provide excellent knowledge on the topic. supporting capacity building when needed. Page 17 Klappir materiality assessment ESG GHG UNGC GRI Impact issues (topic) (topic) (topic) (topic) High-impact issues Issues that are likely to impact our company and our employees due Our approach to sustainability is focussed on what environmental, to business, environmental and/or social behaviour. social and governance issues are material to our business. Competitive behaviour / professional / ethics * * * Employee well-being / development Our materiality assessment identifies and describes areas of our impact. This information shapes Economic / financial * our sustainability strategy and helps us to prioritise our activity. In this sustainability assessment, we focus on our sustainability impact through our products and our work with our customers, the Customer welfare community and strategic partners. Product quality / R&D / data privacy * We use the following reporting frameworks to identify and report on material Customer service and support issues: Energy * * * * Public stakeholders and strategic partners • Nasdaq ESG framework Medium-impact issues • Greenhouse Gas Protocol Issues that may not impact our company directly but may impact our strategic partners. • UN Global Compact Marketing and communication * • The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Supply chain management Employee rights * (see also Reporting method on page 3) Emissions * * Low-impact issues We do not attempt to formally use one of the systems provided by UN Global Compact (UNGC), Issues that may not have significant direct impact on our company or Nasdaq (N), or Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Instead we have a standardized methodology strategic partners. that enables us to use all definitions in the context of a single report and attached statement. We Water consumption * * * * deliver our reports and statements as follows: Diversion of waste * * * * To Nasdaq and UN Global Compact we deliver the Sustainability Statement with relevant inventory accounting and the Sustainability Report built on the statement. The Sustainability Statement is generated by our Klappir Core software. Page 18 Risks (2° Celsius scenario) Potential results Risk analyses and opportunities Our products and services are partly dependent on the policy and implementation of environmental legislation. It is expected that policy Transition > Policy and legal changes may happen at a different times across different geographical areas. The United Nations has for decades been leading an This is clear for instance in oceanic services, where Our focus over the next 3-5 years is on Europe and therefore we do not international consensual program by setting goals port authorities and the shipping industry in general anticipate meaningful negative impact. for sustainable development and combatting are operating with new environmental regulations. Our business uses more that 98% renewable energy and our global activity climate change. By doing so, it provides a necessary The IMO (International Maritime Organization) has runs through geographically located partners, therefore we are able to framework for all communities – large and small – set the first ever world and sector-wide limits on > Technology minimize our business trips. Increased costs of business trips will have to take individual actions. Every year the emissions, and the EU implemented Measure, minimum negative impact on our operation. Convention of Parties (COP) is held with Report and Validate (MRV) legislation for shipping in Our clients core from different business and public sectors. Businesses which participation of 195 countries. 2017 along with preparation for MRV legislation relay on fossil fuels will meet new challenges that can change their business covering the fuel consumption and CO2 emissions of > Market environment. We expect this will increase those companies’ costs, but at the In COP 21 in Paris 2015, all the participants signed heavy duty vehicles. same time their sharpen their focus on improved sustainability. to the Paris Agreement committed to holding the increase in the global average temperature to well The EU Emission Trading Scheme (EU ETS) has an Even in the absence of policies to promote a low-carbon economy, Klappir will continue to develop and promote its software solutions. Many of the below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and to pursue annual procedure of monitoring, reporting and > Reputation policies and legislation needed for promotion of our solutions are already in efforts to limit the temperature increase to 1.5°C. verification (MRV) which, together with all the place or will be implemented in the near future. associated processes, is known as the ETS The 195 participants will continue to develop ways Businesses may experience losses in productivity or working days due to compliance cycle. Industrial installations and aircraft to live up to their commitments, such as gathering severe weather events. Businesses harvesting natural resources may operators covered by the EU ETS are required to Physical > Acute experience losses due to changes in sea levels or temperatures and and sharing information on greenhouse gas have an approved monitoring plan for monitoring acidification of the sea. Our services are focused on 10 major sectors (see emissions, national policies and optimal practices. and reporting annual emissions. This plan is also page 4). COP 22 was held in Marrakech in Morocco in the part of the permit to operate required for industrial The majority of businesses are not in areas that are stressed by extreme autumn 2016 with special focus on environmental installations. Every year, operators must submit > Chronic temperatures or lack of water. Changes in sea level and weather patterns accounting and transparency. an emissions report. and acidification of the sea can have an impact on our operation. And the world is changing accordingly with The Clean Air Act of the US environmental governments, international organizations and NGOs protection agency (EPA), which implements MRV Opportunities Timeline Potential results realizing the severity of problems directly related to regulations on industry in the US, will likely be increased pollution and climate change. This has Our clients operates assets such as ships, trucks and cars, offices, warehouses expanded to include ports, and transportation resulted in several initiatives from all parties. In and aircraft. Our products and services are developed to help users of our infrastructure. Products and services 0-5 years view of that, new laws and regulations are being software to minimise the environmental impact of their assets. pushed through which aim to drive down emissions The current and future trend is towards monitoring and waste. and verifying emissions as it is essential to More markets will need powerful tools to be able to make transparent and understand the situation at all times in order to take solid environmental accounting at low cost. effective action. As markets in the transport sector and industries harvesting natural recourses Markets 0-5 years become more volatile, the need for sustainability high-quality transparent data will probably increase. At the same time, the need for information on http://ec.europa.eu/clima/policies/transport/shipping/index_en.htm; sustainable performance will also probably increase. http://ec.europa.eu/clima/consultations/articles/0031_en.htm http://ec.europa.eu/clima/policies/ets/monitoring/index_en.htm Page 19 Sustainability progress 2018 Our sustainability progress in numbers is Environmental impact Social impact Sustainable governance presented in our attached Sustainability From 2015 (our base year) our emissions have been Our social impact continue to grow, mainly due to In 2018, continued our work with our stakeholders Statement. reduced compared to 2015 (See our ESG fast increase in users of our software. In 2018, we and will continue into the future. Statement). started to introduce our maritime software (the We will continue developing our policies and align The report refers to content about our business, MARPOL package) toward international maritime Our main KPI is our carbon intensity per full time our policies toward the growth of the company. We environmental and social issues that have a direct companies together with our strategic maritime employee (FTEe). We count all people working in are listed on Nasdaq and we work within their and significant impact on our company, employees, partner ChartCo. the company influencing our emissions. framework regarding disclosure of information and stakeholders and business partners. It also includes We also started to distribute our environmental communication with shareholders. issues that we have a unique opportunity to Waste software for retail businesses in Lithuania. Our first influence. These issues are identified in our Klappir is located in a building in the center of customer was IKEA. To further follow up on the materiality assessment, which we conducted in Reykjavik. This means we are not able to track the market we established a regional company in 2018. waste from our bins. Therefore we are not able to Lithuania together with Hof in Iceland. count how much waste is recycled. To se our sustainability progress, see financial We will continue our work in Iceland with all the Business travel statement and our ESG statement. Here are our different stakeholders (see Social Impact on page In 2018 we have few business trips out of Iceland. main results in 2018: 10) we are already working with to improve the Majority of the trips are linked to the partnership environmental digital infrastructure in Iceland. contract with ChartCo and establishing Klappir Lithuania. Locally we only use EV cars within the Financial impact city of Reykjavik. Outside Reykjavik we use Hybrid Based on the success of our products and solutions (EV/gasoline) car, methane or diesel. Klappir continue to grow. Energy (fuel, power and heat) Investment in sustainability: We invest all our Our share of renewable energy is 97%. income in further enhancing our environmental software and develop new products. We also invest Paper management Global awareness in our company sustainability by increasing use of Our total amount of printed paper was in 2017 from Sustainability will not be viewed as a painful cost of doing business , instead companies will build renewables instead of fossil fuel and buy carbon 36.822 in the year 2017 to 13.391 pages. This bridges between their sustainability processes and operational improvements. Increased neutralization through Kolviður. decline in printing is because we stopped producing environmental awareness is an economical fact. Businesses will both respond to existing environmental printed manuals for ships. All manuals are now rules and regulations and also anticipate what is coming up on the legislative agenda and make digital. themselves able to comply as fast and efficiently as possible. “Harvard Business Review” GRI: 102-9; 102-11; 204-1; 301-23; 306-2 Austurstræti 17 101 Reykjavík, Ísland Phone: + 354 519 3800 service@klappir.com www.klappir.com
