42 De La Rue Annual Report and Accounts 2019 Responsible business De La Rue’s mission is to We continue to focus on running provide products and services our business sustainably, ensuring Environment that underpin the integrity that alongside a clear Environmental of trade, personal identity Policy, wellbeing, human rights and and the movement of goods, labour rights are protected in our supporting economic growth, customer solutions as well as within job creation and prosperity our business and its supply chain. of citizens. Further information about the ways As we strive to enable everyone in which De La Rue as a business to participate securely in the supports a fairer, more prosperous global economy, a commitment and secure future is available on Read more on protecting the environment pages 43-45. to responsible business practices our website www.delarue.com is crucial. Membership of the United Martin Sutherland Nations Global Compact helps to Chief Executive Officer ensure that governance and ethics remain at the heart of the products Human Rights and services we provide and I am proud to reaffirm our commitment to the UN Global Compact and its principles. Read more on human rights pages 45-47. I am proud to reaffirm our commitment to the Labour Rights UN Global Compact. Read more on labour rights pages 48-49. Anti-Corruption Further information about the ways in which De La Rue as a business supports a fairer, more prosperous and secure future is available on our website Read more on anti-corruption www.delarue.com page 49. Strategic Report 43 We are committed to minimising, as Protecting the environment far as is appropriate, the impact of We aim to minimise risk and our impact aiming towards zero to landfill in the UK, a our operations on the environment. on the environment while ensuring the move towards science based goals where We set clear environmental goals sustainability of the products we offer possible; commitment to a Group HSE and report against them each year. and the future of our manufacturing sites. Sustainability policy and maintaining We share our commitment and ISO 14001 certification. Our research standards with our suppliers We continue to participate in the Carbon and development function reviews and and partners. Disclosure Project, a global disclosure assesses environmental impacts of new system for investors, companies, cities, products being developed according to states and regions to manage their our technical manual and we provide our environmental impacts, and work with customers with the opportunity to recycle our customers to reduce environmental our Safeguard polymer notes with Yes impacts together. In addition to the Recycling Ltd as an alternative to landfill case studies on pages 44 and 45, examples or incineration. of our environmental stewardship include: We fully support the principles set out in the UN Declaration of Human Rights and the guidelines of the International Labour Organisation, Delivering against objectives including equal opportunity and Progress against 2018/19 environmental objectives are detailed below: freedom from discrimination. Objective Progress To measure key environmental KPIs in Achieved. See 2019/20 objectives below. the changed business during the year to enable the business to set science based targets that are realistic for the next two to three years. To review all products and main Partially achieved. Banknote products processes, identifying all significant have been reviewed and work is Our Modern Slavery Transparency carbon impacts in order to drive an continuing on remaining processes. policy details how we comply with investment and change programme. the Modern Slavery Act 2015. We are committed to preventing slavery and To review our supply chain in order Some progress has been made but human trafficking in our operations to improve our sustainable procurement there is work still to be done. and reduce carbon impact. and in our supply chain. We work closely with main suppliers and To include Sri Lanka and Kenya in Due to the different legal entities it is not contractors to ensure that their health our ISO14001:2015 Group Certification possible to include Sri Lanka and Kenya and safety processes are robust. by the end of 2019. in the Group certification. However, the sites are operating within the Group Environmental Management System and standards alongside local arrangements. Our goals/objectives for 2019/20 are: We are committed to preventing • an absolute energy reduction target of -2.1% per year until 2021 our employees, third party partners, (set on a science based trajectory) other representatives, contractors, • to track our sustainability KPI at operational sites of energy used consultants or other third parties from (kWh) per tonne of good output against a target of -5% per annum engaging in bribery or other corrupt practices and implement a robust • to improve our waste segregation and recycling/reuse options framework of anti-bribery policies for our polymer waste streams and processes. • to roll out further education on environmental awareness to >80% of operational employees across the Group 44 De La Rue Annual Report and Accounts 2019 Responsible business continued Greenhouse gas emissions year on year comparison for FY 2018/19 2018-19 2017-18* % Difference Type of emissions Activity tCO2 e % of total tCO2e % of total in emissions Direct (Scope 1) Natural gas 2,558 7.1 2,702 7.0 (5) Other fuels 390 1.1 547 1.4 (29) Process emissions 1,496 4.2 1,197 3.1 25 Fugitive emissions 0.1 0.0 373 1.0 (100) Owned vehicles 103 0.3 99 0.3 4 Subtotal 4,547 12.7 4,919 12.7 (8) Indirect (Scope 2) Electricity 20,054 56.0 19,390 50.1 3 Subtotal 20,054 56.0 19,390 50.1 3 Indirect other (Scope 3) Rail travel 5 0 5 0.0 (7) Air travel 5,052 14.1 6,961 18.0 (27) Non-owned vehicles 93 0.3 0 0.0 – Water 94 0.3 125 0.3 (25) WTT all scopes 5,985 16.7 7,264 18.8 (18) Subtotal 11,229 31.4 14,355 37.1 (22) Total gross emissions (tCO2e) 35,830 38,665 (7) Renewable electricity (tCO2e) 0 0 – Electricity exported to grid (tCO2e) 0 0 – Total net emissions (tCO2e) 35,830 38,665 (7) Intensity metric 2018-19 2017-18* % Difference Total gross emissions (tCO2e) 35,830 38,665 (7) Total net emissions (tCO2e) 35,830 38,665 (7) Revenue (£m) 516.6 461.4 12 Tonnes of gross CO2e per million GB £ turnover 69 84 (17) Tonnes of net CO2e per million GB £ turnover 69 84 (17) * 2017/18 figures have been restated to exclude Overton mill and Bathford mill following the sale of Portals De La Rue. The numbers have been re-based following good practice. Carbon offsetting events Methodology: The table and the We regularly take part in events around the world, which involves significant calculations have been created using travel. In order to reduce the impact the IEA 2017 emission factors for power of these activities on the environment, we have agreed to offset all travel and and DEFRA 2018 for all other emission accommodation cost for our delegates factors, and comply with DEFRA and exhibitors at these events. mandatory greenhouse gas Working with Carbon Footprint Ltd, reporting guidelines. De La Rue has estimated savings of 268 tonnes of CO2 – which is the equivalent of around 29 homes’ energy use in a year or the CO2 emissions of 30,156 gallons of gasoline. We support three international carbon-offsetting projects, each of which will have a positive impact in the community: a tree project in Kenya, a drinking water programme in Uganda and the Wayang Windu Geothermal power initiative in Indonesia – all locations where De La Rue attended events throughout the year, so directly giving back to the local community. Strategic Report 45 Human Rights We fully support the principles set out in the UN Declaration of Human Rights, in particular with regard to equal opportunity and freedom from discrimination. We have effective management systems in place to protect human rights. Our Code of Business Principles (see our Corporate Governance report on page 71) covers human rights issues including employment principles, health and safety, anti-bribery and corruption and the protection of personal information. The Code also highlights that we seek to provide an environment where employees can raise any concerns via a variety of mechanisms, including a whistleblowing hotline known as ‘CodeLine’ which is managed by an external third party, and a network of Ethics Champions across the Group where issues can be raised in confidence. A global awareness programme is planned for 2019/20 to promote CodeLine. The business has remedial processes in place should there be any human Energy saving awareness rights infringements. These include Energy efficiency in the workplace cuts costs, energy consumption and giving practical advice claims procedures and trade union improves competitiveness and helps to safeguard on energy saving measures for the workplace engagement procedures. profits and employment. It also reduces our impact and home. on the environment by reducing carbon dioxide The initiative included presentations by Equality and diversity emissions, helping to combat climate change. representatives from the ‘Energy and Water During the year, De La Rue Malta launched ‘DLR Agency’ a governmental agency that specialises We treat our employees fairly and equally Unplugged’, an energy awareness campaign to in the drafting and implementation of national irrespective of their gender, transgender improve understanding amongst employees on our policies on water and energy. status, sexual orientation, religion or belief, marital status, civil partnership status, age, colour, nationality, national origin, disability Gateshead clean water initiative or trade union affiliation. Our commitment Our Gateshead site has partnered with Hydro to achieving an inclusive and diverse Industries Ltd, a water technology start up in workforce can be demonstrated by Wales to see if they could help find a way to the following initiatives and activities: minimise the chemicals needed to clean the effluent and recover as much purified water as possible. • By working with our recruitment partner Following a successful week long trial, Hydro Industries designed a custom made solution Optamor we have introduced changes for the Gateshead plant and signed a £500,000 to our recruitment process, which seeks contract with De La Rue to support them in reducing to remove bias. For example, CVs are wastewater. This will be done by installing a reverse osmosis unit, which recycles the waste and splits it now provided to our managers absent from the clean water. Half of the clean water will of details not relevant for the role, such be put back into the effluent water treatment plant which dilutes the chemicals needed for the process, as gender and name. By working with making it less damaging to the environment and Optamor we are also starting to see a reducing costs. The other half will go back to richness of management information Northumbrian Water for wider consumption. allowing us to assess our talent The new technology will be installed by summer 2019 and, once fully operational, staff at the acquisition process and start plant will be trained to operate and maintain it. using data to inform decisions If the new project is successful there is potential for it to be rolled out at other De La Rue sites. 46 De La Rue Annual Report and Accounts 2019 Responsible business continued As at the end of this financial year, International the percentage was 25%. Women’s Day Every manager and employee has In March 2019 events were responsibility for the implementation held at some of our sites to celebrate International of our inclusivity policy and training Women’s Day. The theme is provided to newly appointed line this year was ‘Balance for Better’ and provided managers in inclusivity and associated an opportunity to raise the policies and procedures such as profile of gender issues stress management, grievance across the Group. and anti‑harassment. Engagement On a regular basis we conduct global employee surveys. Our most recent survey was launched in April 2019. The results will be analysed and action plans • Following the successful launch of This was higher than in 2017, but the created through employee workshops. unconscious bias training last year, open bonus gap of -2.25% (mean) or 22.88% These plans will be closely monitored sessions across the organisation have (median) has decreased. Analysis, by the Executive Leadership Team. continued. We have also provided an however, has shown us that these We work closely with the relevant trade infographic on unconscious bias that is differences are primarily due to two main unions, employee forums and other accessible to all employees. We view this organisational reasons not linked to our employee representatives and report to all training as a key step in developing an Inclusion and Diversity strategy. Firstly, employees the outcomes of these meetings. inclusive culture but acknowledge that at the end of FY17/18 De La Rue sold the true value comes from exploring our 90% of its shareholding in the Group’s We communicate all relevant news, organisational biases and putting in place paper business to Epiris and retained the business and financial updates. To do action plans to remove any barriers remaining 10% shareholding. This change this we hold regular town hall meetings, of ownership meant that c500 employees conduct conference calls, update our • We continue to celebrate diversity and transferred out of De La Rue to Portals intranet and screens in communal areas, our Women’s Networks have gained in March 2018. Significantly a larger send email announcements and publish momentum. Networks have been percentage of males, particularly in the monthly site news updates. These are established at our head office site as lower two pay quartiles, transferred out adapted to the audience, whether all staff, well as in Sri Lanka and Westhoughton compared to females; this decrease in UK a country, a site or department. During and a number of events have taken employee numbers changed the overall the year we have continued to develop place this year, providing both men male/female pay ratio and also our gender a standardised approach to employee and women with the opportunity to pay gap. Secondly, individuals in roles communications and engagement across hear external speakers, create informal covered by our collective bargaining our sites, coordinating campaigns where networks with colleagues and to agreement received a lump sum as possible. Examples include National discuss and debate topical issues part of the 2017 pay settlement. These Apprenticeship week in the UK and relating to inclusion. De La Rue uses payments are included in the bonus International Women’s Day. Each site Insights profiling which helps our data and consequently show that a high organises its own social events including employees to understand themselves proportion of our employees received a family days and local celebration events and the teams that they work within. bonus during the year. It should be noted and most have an employee forum. This enables employees to recognise that this payment was unique to 2017 and Our global employee recognition scheme, the value of diversity of thought and if we remove this payment from the data, High Five, launched in August 2015 and communication style and improve their the mean and median bonus gap are in February 2019 the 100,000th High ability to communicate with others more in line with the 2017 figures. Five was celebrated. In 2019 we will hold • We continue to embed our flexible our fourth annual ‘Above and Beyond’ working policies and implement We continue to strive towards improving employee awards event, recognising the them whenever possible the proportion of women in senior roles, most outstanding contributions to the which we believe to be the underlying business from across the organisation. Our long term commitment to eliminate reason behind our gap. To reflect any pay gap remains. As at 5 April 2018 our ratio between males and females In line with the 2018 Corporate Governance our gender pay gap was 15.37% (mean) overall in the UK, we aim to increase Code, the Board has appointed a or 17.47% (median). the proportion of women within our Non-executive Director responsible senior leadership to 30% by 2020. for engagement with the workforce. Strategic Report 47 Gender diversity as at 30 March 2019 Training and development Community Employees A new learning system called ‘Venture’ We take pride in supporting many launched at the end of the year and is varied local charities. This includes being made available to all employees the De La Rue Advanced Partnership globally. In its first phase we have programme, focused on building a encouraged people to explore the content lasting footprint in a country through a and make suggestions about what they programme of sustainability, education, want to see on the system. We have training and enterprise development. set up small groups to design content Through our relationship with Rwanda that is relevant to different functions, Aid we have helped to fund business demonstrating how knowledge sharing development for new start ups; giving Male 1,929 across the business can be facilitated. them a small amount of investment that Female 853 The content on the system will continue enables them to take themselves to the to grow and our ambition is to enable next level of sustainability and business Senior Management learners to own their own development success. In order to qualify, the start by mapping content to career paths. ups had to have been trading for a Face to face training globally has been set period of time and achieved certain ongoing throughout the year and will basic goals and also produce a continue as part of a blended learning thorough business plan for evaluation. approach. Examples of face to face Our employees around the world continue training include unconscious bias to engage with their local communities via awareness sessions across the fundraising activities or giving their time business to help our people understand to contribute to projects in their local area. more about themselves and how they For example, our Malta site has supported can reinforce inclusivity through their Male 29 several charities including ‘Beyond the actions, storytelling, presenting with Female 9 Moon’, a charity which offers holidays charisma, influencing and stakeholder to seriously ill children and their families. management skills. Executive Management The site also supported World Down With the apprenticeship levy in the Syndrome Day and a team of volunteers UK opening up an increasing number helped with the refurbishment of a of opportunities for our employees children’s home. to develop their skills and experience, we now have around 40 colleagues participating in apprenticeship schemes across all of our UK sites. Apprenticeships currently being undertaken include accounting, engineering, machine printing, Male 5 lean improvement, as well as team Female 2 leader, management and senior leader apprenticeships to support management development at every level of our organisation. Nearly half of these apprenticeships are at level 5 (foundation degree level) or above, demonstrating that apprenticeships can support everyone at any stage in their development, not just new starters or those just embarking on their career. 48 De La Rue Annual Report and Accounts 2019 Responsible business continued Labour Rights We directly employ over 2,800 people and provide livelihoods to thousands more indirectly across our global supply Read more on chain. Our modern slavery statement www.delarue.com details the steps we take to eradicate the practice and suppliers are obliged to abide by the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child and International Labor Conventions 138 and 182. Improving health and safety and protecting people in our business is a priority. We insist on the highest health and safety standards and provide training across the organisation to ensure all employees understand and are aware of their responsibilities. During Mental health first aiders the year we have delivered over 2,000 During 2018 we introduced a team of normalise society’s attitudes and person days training. Our safety policies Mental Health First Aiders (MHFAs) to behaviours around mental health, by ensure accountability and engagement the business as part of a broader focus developing the skills needed to look on employee wellbeing and support. after our own and others’ wellbeing. throughout our business and with With over 40 qualified MHFAs located Mental health education empowers our suppliers. across our six UK sites, we are people to care for themselves and continuing to roll out a programme of others. By reducing stigma through Wellbeing awareness to the wider population and understanding, MHFA England hopes to provide additional training resources to break down barriers to the support that During the year our SAFE health and support our global sites. people may need to stay well, recover, safety initiative was updated to include or manage their symptoms – to thrive The De La Rue MHFA role is to provide in learning, work and life. mental heath issues, highlighting that additional support to employees and to understand and assist with any All line managers in Malta, one of our health at De La Rue includes both mental manufacturing sites, have completed potential mental health issues. They can and physical wellbeing. We have also listen and signpost employees to the the MHFA module under the MHFA Malta framework and we are exploring piloted mental health awareness training appropriate professional help should it appropriate opportunities for the rest be required. The team has been trained for our managers at head office. The case by MHFA England, whose vision is to of our business. study opposite gives more details about our network of mental health first aiders. Health and safety Objective Progress Progress against our 2018/19 To bring all the manufacturing sites Due to the different legal entities it is not possible objectives is detailed opposite: under the central OHSAS18001 to include Sri Lanka and Kenya in the Group certification. certification. However, the sites are operating in accordance with our Group manual and standards. To maintain a world class LTIFR per Achieved. Our LTIFR was <0.25. 200,000 worked hours of less than 0.6. To maintain our strong HSE training Achieved. delivery performance of over 2,000 person days per year. To achieve >92% of conformance 95% conformance was achieved. to our Zone ‘SAFE’ EHS inspections programmes. To cascade more certified Achieved. NEBOSH training has been completed (eg NEBOSH, IOSH) health and by 92% of those in the Delivery function identified safety training and deliver four for training. Ninety people across our sites have ‘SAFE’ training modules. completed IOSH training. ‘SAFE’ modules have been updated and issued to sites. Strategic Report 49 Anti-Corruption During the year, we experienced zero De La Rue are experts in delivering Tax Stamp Association provides us with prosecutions for infringing health and complex features and solutions that help platforms to drive positive changes in safety laws or regulations. All our main protect against crime and corruption. our industries towards the highest product manufacturing sites have maintained We are committed to preventing our and ethical standards. We will continue OHSAS18001 certification for their employees, third party partners, other to use our influence to push for further health and safety management systems, representatives, contractors, consultants transparency and accountability in following external audits by accredited or other third parties from engaging in our sector. providers. More details on our Company bribery or other corrupt practices and policies and procedures around health implement a robust framework of antiTransforming our sales and safety and wider labour rights can bribery policies and processes. partner remuneration be found on our website. We are now four years into a five year During the year the leadership group and programme to change the way our We have set the following new core personnel in customer facing roles sales partners are remunerated. Our aim objectives for health and safety and central functions completed an online is to reduce risk to the business while for 2019/20: affirmation that they understand their recognising all the work carried out by our obligations and continue to comply partners. A rolling Agent Transition Plan • To maintain our world class with our Code of Business Principles. is being implemented to change partner LTIFR per 200,000 worked hours of ≥0.25 BnEI remuneration as agreements become due for renewal. The majority of partners are • To maintain our strong HSE As the largest commercial security printer now engaged under the new scheme, training delivery performance of in the world, we take our responsibility which is based on the BnEI commitments. over 1,900 person days per year seriously. We recognise that our influence Work has started to define the next phase • To achieve ≥94% of conformance can help ensure that international of our partner management programme to our Zone ‘SAFE’ HSE standards and best practice become the as we drive to further improve our inspection programmes norm. Being a member of the Banknote anti-corruption credentials. Ethics Initiative (BnEI) as well as the • To ensure all operational line Secure Identity Alliance and International managers and process leaders are trained to IOSH Managing Safely, an equivalent, or higher qualification • To ensure our OHS management system meets all the requirements of the new international standard ISO45001:2018 (replacing OHSAH18001) Corporate culture and strategy The Board receives annual updates on corporate culture. For the first time our employee survey in 2019 included questions related to culture in order to inform and shape the culture of the organisation.
