July 31, 2019 UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COPACT COMMUNICATIONS OF Progress in 2019 Dear UN Global Compact Partners, We at Motorcraft Kenya Ltd have the pressure to affirm our commitment to United Nation Global Compact COP, and the 10 principles the pillars of Human Rights, Labour, and Environment & AntiCorruption that have become part of our pillars in our daily activities. It is our intent to continue practicing these principles and aim to influence our business partner’s participation for Global Human respect, care for our environment and the best ethical business practices We promised to renew our commitment I this endeavor now and in the future Yours Faith fully Wilson Murakaru CEO Motorcraft Kenya Ltd Human Rights  Motorcraft Kenya is an equal opportunity employer, we respect aspects of every Human Rights  Our core values recognizes that Humans Resources are valuable resources in our business  We respect every worker and provide for conducive working conditions with a friendly internal relations  We treat and respect all in the dignity they all deserve.  We practice employment regulations as much as defined by Kenya Government Labour Laws & Employment Act.  We communicate any changes affecting the employees directly to them or during the monthly CEO address forum  Every employee has annual Career Development guide with a detailed KPI, every employee is fairly appraised annually and the performance results & awards communicated immediately.  We have appraisal system which is a two way communication between appraise and appraiser, areas of concerns are jointly agreed within the best possible sense of fairness. Labour  We at Motorcraft do not engage in child Labour, nor do we engage in organization that employ minors. We do not involve ourselves in human trafficking or organization that practice these crimes.  We practice freedom of association by allowing employees to subscribe to union organisations.  Our policy is to allow every employee to work 40 Hours per week (8 Hours, per day from Monday to Friday) excluding public holidays, we do not force employees to work extra Hours/Days. Environment  We have an environment policy within the organisations which is displayed in Company offices in strategic positions, in addition every employee has a hand book on Health & Safety and Environment.  We encourage employee to care for environment around us and practice the same in the office.  Occasionally we participate in community environment clean up and tree planting exercises  We encourage employee to practice separate disposal of oils, plastics and paper materials in designated waste bins.  We occasionally engage consultants to conduct environmental pollution including noise, hazardous industrial waste levels, individual occupation and overall buildings ventilation Anti-Corruption  We carry out our business ethically and honestly, we have never bribed to secure tenders or favors, we encourage employees to speak out on any suspicious case of fraud or corruption. Business Processes Over the part one year we have incorporated best practices concepts in our operations This has changed the way have done our business, but improving our processes though Kaizen concept and also adoption the best practices benchmarking with international standards, key processes had involved  Clean working environment  Energy saving measures  Achievement of ISO 1400 Certification  Automated business process  Community welfare support activities  Occupational Health & Safety Prevention  Customers Relations Management & CSI  Waste management We have a dedicated Health & Safety and Environment Officer employed in our organization to oversee Health & Safety and Environment matters. All the above principles forms part of every employee KPI and all contained in employee’s handbook. Much has not changed but we have maintained to practice the above disciplines in our day to day business activities to ensure commitment, and responsibilities are sustained in all these practices
