1|Page UNGC COP REPORT 2019 STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT EMMANUELLE SPRIET CEO, E-VOYAGES GROUP The E-Voyages Group has gone through a major period of transition in 2018, and into 2019. The great news is that the important level of organisational change that was undertaken did not entirely stop us from carrying out actions to keep contributing to some of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals. The area where we were the most able to contribute this year is towards the environment, which we consider to be a priority. As CEO of the group, my personal commitment to keep incorporating sustainability within our business practices remains firm. There is strong buy-in for this commitment at managerial level. We view this as key to the continuing success of the execution of our continuing engagement. We have drawn a sustainability plan for the year 2019-2020. The plan keeps building up on the first steps we have undertaken in 2018. The focus of the forthcoming year is on the following 4 SDGs and has targets that we will be able to monitor the success on. 2019 / 2020 will also see some of our efforts directed towards becoming more vocal within our industry, so we can help further amplifying the core message of corporate sustainability. External transparency with a view to leading by example and encourage other enterprises to join similar initiatives, will be used to communicate a consistent message. Internal communication to provide practical tips to our stakeholders to help them choose to live their personal lives more sustainably is also an integral part of our plan going further. We are proud to be part of the United Nations Global Compact and look forward to a year of putting sustainability in our top list of priorities. EMMANUELLE SPRIET Chief Executive Officer E-Voyages Group E-Voyages C.O.P. 2019 19/04/19 2|Page UNGC COP REPORT 2019 KEY TARGETS Two years ago, we selected five objectives to dedicate ourselves to in order to carry out our commitment to the 10 principles of the Global Compact: • Human Rights • Labour Standards • Environment • Fight against corruption. As the first DMC in the UK to sign up to the UN Global Compact we take those objectives very seriously. Our five key targets for the year 2018 were the following: • Recycle and go green • Employees and workplace • Choosing suppliers • Transparency • Be an influential leader E-Voyages C.O.P. 2019 19/04/19 3|Page UNGC COP REPORT 2019 E-VOYAGES GROUP’S MISSION AND VALUES MISSION Our aim is to be the number one choice for the group travel trade to the United Kingdom and Ireland through partnerships, personalised customer service, expert knowledge and excellent value for money. VALUES We are proud of our TOP SERVICE values and work daily on maintaining them as well as sharing them with our peers and partners. TEAMWORK OWNERSHIP PROFESSIONALISM One company We take responsibility We take pride in all what working together and do not give we do and deliver what excuses we promise SOLUTION-BASED ENTHUSIASM RESPECT / TRUST THINKING We share our passion We base all our We focus on solution, for the destination in relationships in mutual not problems ways that go beyond respect; we have to earn making business the trust and keep it through merit CARE VALUE INTEGRITY We put our clients at the EXPERTISE We provide the best We do what is right and centre of our business We use our up-to-date value for money are transparent about our and manage to keep knowledge to provide methods them because we care the right solution E-Voyages C.O.P. 2019 19/04/19 4|Page UNGC COP REPORT 2019 RECYCLE & GO GREEN Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 1. GOING PAPERLESS: Computers all set on black & white and 2-sided options as default. Colour printing is limited to presentations and when is justified (e.g. complex spreadsheets etc.). Always think before printing policy. 2. CHOOSING OUR OFFICE SUPPLIES RESPONSIBLY: Sourcing green suppliers and buying in bulk – e.g. paper, cleaning products if the price is good Buying refills wherever possible (e.g. coffee) Water fountain connected to water-mains instead of plastic refills Textile towels used together with the kitchen towels Furniture: we re-use the old desk as much as possible and work around them Providing glasses for staff use instead of plastic cups Light bulbs – LED light bulbs throughout the office 3. RECYCLING: All E-Voyages’ employees have to attend a mandatory awareness training related to recycling in the office. Reuse of plastic shopping bags Ongoing Education on recycling – paper, cardboard, Tetrapacks, metal and aluminium cans (a leaflet attached to weekly messages to all staff, recycling and sustainability included in onboarding process) Glass bottles and aluminium foil/trays taken away for recycling as not recycled in Elizabeth House Reuse of paper for notes, calculators, pens, diaries, carbon boxes etc., also old level arch files are released and reused before the contents go to the storage space Any broken item is recycled if possible (e.g. microwaves, kettles, mice, telephone headset, VDUs and old hardware) Items which can’t be recycled are given to the local charities Used printer cartridges are recycled E-Voyages C.O.P. 2019 19/04/19 5|Page UNGC COP REPORT 2019 EMPLOYEES & WORKPLACE Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, within the scope of their influence. Principle 2: Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 1. EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES DIVERSITY E-Voyages Group values diversity. All ages are represented within the company from students on an internship programme to employees nearing retirement. Women currently make up 72% of E-Voyages Group workforce. AGE RANGE COUNT % 18 24 10 18.5 % 25 34 17 31.5 % 35 50 17 31.5 % 51 + 10 18.5 % GENDER COUNT % Female 39 72.2 % Male 15 27.8 % Total 54 100 % E-Voyages has also partnered with organizations who support individual with disabilities to find and stay in work as we believe everyone should be included. To this day we haven’t received any application but are open to employ people with disabilities. E-Voyages C.O.P. 2019 19/04/19 6|Page UNGC COP REPORT 2019 RACE AND ETHNICITY E-Voyages has a zero-tolerance policy towards discrimination. We aim to eradicate unfair treatment in our employment process. The company is an equal opportunity employer which employs people from different continents (Europe, Africa and Asia). ETHNIC GROUP COUNT % WHITE 1. English / Welsh / Scottish / Northern Irish / British 8 2. Western European 30 72.2 % 3. Eastern European 1 4. Any other White background, please describe 0 ASIAN / ASIAN BRITISH 5. Indian 3 6. Pakistani 1 11.1 % 7. Chinese 0 8. Any other Asian background (Vietnamese, Sri Lankan) 2 BLACK / AFRICAN / CARIBBEAN / BLACK BRITISH 9. North Africa 3 10. Central and South Africa 2 13 % 15. Caribbean 2 16. Any other Black / African / Caribbean background, please describe 0 MIXED / MULTIPLE ETHNIC GROUPS 5. White and Black Caribbean 0 6. White and Black African 0 0% 7. White and Asian 0 8. Any other Mixed / Multiple ethnic background, please describe 0 OTHER ETHNIC GROUP 17. Arab 2 4% 18. Any other ethnic group, please describe 0 EMPLOYEES TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT E-Voyages Group provides equal training and promotion opportunities based on merit, commitment and performance. E-Voyages Group started this year to put in place processes to track and record trainings. This is to make sure everybody is receiving the trainings they need to develop and grow in their career. E-Voyages C.O.P. 2019 19/04/19 7|Page UNGC COP REPORT 2019 2. E-VOYAGES’ VISION MISSION VALUES People are at the very heart of E-Voyages Group’s business. We place employees’ welfare at the top of our priorities and we are committed to make their work conditions as good as possible by maintaining mutual respect within the team, clear communication, fair processes and both professional and personal support. It is important for us that each employee at E-Voyages both agree and identify themselves with our values. This is why we encourage the personalisation of those values by the staff and do not force our own interpretation on our staff. We allow and actively encourage feedback on what our staff feel is needed in terms of training or work flows, to ensure there is a culture and of thriving within the company. One of E-Voyages’ key value is Expertise. We therefore make sure we provide as many opportunities as possible to develop employees’ knowledge of the destinations we sell. Employees are given discounts for their holiday and weekends in the UK or in Ireland. We have also implemented a policy of fam trip attendance at the entire cost of the company after an initial 6 consecutive months period has been completed. 3. HEALTH AND SAFETY POLICY • E-Voyages Group provides safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. Our management policies place our employees’ welfare at the top of our priorities and we are committed to make their work conditions as good as possible. The Office Manager at E-Voyages maintains and implements the Health & Safety Policy/Procedures of the office and always ensure that our work facilities are safe, clean and comfortable. 4. OVERTIME POLICY E-Voyages is keen to ensure that staff members get proper rest if they have worked overtime late into the evening and at weekends. This is compensated by TOIL (time off in lieu). E-Voyages C.O.P. 2019 19/04/19 8|Page UNGC COP REPORT 2019 CHOOSING SUPPLIERS Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. SUSTAINABLE ITINERARIES As part of this initiative, E-Voyages has created a number of sustainable itineraries which include hotels and activities that are accredited members of Green Tourism. To date, we have created 6 sustainable group itineraries covering England and Scotland. We aim in the year 2019 to double these itineraries and cover all 4 regions of our destination. We promote these itineraries for sales purposes, but also to increase awareness of our sustainability agenda with our clients and travellers. GAS & ENERGY SUPPLIERS: E-Voyages changed its gas supplier from Extra energy to Scottish Power (Jan 2019): Scottish Power is part of the Iberdrola group which is a UNGC member and have embraced the United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals. Electricity supplier: Hudson Energy which provides 100% renewable electricity. E-Voyages C.O.P. 2019 19/04/19 9|Page UNGC COP REPORT 2019 TRANSPARENCY Our view is that we must lead by example with a view to encourage more of our peers to take up similar initiatives, so the amount of enterprises committed to sustainable development keeps growing. To do so, we believe that we must communicate consistently with all our stakeholders. The strategy is aimed at sharing what steps we have taken, and the outcomes we secured thanks to our various involvements. 2018 sis not allow us to communicate as effectively and consistently as we would have wished to, but this is part of our year 2019 / 2020 plan. BE AN INFLUENCIAL LEADER Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. We believe that it is by creating a string network of external stakeholders that share our goal to contribute towards the implementation of sustainable business practices, that we can then start being a more influential leader. We have therefore established a database of suppliers that are eco-friendly, and make sure our staff work in priority with those suppliers. The main resource we use is Green Tourism, at present as a data resource only. GREEN TOURISM E-Voyages Group is currently working on its application to become a Green Tourism member. Founded in Scotland 20 years ago originally in partnership with Visit Scotland, Green Tourism is considered one of the most rigorous certification programmes of its kind, endorsed by VisitScotland, VisitEngland, VisitWales, Tourism Northern Ireland and Fáilte Ireland, and providing a service to 2,500 business members across the British Isles, Italy, Canada and Zimbabwe. Green Tourism is aligned to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals of the UN General Assembly’s Agenda for Sustainable Development. They review their members’ performance against many of those Sustainable Development Goals. E-Voyages C.O.P. 2019 19/04/19
