ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Summary 04 Introduction 06 Message from the Administration 08 Main Indicators 10 BRF 13 About Us 16 Business Model 18 Our Governance 22 Strategy 30 Risks and Opportunities 36 Our View Towards Sustainability 40 Open Doors: Transparency as a Value 43 Carne Fraca and Trapaça Operations 48 Ethics and Compliance 52 Products 54 Quality Management 60 Brand, Innovation, and Knowledge 68 Portfolio and Nutrition 70 Consumers and the Market 74 Impact and Creation of Value 77 BRF Chain 80 Human Capital 91 Supplier Management 102 Local Communities 110 Animal Welfare 114 Environmental Efficiency 126 Business 131 Economic and Financial Result 142 Reporting 143 GRI Content Index 156 Attachments 170 Corporate Information 4 ( Introduction BRF discloses to all its stakeholders its 2017 Annual Report. This document contains the most relevant results and highlights for the year, and is based on international performance communication methodologies, providing financial, human, intellectual, social, and environmental aspects. This report was developed based on the strategic pillars defined by our leadership and on our stakeholder's perception of the main impacts and sustainability topics of our business — the result of the full materiality cycle, conducted since 2009, was revised and expanded throughout 2017. We present the economic and financial indicators, collected based on the Brazilian standards and on the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS). We also follow the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) to report social and environmental data. We also adopt, throughout the report, the Integrated Reporting benchmarks of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). In section Open Doors: Transparency as a Value, we address the Company's continuous initiatives by working the values associated with ethics and quality and the coordinated actions in response to the development and progress after the investigations. 5 IIRC Integrated Reporting Guidelines are considered when describing our business and our results. GRI Since 2009, we have adopted the GRI methodology, a global benchmark for social and environmental reporting. Capitals Through the use of icons, we show how each section of this report connects with the capitals in the IIRC model. Capitals SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP NATURAL HUMAN CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL INTELLECTUAL MANUFACTURED CAPITAL FINANCIAL CAPITAL AND BUILT CAPITAL 6 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( M essage from Management GRI 102-14, 102-15 Throughout 2017, we to investigate any issues in order to mitigate impacts upon the Company. invested in important We reviewed BRF's quality and food safety processes strategic pillars to and continue to reinforce the Company's control consolidate our and compliance instances. This way, BRF further increased the rigor of its processes. These initiatives leadership position are permanent and will constantly be improved. They will continue to exist, with high emphasis on and in the Brazilian market importance to the Company's management processes. This work continues. In Brazil, we continue investing in order to consolidate our position as market leaders. As of the second quarter of 2017, we began a process to recover market share, reaching 55.3% at the end of the year. The year 2017 also marked the end of all restrictions imposed by CADE after the merger of the companies that gave rise to BRF five years ago, making it possible to successfully return Perdigão into new categories. We also announced the launch The 2017/2018 biennium marks structural changes in of the Kidelli brand to operate in a market segment our Company, which gives us the confidence that we responsible for more than 30% of the sales of will put BRF on a new path of growth and sustainable processed foods in the country. profitability. We have adjusted our organization to reflect an operation that is more in line with the In the Halal Division, we efficiently consolidated our current reality of the Company, as we face a number operation in Turkey Banvit -, with results above of crises. those originally expected. Banvit marks the entry into a market not previously served by BRF. In addition to We made changes to the Company's management, being a leader in market share in that country, this which is currently composed of a team of executives division has an integrated operation that goes from who have vast experience in management and deep production to distribution and allows us to advance knowledge of the Company and of the industry, in products with greater value added and to be an with the important mission of developing the future export hub to neighboring countries. It is worth leaders of the Company. A new Board of Directors, pointing out that the Halal Division, at the end of the chaired by Pedro Parente (Chairman of the Board) and year, achieved a better balance between supply and Augusto Cruz (Vice-Chairman), was also approved in demand in the Persian Gulf region, sustaining prices the Extraordinary General Meeting. in dollar at high levels and driving better margins in the region. We faced one of the most challenging moments in the food industry with the outbreak of the operations In the International division, which consolidates the called Operação Carne Fraca and Operação Trapaça, operations in Asia, Europe, the Americas, and Africa, which impacted dozens of companies in the industry, we initiated a management program called Global including BRF, especially in the international market. Optimization, whose purpose is to maximize the The Company reacted quickly and appointed a profitability of animals as a whole, taking advantage dedicated team of external executives and consultants of the commercial opportunities of the various to deal with the matter in a more assertive, regions through dynamic reallocations of products. transparent and agile way, especially in dialogues However, after the European market was closed for with stakeholders and authorities involved. We spare some Brazilian companies, among them BRF, our no efforts to ensure the quality of our products and focus, in addition to the Brazilian market and the 7 Halal Division, will be on the Asian market, in line In 2017, through the BRF Institute, we mobilized with the Company's new strategic guidelines. Thus, nearly 3,000 volunteers who conducted several we announce the disposal of all assets in Europe, initiatives within communities in the celebration of Thailand and Argentina. In addition, emphasis should BRF's anniversary, totaling 149 actions worldwide be placed on the signing of the Memorandum of that created an environment of engagement with Understanding with COFCO Meat and the beginning the Company. In the environmental aspects, the of the work to expand cooperation between the highlights were the reduction in energy consumption companies in the area of R&D (innovation and and the increase in consumption from renewable brand), mainly focused on quality and food safety. sources. In 2017, we reaffirmed our commitment to the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) and with We also advanced in several aspects of sustainability the principles of the Global Compact of the United and in the redefinition of our strategy and work toward Nations, intimately associated with our business and sustainable development. We reduced, for example, which will be covered throughout this report. the use of antibiotics, demonstrating the new way of addressing issues related to health and animal In June 2018, the Board of Directors approved the welfare, a cause that is highlighted in our business. restructuring plan to readjust the corporate structure BRF occupies a tier 2 position in the global ranking of to the new market reality. This plan is based on four Business Benchmark for Farm Animal Welfare (BBFAW). pillars: (i) divestiture in Europe, Thailand and Argentina, Considering our integrated producers, a true silent as mentioned above; (ii) disposal of non-operating revolution took place, with a reduction in the number assets; (iii) better management of working capital, of partners from 18,000 to 13,000 which became much mainly stocks of frozen raw material and finished more sustainable from an economic standpoint. In products; and (iv) securitization of receivables. This 2017 for example, we had a turnover in our integrated way, quantitatively, the Company expects to receive producer base of 2%, compared with 10% in 2013. With an injection of cash of approximately R$ 5 billion. our employees, turnover was 17% against 30% in 2012 At the same time, BRF is committed to obtaining today, voluntary turnover is 6%. We further reinforced, certifications and market recognition from our in recent years, our culture of workplace safety and stakeholders. Thus, our plan includes the return to managed to reduce by 50% the injury frequency rate ISE (B3’s Corporate Sustainability Index) and the DJSI by number of hours worked. We also reduced the (Dow Jones Sustainability Index Emerging Markets) number of accidents on the roads by 60%, with a drop and standardization of certifications such as ISO, AS, in the number of fatalities by 45%, as a result of the OHSAS, among others, aiming to have an even more initiatives that we implemented among our carriers. balanced and integrated chain. Finally, we reaffirm our understanding that 2017 and early 2018, given all difficulties, reinforced the need to further increase the rigor and monitoring of BRF's existing standards, which should be clearly visible in the coming quarters. These lessons learned should our show significant improvements in financial performance processes through local and global growth, recovery of margins and reduction of our leverage. These improvements will always be associated with a responsible performance in for quality and food safety and management of aspects involving Safety, Quality, Food our control and compliance bodies Safety, Controls and Compliance, which are supporting are permanent structures that are and material foundations in our day to day in all constantly improved, with high regions where we operate. emphasis on and importance in management processes Enjoy your reading! 8 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( Main Indicators GRI 102-7 Amounts in R$ million 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Net revenue 25,975 27,786 29,007 32,197 33,733 33,469 Gross profit 5,902 6,910 8,509 10,089 7,526 6,904 Gross margin (%) 22.7% 24.9% 29.3% 31.3% 22.3% 20.6% Operating income 1,360 1,896 3,478 4,228 1,815 736 Operating margin (%) 5.2% 6.8% 12.0% 13.1% 5.4% 2.2% EBITDA 2,283 3,131 4,897 5,755 3,418 2,654 EBITDA margin (%) 8.0% 10.3% 16.9% 17.2% 10.1% 7.9% Adjusted EBITDA N/A N/A N/A N/A 2,938 2,857 Adjusted EBITDA margin (%) N/A N/A N/A N/A 8.7% 8.5% Net income 770 1,062 2,225 3,111 -372 -1,099 Net margin (%) 3.0% 3.8% 7.0% 9.3% -1.1% -3.3% Market cap 36,810 42,969 55,350 48,335 38,552 29,688 Total assets 30,765 32,375 36,104 40,388 42,945 45,228 Net equity 14,589 14,696 15,690 13,836 12,219 11,713 Net debt 7,018 6,785 5,032 7,337 11,141 13,310 Net debt/adjusted EBITDA 3.07 2.17 1.24 1.28 3.77 4.46 Earnings per Share (R$) 0.92 1.17 2.46 3.62 -0.47 -1.35 No. of shares 872,473,246 872,473,246 872,473,246 872,473,246 812,473,246 812,473,246 No. of treasury shares 2,399,335 1,785,507 1,785,507 62,501,001 13,468,001 1,333,701 NET OPERATING REVENUE* SALES (THOUSAND TONS) NOR (R$ MILLION) 46 48 47 50 54 55 52 55 48 47 57 57 54 52 53 50 46 45 48 45 52 53 43 43 25,975 27,786 29,007 32,197 33,733 33,469 4,808 4,587 4,725 4,515 4,688 4,919 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 Brazil (%) International (%) Total Brazil (%) International (%) Total *Amounts consider only continued operations. 9 NET EQUITY (R$ MILLION) NET INCOME (R$ MILLION)1 14,589 14,696 15,690 13,836 12,219 11,713 770 1,062 2,225 3,111 -372 -1,099 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 OPERATING INCOME (R$ MILLION) NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES2 1,360 1,896 3,478 4,228 1,815 736 113,560 109,426 104,400 105,733 104,035 105,408 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 ENVIRONMENTAL INVESTMENTS (R$ MILLION) 212,00 208,39 324,66 325,84 388,30 1 Amounts consider only continued operations. 2 Considers employees with open-ended employment 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 contracts and employees abroad. 1 10 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 BRF 11 BRF Committed to quality products and global operations, we are present in the lives of consumers, from the breakfast table to great moments with family MANUFACTURED CAPITAL In this section • ABOUT US • BUSINESS MODEL • OUR GOVERNANCE 12 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 BRF S.A. is a company whose purpose is to feed the In Brazil, we are absolute leaders in the categories world. A global food company, with headquarters in of ready-to-eat meals, cold cuts, sausages, Brazil, and a history of more than 80 years. Through and margarines. Additionally, Sadia, our most a portfolio of more than 4,000 products, we are international brand, is a market leader in several present in the lives of consumers in nearly 150 segments in the Persian Gulf countries. GRI 102-6 countries and account for 16.3% of the global trade of poultry, according to Watt Global Media. GRI 102-1 With Net Operating Revenue (NOR) of R$ 33.4 billion in 2017, BRF's market cap exceeds R$ 18 We deliver convenient, practical and proper foods billion. Our shares (BRFS3) have been traded on the that cater to the needs of the various consumer Brazilian stock exchange B3 for over a decade, profiles. One such example are individually frozen and our securities are traded on the New York Stock products, that avoid waste, or products that go Exchange (level III ADR). GRI 102-5 directly from the freezer to the oven, for everyday convenience. Our portfolio also includes in natura Ethics, integrity and transparency have always been protein, margarines for different consumption part of our business, as well as our commitment occasions, desserts, sandwiches, and mayonnaise, to the quality of the products that for decades as well as several processed foods (marinated and have been present on the tables of virtually every frozen chicken, our famous Chester® turkeys, which Brazilian home. We have in place governance and are synonymous with Christmas -, special meats, compliance policies in line with best practices in the sliced products, ready-to-eat and convenient meals, industry, at national and global levels. frozen and processed food servings). In 2017, we entered the ingredients and pet food segment. GRI 102-2 In recent years, our strategy has sought to consolidate our presence in the Americas, Europe, Middle East, Africa, and Asia, relying on the strength of brands such as Sadia, Perdigão, Qualy, Perdix, Paty, Bocatti, Vienissima, Speedy Polo, and Hilal. GRI 102-6 Acknowledgments BRF was chosen the Company in the Poultry and Swine segment, in the Melhores do Agronegócio (Best in Agribusiness) award(Globo Rural). We rank 14th among the 1,500 companies in the Empresas Mais Ranking (O Estado de S. Paulo), 10th among the 1,000 Largest, and 12th among the Best in Consumer Goods in the Melhores e Maiores ranking (Exame Magazine) BRF 13 ( About Us Our history dates back to the development of the (including factories, offices, and distribution food industry in Brazil, with the establishment of centers). From the procurement of grain and Sadia and Perdigão two family companies focused production of animal feed, up to the grocery on offering consumers high quality food for the stores, including rearing of animals, processing of various moments of the day. BRF S.A. was created food, distribution and sales, we rely on our own through the merger of the two companies, announced teams and on an extensive network of integrated in 2009 and completed in 2012. producers, logistics partners, and providers of services and raw materials (see map). Since then, we have worked to reinforce our local and international presence, with a strategy to take The construction of our corporate identity is a challenge us closer to consumers, increase volume and market that drives us. Today, we are more than 105,000 strong, share in key markets. with people from 40 different nationalities, speaking nearly 20 languages. We address this multicultural Today, BRF has in place an integrated production characteristic in an internal environment that is open model, with operations that go from the fields to innovation and diversity, connected to our values, to the table and cover more than 100 own units principles, and vision of the future. our operations are based on an integrated production model from the fields to the tables of our consumers 14 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( Our presence GRI 102-4, 102-6, 102-7, 102-8 UNITED KINGDOM 1 1 58 PLANTS IN THE WORLD BRAZIL 20 35 47 DISTRIBUTION CENTERS WORLDWIDE CHILE 9 URUGUAY ARGENTINA 2 3 9 30,000+ SUPPLIERS 105,000+ EMPLOYEES BRF 15 HOLLAND 1 TURKEY 5 KUWAIT SAUDI CHINA ARABIA 1 1 3 OMAN HONG KONG QATAR 2 2 1 ABU DHABI THAILAND UNITED ARAB 1 5 EMIRATES SINGAPORE 1 MALAYSIA 1 1 Brazil Plants Latin America and Southern Cone* Distribution Centers Europe and Eurasia* Halal Division* * After the process to reformulate our Asia* management, we consolidated the regions of Africa, Europe/Eurasia, Asia, and Americas into Africa* a single commercial unit called International. 16 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( Business Model How we access capitals, execute processes and create value in our chain Our processes FEEDING THE WORLD is our purpose OUR BASES Governance Quality Innovation Ethics, integrity In all processes, Strong brands, engaged and leadership products and people and a solid and development relationships flexible operation BRF 17 SOCIAL AND MANUFACTURED INTELLECTUAL HUMAN CAPITAL NATURAL CAPITAL RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL CAPITAL CAPITAL MULTICULTURALISM CONSUMER PRESENCE AND BRANDS ECO-EFFICIENCY RAMIFICATION Research, Connect the natural Address needs Conscious use of From factories develop diversity of our with a focus on natural resources to integrated and innovate, people to our values health, quality and and management producers to resulting in access of emissions and ensure delivery of leading products HEALTH AND SAFETY waste products to nearly Protect the physical RELIABILITY integrity and wellProtect reputation 150 countries SCIENCE AND ANIMAL WELFARE TECHNOLOGY being of all our by being Follow LOGISTICS Connect in employees transparent with responsible and Always plan in favor of quality, all our partners ethical practices, order to keep the productivity from rearing to integration from and business BRF RADIUS slaughter production to sale connectivity Be attentive to our power to impact the lives of communities Our impact Development and Tasty and quality Long-term value progress products creation Benefits for integrated Strong brands and Financial results for producers and suppliers everyday partners of shareholders and consumers investors Initiatives of measurable social impact in Access to safe and Efficient use of communities tasty meats and industrial assets processed products Environmental and Leadership in the social investments Customized portfolio global industry and consistent with the that respects in key markets complexity of our multiculturalism business 18 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( Our Governance We value an organizational model that allows us to of egalitarian rights to shareholders, policies in place have a modern governance that is agile and capable to address transactions, negotiation of securities, of addressing the challenges of recent years. We have and conflicts of interest and use of insider trading been a publicly held Company since the 1980s and, (read more at http://ri.brf-global.com/conteudo_ in 2006, we entered the Novo Mercado segment on pt.asp?idioma=0&tipo=52097&conta=28). the Brazilian stock exchange (B3). Consequently, we follow best practices, focusing on ethics, transparency, Our main governance bodies are the General equity, and corporate responsibility. Shareholders Assembly, the Board of Directors, the Fiscal Council, the Executive Board, and the Our Corporate Governance team is responsible for administration advisory committees. ensuring a good relationship between leaderships and the management structure of the Company and for supporting compliance with the internal Decision-making bodies guidelines of governance, in line with best national GRI 102-18, 102-22, 102-23, 102-24, 102-25, 102-26 and international practices. Examples are the exclusive maintenance of common shares, assurance Our administration bodies, their composition and business mission General Shareholders Meeting It is BRF's main decision-making body, with ordinary and extraordinary meetings, where the most relevant topics for the Company are voted. Board of Directors Its roles are to provide the guidelines for the business best and choose and oversee the performance of members of the Executive Board. Criteria for selecting board members are objective: reputation, ethical standards, practices experience in/knowledge of finance, governance, and our sector are instrumental, as well as the absence of conflicts of interest. Currently, eight of the ten board members are independent members, in line with the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOx), widely exceeding the 20% established by Novo Mercado. GRI 102-28 Our actions focus on ethics, transparency, equity, and corporate responsibility, in line with Novo Mercado BRF 19 ( Board of Directors * We reformulated our Pedro Pullen Parente structure to efficiently Chairman – Member coordinate and respond to Augusto Marques da Cruz Filho market challenges Independent Vice Chairman Dan Ioschpe Independent Member Flávia Buarque de Almeida Independent Member Francisco Petros Oliveira Lima Papathanasiadis In an Extraordinary General Meeting, held on Independent Member April 26, 2018, the shareholders approved a José Luiz Osório de Almeida Filho new Board of Directors. The collegiate body is Independent Member composed of 10 members, eight of which are independent, whose mission is to address, Luiz Fernando Furlan in an efficient and coordinated manner, the Independent Member challenges in the market. The leadership Roberto Antônio Mendes opted to quickly define key positions, a Independent Member priority process for the new administration. See the complete credentials of the board Roberto Rodrigues members at ri.brf-global.com/pt-br/governancaIndependent Member corporativa/diretoria-conselhos-e-comites/ Walter Malieni Jr. Member See the composition of the Board of Directors on the side. * At the end of 2017, the composition of the Board of Directors was: Abilio dos Santos Diniz (Independent Chairman); Francisco Petros Oliveira Lima Papathanasiadis (Vice President); Luiz Fernando Furlan (Independent Member); José Carlos Reis de Magalhães Neto (Member); Walter Fontana Filho (Independent Member); Flávia Buarque de Almeida (Independent Member); Marcos Guimarães Grasso (Independent Member); Walter Malieni Jr. (Member); and José Aurélio Drummond Jr. (Independent Member). 20 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 • Advisory Committees1 The groups are composed of representatives from senior management and were revised for 2018. Five committees were formally constituted: • Finance and Risk Management Committee five Members: Francisco Petros, Roberto Mendes, Walter Malieni, Dan Ioschpe, and Manoel Cordeiro Silva Filho (external). committees • Strategy and Marketing Committee Members: Augusto Cruz, Flávia Almeida, Luiz Furlan, and Eduardo Fontana D’Ávila (external). • People, Governance, Organization and Culture in activity in 2017, reporting directly to the Committee Members: Flávia Almeida, Dan Ioschpe and Augusto Cruz. Board of Directors • Quality and Sustainability Committee Members: Roberto Rodrigues, Luiz Furlan, José Luiz Osório, and Vicente Falconi (external). • Statutory Audit Committee a support, consulting and advisory committee that operates autonomously and independently to provide support to the Board of Directors on topics such as internal and external audits, complaints, grievances, and issues associated with SOx, escalating topics for investigation by the Compliance Department or independent companies. GRI 102-33 Members: Francisco Petros, Roberto Mendes, and Walter Malieni Jr., Fernando Maida Dall’Acqua (external) and Sérgio Ricardo Silva Rosa (external). Fiscal Council Mostly composed of independent professionals, this committee ensures the integrity of all acts of business administrators, and of the balance sheets and financial statements. Acknowledgment Members: Attilio Guaspari, Independent Member; Marcos Vinicius Dias Severini, Member; André Vicentini, Independent Member. Based on a survey conducted by Transparência Internacional in 2017, the publication Valor 100 ranked BRF 18th in the list of the most transparent 1 Committees in 2017: Finance, Governance and Sustainability; M&A Strategies and Markets; Marketing; People, companies among the 100 Largest in Organization, Management, and Culture; and Statutory Audit the Country. Committee. BRF 21 Executive Board* Pedro Pullen Parente Global Chief Executive Officer Lorival Luz Global Chief Operating Officer MARKETS: Sidney Manzaro Vice-President of Brazilian Market Patricio Rohner Vice-President of Halal Market Executive Board Simon Cheng Responsible for managing the business, this body Vice-President of International Market must operate in full compliance with the strategic guidelines defined by the executives themselves, discussed and approved by the Board of Directors. OPERATIONS: Members are selected and replaced by the Board of Vinícius Guimarães Barbosa Directors and must have proven experience in the Operations and Procurement Officer market and be aligned with our vision and culture. Leonardo Dallorto In the first half of 2018, we underwent a broad Vice-President of Integrated Planning review of this framework. Efforts to optimize cost and Logistics and increase profitability included simplifying the Neil Peixoto organizational structure with a reduction in the Vice-President of Quality, R&D, number of vice presidencies from 14 to 10, divided and Sustainability into three broad areas: Markets (3 VPs), Operational (3 VPs) and Corporate (4VPs). See the composition of the Executive Board. For details on each member's CORPORATE: credential, visit: Elcio Ito ri.brf-global.com/pt-br/governanca-corporativa/ Chief Financial and Investor Relations Officer diretoria-conselhos-e-comites/ Alessandro Bonorino Vice-President of HR and Shared Services Rubens Pereira Vice-President of Strategy, Management, and Innovation Bruno Ferla Vice-President of Institutional Affairs, Legal, and Compliance * At the end of 2017, the composition of the Board of Directors was: José Aurélio Drummond Jr. (Global Chief Executive Officer); Lorival Nogueira Luz Júnior (Vice President of Finance and Investor Relations); Andelaney Carvalho dos Santos (Executive Vice President of Management and Information); Alexandre Moreira Martins de Almeida (Executive Vice President of BRF for Brazil); Simon Cheng (Executive Vice President of BRF International Europe/Eurasia, Asia, Africa and the Americas and of Corporate Development & Growth); Patricio Rohner (Executive Vice President of the Halal Division); Jorge Luiz de Lima (Executive Vice President of Corporate Efficiency and Southern Cone Argentina, Peru, Paraguay and Uruguay); Fabrício Delgado (Executive Vice President of Quality and Food Safety); Alessandro Bonorino (Executive Vice President of Human Resources, Corporate Integrity and Marketing); Leonardo Almeida Byrro (Executive Vice President of Planning, Distribution and Supply Chain, position assumed in 2018 by executive Elcio Ito); Hélio Rubens (Executive Vice President of Global Operations). 2 22 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Strategy 23 STRATEGY Our ambition is to turn BRF into the most inspiring and important global food company In this section • RISKS AND OPPORTUNITIES • OUR VIEW TOWARDS SUSTAINABILITY 24 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Every day we produce foods that are energy sources to With an eye on the future put people's lives in motion. Responsible for supplying Defining the strategy is the task of our Board of this need, while positively impacting communities and Directors, together with our Executive Board and families around the world, our industry's challenge is the advisory committees for governance. Annually, to be a part of the solution to feed the population, we promote a meeting of leaders to decide on ensuring its physical and social well-being. Our the paths set out, design new goals, and evaluate operations in recent years reflect this purpose. Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) for the various markets, categories and business segments. We have the responsibility of delivering convenient, GRI 102-26 innovative, flavorful, nutritious, and reliable foods that cater to the needs of consumers, while respecting the Today, we have an increasingly ramified operation, culture of the nearly 150 countries where we operate. with many gains in productivity and value creation to be achieved. We believe that it is the Furthermore, we are a Company with a vertical administration's responsibility to carefully study operation, and therefore, we must ensure good use shifts in the domestic and international markets of our assets (industrial and biological), be coherent with projects such as those implemented in recent with our values and practices, maintain a relationship years, to acquire distributors and leading companies of mutual gain in the value chain, and prepare leaders in different regions and capture opportunities capable of properly guiding the business. associated with innovation and differentiation in an industry with intense competition. We recognize Aware of these aspects, BRF prioritized, in its strategic the importance of developing a long-term vision to planning, pillars such as corporate culture, quality, offer security to our stakeholders considering the innovation, brand, logistics, and supplier management Company's direction and vision. As a result, we have achieved significant organic and inorganic growth in recent years. Our Priorities Between 2017 and early 2018, vice presidents, There have been more than 10 acquisitions of board members and other leaders joined efforts to companies in recent years, taking BRF into more develop a Strategic Plan, validated by the Board of markets especially in Asia, Middle East, and Latin Directors and translated into initiatives, projects, America. In addition to Sadia, our main global and investments, conceived to value efficiency, brand, we advanced by consolidating a true house integration of operations, and greater profitability of brands , acquiring renowned names among for the Company and, consequently, prepare an consumers and making them market leaders in their assertive long-term path, further reinforcing the regions. We also advanced the go-to-market model, Company's strengths. Through this planning, we will strengthening relationships with nearly 200,000 reinforce management in more sensitive areas and clients, including small, medium and large retailers will advance in areas of achievement in recent years, and companies in the global food industry. always guided by our purpose to feed the world and create value in a consistent and planned manner. In summary, our vision is to turn BRF into the most inspiring and important global food company. Achieving this vision is based on our competitive advantages (see chart) and follows five core guidelines: our • Global presence with strong brands – Sadia is strategic our major international brand and, together with other brands, is widely recognized by consumers: planning for example, Qualy and Perdigão, in Brazil; Confidence, Perdix and Hilal, in Islamic markets is based on the pillars of corporate served by the Halal Division; and Paty and culture, quality, innovation, brand, Dánica, in Argentina, among others. Our recent logistics, and supplier management advances in the Middle East and Asia indicate Strategy 25 that we should, in the coming years, evolve • Transformations – based on competencies even further in terms of catering to consumer developed at BRF, we work to maintain our expectations by focusing on attributes such as capacity to innovate in processes and business innovation, convenience, affordability, and quality. models, intended to create value. Some In early 2018, another highlight was the launch examples are the consolidation of the Ingredients of Kidelli, a brand created with 13 new products businesses (coproduct segment) and animal feed and a focus on atacarejos (a category that mixes (using the Güd brand), a highlight for 2017 (read retail and self-service wholesale), as well as more on page 28). distributors, exploring a segment in which we have high potential and represents 30% of the • Our people – in order to prioritize empowerment sales of processed foods in Brazil. of key personnel to improve performance, and consequently drive Company results, the HR • Focus on the main product categories in which department works with five pillars Revitalizing we participate – strengthening the portfolio and and reinforcing the BRF culture, and investigating its quality and convenience is part of a constant potential opportunities; Renovating and cultivating effort, which requires prioritization and focus on the leadership model; Becoming a benchmark our main categories, such as cold cuts, sausages, in people and talent management strategies; frozen foods, in natura and margarines. Enhancing the appraisal and development system; Promoting well-being and employee engagement. • Capturing opportunities – growth through investments in production, joint ventures and • Return of shares to ISE (B3's Sustainability partnerships boots pride for a BRF increasingly Index) and DJSI (Dow Jones Sustainability Index geared towards global presence. There are a number – Emerging Markets) – Reinforcement of our of ways to do this, including our own production commitment to the environment, health and safety platforms (such as our Abu Dhabi plant in the United of our employees, diversity and inclusion, with Arab Emirates), distribution improvements and the total quality of our processes and products, portfolio evolutions connected to local consumers. including animal welfare, nutritional profile and We will keep our eye on every chance to grow our traceability, with ethics and transparency, defining business and increase market share. sustainable business partnerships. 26 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGES The differentiators that ensure success and guide the future of our businesses Broad distribution network in Brazil and in international markets nearly 150 220,000+ countries served clients worldwide Managers with 90% experience 40%+ in the market capacity to serve the Brazilian of the international sales volume territory comes from own distribution ( Gsetovernance in line with criteria out by Novo Mercado (B3) ( TDirectors, he members of the Board of of the Committees and of the Executive Board have a formal individual performance assessment tool, including 360o assessment ( Renewal of the governance model 10 VPs reporting directly to the COO, who reports directly to the CEO, and extensive knowledge of topics and key markets Strategy 27 Leadership in the Brazilian market, with Quality, safety strong brands and diversified portfolio and global 4 million+ tons 100% presence of food produced of the portfolio assessed in terms of 58 ( Wwith e have independent boards international professionals quality and security aspects own plants and institutions such as the in 9 countries International Association for Food Protection, and 440,000 researchers monthly deliveries to clients in Brazil ( UBrazil ndisputed market leaders in Affordable quality products in a growing global market in cold cuts (53.7% market share), ready-to-eat meals (59.5%), margarines (62.8%), and sausages (40%) ( STop adia, Perdigão and Qualy are of Mind in the domestic 4,000 + ( Vanimal ertical efficiency in production, slaughter, and market, respectively holding the SKUs adapted to the first, third, and fifth places industrialization, a characteristics of each region reference in Brazil where we operate ( Sfoods, adia ranks first in industrialized according to “Estadão ( Land arge-scale production monitored plant Marcas Mais” (2017 edition) – Estadão ( C  ompetitive production costs for international markets footprint Strategic geographical and diversified location ( Slocated laughterhouses strategically in several regions in ( Oheart wn production plant at the of the Middle East (Abu Brazil (South, Southeast, and Dhabi) Midwest), with favorable access to export corridors and proximity to the grain production belt ( Eand xperience in the implementation operation of regional offices in 28 countries ( G  eographic diversity of the network of distribution centers 28 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( Investments and projects 2017 A glance of our main actions throughout the year Brazil Development of a new brand, Kidelli, in order to capture new opportunities in processed foods geared toward distributors and cash and carry (retail + self-service wholesale) Southern BRF Ingredients Cone In 2017, we initiated the activities of this new division 2.7 p.p. growth in market that focuses on the development of solutions for the share in the hamburger ingredients and animal nutrition markets. The unit category and 4.9 p.p. in works with the concept of 100% use of organic raw breaded foods materials throughout the production cycles, putting into practice our ideals of making efficient use of biological assets. The existing portfolio has products for nutrition of pigs, pets, and aquatic animals 325 t/month (including chicken protein, premium meal solutions, and oils) and ingredients such as breadcrumbs, vegetable oils, aromas and natural extracts (read more at http://brfingredients.com/pt/). One of the highlights was the investment of R$ Production capacity of the hydrolyzed 65 million in a hydrolyzed animal protein plant, inaugurated in Concórdia (SC), adjacent to our protein plant in SC industrial complex. Production of animal nutrition ingredients was initiated in that unit. Strategy 29 Halal Division Consolidation of Banvit, largest poultry producer in Turkey International A management program called Otimização Global (Global Optimization) intended to maximize profitability of raw materials, taking advantage of commercial opportunities in the various regions through dynamic product relocation Halal Division: expansion in the Middle East The Company, a BRF subsidiary, serves a market of 1.5 billion people, with headquarters in Dubai, in the United Arab Emirates. GRI 102-10 Throughout the years, we have developed a strategic relationship between BRF and markets of Islamic predominance. We produce 1 million tons of food per year for the Middle East, with eight plants in Brazil dedicated to this operation, and we are the leading company in animal protein in the region, as well as Startup B-Connect global leaders in Halal products (product allowed for consumption following Islamic precepts). Through its operation focused on the Middle East and Program North Africa, based on the Sadia and other renowned Across all BRF areas, this program has strong brands (Confidence, Hilal, Perdix), we advanced in participation of the Agricultural and Industrial several markets via distributors or directly, such as Operations area. More than 30 startups were Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates (where our connected to offer market, legal, Industry 4.0, biotech, plant is located, in Abu Dhabi), Qatar, Bahrain, Oman, precision agriculture, and pollution control solutions Iraq, Lebanon, and Egypt. (read more about this program by ABDI on page 67). 30 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 (Investments and projects 2017 GRI 102-11, 102-15, 102-30, 102-31, 201-2 BRF is committed to monitoring its activities and Integrated management assessing potential risks and opportunities for improvement. By having a specific area to manage this topic, the Corporate Risk Department, an integral Our methodology identifies risks that area within the Finance and Investor Relations could potentially affect our operations, Department, operates under a global, corporate, and strategy, and capability to create value, integrated holistic vision of operations that focuses taking into account an assessment of on four core management pillars: BRF's vulnerability, potential impacts, and response speed • Monitoring, addressing, and reporting corporate and operational risks, including adherence to BRF's Corporate Guidelines; • Upholding an environment of internal controls (including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act SOx, among others) and disseminating the culture of controls at The risk the Company; Our opportunity • Prevention of loss and deviation of assets; Our response • Global insurance management. We have in place an integrated management methodology for the risks that could potentially affect our operations, our strategy, and our capability to create value, taking into account an assessment of BRF's Sanitation control vulnerability, potential impacts, and response speed. A  ny official notices of violations, temporary With a comprehensive view, this model involves training restrictions to imports, and embargoes resulting of employees in all regions worldwide to implement a from non-compliance with market legislation; culture of mapping risks and opportunities. reputation problems broadly affecting the markets; unplanned financial investments. Our risk map is regularly reviewed and takes into account critical aspects of the industry, market C  ontinuously improve our processes, ensuring outlook/scenario, and social, environmental, financial, export markets, opening of new markets abroad, reputational, and regulatory aspects. We prioritize viability of more plants, and greater trust among high and very high risks (considering impact and consumers and clients. likelihood) and monitor medium and low risks, with the corresponding support and involvement  mitigate this risk through integrated control, We of the Executive Board, the advisory committees, via the BRF Quality System and other instruments, and the Board of Directors which are the bodies sanitation requirements, monitoring and control responsible for evaluating and validating risks and the of quality principles. In 2017, this was one of corresponding response to such risks. The Executive the main risks that represented an event with an Board is also responsible for managing risks mapped impact upon the Company's businesses, which and reported by the Corporate Risk Department. was addressed through instruments including governance with the creation of a response See below a summary of our main risk categories committee up to the daily operation (read more and learn how we address possible opportunities to about our response to operations Carne Fraca and leverage results. Trapaça on page 43). Strategy 31 Environmental Climate change GRI 103|201, 201-2 Climate change can significantly impact global supply and demand for agricultural commodities, affecting prices and, thereby, our stocks of raw materials, in addition to affecting energy safety Food Safety and availability of water.  ossible problems concerning the quality of our P products that can have a negative impact on the  o become a benchmark for environmental T health and preference of consumers. efficiency initiatives and monitoring of climate risks that affect the acquisition of raw materials M  aintain quality as a management requirement at and our industrial processes. Expand the capability BRF, at all levels and instances, from the field to to anticipate and create a system to adapt to the table, reinforcing this message in the markets environmental and climate transformations. where we operate. W  e monitor the entire production chain attempting O  ur Quality System deals with aspects involving to anticipate impacts on operating costs and food safety, including the Program Best Practices availability of grains. To this end, we manage in Production and Hazard Analysis and Critical opportunities combining market strategies and Control Points. This was also a risk affected climate monitoring in the main grain producing by the onset of Operação Carne Fraca and its countries in the world. We also prioritize risks effects upon BRF's image (read more in Quality and opportunities arising from climate change, Management and in the section below). evaluating the potential financial impact, considering those with greatest influence. We work to ensure the quality of our products 32 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Policies and hedge stocks ensure supply of inputs impacting the domestic and global production of and minimize the risk of significant volatility in poultry and pigs; environmental and conservation prices. We also regularly monitor climate variations regulations; economic conditions; animal diseases; such as temperature, rainfall, frost, and moisture in cost of international shipping; currency variation. the soil. We monitor climate through public global reports: in the world, moisture in the soil; in Brazil,  roperly advance our preventive and innovation P aggregate rainfall, forecast of frost and weather actions, integrating to planning and reinforcing forecast; in Argentina, aggregate rainfall and rain the connection to the environment. forecast; in the United States, aggregate rainfall, rain forecast, and forecasts for temperature/rain short,  have analyzed, in recent years, the risk of We medium, and long-term forecasts. water shortage to which our plants are exposed; we have studied new forms of generating and Energy and water GRI 103|201, 201-2 using energy; and we have worked on reuse Water shortage and difficulty in addressing and/or full use of raw materials, reducing aspects related to the operation. We also consider the disposal of biological and nonbiological the following risk aspects: reduction of BRF's materials. We also monitor regulatory policies profitability; restriction of planned expansions in and climate conditions. Mitigation of risk a given region due to lack of sufficient natural involves the analysis of internal consumption, resources, for example; and situations that can opportunities to reduce demand, and modeling lead to an increase in the cost of inputs caused of the scenarios for the electric energy market by crisis in other regions producing the same or under different climate projections in the short similar products. These movements may occur as and medium term, taking into account the future a result of changes in demand and supply of key impacts of the the energy market. BRF considers inputs, which can fluctuate significantly. Other the principle of precaution in the development, risk factors are also considered: climate change production, and distribution phases. Monitoring We seek to anticipate impacts on operating costs and availability of grains along our production chain Strategy 33 In agriculture, the initiatives are developed Monitoring Program, focused on social and to ensure animal welfare and productivity environmental aspects, that identifies and against any climate change scenario, such as mitigates risks involving third parties that improvement in the facilities and environments, influence our businesses (read more about the improving Compliance Rate, energy consumption program on page 94). and rural insurance. OHS and Operational Supply chain GRI 201-2 E  vents with potential to affect employee safety, Potential event of social and environmental productivity and continuity of operations, in non-compliance, failure in procurement process, addition to accidents with assets in general and problems associated with quality of problems with logistics, accidents in plants, services or raw materials, and relationship with incidents at worksites, etc. exclusive suppliers. P  osition BRF as the industry benchmark in T  o develop quality programs with mutual gains operational safety, talent retention, and service level. for BRF and its partners, through long-term commercial relationships. Develop suppliers, O  ur Health Safety and Environment Program leveraging new businesses. (HSE), which will celebrate its 10th anniversary in 2018, reinforces a culture of risk and accident  e maintain global actions for each supplier W prevention, and relies on an Operational Risk category, analyzing levels of risk and providing Management pillar created in 2010. Our Operating policies and audits, in addition to an assessment Control Center, located in the city of Curitiba (PR) of the Likelihood of Default (Prinad, in the is another tool used to analyze and measure Brazilian acronym), development and updating risks and data from BRF's plants. We also have of Strategic Sourcing, and the Supply Chain insurance to protect from certain events. 34 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Commodities GRI 201-2 Compliance  olatility of prices and seasonality of certain V F ull compliance with the various anti-bribery and inputs and raw materials, such as corn, soybean, anti-corruption legislations, as well as economic and beef cattle, resulting from market conditions, sanction programs applicable to our business. diseases, sanctions, or embargoes.  isseminate an ethical behavior across the D  educe our production costs, reduce exposure R Company's relations and practices, including to unavailability of essential inputs for our contractors, aiming to reduce exposure to undue businesses, and increase value creation. operational, financial, and reputational risks. Also  considered in the Financial Risk Management  have in place an internal control system, a We Policy, risks associated with volatility are monitored calendar of internal audits, a Code of Conduct by our supply team, ensuring adequate planning called Transparency Guide and a structured and materials inventory. Climate indicators are compliance program, with a department monitored consolidated by a market intelligence exclusively dedicated to deal with this subject department for commodities, used to define (read more about Ethics and Compliance on strategies and positioning in relation to supply page 48). of grains, global production, buffer stocks, and foreign trade variables. Internal guidelines set out in corporate standard for acquisition of commodities and considers multiple sustainability aspects. Strategy 35 Image and Reputation Financial Possible  incidents, crisis, and critical situations that  ransactions, exchange rates and negotiations that T could adversely affect BRF's image and impact its could affect BRF's financial soundness. reputation before its stakeholders (society, public authorities, employees, consumers, suppliers, Create  value in a consistent, solid, and responsible integrated producers, and clients, among others). manner, with long-term view and recognition in the market which in turn is reflected in the appreciation T  o become a Company that is admired and of the business. respected for its ethical, honest, safe, and responsible practices, avoiding any events that W  e have in place the Financial Risk Management could generate negative impacts upon society or Policy and maintain an executive committee with the environment, and that could harm our image. the same name to define the limits of exposure to the main associated risks (exchange, commodities). BRF  has in place a responsible marketing If necessary, we veto proposals and business policy and adopts compliance standards in all initiatives considered inappropriate to BRF's its relations with the market. The company is business continuity. The Risk Management Policy, committed to generating high-quality products, revised every two years and monitored by the maintaining strict control of its processes. In 2017, Finance and Risk Management Committee and we had high exposure to this risk as a result of the Board of Directors, is also a guideline in this operations Carne Fraca and Trapaça. (read more sense, as well as the Sarbanes-Oxley Act (SOx), an on this topic in the next section). international reference in this field. Legal and tax GRI 201-2 E  xposure to sanctions caused by cases of nonCorporate risks compliance and problems associated with tax collection and fiscal aspects. A department responsible for assessing and monitoring potential business risks, Increase our competitiveness and protect our capital and for pursuing improved results and structure, avoiding any losses arising from sanctions, preventing negative impacts fines, and punishment. Monitoring  of regulatory, legal and non-compliance aspects, and permanent dialogue about tax and fiscal aspects in the markets, with greater predictability and safety of the operations. The legal department is responsible for an important task in risk management, which includes: joint analysis of all legal risks; increase in standards to address regulatory and civil requirements, including the structuring of a specific flow to address infringement notices and demands from authorities; work to determine and debate with the various areas the main legal risks to which BRF is exposed (example: MAPA and environmental); prepare suitable provisions for any eventual contingencies to which the Company may be exposed as a result of any convictions or risks; among others. 36 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 (OSustainability ur View Towards Sustainability Vision Have a balanced and integrated chain, based on collaboration and shared value At BRF, we work to develop our understanding and creation for all those involved in it. comprehension of how sustainability can guide our businesses. As an influential Company, not only in the lives of consumers, but also in the markets, in the industry and in the day-to-day of communities, we have huge potential to generate benefits and mitigate natural impacts of a Company of our size. Our sustainability vision is broad and is not restricted to the growth of our business, to respect to people and to the environment, or to compliance with laws. We also wish to leave a positive legacy, taking development, fair and transparent relations, and social gains to all those within our area of influence. BRF's journey in this topic covered a series of policies, publicly disclosed since the end of the 2000s. Since 2009, we have been conducting materiality processes based on which we map impacts and key relationships of the business, and determine how people perceive the Company, its challenges and responsibilities. In 2017, governance on this topic was carried out in the Vice Presidency of Corporate Integrity and in leadership through the Finance, Governance and Sustainability Committee currently called Quality and Sustainability Committee. As a transformation the environment, animal welfare and labor aspects process, in 2018, the Sustainability Management to all leaders of the Company's production units reinforces its global and cross-sectional role through and to all executive leadership, through a tool its integration with the Vice presidency of Quality and called TIER da Qualidade ( Quality TIER ), This Food Safety and by reporting to the Sustainability is a management tool that aims to strengthen BRF's and Quality Committee, periodically advising and requirements in the areas of quality, processes, and reporting to the Board of Directors . In 2017, the sustainability and to map and mitigate risks related area reported to the Vice Presidency of Corporate to the production chain, customers and markets. Integrity. Our executives have direct responsibility These sustainability criteria in the Quality TIER over financial and nonfinancial aspects, and address were valid at the beginning of 2018. GRI 102-19, sustainability aspects in their meetings. We have 102-20, 102-29 been working to engage and motivate leaders on social and environmental topics, studying trends and Voluntary best practices, taking them to strategic agendas, with presentations in meetings, including results of market instruments, HSE (health safety and environment) indicators, and animal welfare. GRI 102-20 Commitments We are committed to social and The achievements related to the topic were important environmental pacts and we encourage in 2017, with expansion in 2018. One of these our suppliers to learn about and achievements was to link collective goals concerning adhere to these initiatives Strategy 37 ( Global Initiatives GRI 102-12, 103|205 Some external initiatives with which we are engaged Global Compact Brazilian GHG Protocol Program Created to encourage companies to adopt policies for We adopt the calculation methodology of the GHG corporate social responsibility and sustainability, we Protocol and use the Public Emissions Registry have been signatories to the GC since 2011. to report our global inventory of greenhouse gas emissions. Corporate Pact for Integrity and Against Corruption Since 2011, BRF has been signatory to the Pact, which CDP (Climate Change, Water and Forest) aims to unite companies to promote a more honest It focuses on responsible management of emissions, and ethical market, eradicating bribery and corruption. water and forest resources, and addresses issues such as climate change, supply chain, water, strategy, risks Instituto Pacto Nacional pela Erradicação do Trabalho and opportunities Escravo InPacto (Institute of the National Pact for the Eradication of Slave Labor) Empresas pelo Clima (Companies for the Climate) InPacto is a corporate initiative that focuses on Network that advocates for a low-carbon economy in fighting slave labor in production chains. Brazil. Na Mão Certa (On the Right Hand) Save Food Initiative This program focuses on eradicating sexual In 2017, BRF joined this initiative of the United exploitation of children and adolescents on Brazilian Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO) and highways. We are engaged with this initiative through the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP), our logistics chain. which fights to control waste in the food chain. World Animal Protection A partnership with an animal protection NGO to identify opportunities for improvement that prove to collaborate to the well-being of animals and, together, we seek continuous advances in all processes that involve our animals. Sustainable Global Reporting Initiative and Integrated Reporting Development GRI Guidelines to report the social and environmental data and references of the International Integrated Goals (SDGs) Reporting Council (IIRC). Launched in 2015, as an advancement of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), the SDGs develop a new cross-industry agenda to promote aspects such as eradication of poverty and hunger, access to water and sanitation, respect for human rights, and promotion of well-being. These goals are being incorporated into our operating model given their capacity to transform and connect each area of our business, and provided guidance to our materiality process. The SDGs are mentioned throughout the sections and in the GRI content index of this report. 38 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Materiality GRI 102-21, 102-29, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43, 102-44 As part of our adherence to the methodology set out various hierarchies, including the production units, by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and of the participated in rounds of debates, facilitated by an guidelines of the International Integrated Reporting external consultant at the Company's units in São Council (IIRC), we conducted materiality processes Paulo (SP), Jundiaí (SP), and Curitiba (PR). where engagement is instrumental to expand dialogue with the audiences and mapping their perceptions and The process made it possible to determine current expectations helps us report on aspects considered a and future challenges, in addition to potential risks priority and incorporate them into our strategies. and opportunities within an agenda adopted by BRF to manage sustainability. In turn, this set of aspects Since 2009, BRF has had in place a continuous correlates with the GRI aspects prioritized for this report. consulting cycle, with initiatives to engage its main internal and external stakeholders employees, Additionally, a management tool was created suppliers, financial institutions, communities, among for macro social and environmental impacts, others. In 2016, we proceeded with this movement consolidating the impacts captured into this and by more deeply analyzing these topics along with the previous materiality process. The impacts were specialists, which helped us evolve in our approach associated with the topics and with Agenda 2030, toward these aspects. of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDG). In 2018, a workshop will be conducted to analyze the In 2017, we focused on revising the topics significance of the macro impacts. Compared with consolidated in the strategy, addressing the the last revision of materiality, there were changes challenges that each topic represents for the concerning the coverage of some aspects: slave and Company, broken down into quality, food safety and child labor, which received greater emphasis; and traceability; sustainable partners; nutritional profile; ethics and integrity, and fight against corruption, animal welfare; environment; health and safety; which have gained more strength. communities; diversity and inclusion. The page below contains a summary of our key It was decided to internalize discussions with topics, their connection to other reference instruments multidisciplinary teams, allowing us to expand (IIRC capitals and Sustainable Development Goals) the understanding about the topics, from the and our approach toward each topic, in addition to standpoint of BRF's management. Professionals from the relationship with GRI topics covered by the report. Strategy 39 ( BRF Material Topic GRI 102-47 Ensure compliance with the QUALITY, requirements of the BRF Quality FOOD SAFETY System, in order to protect the health SDG 4 5 7 8 9 13 16 Society AND TRACEABILITY of our consumers and our corporate Public authorities reputation. We seek to ensure 201-1, 201-2, 201-3, 201-4, 205-1, 205-2, 205GRI proper planning and execution of 3, 206-1, 307-1, 419-1 Employees the strategy, focusing on complying Consumers CAPITALS with strict ethical requirements, on FINANCIAL AND BUILT CAPITAL Grain suppliers communication, and on accountability. SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP Integrated producers Logistics suppliers SUSTAINABLE Mobilize suppliers to adopt SDG 1 2 5 8 12 14 15 16 PARTNERS social, environmental, and human Society rights principles in performing 204-1, 308-1, 308-2, 408-1, 409-1, 414-1, their businesses, in addition to GRI Employees 414-2, FP1, FP2 strengthening BRF's management Clients mechanisms concerning traceability, CAPITALS quality, environmental efficiency, and SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP Grain suppliers compliance. Integrated producers Logistics suppliers SDG 2 3 12 16 NUTRITIONAL Renewal of BRF's healthiness PROFILE and nutrition principles in the GRI 416-1, 416-2, 417-1, 417-2, FP5, FP6, FP7 Company's processes, practices and Consumers products, connecting pleasure to the Employees well-being of our consumers and MANUFACTURED Clients CAPITALS reinforcing brand preference. Grain suppliers INTELLECTUAL Integrated producers Logistics suppliers To align BRF with the forefront of the industry in aspects of animal SDG 2 ANIMAL WELFARE welfare, through engagement of employees and integrated producers, and adherence to the commitments GRI FP10, FP11, FP12, FP13 made with internationally recognized organizations in the field. The objective is to transform the entire NATURAL CAPITALS global chain by operating with ethics and responsibility SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP Integrated producers Public authorities Guarantee the best performance of ENVIRONMENT, the Company's industrial and logistics SDG 3 6 7 8 12 13 14 15 HEALTH AND SAFETY operations in order to reduce impacts 302-1, 302-2, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5, 303-1, 303-2, and optimize the use of resources, especially concerning energy and 303-3, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, 305-6, GRI 305-7, 306-1, 306-2, 306-3, 306-4, 306-5, 403-1, Integrated producers water consumption, and the aspects 403-2, 403-3, 403-4, 408-1, 409-1 of emissions, waste, and effluents; Logistics suppliers CAPITALS and ensure protection of health and NATURAL HUMAN Grain suppliers safety of employees. Employees INTELLECTUAL Society Manage the social and 1 2 3 5 7 8 9 environmental impacts upon SDG COMMUNITIES communities surrounding BRF, 10 11 17 aiming to maximize positive Employees social impacts resulting from the Integrated producers CAPITALS GRI 203-1, 203-2, 413-1, 413-2 presence of the Company and Logistics suppliers provide actual progress in the lives Grain suppliers of people. SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP Clients Society DIVERSITY AND SDG 3 5 8 16 INCLUSION Value BRF's human capital through a strong and integrated culture, retention and appreciation of GRI 401-1, 401-2, 401-3, 405-1, 405-2 talents, and training of leaders Employees committed to the values, mission, CAPITALS HUMAN Integrated producers and vision of the business Logistics suppliers INTELLECTUAL Society 3 40 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Open Doors: Transparency as a Value 41 OPEN DOORS: TRANSPARENCY AS A VALUE The underlying values of BRF`s culture are safety first, integrity always, and quality in everything we do. SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL In this section • OPERAÇÃO CARNE FRACA • ETHICS AND COMPLIANCE 42 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Ethics and transparency are deemed essential for partners up to date with Company efforts, including the conduction of upstanding and fair businesses in those in response to the operation called Operação all Company relations and activities. BRF continues Carne Fraca. to invest in the expansion of its global corporate Ethics and Compliance Program, in order to promote In 2017, management created the Transparency its ethical standards to all its employees and those Committee, an administration body that supports who integrate its chain so that the development the CEO in managing compliance issues and in of the Company can be constantly guided by the periodic reporting to the Board of Directors and its sustainability of the businesses generated and with advisory councils. The Transparency Committee is a proactive assessment of compliance-related risks. composed of CEO, CFO, VP of Human Resources, Compliance and Legal Departments. Under critical 2017 was a year of further advancing compliance situations, the Board of Directors is directly initiatives and strengthening transparency in involved in decision making, giving support to dialogues with stakeholders through the Portas BRF’s ethics culture. Abertas (Open Doors) portal, a communication channel used to bring investors and other Company Open Doors: Transparency as a Value 43 ( Operação Carne Fraca Brazilian authorities are investigating the meat In addition, our unit in the city of Mineiros was processing industry in Brazil through the operation temporarily shut down by the Ministry of Agriculture, called Operação Carne Fraca, which became public Livestock and Supply (MAPA) on March 17, 2017, on March 17, 2017. The investigation involves several to allow MAPA to conduct an additional audit in its companies in this sector in Brazil. production process. After conducting an audit, MAPA authorized the Mineiros unit to resume operations On March 17, 2017, we learned of a decision issued starting on April 8. The plant reopened on April 10, by a federal judge in the state of Paraná authorizing 2017 and resumed operations on the following day. the search and seizure of information and documents and detention of certain individuals under Operação On April 15, 2017, the Brazilian Federal Police issued a Carne Fraca. Two BRF employees were detained report on the investigation and recommended charges both currently released and three were summoned to be brought against three BRF employees. On April for questioning. 20, based on the Brazilian Federal Police investigation, Brazilian federal prosecutors filed charges against two BRF employees a Regional Production Director and a Manager of Corporate Affairs. 44 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 The main allegations in this phase, based on the claims the advancement of this operation can result in made against the two employees, involve allegations penalties, fines and sanctions from governmental of misconduct in relation to inappropriate offers and/ authorities and other liabilities. or promises to government inspectors. BRF informed regulatory agencies and government entities, including The effects of Operação Carne Fraca had the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission and the operational consequences for us. In 2017, U.S. Department of Justice, regarding Operação Carne provisions for inventory losses arising from Fraca, in cooperation with authorities. Operação Carne Fraca totaled R$ 363.4 million, of which R$ 157.5 million related to media and BRF’s Statutory Audit Committee initiated an communication expenses, legal fees, freight independent investigation concerning the storage and inventory losses arising from markets allegations involving BRF employees and former closed and/or suspended products. Furthermore, employees under Operação Carne Fraca and redirection of inventories of finished products for hired external legal advisors. The independent use as raw material generated a supplementary investigation is being conducted and, in addition provision for adjustment of the realizable value to the impacts already recorded by the Company, totaling R$ 205.9 million. Open Doors: Transparency as a Value 45 response The Statutory Audit weighing less than the weight shown on the product packaging, since part of the weight of the Committee initiated an frozen chicken would consist of water contained in the product. investigation regarding Operação Trapaça the claims. On March 5, 2018, BRF learned of a decision issued by a federal judge of the 1st Federal District Court of Ponta Grossa, State of Paraná, authorizing a search and seizure of our information and documents and of certain employees and former employees, and temporary arrest of certain individuals. As identified in media reports as part of Operação Trapaça, eleven current and former BRF employees were temporarily detained for questioning, including the former CEO and former Vice President of Global Operations. All such current and former employees were released. A number of other BRF employees and former employees were summoned for questioning. Based on the decision of the judge On January 22, 2018, the 3rd State Public who authorized the temporary arrest and search Prosecutor's Office of the State of Goiás filed a and seizure operations, the main allegations in claim against the then Industrial Manager of the this phase involve suspected misconduct related Mineiros unit, in Goiás, during the events under to breaches of quality, misuse of feed components Operação Carne Fraca and current member of our and falsification of test results at certain plants corporate engineering team, and against a former and at laboratories accredited by BRF. employee, terminated on August 16, 2016, who was head of quality control of the Mineiros plant. We are cooperating with the authorities. BRF’s Both were indicted for alleged crimes against Statutory Audit Committee initiated an investigation consumers, as provided in article 7, item II of Law concerning the alleged misconduct involving BRF No. 8,137/90. employees under Operação Trapaça and involved the presence of external attorneys. The investigation According to the Public Prosecutor`s Office, is still in its early phases and the results obtained laboratory tests (drip tests) found excessive levels thus far have not indicated the need to make of water uptake by chicken products seized at adjustments to our financial statements. The effects the Mineiros plant. The Public Prosecutor's Office of Operação Trapaça have already led to adverse alleges that we make chicken products with water operational consequences for us, since we incurred levels that exceed the limits allowed by the MAPA, expenses totaling R$ 12.8 million in the first quarter with potential damages to customers, considering 2018 in terms of expenses for communication and that they would be buying chicken meat products law firms, among others. 46 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 operation As a result of Operação Trapaça, on March 5, 2018, we received a notice from the MAPA immediately suspending exports from our units in Rio Verde Results obtained from (GO), Carambeí (PR) and Mineiros (GO) to 12 countries that have specific sanitation requirements investigations thus far to control the group of Salmonella spp and Salmonella pullorum bacteria. The MAPA temporarily do not indicate the need suspended exports from nine other BRF units to the European Union on March 15, 2018, but revoked for adjustments to our such decision on April 18, 2018. The European Union suspended poultry imports from certain production financial statements facilities in Brazil (including ours), allegedly due to sanitation issues. As a result, we did not sell products from these production facilities under embargo from the European Union and, depending on the extent of such suspension, our operating results may be further adversely affected if we are unable to divert to other markets, at similar prices, any surplus production capacity resulting from the suspension. The outcome of this operation may result in Sources penalties, fines and sanctions from governmental authorities or other forms of liabilities. Furthermore, as a result of this operation, we might report losses related to contingencies, adjustments to the net This and other information about operations realizable value of inventories, and possibility Carne Fraca and Trapaça are publicly of recovering certain assets, which cannot be available in Form 20-F a document determined at this point and, therefore, no published and made available to the U.S. provisions have been recorded. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) containing operational and financial data As a result of investigations by regulatory agencies in BRF’s Financial Statements, pursuant to and public disclosure of allegations of misconduct the investigation phase available at the time involving BRF and other Brazilian meat companies of publication of each document, and in the under these operations, some export markets were Portas Abertas (Open Doors) channel. Visit temporarily closed and our average selling prices for • ri.brf-global.com/pt-br/arquivos/20-f-2018 certain products and markets have dropped. • ri.brf-global.com/pt-br/informacoesfinanceiras • www.brf-global.com/portasabertas/ en/comunicado-geral-sobre-a-operacaotrapaca.html Open Doors: Transparency as a Value 47 ( To learn more Throughout this Annual Report, we cover several Quality and food safety certifications in our aspects related to our response to Operação Carne operation > Quality Management, page 54 Fraca such as our quality and safety policies, our conduct and transparency guidelines, and adjustments How we investigate cases of corruption and to our governance structure to quickly respond to the misconduct > Ethics and Compliance, page 48 demands of regulatory agencies and the market. How our leaders responded to Operação Carne Below is a brief content index of topics that can help Fraca > Our Governance, page 43 you understand the operation and how we responded to the challenges of 2017: Our strategy for managing sanitation, legal, reputational/image and food safety risks > Risks and Opportunities, page 30 48 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( Ethics and compliance GRI 103|205 The basis of our ethical commitment to people, the Since 2014, we have invested in the development market and society is BRF's Transparency Guide, our and expansion of our Ethics and Compliance code of conduct. This document covers issues such Program. We put in place a Compliance Department, as human rights, anti-bribery, anti-corruption and responsible for management of BRF's Ethics and behavioral norms and is available on the Internet Compliance Program in two fronts: Compliance and on the intranet in three languages (Portuguese, Department, that works in a preventive manner, English and Spanish). Locally the Transparency providing guidance and training the business areas Guide is translated into Dutch, Burmese, Cambodian, on how to assess compliance risks in everyday Laotian and Thai. GRI 102-16, 205-2 operations; and the Fraud Investigation Department, which investigates reports made in good faith We also have in place policies to support our associated with situations that could be in breach initiatives in the various aspects associated with of our code of conduct, the legislation applicable to compliance. Among them are the Corporate AntiBRF or internal processes and policies. Bribery and Anti-Corruption Policy, published in 2014; Corporate Policy on Reporting Claims and BRF is subject to compliance with anti-corruption Non-Retaliation, of 2016 both available on BRF's legislation in numerous jurisdictions in which it intranet. In 2017, these policies were revised and operates, especially, to Brazilian anti-corruption law their contents were approved by BRF's Board of (Law No. 12,846/2013), the Foreign Corrupt Practices Directors, along with Conflict of Interest, Donation Act (FCPA), of the United States, and the Bribery Act and Sponsorship Policies, and the Gifts and of the United Kingdom (UKBA). We are also subject Entertainment Policy. to economic sanction programs, including those managed by the United Nations, the European Union, and the United States, including the Office of Foreign Assets Control OFAC). The Compliance Department provides training to our employees to always be in compliance with 60,000 the law and the ethical commitments assumed by the Company, mitigating risks of anti-ethical practices and fostering a corporate culture based employees on values such as ethics, respect, and transparency. Throughout 2017, the Compliance Department worked to disseminate BRF's Transparency Guide, the BRF Transparency Channel (our reporting channel), trained in topics of the and in the training of employees on aspects related Transparency Guide to compliance. In the past year, more than 60,000 employees were trained in topics covered by the Transparency Guide and 700 were subjected to classroom training on the anti-bribery and anticorruption policy. The target audience for these training courses is chosen based on risk factors and leadership positions. GRI 205-2 Open Doors: Transparency as a Value 49 In addition, in 2017 we adopted different initiatives • Number of due diligences conducted with third to reinforce the continued acculturation of ethics, parties considered as posing high and medium transparency and integrity at the Company, such risk; as: continuous improvement of the reputational due diligence process of third parties, including • Number of consultations made to the Compliance Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs); evaluation of Department, in order to measure the volume donations, events and sponsorships considered by of consultations conducted by those who seek the Company; management of risks associated with guidance on aspects associated with compliance; the relationship with countries sanctioned by the U.S. (OFAC); and timely management of complaints • Analysis and negotiation of the anti-corruption received through BRF's Transparency Channel. and money laundering provisions added to the agreements signed by the Company; In order to track the progress of the initiatives in this area, the following key indicators are monitored: • Timely management of the Transparency Channel; • Percentage of employees trained on topics • Mapping of areas and locations with the highest associated with the Transparency Guide, as well as number of reports and a survey of the most the Anti-Corruption and Anti-Bribery Policy; recurring types of claims, for prioritization. 50 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 When the Company determines that there is a In order to report any claims regarding ethical possibility of fraud or misconduct by one of its non-compliance, we have made available to our employees or business partners, the Compliance audiences (employees, suppliers, contractors, clients, Department works to identify what could be going business partners, and the population in general) on, the extent of the risk, if the risk materializes, BRF's Transparency Channel. We guarantee the what losses are likely to occur, who is responsible confidentiality of information and protect anonymity for the conduct, and which processes and controls of whistleblowers, who choose not to be identified, were eventually vulnerable to allow this conduct to whenever allowed by local legislation. Management occur, among others. These measures help provide of claims about ethics received is the responsibility feedback to our processes and controls, resulting in of the Compliance Department. All contacts received continuous improvements. are documented and addressed through a specific investigation methodology. GRI 103-2, 205-2 Among the initiatives to strengthen BRF's Ethics and Integrity Program taken in 2018, we have: Compliance Program GRI 102-17 The Ethics and Compliance Program covers, among • Continuous improvement and dissemination of other things, the dissemination of our code of compliance policies and of the Transparency conduct and related policies, employee guidance and Channel; training, as well as proactive assessment of risks related to compliance. Some of the tools are: • Development of new correlated policies, as necessary; • Training about aspects of ethics and compliance. In 2017, more than 60,000 employees were trained in • Continuous training (classroom and online) on the the topics covered by BRF's Transparency Guide and content of the Transparency Guide and policies. in anti-bribery practices and other anti-corruption GRI 205-2 policies, focusing on those in leadership positions; Open Doors: Transparency as a Value 51 • Reputational due diligence processes conducted with third parties considered as posing high risk; Mapping of potential risks associated with suppliers, service providers and partners with whom BRF intends to do business; • Assessment of risk of corruption, covering reputational surveys, due diligence, anti-bribery Means to access the Transparency and anti-corruption for potential M&A processes, or commercial partnerships; and investigation Channel are: of claims and grievances submitted via the Transparency Channel. For 2018, among other objectives, the Compliance Department intends to: enhance compliance policies; expand training programs; increase communications ( Online: www.brf-global.ethicspoint.com associated with the Compliance Program; improve the due diligence process of third parties; map relations that could represent a conflict of interest; ( countries Email: denuncia@brf-br.com, for certain (list on the website) and address claims received via the Transparency Channel within the agreed-upon term. GRI 103|205 ( Intranet: electronic form ( Tavailable  elephone: number for each location is on the website and is a toll-free number; available 24x7. GRI 103-2 4 52 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Products 53 PRODUCTS Our portfolio seeks to understand the various client profiles in order to be present in the lives of consumers in Brazil and worldwide SOCIAL INTELLECTUAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL CAPITAL In this section • QUALITY MANAGEMENT • BRAND, INNOVATION, AND KNOWLEDGE • PORTFOLIO AND NUTRITION • CONSUMERS AND THE MARKET 54 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( Quality Management We are present in the everyday lives of people who consume our various products. These are foods that, in addition to being flavorful, have quality and convenience, such as individually frozen servings, that avoid waste, and those that can go to the oven without defrosting. We are also present in special moments of families, through our traditional Chester® We are attentive to BRF's responsibilities in and the Sadia turkey, synonymous with Christmas we delivering products to clients and consumers in work all year round to ensure the year-end festivities the four corners of the world. Our growth depends by being part of the tables of nearly 43 million homes directly on the trust that people place in us and in that consume poultry and pork, representing one our activities, especially concerning the quality and quarter of the Brazilian population. safety of our processes. We offer an array of options to facilitate the lives of Quality has always been a key attribute of our our consumers: margarines for the most demanding brands and is among the most relevant topics for tastes, desserts, sandwiches, mayonnaise, marinated the Company in the perception of our audiences and frozen chicken, special meats, sliced cold cuts, (read more on page 26). Additionally, it has always practical and ready-to-eat meals, frozen servings and been a priority in our strategy, which has motivated processed foods. improvements in recent years such as, for example, in 2017, the creation of the VP of Quality, with With all these products, our brands are recognized by responsibility over the global operation teams. consumers in nearly 150 countries: Sadia, Perdigão and Qualy, in Brazil; Confidence, Perdix and Hilal, in With a corporate vision on this topic, we operate the Islamic markets served by the Halal Division; and based on the idea that quality is in each of us a Paty and Dánica, in Argentina, among others. motto that we consistently seek to reinforce and we incorporate to this cross-sectional and global operation In 2017, we inaugurated a new business unit, BRF the sustainability aspects that are present in our daily Ingredients, which adds value to our co-products and routine. The Sustainability Department, in 2018, reports turns them into ingredients to cater to the health and to the VP of Quality in order to strengthen its role as nutrition industries. The mission of this business an essential value of the BRF culture. unit is to improve quality of life worldwide with new solutions and technologies that provide environmental In this sense, two fronts centralize the work of this benefits by reusing resources of the food chain, new department: Food Safety and Food Transparency thereby adding more value to these resources. • We advocate the technical work to ensure highOur concern is to always deliver quality products and quality products, produced without variation, and ensure the safety of our manufacturing processes. We respecting the legal and sanitation requirements of rely on our capability to innovate, one of our major the markets where we operate; attributes, gradually promoting the development of healthier products. • Our focus is to provide precise information to our business partners and consumers about the standards adopted in the production and routing of our products, from the plant to the shelf. As a reflex of our lessons learned after Operação Carne Fraca and in response to the disclosure of reports concerning our operation, we were audited by a world-class certification company (DNV-GL) Our certification valid for 2017 -, we further requested from an international consulting company an Brands assessment of our primary chain, obtaining very positive results. Consumers in nearly 150 countries recognize our brands when We put together independent external councils, consuming our products daily formed by renowned professionals worldwide in the Products 55 field of Food Quality including former executives from this industry, members of organizations such 100% as the International Association for Food Protection, of our portfolio is covered by and university researchers. Throughout 2017, two standard procedures that allow on-site meetings were held to discuss BRF's practices for controlling sanitary and and action and communication requirements on regulatory risks this subject. The first meeting was held in Jundiaí (SP), and involved BRF's senior management, and had the participation of multidisciplinary groups, through the Tier BRF tool that assesses legal, and the second, was held in Beijing, prior to BRF's environmental, labor, animal welfare, and quality participation in the China International Food Safety & aspects across all industrial plants, classifying them Quality Conference. and providing a view of the risk map for each unit, and the development of a focused and assertive Another important achievement concerning the action plan. This tool is directly linked to the Company's advances in terms of Food Safety, was the Company's goal for 2018. election of a representative from BRF, at the end of 2017, as a member of the Board of the Global Food These measures supplement a consolidated model Safety Initiative (GFSI), an international nonprofit in place for decades in the BRF units, which includes collaborative group led by food safety specialists obtaining internationally recognized certifications that worldwide, operating in the retail, industry, and ensure our integrity to clients, regulatory agencies, food service chains. The mission of this group is to and institutions. promote continuous improvements in systems that manage food safety in order to ensure confidence in Thus, from product conceptualization to their arrival the delivery of safe foods to consumers. in the homes of consumers, we evaluate possible impacts upon health and well-being of consumers, Internally, we also strengthened our integrated including aspects associated with packaging, and cross-sectional management on this subject transportation, and consumption. 56 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( Global Standards Our main references are the Food Quality and Safety Policy, BRF's Quality System and the Program for Hazard Analysis and Critical Control Points (HACCP). In practical terms, they establish standard procedures, control measures and criteria that cover 100% of our portfolio, allowing for control of sanitation and regulatory risks. GRI 103|416, 103|417 Understand the certifications adopted by We are externally audited by agencies responsible for inspections in our sector Ministry of Agriculture, BRF in its production Livestock, and Supply (MAPA) and the National Sanitation Agency (ANVISA) in addition to regulatory agencies in the countries where we operate, such as IFS the Ministry of Agriculture and Cooperatives/Department Set of regulations of the International Featured of Livestock Development (DLD – Thailand) and Servicio Standard, applicable to all food processors and Nacional de Sanidad Y Calidad Agroalimentaria (Senasa packers. These standards are in place in 13 units. – Argentina), and others. GRI 103|416, 103|417 BRC Additionally, we comply with the standards of several Developed by the British Retail Consortium international certification agencies, such as the Global (BRC), a commercial retail organization in the Standard for Food Safety (BRC), International Food United Kingdom, it establishes guidelines for Standard (IFS), Global-GAP, Agricultural Labeling due diligence, supplier approval, quality in the Ordinance (Alo Free), GenesisGap and ISO 17025:2005 industry, compliance with legal obligations, (see table). These requirements cover aspects from consumer protection, and product safety. We food safety to animal welfare, environmental controls adopt BRC in 13 units. and processes. GRI 103|416, 103|417 ALO Free Internally, we have in place a system of audits, This Swiss program for traceability controls the called Audits of the BRF Quality System (Auditorias production of broilers and turkeys, without the do Sistema da Qualidade BRF SQBRF), which are use of antibiotics and/or antimicrobial growth conducted annually and whose purpose is to ensure promoters. It applies to the entire production adherence of the Company's internal processes to chain, from hatcheries to slaughterhouse, including the legal requirements and to client and certification animal feed. This certification is recognized by standards, as well as to provide a critical analysis other nations, in addition to Switzerland. Today, and continuous improvement of the quality system. three BRF units have this certification (Capinzal, External audits aim to certify or register adherence Marau, and Serafina Corrêa). of the internal processes to client and certification standards, applicable to legal requirements of a Genesis GAP Standard given market, allowing for a critical assessment and One of the most renowned standards for best adjustment of the SQBRF in terms of such standards practices in agriculture and animal welfare. 100% or requirements. GRI 103|416, 103|417 of our producers of broilers in Thailand have third-party certification, in other words, certified We are also externally audited by clients in all our by an independent accredited organization. These plants enabled for exports, and we maintain a standards are in place at our GFS units. calendar of internal audits on production, supported by risk management teams, who report directly to Global G.A.P. CFM senior management. This standard covers best practices in the production of animal feed and is adopted in two At BRF, 100% of the significant product categories BRF units (Chapecó and Marau). are assessed in terms of impact on health and safety, aiming to promote improvements. We began this monitoring process in January 2017, when coverage of iconic products in the nutrition table was 80%. In December 2017, this percentage was 97% our goal is 100%. GRI 416-1 Products 57 Iconic products: a new view of the portfolio In 2016, we initiated a relevant project to improve the quality standards of our product. We established a list of 12 iconic products, strategic for BRF, and began Global G.A.P. IFA to more closely monitor these products, in terms This standard covers pre-farm-gate (before of quality in a more comprehensive manner from leaving the production unit) management and perceived characteristics, sensory and packaging animal welfare practices, which covers the entire conditions, up to aspects of quality in production, agriculture chain, from broiler breeders, to such as the presence of foreign bodies and state of incubation and integration of broilers. the product after its distribution in the retail market. The products selected are at a higher level of rigor. Certified Humane International certification regarding the quality With an initial focus on Brazilian points of sale, of life of animals from birth. The demands are the initiative involved multidisciplinary groups that more stringent than many global standards and included managers from production units, and ensure, among other factors, that the animals representatives of the areas such as Marketing, have freedom to express their natural behavior. Quality, and Research & Development. Today, there are more than 180 BRF poultry farms certified in Buriti Alegre (GO) and 80 poultry farms Although we control 100% of BRF's portfolio in in Lucas do Rio Verde (MT) (read more in section criteria, standards and policies, this program allows Animal Welfare). for an in-depth view to understand how each consumer and client perceives our products, thereby See the complete list of certified units in the associating perceived quality with process quality Attachment, page 161. and reinforcing the identification of food safety and the control of the proposed product expiration date, avoiding impacts upon the health of consumers. In 2017, we expanded the project through a Compliance Index, which made it possible to carry out a complete sensorial analysis of 90 products, which account for 80% of the volume produced by the Company. Based on a score for these products, we determined the need for new standards, adjustment to processes, and specific care to ensure the preservation of the unique characteristics of each product. Quality Assurance From the conception of our products, up to their arrival in the homes of consumers, we conduct assessments of any impacts upon the health and well-being of people, including third-party certifications 58 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 QUALITY & FOOD SAFETY A CROSS-SECTIONAL PRINCIPLE OF THE CHAIN Products 59 60 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( Band rand, Innovation, Knowledge Sadia is our international brand of excellence which, along with our other brands, has ample recognition among consumers: such as the case of Qualy and Perdigão, in Brazil. The end of the restrictions imposed, in 2011, to the Perdigão brand by the Administrative Council for Economic Defense (CADE) resulting from INTELLECTUAL the approval for the creation of BRF, allowed for the CAPITAL development of new brands and product lines (read more about the new brand in this section). We also managed to consolidate certain products launched in 2016, for example, Salamitos and Qualy Multigrãos. Our strategy involves being a company with strong brands and global presence. As such, we understand We furthered our understanding of which attributes that BRF, as a corporate brand, should be a platform should be applied and perceived as differentiators capable of providing consolidated products and of our main brands in Brazil: Sadia and Perdigão. portfolios according to the needs, profile, and culture The innovations for each of them (see more below) of consumers in each region, with each brand finding show that aspects such as quality, healthiness, and its proper position. This path leads to continuous adequate prices may be worked on in order to build evolution in terms of perception of the Company and strengthen ties with consumers in Brazil. We regarding opportunities and challenges, and whose also invested in advertising campaigns for Sadia and purpose is to promote growth in key categories based Perdigão, focusing on what each brand and each on strengthening our renowned brands. product has to offer to consumers. ( Recognition of our brands ( Top  of Mind (Folha de S.Paulo) Top Frozen Meals, Top Turkey Breas and Margarine and products ( Sadia:  of Mind – 2017 (Grupo Amanhã) Top Broilers The quality and prestige we ( Sadia: Preferred Brands Award (Diário de Pernambuco) Cheeses have with our consumers were reaffirmed through awards received ( Sadia: Great Brands (Diário do Nordeste) Chilled/frozen chicken from various institutions in 2017, important drivers for the image and reputation of the Company. ( Prêmio Apas – Acontece 2017 (Associação Paulista de Supermercados – Apas) We received the following awards: Frozen perishables and chilled perishables ( Gold Sadia Lion – Cannes Festival 2018 Products 61 MARKET SHARE BY CATEGORY (MOST RECENT READING 2017) In Brazil (%) Halal Division – Gulf Region (%) 62.8 62.0 59.5 53.7 46.2 40.0 20.2 READY-TO-EAT MEALS CHICKEN CUTS SAUSAGES GRILLER COLD CUTS PROCESSED FOODS MARGARINE ( Kidelli: A new option We began 2018 launching a new brand Kidelli offering consumers products with the BRF quality at competitive prices. These are processed foods based on poultry and pork, with a product line composed of 13 products, including hams, breaded products, With this new brand, we intend to secure a relevant baloney, sausages, and hamburger. share of the Brazilian market for processed foods, estimated between 30% and 40%, in which the Five units produce the brand, especially the ones in Company does not participate. Strategically, we Uberlândia (MG) and Videira (SC). The products are will be able to better plan our chain, optimizing distributed only through the cash and carry networks production processes, reducing costs, and ensuring (self-service wholesaler and hypermarket-type retail), the use of remaining raw materials, from animals and and independent distributors. proteins, whether in natura or processed. 62 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Launches and INNOVATIONS in 2017 83 + mi views of the Christmas Tale campaign video Campaigns Tradition With the tagline This has been Sadia's No. 1 commitment since grandma's times: putting care and quality on the tables of Brazilian families. Sadia, healthier day after day, the brand valued the 73-year relation with consumers and its presence in the lives of Brazilians. Christmas Tale Sadia, as an iconic brand at Christmas time, launched a story to convey the spirit of this time of year. The campaign brought a positive message of love and gratitude, in which the brand reinforced its Christmas Sadia tradition and its relationship with consumers. The The brand introduced innovations in its packaging film, with a movie plot, tells the story of a young girl for breaded foods and ready-to-eat meals. They are with Down's syndrome, who is training to participate now made of plastic, facilitating the work of retailers in an important Christmas race at school. During the in the replacement and distribution on shelves and whole time, without her knowing it, she is helped optimizing space. For consumers, this innovation by her neighbor, who only has his dog for company. addresses the need to keep products better protected, With a captivating ending, the story, which is filled without the risk of soaking, like the paperboard with solidarity, touched all those who watched it, package, facilitating storage in the freezer, taking up from the beginning to the end. less space than boxes. As an iconic brand at Christmas time, especially due Complementing the Frango Fácil product line, we to its star on Christmas tables the Turkey Sadia is launched Frango Fácil com Legumes Sadia (Sadia responsible for keeping the flame of this date burning. chicken with vegetables), and “Frango Fácil de Panela Through this story, the idea was more than putting Sadia” (Sadia chicken stew), which do not require a Turkey on Christmas tables, but to spread the defrosting prior to preparation. Christmas spirit in the hearts and homes of Brazilians. Products 63 Campaigns Hearty Table With the allure of the Perdigão brand to promote and reinforce the importance of gathering family and friends around a good hearty table, whether in everyday situations or special occasions, we launched the campaign Gostoso é Mesa Cheia e Mesa Cheia Perdigão (in loose translation, Good is a Hearty Table filled with Perdigão). A campaign that Qualy was activated in different media outlets, with ample Undisputed leader in its category found in seven in acceptance by consumers. every 10 Brazilian homes, Qualy is one of the brands with highest recall among consumers. Activation with Chester Perdigão Again, in 2017, Perdigão donated one Chester to a needy We launched Qualy Multigrãos (Multigrain), which family for every purchase in Brazilian retail (limited to innovates by blending the original Qualy flavor with 250,000 units of the Chester Perdigão). This Christmas the benefits of six whole grains, providing access campaign is consistent with the brand's purpose to to the benefits of grains and making the Brazilian promote the importance of gathering with family and breakfast table healthier and more nutritious. friends around a table of good food, and the brand believes that everyone deserves a Hearty Table at Christmas. This initiative was conducted in partnership Perdigão with the program called Mesa Brasil by SESC Nacional, Perdigão, a brand that promotes gathering of friends and benefiting 250,000 families in all regions in Brazil. In family members, has a new visual identity. More striking, addition to the donations, the brand established a modern and with features that establish a greater partnership with Gastromotiva and prepared Christmas connection between the everyday life of consumers, this dinners (in the week before the great date) to nearly 500 new identity also reinforces one of the most important homeless in the streets of São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro. values of the brand being democratic. In the new logo, the Partridges (birds shown on the brand logo since its launch in 1934), for example, gained greater relevance and further integrate to the heart-shaped logo, demonstrating that Perdigão is a brand that is close to its consumers. The brand also initiated a project to replace the cartridge-type packaging, made of paper, with plastic packaging, aiming to optimize space in refrigerators at home and on supermarket shelves. Following the end of restrictions imposed by CADE, we brought back the most recent categories from Perdigão lasagna, ready-to-eat meals, and cheese muffins expanding the line called Na Brasa Perdigão, with sausages and seasoned chicken cuts for grilling. We also launched the baloney called Mortadela Ouro Gran Bologna Perdigão and the Mini Chicken Minions Perdigão. 64 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 CROSS-SECTIONAL INNOVATION BRF has tradition in development and a trend for market and, in the international market, 200 innovation. The Innovation Center in Jundiaí (SP), for products were launched in the regions of Asia (72), example, is a reference in the market, with more than Europe (21), Africa (45), Southern Cone (32) and 100 professionals working to provide great innovation Middle East (10). potential to the market. This proves that the culture of innovation must permeate all our activities, and Among the initiatives we implemented in 2017, we that's why intellectual capital is one of the relevant highlight: pillars of success in our strategy: to become a global company, with a relevant position worldwide in the • Optimization of the use and of processes that food industry, captivating consumers with a set of involve subproducts; strong brands and a high-capacity value chain. • Reformulated packaging; • Launch of new chicken and pork SKUs for the frozen In order to reach this goal, in recent years, we have and grilling product lines; focused on aspects such as launching and renewing • Relaunch of the line of Perdigão lasagnas in the products in key categories, customizing our portfolio domestic market; for the nearly 150 countries we serve in global • Launch of Qualy in the Argentine market; regions, and generating and sharing knowledge in • Implementation of pilot projects to ensure the production and agricultural processes. success of future innovations and constant investments in maintaining and improving the In 2017, we invested R$ 49.7 million in new products quality of all products in our portfolio; alone, with over 380 product innovations and • Adoption of a flow pack concept, a more sustainable renovations developed based on the Brazil platform, packaging for the frozen product market, resulting which represents a consolidated renovation rate of in optimized usage of space for retailers and end 12.7%. We launched 94 products in the Brazilian consumers; Products 65 380+ product innovation and renovations were conducted in 2017, which represent a renovation index of 12.7% Acknowledgments Our work on innovation was awarded by the economics journal Valor Econômico, ranking second among the Most Innovative Company in the food, beverage, and ingredients industry. The Brazilian Packaging Association gave BRF the ABRE Award for Qualy Multigrãos, in the category Great Packaging Cases, and for our new packaging, in the Breaded Foods and Ready Dishes category • Expansion of the product line Na Brasa Perdigão; • In natura sliced and frozen pork products. Every year we allocate resources for research and 2017 development in products and agricultural studies. HIGHLIGHTS The idea is to anticipate and guide consumption R$ 49.7 trends, improve our market share in strategic categories, and strengthen the presence of our brands. Agricultural studies are also responsible for improving the genetics of our assets (animals), million improving feed conversion (ratio of weight gain to invested in Brazil in new animal feed consumption) and generating important products alone gains in aspects such as animal welfare. We have five innovation centers worldwide: Brazil, 94 products in Jundiaí (SP); Argentina, in Buenos Aires; United launched on the Brazilian Arab Emirates, in Abu Dhabi; Thailand; and Holland, market in Oosterwolde. For the coming years, we will have a series of new launches thinking of the future and of the specific challenges, such as being more 200 products present at all moments in the everyday lives of products launched on the consumers, and having a brand with a sensorial international market preference our unique flavor , with a focus on healthiness. 66 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 More robust processes Innovation in our processes has been gaining relevance since 2014, when we established a R$ 684.6 million was invested in 2017, targeting manufacturing footprint, a multi-area project to increased production and improvement increase productivity, speed in execution, maintenance in efficiency of an operating presence, and elimination of idleness in BRF assets. It is a task force that mobilizes teams from different regions and studies ways of improving the company's sales, distribution and production rationale based on the identification of key production units and product lines with greater opportunity for expansion, also based on idleness, correcting problems with potential to impact operating costs. In 2017, our investments targeted increased We are confident that the basis for efficient production and improvement in efficiency. In all, management is having good information, with KPIs and we invested R$ 684.6 million in: expansion and metrics that monitor the business and the operation as improvement of production lines (R$ 256 million), a whole. From a system, information and productivity productivity and cost reduction (R$ 82.9 million), and standpoint, we work to ensure traceability, using support (R$ 345.8 million). tools such as Blockchain (see box) and sensors; we believe that it is possible to associate technology with In the industry, in addition to the implementation production in the food industry, ensuring observance of of the management program called Otimização already tested quality standards while we advance in Global (Global Optimization), we advanced in the technological innovation. Industry 4.0 concept, in order to make our processes even more robust, representing an evolution in Our extensive chain, which goes from poultry farms management in our business (read more about to points of sale, demands control and constant Industry 4.0 on page 67). updating of information. We want the smallest timeframe possible to update information within the chain, in order to become more resilient, make faster decisions, and streamline our response capabilities. In this sense, we invested in numerous fronts in 2017: • Online indicators: information, total investments per category (region, channel), stock, level of services. All these indicators are now easily provided through systems or cell phones, resulting in greater mobility. Task force • Use of sensors and IoT (Internet of Things) technology: online data for plant and poultry farm operations. Five poultry farms already operate teams from different using this advanced technology, which provides information on temperature and quality of feed, regions working on with real-time access to data. For 2018, our plan is for 800 producers/poultry farms to start using this innovative solutions to system. increase productivity • Procurement System (Ariba): a portal for the and eliminate idleness procurement area that includes online quotes, contract management, and greater control of Company guidelines, including the Supplier Code of Conduct. Products 67 • Telesales Center: we implemented a project to deep learning tools to improve decision-making and consolidate customer relationship (B2B), with increase efficiency and productivity of processes and, the migration to a new customer service (SAC) consequently, BRF's competitiveness. platform, initiating a partnership journey. The consolidation of the global Customer Service (SAC) All of these technologies were implemented to give is planned for early 2018. our products a unique identity with the traceability required by our clients, through the Blockchain Thus, more than having an integrated central base, we technology. are advancing to become an online company based on the Industry 4.0 concept. We are attentive to and testing the main technological trends, such as: IoT, to provide us with relevant data from the production chain (feed, agriculture, transport, factory, and stock); Big Data to compile and organize information; and artificial intelligence through machine learning and ( Tgreater  echnology provides transparency to information ( IIndustry mplementation of the 4.0 concept We began a pilot project in 2017, the NPQ, together throughout the entire with Carrefour to track BRF products, from production to supermarket shelves. In a partnership with IBM, production chain we use Blockchain technology for Sadia's frozen pork loin, allowing consumers to know factory of origin, production date, packaging, transportation, and expiration date, through a QR Code stamp on the In 2017, pursuant to a call for bids from the Brazilian package. Any occurrence in production or distribution Industrial Development Agency (ABDI), we received can be detected by customers. the task to challenge four startups to develop innovative solutions for our production processes. Traceability technology works as a certification, Each startup received R$ 80,000 to develop proof of generating reliable and public information, with concept. the participation of the several links of the chain, streamlining the traceability process, including The solutions chosen by BRF were associated with possible needs for recall. the Industry 4.0 concept focusing on the development of sensors through cameras, increased productivity, For 2018, our challenge will be to implement plant optimization, and agricultural chain. Under this traceability in other product lines. We are certain concept, a roadmap of innovation projects was also that this technology will provide an important prepared to increase overall competitiveness in the advancement in quality assurance of our products, production chain, improve the quality of products, in addition to allowing for greater control of the eliminate risks to the environment and to workplace information provided by the chain. safety, leverage assets, and develop new businesses. 68 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( Portfolio and Nutrition GRI 103|416, 103|417 Through the Brazilian Food Industry Association (ABIA), we have actively participated in the debate about healthiness in the food industry, in addition to contributing to agreements and public policies associated with this topic. Since 2008, Challenges associated with improving the nutritional we have worked to eliminate the use of trans fats profile of industrialized foods are an integral part of in our products, through research, sensory and the day-to-day activities in this industry. Nutritional performance tests, and safety assessments in all value must take into account several elements, product categories and product attributes. Also including convenience, flavor, affordable prices, through ABIA, since 2013 we have been committed and origin of the ingredients a task that has to reducing sodium content in our products in become increasingly important for consumers and the meat category (hams, wieners, sausages, the market. This requires companies such as BRF to hamburgers, breaded chicken, and baloney). significantly invest in innovation, covering research Goals were established for 2016 and 2017, and are centers and regional divisions, and the production scheduled for review in 2020. chain as a whole. To this end, we revised our nutritional strategy, In this scenario, it is our understanding that advancing in the reformulation of the healthy innovation is instrumental to ensuring business product concept and defining as a focus the renovation and catering to the changing needs nutritional adequacy in relation to the moment of consumers. Thus, we gradually promote the of consumption; we further reinforced our development of products with a healthiness appeal, commitment to animal welfare as a key element annually increasing our portfolio and improving for the quality of our products. Under this new the status of products already in line, investing strategy, we are reviewing the nutritional criteria in innovation processes and, across the sector, of our products, making this a stronger pillar for in agreements within the industry to reduce the the coming years. In 2017, we advanced in the content of fats, sodium, and sugar in the products. nutritional value of our industrialized products through the modification and improvement of the We also mapped the various nutritional needs nutritional composition of BRF products. The of the population, which resulted in important goals towards reducing sodium in processed meat advances in the healthiness pillar, with efforts in products under the Perdigão and Sadia brands research and development (R&D). by 2017 were fully addressed. For the Sadia brand, the internal challenge of reducing the sodium content by 30% in 2016 left the portfolio of this brand of products with sodium content much below the goal established by the industry agreement. Improvements in nutrition and in the composition of the products in the portfolio demanded the internal development of innovative technical solutions in production processes, and in the combination of components in the formula of the products and externally, in the technical-scientific development of solutions for ingredients from our suppliers. Reduction in sodium content to levels below those of our product poses major challenges for our industry. The current levels are already a challenge in maintaining a good perception of sensorial quality by our consumers, and for their role in conservation and stability of products, Products 69 SHARE OF TOTAL REVENUE* WITH THE ADDITION OF VITAMINS AND MINERALS (BY CATEGORY) (%) GRI FP7 0.43 Addition of Vitamin A, 1.07 0.50 0.50 Vitamins Minerals 1.04 1.04 Iron and Zinc 4.67 3.53 3.47 4.37 4.07 4.07 2016 2017 *Percentage of products that claim the BREADED FOODS addition of vitamins and minerals, on label. SAUSAGES Considering operating bases in Brazil, MARGARINE Argentina and Abu Dhabi. Most of the addition of vitamins and minerals occurred in 2016. In WIENERS 2017, we maintained the portfolio. SHARE OF TOTAL REVENUE WITH REDUCED SODIUM CONTENT (BY CATEGORY)* (%) GRI FP6 2016 2017* which are instrumental for a major part of the Hams 1.03% 1.27% products in our portfolio, such as baloney, Wieners 0.74% 0.57% sausages, and bacon, which are marketed without refrigeration. Breaded foods 0.22% 0.27% Sausages 2.27% 2.68% In 2017, we consolidated and made minor Seasoned 0.52% 0.50% adjustments, when necessary, to products that Smoked foods 0.74% 0.26% have undergone sodium reduction in recent years, Hamburgers 0.02% 0.10% especially in 2016, the year in which a large portion of Sadia's processed product portfolio had their Ready-to-eat Meals 0.26% 0.41% sodium content reduced by nearly 30%. The 6.05% *Percentage of products that claim reduction of sodium, on label. value (sum of volume by category) in relation to Considering operating bases in Brazil, Argentina and Abu Dhabi. the total volume, at first, seems low. However, if we do not consider the volume of in natura products in which improvement processes are not 30% possible this index grows to 17.05%. GRI FP6 sodium reduction is the approximate percentage we have achieved in recent years in a large portion of Sadia's Also in 2017, we expanded the scope and portfolio of processed products, a result of the brand's frequency with which we monitor the results technological innovations. Sodium is an essential of the attributes listed in the nutritional facts component for conservation and maintenance of sensorial table of our products. For 2018, we will expand attributes and flavor of products. Nevertheless, we are as this performance towards reducing variability well as the rest of the industry developing and adopting arising from raw materials and processes for new formulations with reduction of this ingredient in order industrialized products. to improve the profile and flavor of our products 70 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( Cand onsumers the market One of the initiatives put into place was the program Conexão Viva, intended to take the voice of consumers to the production and corporate units, through a live customer service (SAC) to alert business areas and provide greater connection with our consumers. Additionally, we inaugurated our experimental kitchen in the SAC to provide a connection between our attendants and the products, providing an actual experience and participating in people's day-to-day. Thus, we managed to improve our relationship with consumers. SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP Issues captured via SAC involving problems with CAPITAL products and health of consumers rely on the support of the legal department for handling, mainly in more We employ continuous effort to understand and critical cases. All legal complaints are managed by address the needs of each consumer profile and, internal lawyers and through the Tedesco system, thereby, develop and customize our products and where each issue is recorded individually. One services, with a focus on quality and healthiness. hundred percent of the cases involving problems with We are also committed to rapidly offering objective products are reported to the quality assurance area. information to all our audiences. GRI 103|416, 103|417 We strive to fully comply with the Consumer Defense Other important interaction tools are BRF's digital Code and to control risks to our reputation, based on channels. We have a specific website for our the Corporate Standard to Serve Consumers and Clients. corporate brand (brf-global.com), as well as social networks – Twitter (@brf_brasil), LinkedIn (linkedin. We have in place the Customer Service for Consumers com/company/brf ) and YouTube (youtube.com/user/ (SAC) for the various brands worldwide, whose role brfglobal). Brands such as Sadia, Perdigão, Qualy, is to improve relationships and answer questions. Campo Austral, and Perdix, among others, also We have a team of BRF employees especially trained have their own accounts on social networks and to interact with consumers and clients, answering websites; in addition to nutritional information questions and receiving complaints and compliments. and tips, there are recipes and information about consumption of each product. SAC in Brazil has its headquarters located in the city of Itajaí (SC), where the Shared Services Center To foster more conscious purchasing choices, we comply (SSC) operates, has more than 40 people and serves with all labeling and brand communication legislation. consumers and clients in Brazil and other countries in Our employees at the SSC and at the quality department South America, for all brands. In receiving a call, SAC are trained to ensure that each consumer has access to escalates the issue to the corresponding area. The precise information about our portfolio. We also monitor time frame to resolve and properly answer consumers changes in legislation and specific aspects of all markets is no more than five business days. where we operate globally. The level of satisfaction in terms of services provided We develop products that comply with the by BRF to consumers was 96% in 2016, and 89% applicable legislation, with standards set out by in 2017. For complaints, we have in place the BRF Technical Regulations for Identity and Quality Transparency Channel (read more in section Ethics and (RTIQs) and/or other applicable laws, ensuring Compliance). GRI 102|43 safety of products as well as prevention of situations that could be construed as economic Among the most recent priorities is the adoption of a more proactive role for customer services (SAC) called SAC Estratégico (Strategic SAC), which aims to address two strategic objectives: continuous 89% improvement in the relationship with consumers and is the level of satisfaction in clients; and improvement of internal processes based terms of services provided to our on information captured by SAC. consumers Products 71 fraud. Product formulations are duly registered at GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS – SAC GRI 102-34 the regulatory agencies (DIPOA, ANVISA, etc.), as provided in the registration of labels. Grievances 2015 2016 2017 Compliance with labeling standards and adjustment Total number of grievances identified 478 688 656 to regulatory changes are important challenges through the mechanism in our risk management, avoiding sanctions and ensuring corporate reputation. Raw materials Number of grievances used in our packaging comply with strict technical 478 688 656 resolved standards and are composed only of provably safe substances. Care is also given to machines, equipment, and facilities used in the production of packages. We also assess compliance with the labeling rules for 100% of the product categories, raw material and packaging that come, or may come, into direct contact with the products. In Brazil, ANVISA is responsible for regulating, controlling Impact management GRI 103|416, 103|417 and inspecting all packaging. We further include We consider that impacts and incidents related to information on: outsourcing of components of consumer health and safety are critical, since they products or services; content, especially in terms can directly affect the Company’s image, reliability, of substances that could have environmental or and reputation, and may be harmful to health, social impact; safe use; disposal of products, and reflecting on financial results with reprocessing, environmental or social impacts. GRI 417-1 product destruction and costs related to recalls, loss of sales and quality problems. We seek to go beyond the requirements of the legislation when we include certain additional In terms of social and environmental impacts, we information on our labels, such as recycling seals work in different phases in the life cycle of our and waste sorting for packages in Brazil; indication products: of allergens, currently mandatory in Brazil; and certifications required by specific markets, such • research and development: screening of suppliers as Halal (which indicate the production of foods and safety standards are critical aspects; following Islamic standards). We further reinforce, especially for products under the Sadia Brand, • certification: transfer of knowledge and best information on healthiness and animal welfare. practices to third-party companies; We adopt certain basic guidelines applicable to all • production: featuring production of inputs in thirdcountries where we operate and specific obligations party companies and compliance with hygiene and in certain markets. Such as the phrase Destination safety standards; People Republic of China, mandatory on the labels for products to the Chinese market; the stamp for • marketing and promotion: includes disposal packaging on boxes and product labels and the of products and the form of preparation and acronym EAC, in Russia; and the specific stamp for consumption, communicated in order to avoid labels for the European Community, among others. errors or questions; • storage and distribution: traceability and the cold cuts chain are highlights on this front. Acknowledgments In the specific aspects of logistics and distribution, temperature, hygiene, product presentation, and For the fifth consecutive year, Sadia has won the conservation of vehicles are constantly monitored. Época Reclame Aqui Award Best Companies for In the POSs, training and consulting is provided to Consumers, in the food category perishable, frozen clients in order to ensure best practices in handling and dairy products. We were also highlighted in the and storage of our products. Nonetheless, deviations Respect for Consumers category in the award Most occur in POSs and a more effective operating plan is Beloved Brands in Rio de Janeiro (O Globo) discussed continuously. 72 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( BRF-standard labeling 417-1 INTERACTIONS OF CLIENTS AND CONSUMERS THROUGH FORMAL CHANNELS + SOCIAL MEDIA + LOCAL CHANNELS Mandatory items for 13% packaging for all markets • List of ingredients: must be 2017 shown on the label pursuant to the legislation specific to each market • Net content: indicated on the main label of the product • Identification of origin • Name or corporate name and 87% POSITIVE NEGATIVE address of the establishment • Name or corporate name and address of the importer, for 16% imported animal products 26% • Official stamp of the Federal Inspection Agency: when applicable there are cases where products exempt from registration at ANVISA do not 2016 2015 require the SIF stamp • Category of the establishment, pursuant to official classification • CNPJ (Corporate Taxpayer Registry) 84% 74% • Product conservation • Commercial brand of the product • Identification of the lot • Production date Market: our partners • Best if consumed by Maintaining the level of services associated with • Product composition customer relationship is one of the components for building a relationship of trust between the company • Indication of registration: and its stakeholders, together with quality in all BRF's when applicable there are processes and value chain. The idea is to create a cases of products exempt from lasting base for a long-term relationship. registration at ANVISA • Instructions on the Relationship with retailers and business partners preparation and use of edible is also based on the Corporate Standard to Serve products of animal origin or Consumers and Clients, having as priorities, in recent food, when necessary years, the improvement in the level of services, • Best practices and market the development of lasting business relations, and differentiators Products 73 Customer engagement of the various points of sales from bakery shops, food service sector and smalland medium-sized grocery stores, up to major wholesalers. service In order to become a supplier recognized in Brazil A new vision was put in place through the and worldwide, we need to invest in technology, systematization of surveys and identification training, and intelligence to improve the services of specific opportunities to improve the that we provide. To this end, we adopt several level of services provided to clients. From a business indicators associated with the service, such as OTIF (On Time In Full), stock out in stores, level SAC standpoint, indicators were restructured of services, etc. These indicators are monitored on and there was a better connection with a weekly basis and are associated with goals and business areas. remuneration of our employees. Since 2016, we have had in place a management model that allows for improving service levels and segmentation of the commercial approach, improving deliveries and sales in the market. To this end, we created four programs for BRF Brazil, whose objective was to gain differentiated experience, increase profitability of clients, contribute to their development and clearly map the so-called cost to serve associated with our logistics and negotiation processes, with direct influence on business competitiveness. They are: • Conecta BRF: this program establishes a specific • Ideal Store Project: geared toward hypermarkets and relationship for 100 regional retailers with strategic wholesalers, the project allowed for leaps in quality volume for negotiations, including quarterly business throughout 2017. The focus of the project is to meetings, lectures on business management, and improve commercial performance at points of sale, initiatives for knowledge exchange. The idea is to aiming to provide a correct product positioning, in build a mutual gain relationship, sharing our strategy addition to working on availability, product mix, and throughout the chain. pricing according to customer profile. • Top Padarias (Top Bakeries): this program aims to • Missão Rota: program created in 2017, which establish closer relationships with owners of bakery allocates sales teams and investments in trade shops, covering quality aspects such as training market according to the profile of BRF's clients. and qualification of employees who work in the deli The initiatives achieved positive results: clients at slicing department (hams, cheeses, salamis, chicken the top of the pyramid alone are growing 20% breast, etc.). Our goal is to increase visibility of our in volume. brands at POSs, prioritize negotiation of our cold cuts line and products for transformation, provide Consistency of our operations means improvement return on the performance and train partners to in the excellence of services. In this sense, in allow them to better handle BRF's products, and 2018 we will intensify existing programs to ensure provide information to consumers about packaging effectiveness of our sales force, productivity and and nutritional characteristics of each product line. excellence parameters and, especially, have a brand The program encompasses 263 delis that account that generates differentiated business and services for 11% of total sales in this channel. to clients. 5 74 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Impact and Creation of Value 75 IMPACT AND CREATION OF VALUE We invest efforts and resources to create value to society and maximize the positive impacts on the entire chain SOCIAL AND RELATIONSHIP CAPITAL In this section • BRF CHAIN • HUMAN CAPITAL • SUPPLIER MANAGEMENT • LOCAL COMMUNITIES • ENVIRONMENTAL EFFICIENCY 76 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Vertical operation Managing BRF's complex value chain is a task that Our chain is formed by suppliers of demands constant effort. Directly or indirectly we inputs, raw materials, and services, are aware of the influence our business has on and by integrated producers the lives of millions of people and organizations, including suppliers, clients, business partners, end consumers, local communities and other players in the industry, in addition to governments and public have recorded major improvements since 2012, and institutions. Consequently, this is a strategic topic on the efficient use of natural resources, in which we for our business. implemented initiatives to protect and preserve the environment in our vicinity and in our chain. All this ramification is challenging for the Company due to the potential negative impacts generated, We also invest in training and qualification of our but it is also an opportunity to expand creation of workforce, which is responsible for conducting the value for society and maximize positive impacts. business in line with our values and guidelines. Through the BRF Institute, we seek to establish a The efforts undertaken in recent years include long term relationship with the community aimed at expanding the scope of our actions to monitor building solutions that foster local development. suppliers with practices that go from the agricultural chain to services providers. We took part in the In this section, we cover some of the initiatives that global industry agenda on animal welfare, in which we gradually transform our business model. Impact and Creation of Value 77 ( BRF Chain We are a vertically integrated Company, composed of suppliers of inputs, raw materials, and services, and of integrated producers who are responsible for rearing animals according to BRF standards, which include animal welfare conditions. The corporate guidelines for animal rearing and slaughter are the same in our own units and in integrated units, so that the guidelines of the global program Animal Welfare Made By BRF are adopted as the standard for the Company's entire production (read more on page 110). Grains We value ethical and upstanding behavior in the We buy inputs such as soybeans, corn, and oils from value chain, conducting reputational due diligence farmers, grain dealers, cooperatives, or traders. These processes, assessing suppliers, services providers inputs are essential to manufacturing animal feed. and partners. In the case of non-compliance, a joint action plan is established for adjustment, leading to breach of contract for failure to comply with standards. We keep a ramified model in our supply chain, always seeking to create and share value from the farm to the table. Learn about our production model, from the acquisition of grains and raw materials to end consumers. We use select grains in the composition of animal feed to ensure its quality. Animal feed plant In these units, we produce the animal feed that will supply BRF's poultry and pig farms, and its integrated producers. 78 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Farms and integration Our hatcheries and poultry farms follow the principles of the World Organization for Animal Health (OIE). Our integrated producers follow our guidelines and must meet safety, quality, environmental, human rights, and animal welfare requirements, among others. BRF's pigs and poultry must be able to express their natural behavior and be free from hunger, thirst, fear, stress, pain, injury, and disease. Our integrated producers are familiar with and follow our Supplier Code of Conduct and are subjected to an annual sustainability checklist. we do not utilize Slaughter and industrialization hormones or animal After humane slaughter, animal protein is processed in our plants in Brazil (35) and abroad (23). The cloning in the pig and production of other foods, such as margarines, cheeses and desserts, also occurs in this phase. We poultry chains value the quality of the process and health and safety of people at all phases. Impact and Creation of Value 79 Distribution Centers We have an extensive network of DCs (more than 40 worldwide), as well as more than 1,200 logistics partners that transport products from plants to clients, DCs, or export centers. Retail Finished products are delivered to grocery store chains, small and medium retailers (warehouses, small grocers, etc.), companies and restaurants (food service), as well as wholesalers. Quality, level of service and presence at points of sale are our priority. Global operations 50%+ We are an international company based in Brazil. We serve our consumers and global clients in of BRF results come from global different ways: with final products, selling protein to business distributors and partners, or producing directly at our plants abroad. 100% of primary operation carriers are involved in health, safety, and environmental actions 80 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 HUMAN CAPITAL into strategic assets on which it becomes possible to build a strong and integrated culture. Our workforce is responsible for conducting the business in line with our values, practices, and The transformation process was initiated by the purpose. In BRF's structure, we see organizational VIVA BRF movement, which, since 2014, has culture as a living process that happens across the combined actions, attributes and values built by the entire hierarchy in all BRF levels, business units, and Company's internal audience. In the following year, networks – from plants and poultry farms to corporate we conducted workshops in a process to include offices. In recent years we have been seeking to business partners – such as integrated producers – transform multiculturalism and diversity of experience who are essential for maintaining our culture. We Journey of our culture 2014 in 2015 in 2016 Beginning of VIVA BRF evolution time of consolidation Construction of a strong base to 3,400 Dissemination of culture and consolidate organizational culture people involved in understanding of • Expansion of VIVA BRF in the discussions of attributes and human capital as a value chain commitments core strategy • Operating as a network and in the BRF community (Our Attributes 89% • Redefinition of the role of each employee of employees claim to be • Owner’s passion very committed Significant results show the • Appetite for more positive impact of the strategy • Quest for performance to consolidate the organizational culture • Right Away “People at the • Doing together center and the • Consolidation of the purpose • Inspired by consumers center at the • Corporate positioning: employee • Healthy life edges” engaged in feeding the world Impact and Creation of Value 81 continued on that journey in 2016, allowing BRF's internal audience to consolidate the understanding of their role within the organization and in society. The result was having a greater perception of our responsibility and essential role on feeding the world. Concurrently, the employees' sense Throughout 2017, we strengthened talent management of belonging of and their connection with this and advanced in leadership development, leveraging purpose makes them passionate about food and the cultural aspects of the organization – particularly increasingly more conscious of their importance for Amor de Dono (Owner's Passion), identified as the the development of BRF and of the planet. aspect most present in our DNA. in 2017 Agenda for 2018 Acknowledgment of the power of our origins and materialization of certain attributes of Viva BRF For 2018, our goal is to have a solid people agenda to prioritize the key capabilities, aiming at improving This was the year when we connected to our origins, performance and driving results for the Company. We unleashing the power of the Owner’s Passion and are going to have a significant focus on Commercial putting into place movements to integrate the various and Operational Excellence, Integrated Planning, areas of the Company: Business Digitization, and Management of Categories • We conducted three events, called Generations, which and Brands. The implementation of this agenda by connected our employees to our consumer brands our people is based on five pillars: and acknowledged the history of entire families in • Revitalizing and reinforcing BRF's culture, focusing Brazil who have worked at the Company for years. on Owner's Passion, and working on potential areas • A spontaneous movement by employees in an internal of opportunity; communication channel, during crisis management, • Renewing and cultivating the leadership model; reinforcing the Company's commitment to ethics and • Being a reference in people strategy and talent quality. This movement demonstrated the power of management; Owner’s Passion present throughout the chain and • Improving the evaluation and development system; resulted in BRF's first television commercial. • Promoting employee well-being and engagement. • The creation of a multidisciplinary group, the BRF Connect, which defined which pillars must guide our efforts, materializing the attributes Doing Together and Quest for Performance, providing greater integration between the various areas of the Company and helping to establish the pillars that support our Vision of Success. 82 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Culture and Performance We have a broad network of knowledge, qualified to produce product innovation and technologies 17.8% in various geographies. In order to channel was the turnover rate in 2017, capabilities, our strategy is to enable employees significantly lower than the rate from all areas of BRF to work together, with a of 28.21% recorded in 2015 glocal growth agenda (global purpose, local view), providing greater potential for innovation in products and business models. Investments made in recent years have focused on innovation and human capital management, a process conducted based on VIVA BRF attributes and on the guidelines of our strategy, valuing meritocracy, multiculturalism, innovation and high performance and the search for a more entrepreneurial vision in each professional. The most recent survey conducted in 2016 had 84% engagement. Connection We have in place a business model and an and engagement of employees with the culture are organizational culture that value and foster the monitored through regular surveys and annually plurality of ideas. Gender, race, and religion do though the High Performance Cycle. GRI 405-1 not influence the hiring of professionals, their pay, or the day-to-day relationship. We attract and We are one of the largest employers in the food select people based on their competencies and sector in Brazil and we prioritize the hiring of local diversity. Salaries are in line with market standards professionals in our national and international and with the professional's performance and operations. In 2017, more than 100,000 employees length of service (read more in Attachments). were part of BRF's workforce including direct GRI 405-1, 405-2 employees, outsourced employees, interns and apprentices (see more details in the Attachment). Therefore, we promote a work environment that is GRI 102-8 free from any form of discrimination, presenting equal opportunities strictly based on technical competence and individual performance. Adopting a strategy that favors low turnover and talent retention is extremely relevant for the health of a company. However, this has been an increasingly complex task since the employment relations have undergone significant changes over the years and the external environment is constantly changing. GRI 103|401 This way, management of turnover and people engagement are critical for the stability of BRF, which are influenced by the economic outlook and the highly competitive nature of our business. The efforts undertaken by our units are aimed at people retention and efficient management of the workforce. Results can be verified through turnover rates, which have shown gradual decline over the years, especially in Brazil, the country that accounts for 82% of our workforce. The turnover rate dropped from 28.21% in 2015 and 21.33% in 2016 to 17.80% in 2017 (see more details in the Attachment). GRI 103|401, 401-1 Impact and Creation of Value 83 EMPLOYEES, BY TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT AND GENDER GRI 102-8 2015 2016 2017* Type of contract Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Open-ended 53,630 36,904 90,534 51,058 34,924 85,982 52,822 34,611 87,433 contracts Fixed-term contracts 346 154 500 211 156 (367) 297 153 450 Employees outside 4,458 787 5,246 9,547 6,567 16,114 9,495 6,531 16,026 Brazil Interns and 791 (725) 1,516 770 802 1,572 737 762 1,499 apprentices Total 59,225 38,570 97,795 61,586 42,449 104,035 63,351 42,057 105,408 * No data for Turkey. Since this is BRF's most recent acquisition, information has not yet been fully integrated. In Turkey, there are 4,325 employees. Considering this number, BRF had a total of 109,733 employees in 2017. Diversity & Inclusion GRI 103|405 In 2017, along with strategic areas of the business, we We believe that capitalizing on and driving diversity defined a new diversity positioning for the Company, promotes a network of competitive advantages, and developed a strategic plan based on four pillars: which maximizes BRF's purpose of becoming a global reference organization. Therefore, being diverse is • Areas to promote diversity of ideas in the search for decisive for our sustainability and that is why we innovative solutions; value each person and respect his or her culture, • People who are aware of and prepared to recognize, religion, age, gender, sexual orientation, race or celebrate, and welcome diversity; disability. The bigger the difference in professionals' • Inclusive processes and environments; background (previous experience and knowledge), • Mindful and engaged leaders. origin and culture, the bigger the chances of meeting the needs of markets and of our different audiences The actions for each of the pillars will be developed in around the world. That is why we developed fronts the coming years. aimed at valuing diversity within the Company (read more in the Attachments). GRI 405-1 In the pillar related to inclusion of people with disabilities, in 2017 we had 3,645 employees with We launched an internal study in 2016 to expand some type of disability or rehabilitated. Aiming BRF's vision on the culture of diversity and its to expand inclusion, we implemented actions to connection with the business, and also aimed at qualify people, map job positions, monitor goals, fostering reflection about the level of maturity of partnerships with institutions, a specific guideline for this aspect within the Company and defining the People with Disabilities, the inclusion of this topic priority actions for 2017. The study involved one in promotional materials and work with entities and stage of document analysis – demographic data, associations, both to recruit and develop people with strategic direction, parameters for management (ex.: disabilities. ISE/Bovespa, Dow Jones Sustainability Index, among others) and the development of five focal groups The Internal Communication area improved in Brazil, one focal group in Argentina, one focal communication channels in 2016, adapting tools to group in Dubai as well as internal interviews and assist people with visual impairment, thus ensuring surveys with employees in our European and Asian equal access to information. In 2017, we established units. Given the complexity and scope of the subject, the inclusion of subtitles in all global and internal the aspects addressed in this study were gender, videos as a policy, in order to assist people with generations, and multiculturalism. hearing impairment. All types of communication and training are available in the local languages. In the last three years, BRF has advanced in topics In Brazil, we have English and French translators associated with equal opportunities considering the in all units where we have employees from Haiti evolution of comparative wages between genders. and Senegal to make sure that training and communication reach and include these groups. 84 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Development, career, and talents As an example of concrete actions already in place, The transformation and reorientation journey we highlight the goals that include individual and established in recent years has allowed the High team items as well as the initiatives focused on the Performance Cycle to add to the definition of healthy life, such as gyms, Pilates classes, weight remuneration the development of individuals in loss support groups, nutrition assistance, home aspects such as alignment to culture, learning, and office for corporate operation, the Viva + Saudável establishment of collective goals, in addition to Program, etc. individual deliveries. We also reinforce our understanding of what Performance assessment metrics include actions is a talent for BRF, adding to this concept the that promote a more open and transparent transformation capability, operating in a network and dialogue, allowing for the construction of a one's learning curve within the Company. personal development plan in line with BRF's values and expectations. In 2017, we advanced in the Based on this new concept, in 2017, our recruitment performance assessment process by developing process started hiring talents, while our retention a two-phase model: the first, with a focus on and people maintenance process focused on the employee performance; and the second, intended employee's evolution within the Company. to analyze future possibilities and develop a career plan, thereby doubling the opportunities to discuss about people. In the year, there were also career and succession meetings carried out for the executives, and all reward processes are the same as in 2015. The current cycle includes bonus eligibility for an average of 4,500 employees for positions between senior analyst and CEO levels, and all other levels are eligible for the Profit Sharing Program (PLR) and performance assessment. And, with a more clear discussion about performance, it is possible to recognize those who contributed to the results of the Company. Another aspect on which we seek to evolve is the satisfaction and well-being of each employee within the company, focused on a climate that allows for the full development of people. Advances Our performance assessment process advanced in 2017, through a model that focuses on employee performance and on the analysis of future possibilities in order to develop a career plan. Impact and Creation of Value 85 ( Vida + Saudável With the purpose of taking care of the health of Cancer Monitoring Program our employees and of their families, working in a Identifies employees with a high risk of developing preventive manner, we formalized the program called one or more of the five types of cancer that may be Viva + Saudável (Healthier Life). detected at an early stage (breast cancer, intestinal cancer, uterine cancer, lung cancer, and prostate The main initiatives of the program are: cancer) and directs them for preventive tests, exempt from healthcare plan copay, in order to increase the Novo Ser Program chances for treatment in cases identified at an early Helps and guides pregnant women (employees or stage of the disease. dependents) during pregnancy, discussing topics such as nutrition, prenatal care, legislation, family, Health Program by newborn care, psychological support, among others. Gender and Age Group This programs also aims to provide a quality prenatal Provides exemption of copay (employees and care as well as access to all the necessary care during dependents) for some routine tests, specific to each pregnancy by means of benefits and exemption of age group – example: mammogram for women over copay in the healthcare plan. 40 or PSA for men over 40. 86 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Benefits GRI 401-2 Salary and social negotiations take place every 12 All employees in Brazil receive the following benefits: months (depending on the baseline date), with regular meetings during the term of the collective bargaining • Programs of appreciation and acknowledgment for agreement. In Brazil, 100% of the employees are length of service; covered by collective bargaining agreements and • Transportation allowance; represented by the Labor Union (71 Unions, 70 • Food allowance or basket of staples; agreements and collective bargaining agreements). • Meal allowance or internal restaurant service; Abroad, we follow the labor law of each country and, • Health plan; in case there is an entity representing the workers, • Dental plan; collective bargaining agreements are 100% observed. • Outpatient care; In Argentina, 79% of employees are unionized • Complementary private pension; and 21% have contracts directly governed by the • School allowance; country laws – through which the contracts cover the • Life insurance; unionized workforce. GRI 102-41 • Day care allowance; • BRF Market (store with company's products); Health and safety GRI 103|403 • Employees association; Through the Health, Safety, and Environment program • Maternity/paternity leave; (HSE) and its global policy, implemented in 2006, we • Gifts on commemorative dates and gifts for children developed and carried out actions that enable safe up to 10 years of age; behavior and value life in our operations. We extend • Training on integration and technical qualification our health and safety management practices to all for the activities. stakeholders, through control and/or influence actions, when appropriate. Only the stock purchase plan is restricted and optional to the executive level; some benefits, such as daily meals, do not apply to all part-time employees. For maternity/paternity leaves, we follow the local legislation, with no discouragement, oppression or censorship related to this aspect. On the contrary: we have in place the Novo Ser program, which offers quality prenatal care for pregnant women, providing a number of tests and doctor visits exempt of copay for employees and dependents (read more in the Attachments). GRI 401-3 100% of our employees are covered by agreements and/or represented by trade unions, or the like, according to the multiple realities Impact and Creation of Value 87 In all business areas we adopt principles that are regular discussions in health and safety committees to appropriate to international best practices and to the decide on relevant matters and, whenever necessary, legal requirements of the locations where we operate. replanning of actions and evaluation mechanisms. The health and safety indicators, goals, and programs are established taking in account the risks assessed By focusing on risk management, we developed (focused on risks with the highest potential) and the policies and programs that comprise advances in the Company's commitment to promoting quality of life performance of this topic and show our commitment and accident prevention, and are cascaded to the to our employees and stakeholders. locations, as applicable. The areas with greater occupational risk at BRF are the We have in place several mechanisms to assess the manufacturing and agricultural areas, in which some effectiveness of the health and safety management of our employees are more exposed. Therefore, we approach in order to evaluate compliance with conduct a continuous mapping, analysis, and monitoring the Company's global guidelines and improve work and have in place operational and administrative management. These mechanisms include internal controls to eliminate or minimize these factors. Mapping audit and recognition programs; definition of safety covers work conditions, existing risks, monitoring objectives and goals; systematization of KPIs; and of employees' health, and analysis of indicators for external audit in certified units. accidents, absenteeism, grievances and occupational diseases, among others, according to each process. Management of the results from evaluation Programs such as the Medical Control of Occupational mechanisms includes disclosure of external reports Health, Respiratory Protection, Hearing Conservation, and (among which this Annual Report), a critical analysis Prevention of Environmental Risks are in place to ensure of the management of KPIs and audit processes, the well-being of our people. GRI 403-3 Quality of life We have the ongoing challenge of ensuring integrity and well-being to our employees and communities 88 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Our constant challenge is to ensure the integrity Among the impacts associated with health and and well-being of employees and communities in a safety, above all is the loss of lives and/or health process that is consolidated in Brazil and already in of an employee, in addition to medical expenses, place in the Abu Dhabi (United Arab Emirates) and compensations and claim administration fees, indirect Argentina plants since 2015. In Thailand, the process costs incurred due to damaged equipment and to implement the health and safety management assets, loss of production and quality, interruption of according to BRF's guidelines is already being processes, loss of revenue, workforce replacement, consolidated. In Turkey, the most recent acquisition, overtime, disputes, damages to customer relationship the process started in 2017 and is in implementation and to public image. phase, according to our model. GRI 403-1 The guidelines established and disseminated Health and safety management prioritizes the through the HSE Management System guide eradication of accidents, work place-related diseases, the definition of indicators and goals, as well and fatalities. In 2017, there was an increase in as the commitment to continuous improvement the absolute number and in the rate of injuries and and improved performance in health and safety. diseases, partly due to adjustments pertaining to This system was revised in 2016 and is based classifications of the legal aspects in each location. on the Method; Behavior/Culture; and Facilities/ We also carried out several initiatives to reduce Infrastructure pillars. Among the main practices are the severity rate of accidents. Considering data the formal commitment from leadership, including for Brazil and Argentina, regions with the highest goals linked to variable pay, clearly defined roles number of incidents, there was a 43% decrease in and responsibilities, committees, working groups, the severity rate for typical lost-time accidents and established standards and procedures, employees 28% for occupational diseases resulting in lost time trained and qualified to perform their activities, when compared with 2016. For 2018, we expect a health and safety dialogues and behavioral 25% decrease in the absolute number of lost-time tools carried out by leadership, investigation of accidents (typical and commuting). GRI 403-2 accidents and critical deviations, risk analysis and emergency response plan, among other tools. In addition to the individual responsibility of working with prevention, all our employees must inform management of any risk condition they identify, ensuring everyone the right to question work conditions that do not comply with the Company's guidelines. BRF's leadership has a key role in fulfilling and 43% consolidating the health and safety policies and guidelines, acting proactively to reinforce governance, through positive examples, committees, provision of the necessary resources and responding for the management results of this reduction in lost time topic. In 2017, we began standardizing the health strategy in the other regions. Several leaders injury frequency have their goals tied to their health and safety performance, a guideline applied to the VP of in Brazil and Operations, Directors of Manufacturing, Industrial Managers and Process Managers and Supervisors. Argentina, where our GRI 102-19 largest operations are located Impact and Creation of Value 89 It is up to our leaders to give positive examples, The formal committees have approximately 10% show commitment to management of this topic and participation of our workforce, representing all levels work proactively through initiatives such as ensuring of the Company. Today, approximately 4% of the compliance with the guidelines, programs and action employees act as first responders in emergency plans in place, providing the necessary resources, situations and 100% of them are trained to act in and being accountable for the health and safety these occurrences. GRI 403-1 management results. By means of the BRF Health Centers, we have One of the advances in implementing the HSE in place a strategy to monitor the health of our management in recent years has been the employees. Among the programs implemented development and evolution of the Transformation are the health of pregnant women and newborns Groups (TGs) at corporate and local levels. The (Novo Ser), immunization campaigns, changes of life purpose is to reduce losses and foster continuous habits (encouragement for physical activity, to stop improvement through studies and analyses conducted smoking, etc.) and other local actions specific for each by the coordinating members, who manage the population. groups, and by specialists in these topics. The main expected results for the TGs are the development of transformative actions and guidelines, their correct implementation and, as a consequence, a reduction in the number of accidents and incidents. GRI 403-1 INJURY TYPES AND RATES* GRI 403-2 Employees 2015 2016 2017 Contractors 2015 2016 2017 Lost-time injuries1 289 306 522 Lost-time injuries1 ND 47 56 Injury rate 1.54 1.72 2.57 Injury rate ND 1.20 1.33 Injuries without lost-time 1,561 3,588 6,170 Injuries without lost-time ND ND 125 Injury rate 8.30 20.15 30.41 Injury rate ND ND 3.39 Occupational diseases2 0.02 0.11 0.21 Occupational diseases2 ND ND 0.00 Total number of lost days 18,614 19,885 23,415 Total number of lost days ND ND 1,067 Total number of fatalities 1 3 1 Total number of fatalities ND ND 2 Note: the injury and occupational disease rates are calculated by the number of incidents x 1,000,000, divided by man-hours worked; the absenteeism rate is calculated by the number of hours absent, divided by the sum of hours absent and regular hours. *Data were not presented by gender because some units abroad have not yet been integrated with the management of this information and refer to incidents with direct employees in all BRF units and businesses in Brazil, Argentina, Abu Dhabi, Malaysia. Data do not include information on hired employees who are not yet registered and are monitored separately. Data on Europe and Turkey have not been presented, since the plants were acquired recently and the units' indicators have not yet been formally incorporated to BRF's database. 1 The injuries reported include, work-related accidents, typical accidents, occupational diseases and commuting accidents, including first-aid classifications, medical treatment, restricted work and leave. 2 Occupational disease rate considers only those with lost-time. Read more in the Attachments. 90 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 The first phase of the project mapped improvements in various work fronts, with the development of actions in the units of Capinzal (SC), Concórdia (SC), Videira (SC), Toledo (PR) and Rio Verde (GO). In the second phase, in 2017, we reached the units of Uberlândia (MG), Chapecó (SC), Lajeado (RS), Lucas do Rio Verde (MT), Dourados (MS) and Dois Vizinhos (PR). Agreements and conventions We currently have 71 Unions, 70 agreements and four collective bargaining agreements, 95% of which include health and safety topics, such as the provision of uniforms and equipment. GRI 102-41, 403-4 Health programs In order to improve our employees' work conditions and their quality of life, we developed a few ( HSE: main actions programs. Some of them are: Occupational Health Management; Ergonomics Program and Ergonomics Committees; Environmental Risk Prevention Program; Program for Medical Control and Occupational Health; Hearing Conservation Program; Viva + Saudável Health, Safety and Environment Dialogue (DSSMA in Program; and Respiratory Protection Program. the Brazilian acronym) In order to engage employees and third parties in this Safety in logistics aspect, every week we provide information on safe The last phase of the HSE Program in transportation behavior, health, and preservation of the environment, and distribution was completed in 2015 in all BRF a content that is shown on the bulletin boards and units and distribution centers in Brazil. The teams TVs in the plants, on communication materials, etc. took part in actions to promote safe behavior, whose themes were: safety, health, environmental protection, Fábrica Legal Project and fight against sexual exploitation on highways. The occupational health and safety in Brazilian The methodology 10 Management Elements of the companies in the area of slaughter and processing of program seeks to eradicate transportation accidents meats and their byproducts complies with Regulatory and incidents, with initiatives that include: Standard No. 36, which we have followed since 2013. In compliance with current legislation – particularly Standards NR 10, NR 12, NR 13, NR 17, NR 36 –, in 2014 the Fábrica Legal (Legal Factory) Project was implemented, aimed at improving health and safety conditions in the meatpacking industry in order to minimize employees' exposure as much as possible. A letter of intent was signed with the Regional Labor Court at the 12th Region in 2014, establishing an institutional committee to implement regional programs and actions to prevent work-related accidents. Impact and Creation of Value 91 91 ( Supplier Management • Regular audits of carriers using the Supplier Integrated Management tool, which has as one of its pillars the HSE of services providers; 103, 103|308, 103|408, 103|409, 103|414 • Training to apply a daily checklist; • Engagement of drivers in safety dialogues; • Conduction of the Road Prevention and Our supply chain has a global profile and conducts Observation Program (POP in the Brazilian procurement, quote, and negotiation processes in acronym) to monitor behavior of drivers. the various markets where we operate, generating a high volume of expenses and investments. Proper In risk management, we carry out the following management of this relationship is strategic to procedures: BRF, connecting it to the Company's internal and external audiences; capable of controlling social, • We have advanced posts to manage risks in environmental and compliance risks that can the main units; influence the future of the business and of generating opportunities for development in different locations. • We control tachographs to monitor speeding; We prioritize optimization of costs, continuous • We monitor driver work hours; monitoring of the effectiveness and management model, gains in profitability and efficiency and • We conduct HSE meetings with the teams; attention to environmental and social aspects. Our challenge is to build lasting bonds of trust and • We conduct lectures to provide guidance on respect, fostering a mutual agenda that turns BRF into highway speed, signage and the fleet's HSE a driver of growth to communities, ensuring quality checklist; of supply, continuity of operations and quality of the products we place in the market. • Quality Circle program (CIQ, in the Brazilian acronym), seeks improvements in all Our suppliers are broken down into four large transportation processes and conducts management groups: those called integrated projects to optimize the entire operation, producers, who work in agriculture; the procurement reducing costs, time, and continuously groups, including suppliers of inputs, packaging, improving safety of employees. energy, among others; the logistics groups, including specialized services and freight; and the commodities groups that include grains, meals, and oils. Our suppliers are also subject to standards and requirements, especially from the MAPA's standpoint, in the case of Brazilian companies. The entire volume negotiated with our suppliers is in compliance with our procurement policies. GRI 102-9 For each group, we have in place specific programs with initiatives focused on risk monitoring and on the aspects of sustainability and actions of engagement and mobilization related to our culture – in line with the VIVA BRF movement (read more in Human Capital). The Supplier Code of Conduct, the Health Safety and Environment Policy (HSE), and the Transparency Guide are the documents that support our supplier management. They are all available to our partners 92 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 and were published in Portuguese, English, and Spanish to guide our own teams, and those of Our base our suppliers regarding Company policies. We We maintained a relationship with also rely on our own methodologies to manage approximately 35,000 suppliers certain supplier categories – such as the Integrated in 2017, an extensive group of Management of Suppliers, in the logistics segment companies and agricultural producers (read more on page 98). GRI 103|204 that supply the Company with essential inputs, raw material, and Results of suppliers are measured annually by a services that are critical to our computer-based system and the evolution and activities. position among the indicators that are part of the Compliance Index are monitored monthly. Furthermore, all contracts have clauses related to the Code of Conduct for Suppliers (considering from legal compliance and social and environmental best mandatory for a company to become a BRF supplier. practices to fight against corruption), including Failure to comply with these criteria may result in those related to possible subcontractors of termination of contracts for nonconformities we deem suppliers, and to child labor and slave labor. unacceptable; And possible issues related to certain GRI 408-1, 409-1 items and suppliers, such as inputs for animal feed, animals for slaughter, ingredients, and packaging, Our operation is directly affected by the management whose pricing may change current and future business of the chain given its clear influence on financial scenarios. We are also naturally exposed to political, results. However, other high-impact influencing cultural, and legal aspects due to our presence in factors are the sustainability criteria considered various markets. Impact and Creation of Value 93 ACTUAL AND POTENTIAL NEGATIVE IMPACTS MAPPED IN THE CHAIN AND ADDRESSED BY BRF (2017) GRI 308-2, 414-2 Social Impacts Number of suppliers assessed on impacts 32,734 32,685 Number of suppliers identified as having the most 1,149 1,166 relevant negative impacts % of suppliers identified as having negative impacts, with whom improvements were agreed as a result of 100% 100% the assessment. 100% Number of suppliers identified as having negative impacts, with whom relationships were terminated as 17 13 a result of the assessment. of the volume % of suppliers identified as having negative impacts, purchased is in with whom relationships were terminated as a result 1.48% 1.11% compliance with our of the assessment. procurement policy. BRF'S SUPPLY CHAIN* GRI 102-9, FP1 Type of busiNumber of Profile and categories Supplier regions ness partners2 Certain pig suppliers are considered partnerships, buying and selling, consignment and loan (VMI and CMI Agriculture 13,000 Brazil (GO, MG, MS, MT, PR, RS, SC) method), while other pig producers, poultry producers and egg suppliers are considered partnership contracts South Africa, Germany, Andorra, Antilles, Saudi Arabia, Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Bulgaria, Canada, Qatar, Chile, China, Cyprus, Singapore, Colombia, Croatia, Denmark, United Arab Emirates, Slovakia, Spain, United Direct States, Philippines, Finland, France, Greece, Indirect Holland, Hungary, India, Ireland, Iceland, Israel, Procurement Freights 19,934 Italy, Japan, Kuwait, Lebanon, Liechtenstein, Partnerships Lithuania, Malaysia, Morocco, New Zealand, Logistics Oman, Panama, Paraguay, Poland, Portugal, United Kingdom, Czech Republic, Serbia, Sweden, Switzerland, Thailand, Turkey, Ukraine, Uruguay. Brazil (AC, AL, AM, AP, BA, CE, DF, ES, GO, MA, MG, MS, MT, PA, PB, PE, PI, PR, RJ, RN, RO, RS, SC, SE, SP, TO) Farmers: direct purchase from the farm to BRF (account for 84% of the number of suppliers) Grain dealers: small businesses that are middlemen in the commodities Paraguay market (grains) Singapore Grains, meals, Turks & Caicos 2,402 and oils Trading companies: large companies Brazil (GO, MG, MS, MT, PR, RS, SC, SP, BA, PI, that operate as middlemen in the TO, PA, DF) grains market Cooperatives: civil/commercial nonprofit organizations formed by groups of rural producers *Scope considers at a global level. 94 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Chain Monitoring Program meet any requirement, depending on their severity, GRI 103, 103|204, 103|308, 103|408, 103|409, 103|414, improvement plans are put into place or the supply 308-1, 414-1 contract is canceled. The main irregularity causing contract termination is the presence on the public Structured to strengthen the control of social and lists below. environmental risks, the dissemination of an ethical and responsible business model and the evolution The main suppliers undergo a risk assessment in of partners in this aspect, the program mobilizes the quality, services, sustainability, compliance and approximately 35,000 suppliers (except Banvit, in economic-financial pillars. We also make a prior Turkey), with quality audits, dissemination of the assessment of suppliers during the bidding process Supplier Code of Conduct, consultation to public in order for suppliers to become familiar with the data and requirements provided for in contractual requirements of the Code. Consultations are made clauses. These best practices are adopted globally by every two weeks to public lists, available in the Procurement and are being implemented in the new Brazilian territory, to identify suppliers that are not operation in Turkey. in accordance with the legal and BRF's standards. The aspects evaluated are environmental (list of The Supplier Code of Conduct is the initial basis areas embargoed by the Brazilian Institute for the of the program, something suppliers have to agree Environment and Natural Resources – IBAMA), on prior to working with BRF. For cases that fail to labor-related (List of Transparency on Contemporary Slave Work by InPacto and data from the Ministry of Labor and Employment) and aspects related to overall compliance (national registry of ineligible and suspended companies – CEIS – from the Transparency 100% Portal). Each and every irregularity may be reported anonymously in our Transparency Channel, available on the BRF website. of BRF's new suppliers follow the criteria in the Supplier Code One hundred percent of new BRF suppliers follow the of Conduct and are evaluated criteria in the Code of Conduct for Suppliers, whether on social and environmental for a contract or spot purchase, and evaluated on criteria. social and environmental criteria. GRI 308-1, 414-1 Impact and Creation of Value 95 Responsibility in commodities Procurement: relationship as GRI 103|308, 103|408, 103|409, 103|414 a competitive advantage GRI 103|200, 103|204, 103|308, 103|408, 103|409, For procurement of commodities, critical suppliers are 103|414 those with operations located near the Amazon Biome areas and the soybean crushing tradings that buy and We have in place a procurement policy that ensures process raw material and depend on other suppliers greater cost competitiveness, safety in operations of grains for their production process. The affiliated and compliance in all relationships, mitigating risks trading companies are ABIOVE and ANEC – together, and optimizing market opportunities. We work with they control 94% of soybeans produced in the country large corporate contracts and with regional or local – they are required to adhere to the Soy Moratorium, contracts, taking advantage of the best in both an environmental preservation commitment to ban the models, with gains in scale and faster service. The trading of any soybeans from areas originating from procurement practices span across all our units, deforestation, in the Amazon Biome. integrated producers (business partners) and suppliers through the Procurement Norm and our Supplier Code For this reason, there are controls related to origin of of Conduct. Part of the objectives established is the grains and their byproducts, to ensure that the raw mandatory (labor legislation, for example) and part is materials purchased do not come from environmental voluntary, such as replication of the pacts undertaken preservation areas (Amazon Biome) and that the by BRF and their guidelines. In order to ensure suppliers have no irregularities at IBAMA. These adherence to the rules listed in the procurement controls are made via public lists and contractual policy, we carry out process audits and apply system clauses. The Code of Conduct for BRF Suppliers tools that prevent non-compliance. GRI FP1 is communicated to all suppliers of commodities, with specific environmental management guidelines Our efforts to build an integrated management of the (waste management, water consumption within global procurement processes at BRF, standardizing legal parameters, air emissions, and environmental models, parameters, governance, and auditability, preservation areas) and social management (legislation according to criteria that is previously tested and on labor, social security and work relations). A control proven in the domestic market, have gained strength of the signatures of the Code is carried out in our in the last three years. As a result, the model is units. In 2017, a total of 92% of these suppliers of consolidated in all regions: Latin America, the Middle commodities signed an acknowledgment of receipt and East and North Africa, Europe/Eurasia and Asia. 87% submitted their self-assessments. In 2017, procurement of commodities had a decreased in its number of critical suppliers, from 238 to 209. Global reach Our global presence leads us to study forms of synergy, implement improvements in results in procurement categories with a global profile, and negotiate in order to supply different regions 96 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 The regional teams report and generate results, Local suppliers are companies that have as well as key projects to the Global Procurement headquarters or affiliates in the municipality and/ Department, which is responsible for establishing or state of the unit requesting the material and/or goals, key indicators and performance assessment service, as we understand that this impacts the area cycles. Our Procurement team is present in offices of operation (read more in Attachment, page 164). in Dubai, Argentina, Holland, China, Thailand, These negotiations reduces logistics costs, which Singapore, and Turkey, in addition to Brazil. These impact the total cost of raw material, an extremely professionals study the forms of synergies ad relevant aspect for BRF given our high purchasing improvement of results in the procurement categories volume of agricultural commodities for production of with a global profile, negotiating in order to supply animal feed. GRI 204-1 different regions – an aspect that is critical for our result, since a part of our production platform is The main products purchased from local suppliers currently outside of Brazil. are all kinds of direct and indirect materials, corn and soybean grains, poultry and pigs. In Thus, we reinforce BRF's focus on adopting global commodities, the share of local suppliers decreased procurement practices geared toward regional in Paraná, due to the increased volume of corn processes when necessary, as in the case of specific imported from Paraguay as well as to corn from service provision in certain units. By carefully analyzing Mato Grosso do Sul, in Brazil. In 2017, we reduced how local procurement and purchases may contribute purchases for cost control and implemented mediumto the strategy, we strengthen our management and long-term contracts aimed at establishing lasting discipline and mitigate risks related to the supply partnerships. This also reduces the percentage of chain. We have also evolved in our partnership with local purchases, since not all suppliers can meet suppliers that provide us with cutting-edge technology, national or regional demand. GRI 204-1 applicable to production processes. We advanced in the dialogue with local suppliers through trade associations, which is a way to get closer to this audience. With the vision of the “BRF radius” we intend to have a broad understanding of the positive impact that can come from the creation of links with companies from the regions where we operate, building trust in the community, a lower footprint for procurement processes, and relationships of mutual gain with local suppliers. We currently have ongoing dialogue initiatives in states such as Paraná and Santa Catarina, located in the South of Brazil. Third-Party The procurement process is computer-based, using SAP, intranet, and other systems that ensure the Portal application of the approval purviews and other requirements established in the norm. Furthermore, we have the Supplier Portal, a more clear Supplier approval is done by a communication front with suppliers, that provides management team that analyzes more transparency and compliance to the process. documents and the acceptance of Implementation of SAP's Ariba tool is underway and the Supplier Code of Conduct, in will allow for centralization of the entire procurement addition to monitoring compliance process (order to pay) in a single platform, including with legal requirements and the legal and finance departments, ensuring greater internal standards. compliance with the process. Impact and Creation of Value 97 A third-party management team is responsible for up to the Procurement and Audit areas to monitor approval of suppliers, via the Supplier Portal, using the implementation of requirements, with the document analysis, acceptance of the Supplier Code procurement back office using a filter based on the of Conduct and monitoring of compliance with legal requirements of the norm. requirements and internal guidelines for those who provide services in our facilities in order to ensure We conduct supplier performance management, that BRF purchases quality materials that are safe providing technical support, including to our for consumers. The approval system involves the factories, mitigating the associated impacts. The areas of Corporate Sustainability, Compliance, and Supplier Quality area at BRF conducts technical Logistics (Integrated Management of Suppliers visits focused on the process and on the cause GIF), and a biweekly analysis of public lists. In of irregularities both in supplier and/or Company certain categories, we also conduct on-site audits of plants in order to identify the cause of the problem suppliers, with automatic blocking of the supplier’s or improve the quality of processes and products registry in case of non-compliance. delivered. In cases of proven irregularities, a policy of severe consequences is applied. Suppliers are In order to meet all mandatory requirements, the also audited in terms of requirements related to process is constantly audited internally, through their quality and process management. Effectiveness BRF's own system, by the area of Internal Controls of suppliers’ processes is evaluated based on (processes) and by the Corporate Audit (guidelines, the number of Non-compliance Reports (RNCs legislation, SOx), and through external audit. It is in the Brazilian acronym) registered by BRF. The 98 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Global Market certification program is under implementation and the results may be verified at Highlights of 2017 the end of 2018, with an increase in the number of suppliers with GM status. In 2017, the Supplier Quality Management recorded a reduction of 29% 66% of RNCs/number of orders. In agriculture, the relation between integrated producers and BRF is one of interdependence, of carriers properly in other words, both have common goals and disposed of waste strategies, aiming at the sustainable growth of 58% the parties. Movements and external crises do not have a significant impact, since we have policies, guidelines, and contracts between integrated producers and the Company. The establishment of scored 750 points or a budget basis is supported by multidisciplinary higher on the GIF studies, with research institutions and trade associations. Logistics GRI 103|308, 103|408, 103|409, 103|414 The services related to product logistics and 56% transportation are a significant part of BRF's of the fleet was processes and costs. Aware of the potential gains subjected to smoke in this link of the chain and of the opportunities tests to manage the associated negative impacts, we developed the Logistics Health, Safety and Environment Program (HSE) with actions to reduce accidents, mitigate environmental impacts, fight sexual exploitation of children and adolescents on highways and compliance with Law 12,619/12, which governs the profession of truck drivers in Brazil. All hiring of load carriers follow the HSE Criteria Guideline. The purpose of the HSE Guide for Services Providers of Road Transportation of Cargo is to inform carriers about the HSE rules that BRF demands from its suppliers, and is distributed to 100% of the suppliers hired. Carriers must implement the Integrated Management for Suppliers (GIF) Program to meet requirements such as smoke emission control and the correct disposal of waste, such as oil, batteries, and tires. suppliers on aspects such as business profitability and sustainability. The GIF program comprises a selfIn addition, we have in place guidelines related assessment tool, validated by BRF, and includes the to aspects that include drivers' assessment, emission of polluting gases. vehicle inspection, emergency action plan, and investigation of accidents and incidents. In the Data from 2017 show that 66% of the carriers hiring process, logistics suppliers are assessed properly dispose of waste and 56% of the fleet for indicators such as health and safety, routes, undergoes smoke tests. Also, 58% of the carriers accidents and incidents for speeding, and nonscored above 750 points in the GIF (basis of 0 to compliance with work hours. 1,000 points). Almost 100 carriers in the refrigerated cargo sector In 2016, all carriers in the fleet signed a terms are part of the GIF program, which also guides of commitment for safety management, taking Impact and Creation of Value 99 in account primary and agricultural operations After two and a half years of dedicated management, (referring to the transportation of animals and raw speeding violations of the fleet vehicles in the materials). Through a routing process via software, agricultural segment were reduced by almost 100%, it was possible to identify alternate routes, thereby also reaching gains in terms of animal welfare, an reducing the average distance per trip (7.3%) and important cause for the Company. We have never resulting in logistics and environmental gains for had history of incidents involving child and/or forced BRF's operations. labor in the transport operation. In animal feed transportation, we began to In 2017, we proceeded with the GIF program in the implement a system to block the vehicle when the agricultural segment. tube is in the upright position – in order to reduce the risk of collisions of the discharge tube with the power grid. 100 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( HSE Standarts Carriers and their agents who are working for BRF • Carry the safety kit on the truck (reflective vests, need to comply with the following standards: four cones, two tire wedges, 100 meters of striped tape, and flashlight); • Maximum speed limit of 80 km/hour on normal days • Drivers must mandatorily wear the standard BRF and 60 km/hour on rainy days; uniform and safety shoes; • Make 30-minute stops for every 5 1/2 hours of • Drivers must be approved by the risk manager, have continuous driving; Occupational Health and Safety Certificate (ASO), • Maximum daily shift of 12 hours, considering that 8 and defensive driving training, valid for one year; hours are normal, and additional 2 hours or 4 hours • Trucks must have four palette clamps, refrigeration upon collective bargaining agreement; test certificate valid for six months, and smoke test • Always travel with headlights on, even during valid for one year. daytime, even inside BRF's units and DC's; • Report any accident to BRF (unit of origin) and to Failure to comply can result in administrative Líder insurance company (0800 7030 373); sanctions. align our management with the characteristics and specific legislation of the markets where we operate. We currently have integrated producers in Brazil (nine states) and abroad. Every month, the team of BRF extensionists visits Agricultural Chain 100% of the properties to offer help and guidance GRI 103|308, 103|408, 103|409, 103|414 on necessary issues. In Brazil, 100% of integrated producers and 100% of the applicants to become The long-term partnership with our more than 13,000 business partners are submitted to a sustainability integrated producers is a result of several actions assessment based on the Agricultural Expansion and carried out in recent years. In 2012, we were the first Growth Standard. We have also significantly evolved to narrow relationships with integrated producers, in the adherence of our partners to high animal bringing them in house. Our annual survey, for welfare requirements on a global scale (read more example, showed that 67% of the integrated producers on page 110), and we see this category as essential have a relationship with BRF that exceeds 10 years. within the Chain Monitoring Program. In 2017, through the Monitoring, Development, and Reconciliation Committees (CADEC), we conducted Through the program, we ensure that 100% of integrated regular meetings to listen to demands and claims, as producers in Brazil, a highly relevant group of partners, well as to provide information. In the last five years, we are monitored and evaluated in terms of sustainability have contributed to making this link of the chain more aspects, according to criteria of the Sustainability sustainable from an economic standpoint and managed Index – a BRF tool to evaluate risks and create value to reduce turnover from 10% in 2013, to 2% in 2017. in its agricultural chain. Participants are assessed on 30 topics related to aspects of quality, environmental As part of our management practice, we disseminate management, labor management, and human and BRF's Transparency Guide and the Supplier Code of economic rights, including business continuity. Conduct to integrated producers. The documents Subsequently, participants undergo an individual address several social and environmental aspects, assessment and receive plans for improving and including ethics, compliance, operational ecoaddressing all aspects. We also have in place a technical efficiency, and respect to human rights. The policies field team that visits and monitors the integrated related to producers are periodically reviewed to producers' base every month. GRI 408-1, 409-1 Impact and Creation of Value 101 There are more than 13,000 integrated producers in Brazil Contracts for integrated production contain several with state institutions, in the Dois Vizinhos (PR) clauses with recommendations and guidance, such as unit to raise awareness among integrated producers notifications for compliance, which, if not observed, and train the internal team to meet the demands of may result in suspension of accommodations (animals the families. delivered in the poultry farms); the suspension is not summary, except in very specific conditions, such as serious events. In 2017, there was one case of contract termination due to environmental issues. Satisfaction of Among the partners, we choose some of the most integrated producers critical suppliers to establish closer relationship – In 2017, we conducted for the third time a such as those that provide services in poultry loading, relationship/engagement/satisfaction survey a process called catching . This was the theme of with integrated producers. Since 2015, we have the 2015 Discovery Workshop, an event that gathered consolidated the movement called VIVA Integração, integrated suppliers, buyers, agricultural technicians, serving 100% of the producers in 2017 through local and work safety technicians in a two-day discussion movements in the communities. forum. The goal was to have an action plan for Goals and improvements in the sector. objectives for 2018 After completing this event, the Program called Apanhamento Legal (Humane Catching) was created in 2016, with three work fronts: pilot project for team 5% 100% internalization, at the Concórdia (SC) unit; suppliermodel management in HR, safety, training and productivity standards, implemented in nine units; and evolution in the of the properties studies on transport alternatives. Another preventive Sustainability Index of licensed measure for BRF is maintaining a system that manages BRF partners the environmental licensing of properties. Due to its concern about succession in the rural 0% 100% area, BRF initiated a pilot project, in partnership Child labor Codes of Conduct signed 102 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( Local Communities GRI 103|413 Our global operation implies responsibilities that go Our work fronts beyond mitigation of the negative impacts of the One of the challenges for the Institute is to drive operation. The purpose of our actions is to establish relevant positive impacts upon communities, a long-term relationship with communities, creating promoting local development and balanced food. Our a positive and inclusive agenda aimed at developing goal is to promote different approaches to food as a solutions that promote local development. tool to drive transformation in the communities where we operate. The BRF Institute is responsible for performing these actions, going from an impact mitigation agenda to We have the perception that food is a central element an agenda of positive contribution to sustainable to promote well-being and quality of life, enabling development of communities, in collaboration each person to make reasonable choices and lead with local players. Created in 2012, the Institute is a healthier life, as advocated by the World Health committed to coordinating activities in neighboring Organization (WHO), which defines health as a state communities through shared management of the of complete physical, mental, and social well-being. Company's social investment. The Institute also serves as an incubator for actions that result in systematic Since 2016, when the UN launched the Sustainable advancement regarding regional corporate social Development Goals (SDG), the work of the BRF responsibility issues. GRI 103-2|203 Institute has become more intense, going beyond occasional projects and grounding the work on In recent years, we have developed a strategic two of the Goals: SDG 1 (End poverty in all its relationship with the communities in order to forms everywhere) and SDG 2 (End hunger, achieve maintain operations, establishing a reliable and food security and improved nutrition and promote legitimate relationship. When the Institute was sustainable agriculture). We believe that, this founded, it was very much connected to ensuring way, our work can become not only more relevant BRF's social license to operate. The result of and consistent with the major issues that affect this work is that today we have leaders who mankind, but also more capable of generating independently interact with community stakeholders. impacts on a large scale. The Institute now acts more as a strategic consultant than an executor, defining or conducting lines of This purpose guides the way we work in some reasoning, a mentor of these local teams. key fronts to reinforce the protagonist role of communities, with actions that offer opportunities, In 2017, the Institute became part of the governance promote transformation and materialize the feeling of the HR Department. This is an opportunity to of belonging in collective public spaces and the take knowledge on social impacts and expertise in generation of general, technical, and specialized the sector to the business, building an even more knowledge in the search of positive changes in habits, consistent alignment with management, in addition to as well as the improvement of services provided. increasing the protagonist role of BRF's employees, The Institute also plays an advisory role to help the strengthening their volunteerism. Company in legal compliance with matters that relate to social and community aspects. In 2017, we worked with two programs: a balanced diet, aimed at bringing individuals closer to food by means of playful activities, focused on Purpose reducing malnutrition and chronic diseases in the communities; and life in the community, aimed The Institute developed a strategic, at creating opportunities, promoting ownership long-term relationship with and transformation of collective areas in order communities, through a positive to produce knowledge and changes of habits to and participatory agenda improve quality of life. Impact and Creation of Value 103 Through the BRF Volunteers Program, which is present We also increased the number of local partnerships in across all work of the Institute, we implemented the 2017, with social organizations, schools, associations Sentido e Sabores (Sense and Flavors) project in of residents, etc., ensuring local relevance to the associations of the municipalities, organizations and activities developed. The plants had the possibility other institutions, in partnership with the Center for of creating and leading projects of local relevance, Dietary Recovery and Education (CREN Centro de developed with local partners. In 2017, we named this Recuperação e Educação Nutricional), an organization front as Project Fund, and used it to support more that works in the area of dietary education and than 40 projects. GRI 203-1 treatment of conditions such as malnutrition and obesity aimed at the integral development of Another project is the ReciclAção program, which people and their families. The focus of this project is based on changes in behavior by increasing is to address nutrition and health in a way that is environmental awareness and engaging community playful and adapted to the various age groups in the residents through educational and mobilization municipalities where we operate, in order to promote processes so that they can correctly manage waste healthier communities. Through this program, we and promote recycling. Waste sent for recycling also managed to care for the volunteers: in order to is sold to partner recycling plants and generates work and implement the project with children in the resources that the community itself reinvests in community, volunteers had to undergo a self-awareness local projects, improving living conditions. In 2017, process. Thus, we caused changes not only in the we maintained the project in Rio de Janeiro, in the children, but also in the volunteers and their families. community of Santa Teresa, where the pilot project was developed. In 2018, we are considering its In all, in 2017 the BRF Institute invested, through repositioning. GRI 203-1 projects supported by the Volunteers Program, a total of R$ 173,000 in infrastructure, benefiting the Respect, transparency and co-responsibility are communities of Buriti Alegre (GO), Campos Novos requirements for the relationship between the (SC), Capinzal (SC), Carambeí (PR), Chapecó (SC), BRF Institute and its partners in order to drive Concórdia (SC), Dois Vizinhos (PR), Faxinal dos a protagonist role, respect community values, Guedes (SC), Herval D'Oeste (SC), Itajaí (SC), Jundiaí strengthen bonds, and activate the role as citizens of (SP), Rio Verde (GO), São Paulo (SP), Serafina Corrêa every player involved. (RS) and Vitória de Santo Antão (PE). GRI 203-1 104 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 BRF INSTITUTE INITIATIVES IN 2017 GRI 203-1, 203-2, 413-1 Open Doors participation of employees in projects and initiatives Facilitates visits of families, schools, universities, that are important for their communities. social organizations, Union representatives, community groups, residents of the municipalities, and other In 2017, the BRF Volunteers Program further expanded stakeholders to the Company’s production units, its work in Brazil and abroad carrying out actions in administrative headquarters, and distribution centers. European and Asian countries – in addition to those already carried out in Argentina, Singapore, and the On these visits, BRF’s best practices about Health, Safety, United Arab Emirates. and the Environment (HSE) are disseminated. In 2017, a total of 74 people visited the units, in four tours. For the second consecutive year, we have relied on our volunteers in the Company's anniversary celebration. We created our own way to celebrate, BRF Volunteers promoting actions on behalf of the communities A volunteering program carried out in the units Brazil where we operate. In 2017, a total of 149 actions were and abroad; the program promotes the voluntary carried out around the world with the participation PHOTOS: ÉDI PEREIRA Impact and Creation of Value 105 Nearly 3,000 volunteers took part in the celebration of BRF's anniversary, conducting actions in more than 30 Brazilian communities of almost 3,000 volunteers; we broke the record in number of participating countries – 11. In terms of engagement, adherence was unprecedented and placed the program in the regular agenda of the Company's anniversary celebrations. In Brazil, the Institute promoted simultaneous volunteering actions in this celebration in more than 30 cities where BRF operates, such as Vitória de Santo Antão (PE), Ponta Grossa (PR), Faxinal dos Guedes (SC), and Várzea Grande (MT). The initiative mobilized more than 2,700 volunteers and benefited more than 60,000 people. BRF Volunteers Challenge It is an initiative from the Institute that proposes that the Social Investment Committees present a video featuring their highlighted action of the year. In its sports second edition, there were 13. Sentidos e Sabores (Senses and Flavors) rounds In 2017, the Institute worked to change people's relationship with food, strengthen the bond between parents and their children through food, and disseminate knowledge of nutrition to families, collaborating to improve food quality in the communities. More than 1,000 Esporte é Alimento (Sport is Food) In partnership with the foundation Fundação Gol de participants children, Letra, in São Paulo, the Institute promoted the Esporte é Alimento project in Rio Verde (GO). The purpose of young adults and women the initiative is to guarantee social rights to sports and the occupation of public spaces with physical participated in the activities by means of workshops, projects, and training of local educators. We estimate that more than 1,000 conversation groups and participants, including children, adolescents, and women were in the conversation rounds and in the sports rounds sports rounds carried out in the community. The project also trained more than 100 sports professionals. 106 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Our Management The BRF Institute is qualified as a Civil Society Organization of Public Interest (OSCIP) and, therefore, does not make investments through fiscal 350 Employees participated in the incentives, working in the selection of projects for social investment committees sponsorships with the support from incentives, in 2017 mainly at state level. The activities of the Institute are subjected to financial audit. To select projects, we use criteria such as adherence to BRF's business strategy while addressing the demands of the communities, creating shared value. Starting in 2017, the projects proposed locally by Governance is composed of the Board of the the BRF Volunteers Program are supported through Institute, formed by several BRF leaders and a Project Fund, that is, they are evaluated by a departments involved in the governance processes technical panel and by peers (Social Investment and structures; by the Social Investment Committees; Committees) so that we can increasingly carry out and by volunteer teams, distributed in units in Brazil projects that are relevant and transformative to and in other markets. communities. This was a path to ensuring volunteer engagement, which proved to be more effective and Strategic decisions on investment and projects capable of obtaining local support (often other local are influenced by discussions, including data players also invested in the projects). GRI 203-1 analysis of platforms and indices such as ISE Employees working on the sausages production line Impact and Creation of Value 107 (BM&FBovespa), Dow Jones Sustainability Index The importance of the work conducted by the BRF it is a goal from management the return of Institute throughout the years allows the Company BRF's actions to these indices and GIFE Census. to build strong relationships with communities. This Corporate Social Investment Benchmarking (BISC, dialogue proves to be extremely important during in the Brazilian acronym), is another important any situation of crisis, since it allows us to minimize management tool, which guides practices according adverse impacts to the business, as well as to the to positive market trends and experiences. The financial results. managers of more developed social projects hold bimonthly conferences with the Institute to monitor Among the potential impacts on our business caused the indicators of each work and enable decision by problems in the relationship with the community, making in a participatory manner. we highlight: There are also groups that work similarly to the • Low performance in market instruments; Social Investment Committees in Brazil. They convene periodically to plan social actions and • Demotivation, absenteeism and turnover among mobilize volunteers in Argentina ((Buenos Aires, employees; Baradero and San Jorge) and others that convene as required in the units and offices in Dubai, Singapore • Investment with little or no return on social actions and in the European headquarters. disconnected from the strategy; Our leaders were involved and active in the • Unfavorable reputation among local communities, engagement and mobilization of employees and new consumers and shareholders; partners, members of local communities. In 2017, a total of 350 employees participated in the Social • Loss of opportunities for innovation based on Investment Committees to address demands and appreciation of local knowledge; identify social opportunities in the 33 municipalities and 33 production units, administrative headquarters • Poor use of resources to solve problems and and distribution center. resolve conflicts that affect the Company's operation locally and globally; Impact management GRI 413-1, 413-2 The BRF Institute and the Social Investment • Lack of social license to operate; Committees potentialize their social, economic and environmental impacts, as well as the effect of more • Indiscriminate transfer of resources through than 700 social actions carried out in 2017, with donations to agencies/organizations; continuous monitoring and annual assessments of each project implemented in the municipalities, • Strikes, lockouts and mobilizations contrary to the measuring their progress. Company's operations in the region; The involvement of the Institute extends to the various • Unfamiliarity with external factors that could affect multidisciplinary working groups, of the corporate the activities of the business units; areas and business units, managing the social impacts of the operation and improving the lives in the • Impact on sales due to the low level of legitimacy communities. In 2017, we extended the work fronts to carry out actions and campaigns associated with to more locations, demonstrating the commitment of social causes. community engagement to the Company's strategy, especially with regard to employee involvement and The potential impacts of our operation on the the commitment to social benefits for the population community are more clearly connected to the at large. During the initiatives to celebrate BRF's municipalities where we have production units, anniversary in 2017, a total of 49 locations in Brazil, 10 but are not limited to these locations. Suppliers, in Latin America and 9 in Asia and Europe conducted including integrated producers, and third parties programs to engage with local communities. This are also related to this aspect and, today, there means that nearly 70% of BRF operations have local is strategic social investment in administrative development programs in place. headquarters and distribution centers as well. 108 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Quantitative and qualitative monitoring of activities social responsibility. Fourteen states benefited from is conducted with internal teams and external the Perdigão campaign (AM, BA, CE, ES, GO, MG, consulting, including monthly monitoring of MT, PA, PE, PR, RJ, RS, SC and SP). The campaign indicators, without measuring ROI. To disclose to celebrate BRF's anniversary reached 11 countries our results, we use various channels, such as GRI (Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Austria, United Kingdom, report and report of activity and publication of Netherlands, Thailand, Hong Kong, Singapore, the activities on websites and corporate social South Korea and South Africa). networks. Whenever necessary, the Committees and the external monitoring consultancy make • Commitments: commitment to the Sustainable adjustments to the route. Development Goals, in particular those related to reducing hunger and poverty; association with GIFE We also have management mechanisms that are and RedEAmérica; participation in BISC, in order applied according to each aspect: to publicly maintain the commitment of corporate social investments to the communities, fostering a • Policies: Corporate Policy on Sponsorships and responsible performance of the Company. Donations, and, in progress, revision of the Corporate Volunteering Policy and of the Corporate • Goals: voluntarily, for 2018, we established Policy on Social Investments. employee engagement goals. We intend to reach 6,000 volunteer participation, in addition to 800 • Committees: In 2017, a total of 33 municipalities partners and 310,000 beneficiaries. had Social Investment Committees, co-responsible for managing the resources and projects that • Operating model: The BRF Institute and the Local benefit the communities, in place in production Development Committees, formed by volunteers units, administrative headquarters, distribution who work locally, have responsibilities that are centers and, from time to time, in sales associated with performance assessments carried subsidiaries. They are groups of employees that out by the Company's internal assessment and perform other activities, helping disseminate the monitoring system (Management System). culture of relationship with communities and of BRF Institute in BRF’S numbers BIRTHDAY 149 actions conducted GRI 203-2 355,000+ by almost 3,000 people benefited by social actions volunteers, in 49 municipalities 68 cities in Brazil and 9 municipalities in benefited by actions developed by the BRF Institute 11 countries Argentina, and in 9 with actions in place other countries Impact and Creation of Value 109 Governments, Institutions, and prohibited from participating in acts of corruption the Food Sector or engaging in bribery, either passively or actively, We are committed to the challenge of maintaining directly or indirectly. It is forbidden to antagonize, a network of partnerships and dialogues with the embezzle, deceive, hinder or disrupt public or private various institutional players in Brazil and abroad bidding procedures. including public authorities and entities and associations that represent our sector. Our work seeks The Company uses fiscal and financial incentives in the to promote sustainability in our chain and improve three levels of public administration, in the case of Brazil the operations carried out through dialogues with (federal, state and municipal), and in different levels governments, institutions and society. of administration in the countries where it operates. The purpose of the benefits is to boost the social and To operate in this sector, we are mobilized around economic development of the regions and enable the key business discussions, with management positions generation of direct and indirect jobs, as well as local and participation in industry forums and associations. partnerships with producers, carriers and potential new We are signatories to pacts and voluntary initiatives suppliers in the regions where we operate. Incentives that address corporate responsibility aspects such granted by governments allow the Company to make as combating degrading or slave/child labor and investments for the installation and operation of addressing climate change impacts. factories and other operations, causing a positive impact on income and tax generation. Monetary data regarding Our relations with governments and representatives of the assistance received are considered confidential and public authorities follow strict legal, ethical and moral strategic for the Company. GRI 201-4 standards based on laws such as the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA), the Sarbanes-Oxley Act Regarding its tax policy, we are attentive to the legal (SOx), the Brazilian Anti-Corruption Law (12,846/2013) aspects of our acts, operating in strict compliance and the United Kingdom Bribery Act (UKBA). with the legislation of the countries where we operate, preserving the continuity of the business in Through BRF Transparency Guide, we record and a way that is integrated to the assessment of the tax reiterate that the Company's employees are expressly impacts of our actions. ( Forums  and groups with the participation of BRF • Practices and Technical Committees in the Capital Market Comunitas/BISC GRI 102-13 • Grupo de Institutos, Fundações e Empresas (GIFE) – Group of Institutes, Foundations, and Companies • Instituto Brasileiro dos Profissionais de Relações • Associação Brasileira das Companhias Abertas com Investidores (IBRI) – Brazilian Institute of (ABRASCA) Brazilian Association of Corporations Investor Relations Professionals • Associação Brasileira dos Criadores de Suínos • Ethos Institute (ABCS) Brazilian Association of Pig Breeders • RedEAmérica • Associação Brasileira das Indústrias da Alimentação • Sindicato Nacional da Indústria de Alimentação (ABIA) – Brazilian Association of Food Industries Animal (SINDIRAÇÕES) – National Union of the • Associação Brasileira de Proteína Animal (ABPA) Animal Feed Industry Brazilian Animal Protein Association • Consejo Mexicano de la Carne (COMECARNE) – • Associação Brasileira de Reciclagem Animal (ABRA) Mexico Brazilian Animal Recycling Association • Coordinadora de las Industrias de Productos • Comitê de Pronunciamento das Melhores Práticas Alimenticios (COPAL) – Argentina e Comissões Técnicas do Mercado de Capitais • International Poultry Council (IPC) (CODIM) – Committee for Pronouncing the Best • World Organisation for Animal Health (OIE) 110 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( Animal welfare Ensuring the welfare conditions of the animals In addition to the technical integration of the reared by our integrated producers and by us is guidelines and of the process changes we have extremely relevant to our business. In recent years, carried out, we established partnerships, participated we have aligned our practices and guidelines with in audits of business partners and provided training national and international parameters, in a process on animal welfare to the internal audience and our reinforced through the partnership we established integrated producers. in 2014 with the World Animal Protection (WAP) in Brazil, an internationally recognized NGO in this We also support events and workshops on this area. Together, we established a pioneering program aspect, maintaining dialogues with institutions such as among the companies in the sector in Brazil, aiming EMBRAPA, the University of São Paulo (USP) and the to improve animal care, including the development Brazilian Animal Protein Association (ABPA) where we of a comprehensive work plan, based on sharing are part of an animal welfare working group. knowledge and experiences, in order to advance in animal welfare practices. In partnership with the Brazilian Association of Pig Breeders (ABCS), training in animal welfare was Thus, our commitments are structured in the global also conducted in the pig chain, including animal program called Animal Welfare Made in BRF, transport and training of drivers from the units guided by our Public Commitment to Animal Welfare, located in the Midwest and South of Brazil. New validated by the company's senior management. One training is being negotiated to be conducted in 2018. of its key approaches is the Five Freedoms model, which is conceptualized by the Farm Animal Welfare Over the years, we have consistently improved Council (FAWC). They are: animal welfare throughout our chain. See below the public commitments assumed: • Animals free from hunger, thirst and malnutrition (physiological freedom); • Animals free from discomfort (environmental freedom); • Animals free from pain, injury or disease (health freedom); On the website We have provided a specific space to talk about animal • Animals free to express normal behavior welfare, which describes our (behavioral freedom); animal welfare practices for all chains. Visit www.brf-global. • Animals free from fear and distress (psychological com/brasil/responsabilidadefreedom). corporativa/bem-estar-animal A multidisciplinary working group, formed by the Quality, Farming, Operations, and Sustainability teams is responsible for the governance of this aspect, coordinating the work and discussing specific demands. We also have employees dedicated to dealing with this aspect throughout the production chain, from the operations areas to the support functions, as well as the animal welfare officers, professionals formally trained to put our commitments into practice. Impact and Creation of Value 111 ( Our goals 2026 Breeders Implementation of collective sow 2025 stalls in 100% of production unit by 2026 Eggs Density We are committed to using, Adjust the density of pig farms by 2025, only free-range eggs to higher standards of animal throughout our industrial food welfare by the end of 2026 process. The raw material 2018 is used, for the most part, to produce industrialized products, such as lasagna. BRF does not produce eggs for commercial purposes. Traceability By the middle of 2018, we will have replaced the notching procedure for identification and traceability of pigs with the tattoo system, which is less invasive for the animal 112 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Breeding and Slaughter GRI 103, FP10, FP12 collective system National and international standards have been adopted for the breeding and slaughter of animals, both on our own poultry and pig farms and on those of integrated producers. Through corporate animal welfare standards, we are aligned with In 2017, we achieved standards such as Global-GAP, Alo free, GenesisGAP, 26.5% compliance with the pig management and Certified Humane. system In breeding, indicators such as mortality, density, eliminated animals, bumblefoot, transport mortality, bruises and fractures are part of the data monitored daily, with periodic reports, guiding process improvement and management of risks associated with the subject. In 2017, we installed in 100% of the fleet a system to water spray birds on hot days Poultry to keep them cool after loading. This contributed to • We do not use any type of hormone or cloned reducing the mortality rate, from 0.21% in 2015 to animals in the poultry production chain, 0.16% in 2016 and 2017. demonstrating our commitment to the segment’s legislation and best practices. In assuming animal welfare as a priority, we are committed, as an industry, to avoiding routine • All poultry have an area to move around freely mutilation and long-distance transport of live within the facilities and bathe in substrate, one of animals and to stunning prior to slaughter, their natural behaviors. following ethical precepts, international guidelines and market specificities. Productivity indicators • All animals receive a minimum dark period without are monitored batch by batch, including weight interruptions, so that they may rest properly. gain, feed conversion, and batch viability, daily water consumption and maximum and minimum • Care of the aviary bedding (substrate where the temperatures. animals stay) is daily, and integrated producers work to keep the bedding dry, fluffy, and free from In 2017, an Animal Welfare Panel was also created foreign materials, at a comfortable temperature. in the Company's internal system, with the main animal welfare indicators monitored by BRF in • In 2016, several tests were initiated regarding the three species. Among them: density; poorly the use of environmental enrichment, such as desensitized animals; fasting; condemnation; the implementation of pecking objects and/or transport mortality; eliminated animals; and raised perches, in the broiler and turkey chains, pododermatitis. so that the animals may properly express their natural behavior. These same objects, as they Monthly meetings are held to address the are scientifically validated, will be gradually evolution of the indicators and facilitate implemented in the other company units. dissemination of best practices across the units. The teams in Production, Agriculture and Quality • Laser debeaking is in place in 100% of the chain. are involved and committed to the progress of In 2016, it was implemented in the turkey chain; the indicators. and in 2017, in the broiler chain. Animal welfare is discussed with integrated • In 2017, there was a 61% reduction in the use of producers through training sessions conducted antibiotics for treatment of diseases in broilers, by the technical team and through the BRF Rural compared to 2016, and 74% compared to 2015. journal in which a section is reserved for this issue in each edition. Thus, 100% of our partners receive • For turkeys, there were no changes in the use periodic information on such an important matter. of antibiotics in 2017. At the end of 2016, we discontinued the use of the antibiotic Colistin, both See some practices by type of animal: therapeutically and as a growth promoter, in their Impact and Creation of Value 113 production. We also did not use antibiotic growth Animal Welfare at the Units GRI 103 promoters. The focus of the work carried out in the production units is to modernize the facilities and provide • The antibiotic Colistina is not used in BRF's technologies for a better quality of life for the poultry chain. animals, through improvements in their environments. Pigs Inaugurated in 2016, the Great Grandparent Pig Model • Among the best practices already in place, since Farm, in the city of Mineiros (GO) was 100% built 2012, we have been using the collective gestation based on the guidelines of the European Commission. system in all new BRF production expansion This model farm is built on an area of 21,300 sqm and projects – with gradual application to existing houses 1,000 purebred sows. properties. In 2014, we committed to reaching 100% production covered by the collective system by In 2017, we initiated the implementation and 2026, as a reflection of the partnership with WAP in monitoring of the Animal Welfare Index with integrated Brazil. In 2017, we reached 26.5% suitability status producers. A checklist was developed and adopted, for the company’s pig production system, also based on global Animal Welfare parameters, to including the acquisition of breeders from other determine a current snapshot of the integrated companies that did not meet BRF's animal welfare properties. The purpose is to monitor the progress of standard. The model recommends that females stay this index in the various production chains, to identify the minimum necessary period in accommodations; gaps, and seize opportunities. The Animal Welfare then they are released into collective pens, Index has a system to determine the results and is following internationally recognized animal welfare annually applied to 100% of BRF's integration. recommendations. To this end, we adopted the standard from European Union legislation, since Use of medications GRI 103, FP12 there is no Brazilian standard for this matter. We invest in research to reduce the use of antibiotics, seeking alternatives such as the use of vaccines, • Cloned animals and growth hormones are not used prebiotics, probiotics, as well as improvements in in the Company’s pig farming chain. management, environment and biosafety. We have adopted international guidelines and best practices, • We follow European pig breeding guidelines, including and we have sought to gradually reduce the use of best practices regarding abolishing teeth clipping medications without causing harm to animal welfare or grinding. Today, this practice only occurs as an and the quality of our products. An example of this is exception in the litters, if there is a case of aggression. that we use on average less than 5 mg of antibiotics The use of ear tattoos increased, as required by the per kg of animal, while Europe recommends up to 30 Official Veterinary Service. For technical reasons (age mg/kg, which places us one level above the industry. of the animal, duration and intensity of intervention), neither of these activities makes use of anesthesia. In The area of agricultural and livestock intelligence has 2017, tattoo was adopted for 93% of the animals. a team of veterinarians with experience in animal health, who are responsible for defining and planning • We also maintain partial tail docking, since the the use of medications for all production units. Our procedure has a small impact in comparison with goal is to promote the correct use of antibiotics and the risk of cannibalism during the pig growth and ensure safety of the final product. fattening phases. The cut is standardized to the size of 1/3 of the tail. The shelf life of the medications is reviewed and reinforced by the veterinarians, and discontinuation • BRF adopts immunocastration in almost 100% of of the use prior to slaughter is performed following the animals in the pig chain. Surgical castration strict parameters, ensuring that the product is free is performed on animals whose raw material is from any residue. dedicated to the Parma type ham product and the use of anesthetics is being gradually introduced in The reductions observed in 2017 reflect the actions the integration. we have implemented over the last three years, which include training of the teams regarding conscious • In 2017, there was a 28% reduction in the use use of antibiotics, adjustments in disease prevention of antibiotics for treating diseases in animals for programs (replacement of antibiotics and use of slaughter. vaccines) and improvements in biosecurity strategies (read more in Breeding and Slaughter). 114 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( EEfficiency nvironmental • Health, safety, and environment dialogues, with the participation of plant workers in debates on conserving resources as well as waste prevention. Through ICA, we monitor 100% of the units in Brazil, Argentina, and the United Arab Emirates (Abu Dhabi), addressing aspects of effluents, waste, air emissions, noise, odor, grants, and environmental licenses. It is also applied to the agricultural operation (feed plants, hatcheries and own farms). The compliance NATURAL CAPITAL index in 2017 advanced 10.7% compared with 2016. Our objective is to adopt, on a global scale, ICA assessments, which was revised in 2017 for the ICA BRF operates globally and is aware of its 2.0 version. responsibility to promote the appropriate use of natural resources in its value chain. Our mission and We also manage risks concerning environmental purpose are to protect and conserve the environment aspects, given the relevance of this issue regarding in our vicinity and in the value chain, extending this aspects such as obtaining environmental licensing, protection to post-consumption. certification/authorization of clients and markets, and compliance with the legal requirements of the Operating in more restrictive legal environments, countries in which we operate. having more critical and conscious consumers and relying on business partners concerned about the Another relevant front is the development of impacts of their chain are some of the factors that businesses with a positive environmental focus; encourage us to seek continuous improvement of our it is the case of the BRF Ingredients business unit levels of environmental management. Through the (read more on page 28), which adds value to the Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) management Company's co-products system, our Environmental Policy, internal corporate standards and references such as the ISO 14001 We also assess the impact on the life cycle of our guidelines, we address the potential impacts and products and identified that Brazil offers sustainable associated risks and opportunities. competitive advantages related to renewable energy sources and size of the territory. We also assess Based on the work of the Department of Operations, the impact on the life cycle of our products and we have developed a comprehensive approach identified that Brazil offers sustainable competitive towards environmental efficiency, with technical advantages related to renewable energy sources and teams for global corporate support and in the size of the territory. Worldwide, BRF's environmental business units worldwide. The activities are guided guidelines must minimally comply with specific by some instances applicable to the entire operation environmental legislation. In Brazil, for example, of the Company: BRF has environmental licensing at municipal, state and nationwide level. Furthermore, with the • General Committee on Health, Safety and expansion of the international market, BRF monitors Environment (HSE), with monthly meetings that the environmental regulatory frameworks in target mobilize leaders from different areas; countries, including climate change and renewable energy. GRI 201-2 • Installation Analysis Form (FAI), for environmental assessment of new projects; • Internal standards (standards and corporate 10.7% instructions), sometimes stricter than current legislation; • Environmental Compliance Index (ICA), an indicator was the advance in the developed internally to measure quality of compliance index in 2017 processes, performance, goal, and compliance of each unit; Impact and Creation of Value 115 Environmental Investments prioritizing investments of over R$ 100 million in We reinforced our investments in initiatives to reduce environmental projects. Within this strategy, the environmental impacts, totaling R$ 388.3 million in legal area defined a specific group to work on the operations in Brazil, Europe/Eurasia, Abu Dhabi, environmental issues. In conjunction with CIEX, Argentina, and Thailand above the R$ 325.84 million several actions were taken, such as improving in 2016 (see this indicator in detail in the Attachment). verification of legal obligations and greater control over the actions agreed upon in the Conduct We were also pioneers in South America when issuing, Adjustment Terms (TACs). Consequently, there was abroad, 500 million Euros of Senior Notes (green a reduction of 82.45% in Conduct Adjustment Terms bonds) in 2015, maturing on June 3, 2022. Therefore, (TACs) and a reduction of 35% in civil proceedings. In we will have seven years to invest in projects proven Argentina, we participated in the development of the to reduce environmental impact. During the period, environmental legislation for pig farming, and were the allocation of resources will be monitored annually recognized with a national award. GRI 103|306 to ensure compliance with criteria of the bonds. All units receive goals for the ICA, which include Issuing green bonds enabled us to increase items related to legal obligations, waste, effluents, investment capacity in green projects, focusing on air emissions, odor and noise. The global goal categories such as energy efficiency, renewable (including Brazil, Argentina and Abu Dhabi) for the energy, sustainable forests, reducing greenhouse gas ICA in 2017 was 80.7% and we managed to exceed emissions, water management, packaging, reducing it, reaching December having achieved 86.1% of the the use of raw materials, and waste management. goal. GRI 103|306 The successful experiment has become a benchmark In the operation in the Brazilian market in which the practice tends to We develop projects and investments with the purpose be more and more widespread as a way of preparing of mitigating environmental impacts throughout our companies to invest in natural capital. operation offices, logistics centers, factories, farms and other business units. The main topics covered are water In 2017, senior management defined a new strategy management, control of greenhouse gas emissions, of operation in relation to the environmental area, waste generation and use of energy resources. ( Circular Economy The Zero Waste project is an example of circular We identified technologies that, in addition to economy that promotes the elimination of waste ending disposal of waste in landfills, completely sent to sanitary landfills, improving management and eliminate generation of waste, with zero impact to adding value to industrial waste. the environment. Financial feasibility to implement all these processes will depend on coming years. In 2017, several technological developments were made through partnerships with universities and We also expect that the Industry 4.0 concept will startups to add value to waste, reduce consumption provide greater efficiency to production processes of raw materials and inputs, optimize and increase to give us the conditions to better manage all productivity and efficiency of industrial processes, environmental aspects associated with our activities and add value through new production processes. (read more on Industry 4.0 on page 67). 116 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Water management GRI 103|303 engage our business partners, with assessments and One of the critical environmental aspects for the indicators that address the issue of water case of food industry is water. A possible shortage of water the agricultural operation. At the end of 2016, we resources can jeopardize financial and operational initiated a study with the Alto Paranaíba watershed results, with the risk of rendering production committee to map water resources, their users and processes unfeasible from the field, where water classification of the tributaries, in an area where we is indispensable for rearing animals and producing have the units of Uberlândia, Buriti Alegre, Jataí, Rio agricultural commodities, to factories, respecting Verde, and Mineiros. ANVISA's quality criteria. BRF's plants work to identify and implement water safety initiatives, Our management adopts, among other measures, a and on the constant search for water conservation methodology to assess water risk and vulnerability projects. GRI 201-2 that began to be implemented in 2015 in the Company's units, defining an exposure score for For BRF, the impact of the external environment each of them and planning preventive and corrective includes flood susceptibility, water availability measures. The tool assesses factors internal and (surface and ground water stress, drought index, external to the operation, associated with the variation of precipitation) and the environmental availability and quality of water and with the unit's quality of the watershed, considering the entire reliance on the resource. Its application aims to global operation. build a water vulnerability map of BRF operations, compare risk indicators between units and subsidize To this end, we pay special attention to possible projects and investments to mitigate risks. scenarios of water insufficiency in certain regions in Brazil and in the world such as in Thailand and Abu The vulnerability analysis applies two complementary Dhabi, with a desert climate, where we have a plant analytical approaches: an internal approach, related operation and consider the challenge of competing to the operation; and an external environmental use of water, due to withdrawal from sources that approach, related to the characteristics of the are also used to supply the population, for irrigation watershed where the project is located and to the and for other industries. multiple uses of water in the region. In the end, the indicators are integrated with these approaches, We actively participate in Watershed Committees allowing for a quantitative summary of water in the regions in which we are present. We also vulnerability. GRI 303-2 Impact and Creation of Value 117 Efficiency and Performance GRI 103|303 production. For example, in chicken slaughter, we At BRF, we have goals and indicators for water have points at which specific volumes of water are consumption at each plant, regardless of the required to be used for each broiler. Therefore, as external thresholds set out by the abstraction we seek to reduce consumption, we are also legally grant, when applicable. Abroad, we comply with obligated to comply with minimum volumes of water regulations such as the Order of the Ministry of use during the process. We have in place a working Water Affairs of the Province of Santa Fé (Argentina) group for sanitation, formed by the Engineering, No. 395/07, which regulates sources for the use of Quality, and Procurement teams, that studies groundwater, and the Regulation of Water Quality practices to maximize efficiency of this process. (Fourth Edition) in Abu Dhabi, issued by the Bureau of Regulation and Supervision. Regarding water reuse, we have adopted the World Health Organization (WHO) classification, which We work on several fronts to improve our establishes three modalities: indirect reuse (water performance, including projects to reduce the already used one or more times and discharged into use of water in equipment and modernization of surface and groundwater, and used again in a diluted infrastructure. We have energy excellence groups form); direct (planned use of treated wastewater for formed by members who are responsible for shutting certain purposes such as irrigation and industrial down consumption points during breaks and use); and internal recycling (reuse of water internally nonproduction periods. in industrial facilities). Through actions such as water reuse (avoiding We use flow restrictors (aerator nozzles) in sinks and new withdrawal from the environment), prioritizing cleaning hoses. In the administration building in Curitiba, surface abstraction (with greater capacity to renew there is a rainwater harvesting system used in the flush the resource), treating wastewater prior to its systems of restrooms and for cleaning external areas. discharge, and returning approximately 95% of the water abstracted to the environment (given that In 2017, we had an increase of 7.7% in BRF's total BRF does not use water as raw material), we work water consumption, compared with the previous year. to position ourselves as a company that uses this This result is associated with increased consumption important resource responsibly. in broiler carcass cooling processes which, in addition to complying with standards set out by the In the legal aspect, we comply with the standards applicable legislation, was intended to improve the set out in the consumption map for water used in quality of our products. WATER CONSUMPTION BY SOURCE (m3/year) GRI 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 2015 2016 2017 Surface water including wetlands, rivers, lakes and oceans 38,559,842.23 38,366,961.88 39,480,557.51 Groundwater 18,379,836.95 20,807,007.94 23,608,629.88 Rainwater directly harvested and stored by the organization 59,400.00 53,300.00 51,300.00 Effluents from another organization 0.00 0.00 468,000.00 Municipal water supply or other water utility companies 1,315,427.59 1,855,287.60 2,178,280.19 Total 58,314,506.77 61,082,557.42 65,786,767.58 118 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Effluents GRI 103|306 system of ponds in series. We installed state-of-the-art One of the relevant environmental aspects for BRF is equipment for treatment, seeking increasingly better management of the effluents generated in industrial standards of quality of the final effluent. For 2018, activities, due to the need to control possible impacts two additional plants are initiating the modernization that could cause environmental damage to water works and, with this, virtually 100% of our plants will bodies and soil, up to unavailability of water supply. be using the activated sludge system, also reducing Our actions aim to meet legal requirements in terms impacts of GHG emissions. of quality of discharge and reduce and adequately dispose of the effluents. We also use preventive tools, such as the Environmental Performance Index (IPA), generated We set challenges and objectives related to reducing through on-site inspection routes to identify and the volume of effluents and of the organic load. address potential situations that could result in At each plant, we study forms to control effluent environmental incidents. generation. Emissions GRI 103|305 In 2017, we modernized two additional effluent Our commitment to increasing efficiency in the use treatment plants, which were still working on the of natural resources and control of emissions in the various links of the Company's production chain is in line with our sustainability strategy and with the potential impacts of the climate on the business PERCENTAGE OF WATER RECIRCULATION ranging from commodity crops to energy and water AT BRF GRI 303-3 risks in the markets in which we operate. 38.30 We know that our impact is global, because of our operations and our chain that produce greenhouse 29.90 31.15 gases (GHG). We are also affected by climate change resulting from GHG emissions, compromising financial results. To mitigate its effects, we have in place an Environmental Policy that includes the Climate Change Program. The program covers from our emissions inventory and mitigation measures, up to our adaptation and capability to analyze the risks and impacts of GHG emissions in our value chain. 2015 2016 2017 WATER DISCHARGE BY QUALITY AND DESTINATION* GRI 306-1 Destination 2015 2016 2017 Surface source 50,245,556.52 54,004,053.52 54,848,043.80 Soil 942,189.00 163,698.76 90,404.72 Other 166,957.45 58,958.00 2,669,153.00 Total 51,354,702.97 54,226,710.28 57,607,601.52 *Methodology used for abstraction: via system, where effluent samples are collected; sending to external and internal laboratory accredited to carry out the analysis; and registration in BRF's information system, from where management reports are generated. Data cover all BRF operations in Brazil and abroad. Quality of effluents (3,324,160.47 kgCOD/year) remains virtually unchanged over the years. BRF's effluents are not used by other companies. In Brazil, the only country that disposes of effluents in soil, a fertigation process using effluents from the factory and farms is carried out. BRF performs annual analysis of phosphorus levels to ensure soil quality. Impact and Creation of Value 119 Acknowledgment boundaries to be considered, the methodology for calculating the emission sources of the chain and We were featured in Pollution Control access to information (read more in Attachments). by the Sustainable Management Forum, GRI 103|305 of Editora Expressão In the operation, we have a high ratio of renewable energy and have in place an environmental management system that results in a lower emissions BRF is a member of the Brazilian GHG Protocol profile. Considering total emissions, our greatest Program and follows their methodology to calculate impact is in the production units, followed by our own its inventory of greenhouse gases, reported externally farms. BRF's main sources of emission are: on an annual basis. Our air and GHG emissions are subjected to a management model that complies • Stationary use of fuels for power generation; with environmental legislation and best practices in the markets where we operate. The GHG inventory • Treatment of effluents some units have anaerobic is audited annually by an external company, and treatment, without methane capture; includes the analysis of the calculation tool, the baseline data used to calculate the emissions, as • Treatment of agricultural waste and fugitive well as on-site visits to verify the information used, emissions; which issues a letter of assurance attesting to the information. With this, we submit this letter to the • Mobile emissions. GRI 103|305 Brazilian GHG Protocol Program, which recognizes the inventory with the Gold Seal. We are also defining The Company's extensive and complex distribution commitments, goals and objectives related to this and supply networks are a relevant challenge, topic. GRI 103|305 especially considering our global reach. Therefore, it is an topic that is present in our analysis of risks and Our volume of GHG emissions is concentrated in the opportunities. GRI 103|305 value chain, mainly in the agriculture of integrated producers (treatment and disposal of waste/manure) BRF also has planted renewable forest as carbon and in logistics processes (use of road transport stock. It has a positive impact on the environment, and vessels). Since it is a complex and extensive contributing to climate regulation and mitigating the chain, our biggest challenge is to define the impacts generated by its own activities. Scope 1 DIRECT GHG EMISSIONS (tCO2e) BIOGENIC CO2 EMISSIONS GRI 305-1 439,962.58 440,621.04 2,213,212.72 2,103,531.01 361,059.61 1,966,390.17 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Note: The emission factors and the global warming potential (GWP), provided by the Brazilian GHG Protocol Program and the IPCC, respectively, were used. The baseline year for performance assessment was 2016, since there is no goal or other analysis defined based on another previous year. The gases included in the calculations are carbon dioxide (CO2), nitrous oxide (N2O), methane (CH4), and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). Data is being audited. 120 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Scope 2 INDIRECT EMISSIONS RESULTING FROM THE ACQUISITION OF ENERGY (tCO2e) GRI 305-2 BIOGENIC CO2 EMISSIONS 322,098.78 306,320.98 *The emission factors and 274,684.41 29,363.56 the global warming potential 27,964.62 (GWP), provided by the 25,108.08 Brazilian GHG Protocol Program and the IPCC, respectively, were used. The baseline year for performance assessment was 2016, since there is no goal or other analysis defined based on another previous year. The gases included in the calculations are carbon dioxide (CO2), nitrous oxide (N2O), methane (CH4), and hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs). 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Scope 3 OTHER INDIRECT EMISSIONS (tCO2e) GRI 305-3 2015 2016 2017 Upstream transport and distribution ND ND 795,876.99 Waste generated in operations ND ND 133,058.54 Business travel ND ND 5,786.55 Total 850,776.51 834,957.27 934,722.08 INTENSITY OF GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS (tCO2E/t PRODUCED) GRI 305-4 2015 2016 2017 Total GHG emissions ND 439,962.58 440,621.04 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions (tCO2e/t produced) ND 0,10 0,10 Energy GRI 103|302 reduce consumption and pass on guidelines to the Energy consumption is an integral part of our production units. In 2017, one hundred percent of risk management. (read more in Risks and the electricity purchased in the Brazilian free market Opportunities). Among the factors considered are was from renewable sources, ensuring diversification energy price and availability as aspects that directly of suppliers and mitigation of climate risks. GRI 201-2 affect our operation. BRF's Energy Excellence Program mobilizes corporate technical teams and In addition to having approximately 3% of our technical teams from the units, managing efficiency consumption supplied by our internal energy in the use of this resource across the Company. We generation, we established annual goals to improve have in place the BRF Energy Committee, formed efficiency of use and an investment plan for the by the Engineering, Controllership and Procurement coming years to increase the Company's own teams, which define strategies on a monthly basis generation percentage which would protect it in to contract energy in BRF and in the value chain, cases of rationing, for example. considering the improvement in the acquisition cost, finding strategic partners for development BRF also has annual lines of investments to invest its of sustainable projects, approving projects to own resources to update technology and purchase Impact and Creation of Value 121 more efficient equipment. As examples, we can R$ 5 million compared with R$ 35 million invested point out the standardization of temperature control in 2015. Furthermore, several projects with procedures of the freezing tunnels; the implementation increased energy consumption were initiated in of automatic and variable controls of compressed order to comply with legislation and the company's air equipment; and the replacement of the lighting quality standards, such as increased consumption technology in the factories with the LED system. in freezing due to the Drip Test, aiming to more quickly reduce temperature. A significant number In addition to these initiatives, we used the of operational and management initiatives are resources available from the Energy Efficiency being developed to mitigate the increase in energy Programs of energy distributors, under the consumption, with results expected for the coming recommendation of the National Electric Energy years. GRI 302-4 Agency (ANEEL), with actions such as replacing common motors and electric pumps with highEnergy intensity, which considers only energy performance equipment, which also result in impacts consumption at the Company, was 2.13 GJ/t on GHG emissions. The most recent contracts were produced in 2016, and 2.22 GJ/t in 2017, considering signed with Companhia Paranaense de Energia consumption of fuel and electricity. GRI 302-3 (Copel), in the Toledo unit, and Centrais Elétricas de Santa Catarina (Celesc), in the Capinzal and Chapecó units. These partnerships provided more than R$ 7 TOTAL ENERGY CONSUMPTION OUTSIDE million for this purpose. THE ORGANIZATION* (GJ) GRI 302-2 Our goal is to achieve an overall reduction in energy consumption, with improvements in 5,918 6,144 distribution centers, agricultural operations and 5,201 plants in Brazil and abroad. In 2017, we remained 0.56% below the plan established for this global indicator for electricity (kWh/TPA), mainly as a result of operational actions and management of consumption in the production processes and in critical equipment. In 2017, there was no reduction in energy consumption given the lower volume of investments in projects for this purpose we had approximately 2015 2016 2017 122 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Impact management GRI 103|302 The main impacts related to energy consumption Renewable energy occur in our production units, such as We operate with a percentage of renewable slaughterhouses and plants of industrialized energy in excess of 90%. In 2017, one products, and in hatcheries and farms. As hundred percent of the electricity purchased a management highlight, we developed a in the Brazilian free market was from methodology for assessing risks and vulnerability renewable sources, ensuring diversification of of energy supply and consumption that began suppliers and mitigation of climate risks. to be implemented in the Company's units. We established an exposure score for each of them and planned preventive and corrective measures. The tool assesses factors internal and external to the operation, associated with the availability of energy and with the unit's reliance on this resource. Energy consumption is monitored online in 100% of the units, with four levels of check in and monthly Waste GRI 103|306 disclosure of results to verify the performance of We operate in three fronts to control solid waste: each unit. The objective is to carry out internal and reduction, recycling, and reuse of materials external actions to reduce consumption of energy, throughout our entire value chain, from suppliers thereby minimizing the Company’s impact on the to post-consumption. In the operation, we seek environment and the community. cost efficiency combined with impact management. We also establish goals to reduce the volume of We generate the electric energy indicator kWh/TPA, waste, one of them linked to our Environmental on a daily basis, which is directly monitored by Compliance Index: reducing the amount of waste the utility teams at the units, addressing possible generated, both recyclable and non-recyclable. deviations, in addition to preparing and executing action plans for cases of noncompliance with the We also adopted measures to reuse byproducts in indicator. our production processes in the case of sludge, a byproduct generated in treatment of effluents The units follow the guidelines of the corporate and used as a fuel mixture for the boilers, in standards for Excellence in Energy, conducting compliance with legal requirements -, enabling a weekly meetings with groups from production reduction in consumption of woodchips. In certain processes and utilities, searching for operational units, practically 100% of the sludge used comes initiatives and investments to mitigate the impacts from production. on consumption. Furthermore, members of the groups carry out operational routes to adjust For composting, our main method for final possible deviations in the processes. disposal is transforming waste into organic fertilizer, with proper disposal from legal and At corporate level, we have in place a team of environmental standpoints. Sorting for disposal of specialists and engineers who are dedicated to organic waste and other categories (recyclable and analyzing the cooling and freezing processes, non-recyclable) is also adopted in administrative looking for ideal operating levels and technically operations. All logistics centers also have a waste supporting the units in developing new projects to sorting structure. improve the efficiency of our systems. Concerning the challenge involving reverse logistics, all our own and integrated poultry farms have in place a Reverse Logistics Program of Animal Health Waste. In 2017, a total of 273,600 tons of hazardous waste was collected in the field and in our hatcheries. GRI 306-2 Impact and Creation of Value 123 WASTE BY TYPE AND DISPOSAL METHOD1 (t) GRI 306-2 Class I waste 2015 2016 2017 Incorporation in the soil2 0.00 0.00 0.00 Industrial landfill and autoclaving3 538.89 480.94 932.91 Recycling (return manufacturer, animal feed plant, meal 230.78 327.30 635.27 plant, recycling and re-refining, and reuse)4 Incineration 2,110.93 128.58 272.22 Composting5 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total 2,880.60 936.82 1,840.40 Class II waste Incorporation in the soil2 0.00 42,157.76 16,476.81 Industrial landfill and autoclaving3 2,071.89 110,873.88 162,768.95 Recycling (return manufacturer, animal feed plant, recycling 1,247.15 68,408.16 78,501.84 and re-refining)4 Incineration 0.00 484.93 784.00 Composting5 167.60 120,995.25 55,033.39 Total 3,486.64 342,919.97 313,565.00 1 Data represent generation of waste in all BRF operations in Brazil and abroad, with the exception of Africa. 2 Organic sludge waste, effluent treatment. 3 Non-recyclable waste from incubation and treatment of effluent and water 4 Plastic scrap, metal, paper, glass, wood scraps (such as pallets) and waste from sweeping the feed and meal plant. TRANSPORT OF HAZARDOUS WASTE* (t) GRI 306-4 2015 2016 2017 Transported 412.60 461.12 1,840.40 Imported 0.00 0.00 0.00 Exported 0.00 0.00 0.00 Treated 135.82 267.34 0.00 Total 548,42 728.46 1,840.40 * Hazardous waste transported is all waste generated by BRF, for which transportation is contracted up to treatment. BRF does not have its own transportation to destination of hazardous waste, nor does it import or export any waste internationally. 124 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Cooperatives Products and Packaging The challenge of practicing proper management of the We created a development impact of our products after they are purchased by program that involves providing consumers in particular of the post-consumer pillar, machinery and safety equipment with an emphasis on disposal of packaging is part of to allow cooperative members to BRF's day-to-day business and of the sector as a whole. increase productivity and income. This work is part of complying with the National Solid Waste Policy (PNRS), which specifies improvements and adjustments to the industry’s production model, from operation and supply chain up to the distribution, sales, and post-consumption disposal processes. Through the Brazilian Food Industry Association (ABIA), we participate in the Sector Packaging Agreement, which brings together associations from different segments of the industry. The agreement includes reducing recyclable waste sent to landfills, In 2017, five significant leaks were recorded, among other actions. One of the important measures totaling 8.2 m3, between thermal oil, diesel oil, identified is the need to build a governance system vegetable oil and food products. The leaks occurred for waste collectors, thus professionalizing waste mainly due to road accidents and other leaks in disposal activities. storage tanks at BRF units in the cities of Jundiaí (SP), Ribeirão das Neves (MG), Duque de Caxias Also working with ABIA, BRF is part of the Packaging (RJ), Faxinal dos Guedes (SC), and Videira (SC). BRF Coalition, which gathers companies committed to a was directly involved in these impacts. Since the solid waste management plan for reverse logistics, Company contracted the transport operation, it was defined in an industry agreement to comply with co-responsible for the accident. GRI 306-3 the PNRS. Pursuant to this agreement, in 2017 we put together, in those cities where we have The main impacts related to leaks refer to soil operations, a program to develop cooperatives that and water contamination, for which the necessary will receive, in 2018, machinery and safety equipment measures were taken to minimize them. To avoid new to increase productivity and income, and add value occurrences, we adopted the following measures: to the waste collected. Additionally, training and review of motors and pumps involved in the accident guidance are included in these interventions aiming in Jundiaí and increased frequency of preventive to promote health and safety among members of the maintenance; guidance to third parties to ensure cooperatives. Internally, we rely on the expertise of preventive maintenance of vehicles; and diagnostics our Production and Development area that seeks to of all BRF storage tanks for hazardous products to reduce the use of materials and develop innovative identify their correct handling and safety procedures, packaging, participating in product innovation projects necessary improvements and adjustments. GRI 306-3 with a focus on wastefulness. We have impacts related to our partners that treat An important issue is related to servings. The market the waste generated, which is why we are constantly trend is to offer products in smaller servings, adding seeking partners that are increasingly committed to value. For frozen products, the challenge is to separate the environmental aspect in terms of transportation, and freeze individual servings, in addition to selecting treatment and final disposal of solid waste. Other and packing the pieces. We perceive this activity as a points of impact occur in our integrated producers, way of adding value to the product, through processing where broilers and pigs are reared for slaughter, and packaging. In this case, value comes by allowing generating waste, such as poultry litter (wood shavings consumers to have a smaller or more appropriate used for raising broilers, with animal manure), which, serving, avoiding wasting energy and affecting quality after being replaced, is sent for transformation into as a result of an eventual defrosting. organic fertilizer. In the integrated producers of pigs, the main aspect is the generation of manure, which is The serving and quality of the product kept in optimal properly treated and subsequently used for application conditions through more appropriate packaging allows in the soil, always with environmental authorization for consumption where and when our customers need, and monitoring by an agronomist. a value that we can offer in terms of packaging. Impact and Creation of Value 125 Actions to reduce impacts Packaging lost in production processes was sent to We developed a number of initiatives to restrict the recycling, thereby reducing the impacts related to final impacts of materials associated with our products. products. For the products, the idea was to minimize Among them: we invested in projects to reduce environmental impacts related to loss of products, grammage and use of raw material in packaging, allowing for greater process efficiency, with a positive without prejudice to the needs of safety and stability financial effect. Reduction in cases of product loss of the product; and we initiated projects to mobilize is directly associated with the business and with the and support the structuring of cooperatives and sales, logistics and production processes, so that associations of waste collectors in regions close to customer demand is met without generating excess our operations. inventory and recall of expired products. According to the commitment made by BRF upon We have also sought to advance the analysis signing the Sector Agreement, we invested resources of environmental impacts of products. In 2017, in the lines defined for private sector investment. pilot tests were conducted and partnerships were In 2017, BRF's resources to comply with the PNRS established with companies to study packaging were allocated to increasing capacity and managing for BRF and the possible transformation of used cooperatives in cities where BRF operates. packaging in other products; the results will be disclosed in 2018. GRI 302-5 In 2017, we consolidated the actions to replace paper packaging with flexible packaging and completed the work to review 90% of our corrugated cardboard packaging portfolio. 6 126 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Business 127 BUSINESS We introduced the adjusted EBITDA among the indicators aiming to provide more details about the effects that impact our activities and show how we evaluate our business lines FINANCE AND BUILT CAPITAL 128 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Introduction to adjusted EBITDA GRI 103|201 R$ 2.9 Pursuant to CVM Instruction 527/2012, which allows companies to report the composition of EBITDA using items extracted from audited Financial Statements and billion that contribute to the understanding of the potential for gross operating cash generation, BRF, as of the fourth quarter 2017, introduced (added) the adjusted was the total adjusted EBITDA concept in its reporting material as part of the performance assessment process of its businesses EBITDA in 2017 established by the new administration. The Company's intention is to provide more details about the effects that impact its activities and how it evaluates the business lines. The comparable information for the adjustment items were obtained from audited and revised statements published in Operação Carne Fraca their corresponding periods. The introduction of this (i) Amounts directly attributable to the operation concept does not alter the accounting information incurred until June/17. These include expenses with already published, pursuant to the legislation in force, media, attorneys, freight/storage/losses with returns it only complements this information. of product; and (ii) amount realizable with inventory: certain finished products, which could not be exported On the side is the reconciliation between EBITDA to the planned destination, as a reflex of Operação and the adjusted EBITDA and the nature of the Carne Fraca, are being used as raw materials in reconciliation items. production and, therefore, underwent cost adjustment to their realizable value. This new destination The Company considered the following effects on the complies with laws and regulations and does not calculation of the adjusted EBITDA: represent a hazard to consumers. Minority shareholders Costs arising from the disposal of businesses Purging of the amount for minority shareholders from Price adjustment in the disposal of the dairy products the net profit of the entities for which they hold segment upon partial release of the amounts in the interest. escrow account. Business 129 R$ million 2016 2017 EBITDA 3,418 2,654 EBITDA Margin (%) 10.1 7.9 Interest of minority shareholders (5) (27) Impacts of Operação Carne Fraca 363 Costs arising from disposal of businesses 37 Items without cash effect (101) (7) Tax recoveries (373) (218) Debts recorded as Hedge Accounting 55 Adjusted EBITDA 2,938 2,857 Adjusted EBITDA margin (%) 8.7 8.5 Items without cash effect It should be noted that the level for marketing this This includes reassessment of the investment of harvest is below those levels recorded in the same AKF (equivalence method) prior to the acquisition of period of previous harvests, pointing to a trend of controlling interest in June 2016 totaling R$ 59 million high availability of the grain in the domestic market and adjusted to reflect the fair value of the forests for the year. (biological assets) in both fiscal periods, R$ 7 million in 2017 and R$ 43 million in 2016. Both amounts refer The abundant crop in 2017 provided healthy price to accounting adjustments that did not contribute to levels for corn and soybean meal throughout 2017. the Company's cash flow. The average price of corn dropped 31.5% in relation to 2016. At the same time, the average price of Tax recoveries soybean meal fell 9.6% in 2017, approaching the These include gains arising from success in legal levels observed in the previous year. Consequently, actions that claimed tax credits and recoveries arising profitability of Brazilian producers remained at healthy from changes in the tax positioning. In 2017, we levels, and this was one of the most relevant factors point out the recognition of IPI credit and, in 2016, to drive the future production of chicken in the especially the recovery of INSS, ICMS and PIS/COFINS. country. Debt recorded as hedge From a commercial standpoint, the volume of Effects arising from hedge accounting of the debt in shipments of chicken to foreign markets had a small exports (recorded upon hiring). The Company recorded decrease of 1.3% in 2017 compared with 2016, impacts in the 2017 fiscal period, and will observe, if according to data from the Foreign Trade Department the case should be, in future fiscal periods, depending (SECEX). The smaller volume shipped was mainly on maturity of the designated debt, impacts that will a reflex of Operação Carne Fraca, when Brazil be recognized in the gross revenue line. exported 173,000 tons less in the second quarter, compared with the same period in the previous year. Context & Scenario Additionally, despite an increase of the prices in The year 2017 was emblematic for the agricultural dollars (+7.5% p.a. in 2017), this effect was fully offset industry in Brazil. According to data from Companhia by the exchange variation. Consequently, total sales Nacional de Abastecimento (CONAB), we ended the in Brazilian real dropped by 1.35% in the comparison 2016/2017 corn harvest with record production of 97.8 for the year. million tons, which allowed us to begin the 2017/2018 crop year with a reasonably comfortable stock. For Recovery of the global sector continued. However, the 2017/2018 harvest, initial surveys indicate a slight given the different commercial dynamics, there is reduction in the corn harvest to 92.3 million tons, still a specific recovery for each region, observing the above the country's historical production average. cyclical nature of this business segment. 130 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 COST OF ANIMAL FEED IN BRAZIL AND IN SELECTED MARKETS 350 300 250 200 150 2015 2016 2017 Mar. Jun. Sep. Dec. Mar. Jun. Sep. Dec. Mar. Jun. Sep. Dec. Brazil USA Europe Thailand Ukraine Poland Source: ESALQ, CBOT, Euronext, Bloomberg and BM&F. MARGIN FOR BROILER PRODUCERS IN BRAZIL 6.0 5.0 Jan-13 Jan-14 Jan-15 Jan-16 Jan-17 Price of broiler/Cost of feed Historical average Source: SECEX, JOX and BM&F. CHICKEN EXPORT IN BRAZIL – SECEX 1200 20% 1000 15% 10% 800 5% 600 0% 400 -5% 200 -10% 0 -15% 1Q15 2Q15 3Q15 4Q15 1Q16 2Q16 3Q16 4Q16 1Q17 2Q17 3Q17 4Q17 tons (million) % p.a. Business 131 (Economic and Financial Result) GRI 201-1 See the financial and operational indicators that Net Operating Revenue (NOR) summarize the year 2017 for BRF We ended 2017 with a consolidated net revenue of R$ 33.5 billion, 0.8% less than the previous year. Despite the 4.9% p.a. growth in volume recorded in Main Financial Indicators the period, the aggregate reduction in prices of 5.4% Δ 2017/ p.a. affected the performance of net revenue. This Result 2016 2017 2016 result reflects the obstacles faced throughout the year, (R$ million) especially in the international market. Volume (thousand t) 4,688 4,919 4.9% Net revenue 33,733 33,469 (0.8%) Volumes Δ 2017 2016 2017 /2016 (thousand tons) Gross profit 7,526 6,904 (8.3%) Poultry (in natura) 2,006 2,127 6.0% Gross margin (%) 22.3 20.6 (1.7) p.p. Pigs and other (in 350 323 (7.7%) EBIT 1,815 736 (59.4%) natura) EBIT margin (%) 5.4 2.2 (3.2) p.p. Processed Foods 2,017 2,118 5.0% Other sales 314 351 11.6% EBITDA 3,418 2,654 (22.3%) Total 4,688 4,919 4.9% EBITDA Margin (%) 10.1 7.9 (2.2) p.p. NOR (R$ million) 33,733 33,469 (0.8%) Adjusted EBITDA 2,938 2,857 (2.8%) Average price Adjusted EBITDA 7.2 6.8 (5.4%) 8.7 8.5 (0.2) p.p. (NOR) margin (%) Net profit (loss) (372) (1,099) n.m. Operating Expenses Net margin (%) (1.1) (3.3) (2.2) p.p. BRFs SG&A as a percentage of the NOR reached approximately 15.8% in 2017, higher than the level Earnings per share* (0.47) (1.35) n.m. observed in the previous year as a result of strict management of expenses, supported by our zero* Consolidated result per share (in R$), less treasury shares. based budget program. Δ Operating expenses (R$ 2017/ 2016 2017 million) 2016 Gross profit We recorded a gross margin of 20.6% in 2017, Cost of sales (4,966) (4,730) (4.7%) representing a reduction of 1.7 p.p. (percentage 0.6 points) compared with 2016. The result reflects the % over NOR (14.7%) (14.1%) p.p. commercial hurdles that impacted our business chain, both in the domestic market and abroad. Administrative expenses and fees (577) (572) (0.9%) 0.0 Gross profit Δ 2017/ % over NOR (1.7%) (1.7%) 2016 2017 p.p. (R$ million) 2016 Total operating expenses (5,543) (5,302) (4.3%) Gross profit 7,526 6,904 (8.3%) 0.6 % over NOR (16.4%) (15.8%) Gross margin (%) 22.3% 20.6% (1.7) p.p. p.p. 132 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Other Operating Results contingencies in Brazil and in the Southern Cone In 2017, the increase of R$ 691 million reflects: (i) The these reinforcements reflect management's current impact of Operação Carne Fraca and its reflexes totaling estimates in relation to the Company's litigation R$ 363 million; (ii) price adjustment in disposal of the and are the result of the company's continuous dairy segment totaling R$ 37 million; and (iii) costs monitoring and control of risks; (ii) R$ 49 million associated with the combination of the businesses of from exceptional commercial adjustments at the Halal R$ 52 million. In addition, complementary provisions Division; and (iii) R$ 34 million referring to other for contingencies in the amount of R$ 196 million exceptional entries incurred in the period. should be mentioned, which basically contemplate R$ 76 million for provisions for public civil suits, R$ 51 EBITDA (R$ million) 2016 2017 million for civil provisions, the provisions in Argentina mentioned above, among others. Net profit (loss) (367) (1,099) Income tax and Social 50 (247) Contribution Other results Δ 2017 Operational 2016 2017 /2016 (R$ million) Net financial results 2,133 2,082 Depreciation and amortization 1,603 1,918 Other operating revenue 300 365 21.7% EBITDA 3,418 2,654 Other operating (498) (1,254) 151.8% expenses EBITDA Margin (%) 10.1 7.9 Other operating results (197) (888) n.m. Interest of minority shareholders (5) (27) % over NOR (0.6%) (2.7%) (2.1) p.p. Impacts of Operação Carne Fraca 363 Discontinued operations 0 37 Operating Income (EBIT) Items without cash effect (101) (7) In 2017, the consolidated EBIT totaled R$ 736 million, with an EBIT margin of 2.2%, representing a reduction Tax recoveries (373) (218) of 3.2 p.p., reflecting lower gross income, as well as higher exceptional operating expenses recorded Debts recorded as Hedge 55 Accounting throughout the year. Δ 2017 Adjusted EBITDA 2,938 2,857 EBIT (R$ million) 2016 2017 /2016 Adjusted EBITDA margin (%) 8.7 8.5 Gross profit 7.526 6.904 (8.3%) Operating Expenses (5,543) (5,302) (4.3%) Other results (197) (888) n.m. Financial Result The financial result is a combination of factors that Equity accounting 29 22 (23.6%) take into account the following main categories: net EBIT 1.815 736 (59.4%) interest on indebtedness/investments; adjustment to present value ( APV ) of assets and liabilities; EBIT margin (%) (3.2) interest and/or adjustment for inflation on assets/ 5.4% 2.2% p.p. liabilities, taxes, commissions; and exchange rate variation and others. Adjusted EBITDA In 2017, net financial result was negative by R$ 2,082 Adjusted EBITDA for 2017 totaled R$ 2.9 billion, a million, caused by: reduction of 2.8% p.a., consolidating a margin of 8.5%. It should be noted that this amount considers • Net interest of R$ 1,289 million, in line with the R$ 247 million in exceptional operating entries Company's indebtedness; incurred in the fourth quarter 2017, including: (i) R$ • APV of R$ 302 million compared to R$ 354 million 164 million resulting from reinforcements of provisions recorded in the previous year, reflecting the of civil and labor nature, mainly associated with business structure and terms with clients/suppliers; Business 133 • Expenses with interest and/or adjustment for Performance by Region inflation on assets/liabilities, taxes, among others, In order to align the Company's results with the new totaling R$ 213 million. Results for 2017 are in line organizational structure, BRF started to report the with results from the previous year; results of the International operation in a consolidated • Negative result with exchange rate variation and manner as of the third quarter of 2017. The new others totaling R$ 277 million. This result can be division, considering the former structure, includes the explained by the mark-to-market of derivatives results of the following regions: Asia, Europe/Eurasia, totaling R$ 121 million, in addition to the exchange Americas and Africa. In turn, the Southern Cone rate variation for the period. region began to be reported separately, as well as the other structures in Brazil, the Halal Division, Other R$ million 2016 2017 Δ 2017/2016 Segments and Corporate. Financial income 2,374 1,546 (34.9%) Brazil Financial expenses (4,506) (3,627) (19.5%) In Brazil, 2017 was marked by a sequential recovery Net financial results (2,133) (2,082) (2.4%) of volumes (+ 4.3% y/y), resulting from improvement in commercial execution and in the level of services. Volume growth was the main driver of net revenue Net profit (loss) expansion (+ 2.6% y/y in the region). On the other The Company recorded a net loss of R$ 1.1 billion hand, the average price remained depressed (-1.7% in 2017, of which R$ 784 million was concentrated y/y), mainly impacted by a mix of lower value-added in the fourth quarter of 2017, especially due to category. These factors totally offset the best cost entries of several exceptional operating provisions. of grains in the results for the year. Gross margin These launches totaled R$ 453 million in EBITDA, reached 25.8%, a drop of 0.6 p.p. y/y. On the other comprising: (i) R$ 206 million relating to adjustment hand, we continued with an efficient management of to realizable value of inventories; (ii) R$ 164 million expenditure, optimizing our logistics and corporate arising from reinforcement of provisions of civil structures. Thus, we ended the year with an adjusted and labor nature; (iii) R$ 49 million arising from EBITDA margin of 12.8%, an increase of 2.4 p.p. y/y. exceptional commercial adjustments to the Halal Division; and (iv) R$ 34 million related to other Δ 2017 2016 2017 /2016 entries incurred in the period. Volumes (thousand tons) 2,034 2,122 4.3% In the financial result, the Company was impacted in the fourth quarter by R$ 80 million referring to the Poultry (in natura) 377 454 20.4% portion of the financial expense attributed to the entries of the operating provisions mentioned herein Pigs and other (in 98 108 11.0% natura) and by the mark-to-market adjustment of the Total Return Swap, of R$ 121 million, as explained above in Processed Foods 1,514 1,560 3.0% the item Financial Result. Other sales 45 0 (99.4%) The line for Income Tax includes losses recorded in Net Operating Revenue (R$ million) 14,808 15,189 2.6% Argentina, of which R$ 58 million resulted from a change in the income tax rate, from 35% to 25%, Average Price (R$/kg) 7.28 7.16 (1.7%) which resulted in the write-off of deferred charges on Gross profit tax losses from previous periods. Furthermore, we had (R$ million) 3,920 3,925 0.1% an additional loss of R$ 60 million resulting from the write-off of such assets due to the expectation of not Gross margin (%) 26.5% 25.8% (0.6) p.p. realizing taxable profit within the limitation period. EBIT (R$ million) 1,546 1,019 (0.9%) Net profit / (loss) (R$ Δ 2017 EBIT margin (%) 6.9% 6.7% (0.2) p.p. 2016 2017 /2016 million) EBITDA 1.697 1.973 16.3% Net profit (loss) (367) (1,099) 199% Adjusted EBITDA (R$ million) 1,546 1,945 25.8% Net margin (%) (1.1%) (3.3%) (2.2) p.p. EBITDA Margin (%) 10.4 12.8 2.4 p.p. Earnings per Share (0.47) (1.35) 191% 134 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Market share SHARE VALUE – LAST READING 2017 (%) Since January 2017, Nielsen has used a new base and 62.8 59.5 methodology as the official source of market data for 55.3 53.7 all of its clients. There was change in both the size of the sample and in the methodology for market 40.0 classification. This generated a significant expansion of its coverage, which allowed for an increase in the representativeness of the total food market. Since then, we have presented the reconciled data already reported in each of the quarters of 2016, considering this new base/methodology. BRF's market share has grown consistently since the Total Ready-toSausages Cold Margarine second quarter 2017. According to Nielsen's latest cuts -eat meals reading, the Company achieved a 55.3% market Source: Nielsen Retail Biannual Margarines and Ready-to-Eat Meals share, a gain of 0.6 p.p. on the annual comparison, (Oct/Nov reading); Sausages and Cold cuts (Nov/Dec reading) a result achieved mainly thanks to the self-service channel, where we have significantly improved our performance. The highlight was the Sausages category, with Halal Division growth of 4.1 p.p. y/y, positively affected by the In 2017, the success of post-consolidation integration, packaged wieners subcategory, where we recorded coupled with favorable demand and price conditions strong growth of the Sadia brand, and gained 7.0 in Turkey, resulted in an above-plan performance p.p. y/y in market share. The ready-to-eat meals at Banvit. EBITDA from the operation in Turkey was category grew 0.6 p.p. in the annual comparison, R$ 203 million in the second half of the year, with driven mainly by the lasagna category (+ 7.7 p.p.). a margin of 18.1%. However, even considering the Perdigão Lasagnas, which returned to the market effects of the acquisition, adjusted EBITDA margin for in July, achieved a market share of 13.2 p.p. in the the Halal Division slowed by 4.9 p.p. p.a. This result second measurement conducted by Nielsen. was mainly affected by the following: excess inventory in the region throughout the year; weakening of We also had gains in market share for margarines, local demand, given the economic instability in the advancing 0.6 p.p. y/y, especially under the Qualy region; increase of import duties in Saudi Arabia; and brand. Finally, the Cold Cuts category showed a drop exchange rate impact due to the appreciation of the of 3.4 p.p. in 2017. Brazilian real against the US dollar (+ 8.5% y/y). Regarding market share, we continued on the same track of gaining share, especially in Saudi Arabia, where we gained 1.7 p.p. y/y. As a result, total market share of the Halal Division in the Gulf countries was 41.6%, a gain of 1.1 p.p. y/y. In addition, we continue gaining share in all categories: griller, with 46.2% (+0.6 p.p. y/y); chicken cuts, with 62.0% (2.6 p.p. y/y); and processed foods, with 20.2% (+1.1 p.p. y/y). We highlight the consistent and significant growth in the Breaded foods category to 16.4% (+2.0 p.p. y/y). R$ 6,697 Our direct distribution (DDP), including Banvit, million accounted for 61.0% of the total volume in 2017 (+ 3.9 p.p. y/y), representing 90.5% of the region's gross profit, with an average gross margin of 20.7 p.p., was the total NOR for the Halal higher than when compared to the CFR (direct export) Division in 2017, including Banvit's business. results, up 7.6% in relation to the previous year Business 135 Halal Division 2016 2017 Δ 2017 International /2016 We consolidated the regions of Africa, Europe/Eurasia, Volumes Asia and the Americas into a single commercial unit, 927 1,082 16.7% (thousand tons) called International, and started the management Poultry (in natura) 849 957 14.0% program called Global Optimization, whose main purpose is to optimize and maximize the profitability Pigs and other in natura 2.6 2.1 (18.8%) of animals as a whole, taking advantage of the commercial opportunities of the various regions, Processed Foods 76 113 48.4% through dynamic product relocations. Net Operating Revenue 6,227 6,697 7.6% (R$ million) The International division's net revenue totaled R$ Average Price (R$/kg) 6.71 6.19 (7.9%) 8,497 million, a decrease of 11.8% over the previous year, given the more challenging international trade Gross profit (R$ million) 1,580 1,290 (18.4%) dynamics in 2017. Gross margin (%) 25.4 19.3 (6.1) p.p. A weaker commercial performance in the region, EBIT (R$ million) 349 8 (97.6%) coupled with the higher unit costs, resulted in a decline of 1.4 p.p. p.a. in gross margin in 2017. On EBIT margin (%) 5.6 0.1 (5.5) p.p. the other hand, greater control of fixed and variable expenses contributed positively to the increase in the EBITDA (R$ million) 739 348 (52.9%) adjusted EBITDA margin of 1 p.p. compared with 2016, EBITDA Margin (%) 11.9 5.2 (6.7%) reaching 10.4% in the year. Adjusted EBITDA The main highlights of the subregions are: (R$ million) 635 353 (44.4%) Adjusted EBITDA Consolidated Results InterΔ2017 10.2 5.3 (4.9) p.p. 2016 2017 margin (%) national /2016 Volume of exports from 425 458 7.8% Volumes (thousand tons) 1,351 1,244 (8.0%) Brazil(CFR*)* Share of the total Poultry (in natura) 752 665 (11.6%) 45.8 42.4 (3.5) p.p. volume (%) Pigs and other (in natura) 203 167 (17.6%) * CFR (Cost and Freight). Processed Foods 281 290 3.0% Other sales 115 122 6.0% Net Operating Revenue (R$ 9,636 8,497 (11.8%) million) Average Price (R$/kg) 7.13 6.83 (4.2%) net Gross Profit (R$ million ) 1,607 1,302 (19.0%) (1.4) Gross margin (%) 16.7 15.3 p.p. revenue EBIT (R$ million) 526 346 (34.2%) (1.4) EBIT margin (%) 5.5 4.1 p.p. EBITDA (R$ million) 996 886 (11.0%) EBITDA Margin (%) 10.3 10.4 0.1 p.p. In the international Adjusted EBITDA (R$ million) 906 882 (2.7%) division totaled Adjusted EBITDA margin (%) 9.4 10.4 1.0 p.p. R$ 8,497 million Volume of exports from Brazil(CFR*)* 1,049 1,005 (4.2%) in 2017 Share of the total volume (%) 77.6 80.8 3.2 p.p. *CFR (Cost and Freight). 136 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ASIA AFRICA Net revenue from Asia fell 13.3% in 2017 compared The region of Africa faced a challenging with the previous year, resulting from to the decrease macroeconomic scenario due to the low prices of in volume throughout the year. On the other hand, the commodities, mainly oil and iron ore. In addition, the Company continued to focus on controlling corporate impacts from Operação Carne Fraca (one of the most expenses, mitigating the negative impacts of the year. affected regions), caused a 35.9% decrease y/y in the Accordingly, the adjusted EBITDA margin was 14.9%, NOR of the region in the year. up 1.3 p.p. compared with 2016. We also made an important adjustment in the strategy for the region. Our vision was to move Volume 686,000 tons forward in the distribution chain and raise the level of consumption in the short term. Nevertheless, we NOR R$ 4,116 million are maintaining our historical B2B business strategy given the economic and currency difficulties faced Adjusted EBITDA R$ 615 million by these countries. As a consequence, we have also significantly reduced our expenses and staff in the Adjusted EBITDA margin 14.9% region. EUROPE/EURASIA Volume 133,000 tons In 2017, in addition to more favorable prices, better management of stock levels and lower production NOR R$ 492 million costs allowed for a growth of 80.8% p.a. in the adjusted EBITDA, with an increase in margin of Adjusted EBITDA R$ -10 million 3.3 p.p. y/y. Adjusted EBITDA margin -1.9% Volume 362,000 tons SOUTHERN CONE NOR R$ 3,533 million Net revenue from the Southern Cone totaled R$ 1,862 million in 2017, a 5.5% increase in relation to Adjusted EBITDA R$ 242 million the previous year, with a growth of 5.9% in volume, positively impacted by the holiday season campaign Adjusted EBITDA margin 6.8% at the end of the year and by a mix of higher valueadded products. However, the higher cost of beef and pork raw materials and the reflex of inflation upon AMERICAS costs put a pressure on the region's adjusted EBITDA, Net revenue from the Americas grew by 11.4% in 2017, resulting in a reduction of 7.1 p.p. on the adjusted compared with the previous year, driven by better margin. volumes and prices, with the strategy of prioritizing markets with better profitability, such as Mexico. We also managed to keep our average prices stable given Volume 208,000 tons a better commercial performance. On the other hand, higher corporate and storage expenses impacted our NOR R$ 1,862 million adjusted EBITDA, which ended the year with a margin of 9.8% (-7.0 p.p.) Adjusted EBITDA R$ -9 million Adjusted EBITDA margin -0.5% Volume 62,000 tons NOR R$ 356 million Adjusted EBITDA R$ 35 million Adjusted EBITDA margin 9,8% Business 137 OTHER SEGMENTS CORPORATE We included within Other Segments the new business The R$ -609 million result in this segment reflects the unit, BRF Ingredients, whose purpose is to add main non-recurring impacts, especially from Operação value to the Company's co-products and optimize its Carne Fraca. production chain. NOR of this business unit totaled R$ 1,225 million, with EBITDA of R$ 79 million and Corporate 2016 2017 Var. 2017/2016 margin of 6.5%. BRF Ingredients accounted for (R$ million) approximately 51% of Adjusted EBITDA for Other Other results (140) (609) n.m. Segments in the fourth quarter of 2017. It should be noted that we included in this segment all volumes of Equity accounting BRF's non-core products, such as animal feed, meals, cattle, etc., which are carried out by the Global Desk. EBIT (140) (611) n.m. EBITDA (140) (611) n.m. Volume 263,000 tons Adjusted EBITDA (291) (394) 35.4% NOR R$ 1,225 million Adjusted EBITDA R$ 79 million Adjusted EBITDA margin 6.5% Investments (CAPEX) Investments made in 2017 totaled R$ 1,617 million, • Market Services increase in the production of the of which R$ 685 million were geared toward growth, mix of broiler cuts in natura, grillers for the Middle efficiency and support. Additional R$ 713 million East, and cuts for Brazil, as well as the increase was invested in biological assets and R$ 219 million in pig slaughter to cater mainly to China, and to for leasing and others. We highlight the reduction supply raw material to Brazil. of the Company's level of investment by R$ 977 million when compared to 2016, reflecting a more • IT Efficiency/Support updates of transactional and challenging macroeconomic and industry scenario, in information security systems and compliance with addition to the Company's commitment to reducing new legislation; and structural improvements in the level of leverage. pig farms, cost reduction projects in poultry and pig farms, automation of production processes and The main projects in 2017 were: improvements in working conditions of employees in production processes. • Quality investments in the improvement and control of production processes in meatpacking plants, feed plants and poultry farms, and in modernization of laboratories. • Innovation launch of new products for the frozen and grill lines through optimization of processes involving byproducts, and investments in quality focused on modernization of laboratories, improvements in production processes and product quality. 138 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Financial Cycle The Company's financial cycle totaled 31.8 days in seasonal purchases. It is important to highlight the the last quarter of 2017, a reduction of 10.6 days Company's efforts to reduce the level of inventories, in relation to the previous quarter, mainly due to which also contributed to reducing the cash the increase in the balance of accounts payable for conversion cycle. FINANCIAL CYCLE (ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE + INVENTORY ACCOUNTS PAYABLE)* 42.4 38.8 37.7 37.1 32.8 38.2 34.4 34.3 32.6 31.8 32.9 22.4 8,8 9,5 10,8 10,3 10,8 10,8 8,9 6,8 9,2 11,2 12,2 9,6 1Q15 2Q15 3Q15 4Q15 1Q16 2Q16 3Q16 4Q16 1Q17 2Q17 3Q17 4Q17 3 Accounts/NOR (%) Financial Cycle (days) * Calculation of the financial cycle considers the pro-forma adjustment of CPVl LTM and NOR LTM of the acquisitions. Management Cash Flow EVOLUTION IN CASH GENERATION In order to better reflect the managerial cash (Operating Cash Flow CAPEX) R$ MILLION flow statement, the Company considered certain reclassifications as of the fourth quarter of 2017 and, for comparison purposes, recalculated the three 778 748 717 previous quarters. Among the reclassifications in cash flow, the following segregation applies: • of the exchange variation effect on unrealized debt; 231 • of appropriated unrealized interest; 113 • of other financial liabilities with no impact on cash, 42 but considered in the gross debt; • of the change in the method of segregating financial effects in the working capital accounts. (232) In 2017, operating cash generation totaled R$ 1,864 million R$ 1,027 million in the fourth quarter alone, reflecting the improvement in the cash conversion cycle, which totaled R$ 744 million in the quarter. (743) Investment in CAPEX was R$ 1,617 million in 2017, a level still lower than in the same period in 2016. 1Q16 2Q16 3Q16 4Q16 1Q17 2Q17 3Q17 4Q17 Business 139 Indebtedness In 2017, the Company's net debt was R$ 13.3 billion, BRF in 4.35x 2.5x by the end of 2018. We reiterate compared with R$ 11.1 billion in 2016. Net leverage, that the Company does not have financial covenants considering the net debt to adjusted EBITDA ratio associated with its financial obligations. (LTM), ended the year at 4.46x, an improvement of 0.23x compared with the previous quarter, mainly due to the increase in the adjusted EBITDA (LTM), which totaled R$ 2,963 million, an increase of R$ 122 million compared with the third quarter. We recognize that the current level of leverage is beyond what is considered ideal in terms of capital structure and we are committed to repositioning On 12/31/2017 On 12/31/2016 2017/2016 INDEBTEDNESS (R$ MILLION) Current Non-current Total Total Variation Indebtedness Local currency (3,593) (5,750) (9,343) (8,644) 8.1% Foreign currency (1,738) (9,663) (11,401) (10,848) 5.1% Gross indebtedness (5,331) (15,413) (20,744)* (19,492) 6.4% Investments Local currency 4,204 737 4,941 5,328 (7.3%) Foreign currency 2,253 240 2,493 3,023 (17.5%) Total Investments 6,458 977 7,434 8,351 (11.0%) Net debt 1,127 (14,436) (13,310) (11,401) 19.5% Foreign Exchange Exposure (296) *Total gross indebtedness in the amount of R$ 20,744 million, combines total financial indebtedness with other financial liabilities, totaling R$ 188 million, pursuant to Accompanying Note 22 of the DFP, of December 31, 2017. 140 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 EVOLUTION OF NET DEBT/EBITDA (AND ADJUSTED EBITDA) 4.90 4.79 4.73 4.63 3.77 4.79 4.69 4.46 4.24 2.36 3.25 1.99 1.69 10,146 11,041 11,459 11,141 12,243 13,793 13,423 13,310 1Q16 2Q16 3Q16 4Q16 1Q17 2Q17 3Q17 4Q17 Net Debt Net Debt/EBITDA Net Debt/adjusted EBITDA Note: for net leverage as of June 2017, 40% of Banvit's net debt was excluded from net debt and the pro-forma LTM EBITDA was considered, with Banvit. VARIATION OF ACCUMULATED NET DEBT 2017 (R$ MILLION) 1,369 827 510 291 Operating cash = R$ 1,864 166 729 1,617 361 93 11,141 790 13,310 2.654 Net debt EBITDA Working CAPEX M&A Financial Interest Exchange Exchange Interest Disposal Net debt Net Dec/16 Capital (acquisition Results received variation variation paid of shares + Banvit debt + other and disposal (cash) on cash and and interest dividends Dec/17 variations of assets) investments on debt + derivatives SLAUGHTER AND PRODUCTION Slaughter 2016 2017 Var. 2017/2016 Poultry slaughter (million head) 1,715 1,628 (5.1%) Pig slaughter (thousand head) 9,465 9,793 3.5% Cattle slaughter (thousand head) 149 145 (2.5%) Production (thousand tons) 4,252 4,332 1.9% Meats 3,797 3,842 1.2% Other processed products 455 490 7.8% Feed and concentrates (thousand tons) 10,506 10,445 (0.6%) Business 141 BRF S.A. – CONSOLIDATED Balance sheet Balance sheet 31,12,2017 31,12,2016 31,12,2017 31,12,2016 (R$ million) (R$ million) Assets (Current) Reverse factoring 715 1,336 Cash and cash equivalents 6,011 6,357 Salaries and payroll charges 669 611 Financial investments 228 622 Tax liabilities 426 320 Accounts receivable 3,919 3,085 Dividends / interest on equity 2 2 Recoverable taxes 1,228 1,235 Administration and employee 96 5 shares Receivable dividends and 6 7 interest on equity Other financial liabilities 299 530 Receivable securities 113 149 Provisions 536 276 Inventory 4,948 4,792 Employee benefit plan 85 77 Biological assets 1,510 1,645 Other liabilities 603 400 Other financial assets 91 198 Total current assets 14,908 12,640 Other rights 716 422 Liabilities and net equity (non-current) Prepaid expenses 245 137 Loans and financing 15,413 15,717 Restricted cash 128 218 Suppliers 197 159 Non-current assets held for disposal and discontinued 42 26 Social and tax obligations 171 13 operations Provision for tax, civil, and 1,237 1,108 Total current assets 19,186 18,894 labor risks Non-current Deferred taxes 155 156 Long-term assets 6,587 5,574 Employee benefit plan 310 253 Financial investments 569 528 Other liabilities 1,125 638 Accounts receivable from Total non-current assets 18,608 18,085 6 11 clients Total liabilities 33,516 30,726 Deposits in court 689 733 Net equity Biological assets 904 917 Receivable securities 116 187 Paid-in capital 12,460 12,460 Recoverable taxes 2,438 1,519 Capital reserve 115 41 Deferred taxes 1,369 1,103 Revenue reserves 101 1,351 Restricted cash 408 428 Other comprehensive results (1,405) -1,290 Other rights 87 150 Retained earnings 0 Permanent assets 19,456 18,477 Treasury stock (71) -722 Investments 68 59 Non-controlling shareholding 513 379 interest Fixed Assets 12,191 11,746 Total net equity 11,713 12,219 Intangible assets 7,198 6,673 Total liabilities and net equity 45,228 42,495 Total non-current assets 26,043 24,051 Total assets 45,228 42,945 Liabilities and net equity (Current) Loans and financing 5,031 3,245 Suppliers 6,445 5,840 142 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 REPORTING In this Annual Report, we present a summary of our Year after year, we strive to raise the quality standard results, indicators and projects in 2017, addressing of our Annual Report, seeking to make it a practical financial and non-financial aspects relevant to our and objective means of learning about BRF and audiences employees, consumers, shareholders, consulting our results and vision for the future. We clients, governments, suppliers and communities. believe that, in challenging years like 2017, it is critical to put into practice the Open Doors concept In this edition, we started to use the Global Reporting which certainly includes our reporting on performance. Initiative (GRI) methodology in its Standards version, Comprehensive option, in order to align our report If you have questions, complaints, and suggestions with international benchmarks in the field of reporting about the content presented in this report, please results. We also maintain our adherence to the contact us at (55 11) 2322-5052 /5061 /5048 or by integrated reporting guidelines of the International email acoes@brf-br.com. GRI 102-53 Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC), with emphasis on presentation of our business model, on the greater connectivity of information and on the approach to capitals and their transformation by BRF. GRI 102-54 Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Proceeding with the materiality process conducted in 2016, we reviewed in 2017 relevant topics from an impact, risk and opportunity standpoint, providing a greater connection between the business strategy and our approach in sustainability (read more on page 38). As in previous years, the structure of this document seeks to address the vision of our stakeholders and of our leadership highlighting issues such as quality management, investments, innovation, animal welfare, governance practices, and social and environmental monitoring of suppliers. Another key aspect in 2017 was Operação Carne Fraca, whose impact on BRF is detailed in a dedicated section. GRI 102-46 Financial and non-financial indicators (environmental, operational, quality, social, etc.) cover the period from January 1 to December 31, 2017 and include, in most cases, our entire global operation exceptions are described in footnotes. GRI 102-45, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51 The financial statements follow the Brazilian standards and the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), according to the standards of the Brazilian Securities and Exchange Commission (CVM) and the Security Exchange Commission (SEC). Financial indicators were audited; for social and environmental indicators, only the GHG emissions inventory was subjected to external assurance. GRI 102-56 Business 143 ( GRI Content Index GRI 102-55 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/Other explanations Omission SDG GENERAL DISCLOSURES Organizational Profile GRI 102: General 102-1 Name of the orga12 Disclosures 2016 nization 102-2 Activities, brands, 12 products and services Global Headquarters Rua Jorge Tzachel, 475, 102-3 Location of head88301-600 Itajaí – SC – Brazil; quarters Corporate Office: Rua Hungria, 1.400 – 5º andar, 01455-000 São Paulo SP – Brazil 102-4 Location of oper14 ations 102-5 Nature of owner12 ship and legal form 102-6 Markets served 12; 14 102-7 Name of the orga8; 14 nization 102-8 Information on employees and other 14; 82; 83; 157 8 workers 102-9 Supply chain 91; 93 102-10 Significant changes to the organiza29 tion and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary 30 Principle or approach 102-12 External initia37 tives 102-13 Membership of 109 associations Strategy GRI 102: General 102-14 Statement from 6 Disclosures 2016 senior decision-maker 102-15 Key impacts, 6; 30 risks, and opportunities 144 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/Other explanations Omission SDG Ethics and Integrity 102-16 Values, princiGRI 102: General ples, standards, and 48 16 Disclosures 2016 norms of behavior 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns 50 16 about ethics Governance GRI 102: General 102-18 Governance 18 Disclosures 2016 structure 102-19 Delegating 36; 89 authority 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for eco36 nomic, environmental, and social topics 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, 38 environmental, and social topics 102-22 Composition of the highest governance 18 5; 16 body and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance 18 16 body 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest 18 5; 16 governance body 102-25 Conflicts of 18 16 Interest 102-26 Role of highest governance body in 18; 24 setting purpose, values, and strategy Among the measures, we highlight the involvement of Company leaders in the development of the Annu102-27 Collective al Report and its disclosure, communication on the knowledge of highest website, and dissemination of social and environmental 4 governance body programs in the regions of operation. In 2017, senior management also participated in the consultations associated with the materiality process. 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance 18 body’s performance 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, en36; 38 16 vironmental, and social impacts 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management 30 processes 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, 30 and social topics Business 145 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/Other explanations Omission SDG GRI 102: General 102-32 Highest govThe document is approved by the Investor Relations Disclosures 2016 ernance body’s role in and Sustainability teams and is validated by the vice sustainability reporting presidents and the Company's Global CEO. 102-33 Communicating 20 critical concerns 102-34 Nature and total number of critical 71; 157 concerns PLR (Profit-Sharing Program) is paid to employees based on Company profits, which is variable depending on the financial measures. Bonus is the variable remuneration associated with the company's financial goals, 102-35 Remuneration and may vary according to the individual goals of each policies employee and that are associated with their duties. Individual performance of managers of the plant units, for example, are directly associated with OHS indicators of the operation. Read more about the performance assessment cycles on page 84. Independent consultants act as a source of diagnostics 102-36 Process for defor market practices, using the São Paulo region as a termining remuneration benchmark; other regions act as deflators. 102-37 Stakeholders’ Associated labor unions and the confederation of indusinvolvement in remunertries are considered when defining salaries. Read more 16 ation on page 86. 102-38 Annual total xx compensation ratio 102-39 Percentage increase in annual total xx compensation ratio Stakeholder Engagement GRI 102: General 102-40 List of stake38 Disclosures 2016 holder groups 102-41 Collective bar86; 90 8 gaining agreements 102-42 Identifying and 38 selecting stakeholders 102-43 Approach to 38 stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key topics and 38 concerns raised Reporting practices 102-45 Entities includGRI 102: General ed in the consolidated 142 Disclosures 2016 financial statements 102-46 Defining report GRI 102: General content and topic 142 Disclosures 2016 Boundaries 146 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/Other explanations Omission SDG 102-47 List of material 39 aspects 102-48 Restatements of 142 information 102-49 Changes in 142 reporting 102-50 Reporting 142 period 102-51 Date of most 2017 recent report 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding 142 the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance 142 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI content 143 index 102-56 External assur142 ance MATERIAL ASPECTS Outsourcing and procurement GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 91; 92; 94 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management approach and its compo91; 92; 94; 95 nents 103-3 Evaluation of the 94; 95; 96 management approach FP1 Percentage of volume purchased from Sector Disclosures: suppliers compliant with 93; 95 Food processing company’s procurement policy FP2 Percentage of volume purchased which is in accordance with in2; 12; ternationally recognized 163 14; 15 standards and certifications, broken down by type of certification Economic Performance GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 31; 32 2016 Boundaries The Company encourages its employees to form a savings reserve and thus generate greater financial security GRI 103: Manage103-2 Management in the future. We have supplementary pension plans to ment Approach approach and its compostimulate this attitude, which is managed by a closed 2016 nents private pension entity (BRF Previdência), with BRF as its sponsor. This entity has its own management and structure. More information on pages 31, 32 and 128. Business 147 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/Other explanations Omission SDG 103-3 Evaluation of the 31 management approach 201-1 Direct economic GRI 201: Economic 2; 5; 7; value generated and 131; 169 Performance 2016 8; 9 distributed 201-2 Financial implications and other risks 30; 31; 32; 33; 34; 114; 116; 120 13 and opportunities due to climate change Income benefits paid by the Plan are funded directly by the reserves already formed in the Plans In 2017, BRF made contributions totaling R$ 22,168,394.78. Participants paid a total of R$ 25,289,076.30. The percentage of contribution defined in Plans I, II and III observes the following criteria: for Plan I, the contribution defined in the regulation is 0.7% on the portion of the salary corresponding to up to 10 BRF Reference Units (Unidades Referência BRF URBs), which today amounts to R$ 5,157.54, and 3.7% on the exceeding portion of the salary, if any. Contributions by the sponsor are made on the basic contribution of participants and observe the following scale: up to 50 years of age, 100% of the participant's basic contribution; after 51 years of age, 200% of the participant's basic contribution. For Plan II and for those who joined Plan III until April 4 2016, the contribution defined in the regulation is 0.70% on the portion of the salary corresponding to up to 10 URBF (BRF 201-3 Defined benefit Reference Unit), which today amounts to R$ 5,157.54, and plan obligations and 3%, 4%, 5%, 6% or 7% (as opted by the participant) on other retirement plans the exceeding portion of the salary, if any. For Plan III (for those who joined after April 4 2016), the contribution defined in the regulation is 1.50% on the portion of the salary equal to or less than 1 URBIII (Reference Unit of Plan III), which today amounts to R$ 4,213.96, 4% on the portion of the participation salary that exceeds 1 URBIII up to the limit of 1.65 of the URBIII, and 5%, 6% or 7% (as opted by the participant) on the portion that exceeds 1.65 of the URBIII, if any. In the FAF Plan, given the modality of the Plan (Defined Benefit Plan), as well as the surplus result, contributions have been suspended. Profitability of the plans in 2017 was: Plan I = 8.88%; Plan II = 9.13%; Plan III = 9.87%; and FAF Plan = 10.90%. The main reasons for the variation of the 2016 and 2017 contribution amounts were the increase in the number of participants and the change in the calculation rule of Plan III. The plan is made available to all employees in Brazil. Currently, participation is at 47.78%. 201-4 4 Financial assistance received from 109 government Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 102; 106 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management approach and its compo102; 106 nents GRI 103: Manage103-3 Evaluation of the ment Approach 102; 106 management approach 2016 203-1 Development and GRI 203: Indirect impact of infrastructure 2; 5; 7; Economic Impacts 103; 104; 106 investments and ser9; 11 2016 vices provided 148 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/Other explanations Omission SDG 203-2 Significant indi1; 2; 3; 104; 108 rect economic impacts 8; 10; 17 Procurement Practices GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 92; 94; 95 1; 5; 8 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management approach and its compo92; 94; 95 1; 5; 8 nents 103-3 Evaluation of the 92; 94; 95 1; 5; 8 management approach GRI 204: Procure204-1 Proportion of ment Practices spending on local 96; 164 12 2016 suppliers Anti-Corruption GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 37; 48; 51 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management approach and its compo37; 48; 51 nents 103-3 Evaluation of the 37; 48; 51 management approach 205-1 Operations asGRI 205: Anti-Corsessed for risks related xx 16 ruption 2016 to corruption 205-2 Communication and training about 48; 50; 157 16 anti-corruption policies and procedures Given the sensitivity 205-3 Confirmed incinature of this dents of corruption and — information, 16 actions taken these data will not be disclosed Anti-competitive Behavior GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its xx 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management approach and its compoxx nents 103-3 Evaluation of the xx management approach 206-1 Legal actions GRI 206: Anti-Comfor anti-competitive petitive Behavior xx 16 behavior, anti-trust, and 2016 monopoly practices Energy GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 120; 122 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management approach and its compo120; 122 nents Business 149 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/Other explanations Omission SDG 103-3 Evaluation of the 120; 122 management approach 302-1 Energy consumpGRI 302: Energy 7; 8; 12; tion within the organi165 2016 13 zation 302-2 Energy con7; 8; 12; sumption outside the 121 13 organization 7; 8; 12; 302-3 Energy intensity 121 13 302-4 Reduction of ener7; 8; 12; 121 gy consumption 13 302-5 Reductions in 7; 8; 12; energy requirements of 125 13 products and services Water GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 116; 117 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management approach and its compo116; 117 nents 103-3 Evaluation of the 116; 117 management approach GRI 303: Water 303-1 Water withdrawal 117 6 2016 by source 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by 116; 167 6 withdrawal of water 303-3 Percentage and total volume of water 118; 167 6; 8; 12 recycled and reused Emissions GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 118; 119 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management approach and its compo118; 119 nents 103-3 Evaluation of the 118; 119 management approach 3; 12; GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) 119 13; 14; 2016 GHG emissions 15 3; 12; 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) 120 13; 14; GHG emissions 15 305-3 Other indirect 3; 12; (Scope 3) GHG emis120 13; 14; sions 15 GRI 305: Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions 13; 14; 120 2016 intensity 15 In 2017, there were no reductions in Scope 1 emissions 305-5 Reduction of GHG given the incorporation of the unit in Turkey. Consider13; 14; emissions ing Scope 2, there was an increase in emissions as a 15 result of the power factor (FR), in addition to Turkey. 150 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/Other explanations Omission SDG 305-6 Emissions of ozone-depleting sub168 3; 12 stances (ODS) 305-7 Nitrogen oxides 3; 12; NOx, SOx), and other 169 14; 15 significant air emissions Effluents and Waste GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 115; 118; 122 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management approach and its compo115; 118; 122 nents 103-3 Evaluation of the 115; 118; 122 management approach 306-1 Water discharge GRI 306: Effluents 3; 6; 12; by quality and desti118 and Waste 2016 14 nation 306-2 Waste by type 122; 123 3; 6; 12 and disposal method 3; 6; 12; 306-3 Significant spills 124 14; 15 306-4 Transport of haz123 3; 12 ardous waste 306-5 Water bodies affected by water dis168 6; 14; 15 charges and/or runoff Environmental Compliance GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management Environmental compliance is conducted by the ICA tool, approach and its compocreated and monitored by CIEX nents 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Administrative demands are considered significant when the amounts involved are greater than R$ 150,000. In 2017, among the significant fines, we had two environmental claims (two notices of violation), totaling R$ 1,188,391.93. It should be noted that other notices of violation were received with application of simple fine GRI 307: Environ307-1 Non-compliance of non-significant value, in addition to notifications/ mental Compliance with environmental laws official letters, without the application of any sanctions, 16 2016 and regulations for submission of documents and provision of information, especially regarding the regularity of the licenses and related to environmental restrictions, as well as observation of effluent discharge standards governed by Brazil. In 2017, there was only one non-monetary sanction and there were no cases resolved through arbitration mechanisms. Supplier environmental assessment GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 91; 94; 95; 98; 100 2016 Boundaries Business 151 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/Other explanations Omission SDG 103-2 Management approach and its compo91; 94; 95; 98; 100 nents 103-3 Evaluation of the 91; 94; 95; 98; 100 management approach 308-1 New suppliers GRI 308: Supplier that were screened Environmental 94 using environmental Assessment 2016 criteria 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in 93 the supply chain and actions taken Employment GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 82 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management approach and its compo82 nents 103-3 Evaluation of the 82 management approach 401-1 New employee GRI 401: Employhires and employee 82; 159 5; 8 ment 2016 turnover 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to 86 8 temporary or part-time employees 401-3 Parental leave 86; 160 5; 8 Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 86 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management approach and its compo86 nents 103-3 Evaluation of the 86 management approach 403-1 Workers repreGRI 403: Occupasentation in formal joint tional Health and management–worker 88; 89 8 Safety 2016 health and safety committees 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost 88; 89; 160; 161 3; 8 days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of 87 3; 8 diseases related to their occupations 152 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/Other explanations Omission SDG 403-4 Health and safety aspects covered in 90 8 formal agreements with trade unions Diversity and Equal Opportunity 103-1 Explanation of the GRI 103: Managematerial aspect and its 83 ment Approach Boundaries 2016 103-2 Management approach and its compo83 nents 103-3 Evaluation of the 83 management approach 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and 82; 83; 161 5; 8 GRI 405: Diversity employees and Equal Opportunity 2016 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration 82; 163 5 of women to men Child labor GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 91; 94; 95; 98; 100 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management approach and its compo91; 94; 95; 98; 100 nents 103-3 Evaluation of the 91; 94; 95; 98; 100 management approach GRI 408: Child 408-1 Operations and Pages 92 and 100. There are no records of negative imLabor 2016 suppliers at significant pacts related to child labor generated by BRF's supply 8; 16 risk for incidents of chain. child labor Forced or Compulsory labor GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 91; 94; 95; 98; 100 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management approach and its compo91; 94; 95; 98; 100 nents 103-3 Evaluation of the 91; 94; 95; 98; 100 management approach 409-1 Operations and GRI 409: Forced or suppliers at significant Pages 92 and 100 There are no records of negative imCompulsory Labor risk for incidents of pacts related to forced labor generated by BRF's supply 8 2016 forced or compulsory chain. labor Local Communities GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 102 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management approach and its compo102 nents GRI 103: Manage103-3 Evaluation of the ment Approach 102 management approach 2016 Business 153 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/Other explanations Omission SDG 413-1 Operations GRI 413: Local with local community Communities 2016 engagement, impact 104; 107 assessments, and development programs 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negative im107 1; 2 pacts on local communities Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 91; 94; 95; 98; 100 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management approach and its compo91; 94; 95; 98; 100 nents 103-3 Evaluation of the 91; 94; 95; 98; 100 management approach GRI 414: Supplier 414-1 New suppliers Social Assessment that were screened 94 2016 using social criteria 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply 93 5; 8; 16 chain and actions taken Public policies GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 2016 Boundaries BRF has guidelines in place to be followed by all its em103-2 Management ployees during the election period, as well as a channel approach and its compoto clarify and answer questions from its employees. nents 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach With regard to the municipal, state and federal elections held in Brazil in 2016, BRF followed the new Brazilian GRI 415: Public 415-1 Political contribuelection law (Federal Law No. 13,165/2015) and did not Policies 2016 tions support or make donations to campaigns, candidates, political parties or associations. Consumer Health and Safety GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 56; 68; 70; 71 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management approach and its compo56; 68; 70; 71 nents 103-3 Evaluation of the 56; 68; 70; 71 management approach 416-1 Assessment of GRI 416: Customer the health and safety Health and Safety 56 impacts of product and 2016 service categories 154 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/Other explanations Omission SDG GRI 416: Customer In 2017, a total of 136 administrative proceedings/offiHealth and Safety cial notifications were filed involving this topic; 98 of 2016 416-2 Incidents of these resulted in fines or penalties and 38 in notices. non-compliance concernThe main reasons for these proceedings/ official notifiing the health and safecations were: weight discrepancy stated in the package 16 ty impacts of products x actual weight (infringement notice by INMETRO); and services various irregularities in the production process (infringement notice by the MAPA); lawsuits filed by consumers who found foreign bodies in food. FP5 Percentage of proSector Disclosures: duction volume manuFood processing factured in sites certified by an independent third 163 2 party according to internationally recognized food safety management system standards FP6 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that 69 2 are lowered in saturated fat, trans fats, sodium and added sugars FP7 Percentage of total sales volume of consumer products, by product category, that contain increased nutritious 69 2 ingredients like fiber, vitamins, minerals, phytochemicals or functional food additives Marketing and Labeling GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 56; 68; 70; 71 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management approach and its compo56; 68; 70; 71 nents 103-3 Evaluation of the 56; 68; 70; 71 management approach 417-1 Requirements for GRI 417: Marketing product and service 71 12 and Labeling 2016 information and labeling In 2017, there were two administrative notice assessments concerning labeling. The reasons for the notice 417-2 Incidents of assessments were the use of incorrect abbreviation of non-compliance concernthe term grams and outdated description of product 16 ing product and service composition in relation to the product registered with information and labeling the Ministry of Agriculture. In both cases, the sanctions involved payment of a fine. 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concernIn 2017, there were no cases involving non-compliance ing marketing communiconcerning marketing communications cations Business 155 GRI Standard Disclosure Page/Other explanations Omission SDG Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management approach and its components Judicial and administrative claims in terms of labor laws are structured as follows: Twenty thousand legal actions 103-3 Evaluation of the ongoing, which total R$ 561,079 million, amounts management approach provisioned. Concerning administrative processes, the Company currently has one process ongoing (labor and civil). 419-1 Non-compliance GRI 419: Socioecowith laws and regulanomic Compliance 16 tions in the social and 2016 economic area Animal welfare GRI 103: Manage103-1 Explanation of the ment Approach material aspect and its 112; 113 2016 Boundaries 103-2 Management approach and its compo112; 113 nents 103-3 Evaluation of the 112; 113 management approach G4-FP10 Total number of Sector Disclosures: incidents of significant Food processing non-compliance with laws and regulations and adherence to volun112 tary standards related to transport, handling and slaughter practices of terrestrial and aquatic animals G4-FP11 Percentage and total number of animals reared and/or 165 processed, by species and breed type and by housing type G4-FP12 FP12 Policies and practices regarding the use of antibiotics, anti-inflammato112; 113 2 ry, hormones and/or treatments with growth promoters, by species and breed type G4-FP13 Total number of incidents of significant In 2017, BRF received 31 infringement notices regarding non-compliance with animal welfare. All infringement notices were issued laws and regulations by the agricultural inspectors at service of the Ministry and adherence to volunof Agriculture and were based on isolated occurrenctary standards related es. The cases mentioned do not represent significant to transport, handling non-compliance with the law, and are indicative of and slaughter practices deviation in the standard. In all cases, BRF presented of terrestrial and aquatic its defense to the Ministry of Agriculture animals 156 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( Attachments ( Ethics and Compliance COMMUNICATION AND TRAINING ON FIGHTING CORRUPTION* GRI 205-2 Employment Category Employees Communicated/Trained – 2017 Number 10 Directors % 14.71% Number 57 Managers % 9.95% Number 248 Supervisors and Coordinators % 8.69% Number 322 Administration % 1.86% Number 17 Operational % 0.02% * In 2017, no training or communication regarding compliance was conducted to members of the governance body. The number of business partners trained/communicated is not available. Attachments 157 ( Products GRIEVANCE MECHANISMS – SAC GRI 102-34 Grievances 2015 2016 2017 Total number of grievances identified through the mechanism 478 688 656 Number of grievances 478 688 656 addressed Number of grievances resolved 478 688 656 Number of grievances recorded before the period covered by 404 478 688 the report resolved during the reporting period Number of grievances resolved through remediation and 478 688 656 details of the grievance ( Human Capital EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT CONTRACT AND REGION* GRI 102-8 2015 2016 2017** Region* OpenInterns OpenOpenFixed-term Fixed-term Interns and Fixed-term Interns and -ended and apTotal -ended Total -ended Total contracts contracts apprentices contracts apprentices contracts prentices contracts contracts Africa 14 0 0 14 15 0 0 15 10 0 0 10 Latin 2,607 0 0 2,607 3,942 0 0 3,942 4,065 0 0 4,065 America Brazil 500 90,534 1,516 92,550 367 85,982 1,572 87,921 450 87,434 1,499 89,383 Asia 62 0 0 62 9,461 0 0 9,461 9,367 0 0 9,367 Europe 482 0 0 482 556 0 0 556 500 0 0 500 Middle 2,080 0 0 2,080 2,140 0 0 2,140 2,083 0 0 2,083 East Total 96,279 0 1,516 97,795 102,463 0 1,572 104,035 103,909 0 1,499 105,408 * For employees outside Brazil, there are no data on types of contracts (fixed-term/open-ended). Therefore, only the total per structure is reported, without breakdown of the respective categories. ** No data for Turkey. 158 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 EMPLOYEES BY TYPE OF EMPLOYMENT GRI 102-8 2015 2016 2017* Type of employment Male Female Total Male Female Total Male Female Total Full time 55,985 36,893 92,878 53,344 34,936 88,280 61,772 40,655 102,427 Part time 2,449 952 3,401 7,472 6,711 14,183 838 644 1,482 Interns and apprentices 791 725 1,516 770 802 1,572 737 762 1,499 Total 59,225 38,570 97,795 61,586 42,449 104,035 63,347 42,061 105,408 *No data for Turkey. TOTAL NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES EMPLOYEES BY EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY* GRI 102-8 (IN BRAZIL AND ABROAD) 2015 2016 2017 104,035 105,408 97,795 Directors 66 70 72 Managers 529 593 598 Supervisors and Coordinators 2,605 2,646 2,903 Administration 9,242 18,037 17,616 Operational 83,837 81,117 87,045 Interns and apprentices 1,516 1,572 1,499 Total 97,795 104,035 109,733 2015 2016 2017 * Data include employees in Turkey EMPLOYEES BY AGE GROUP* INDIVIDUALS OF THE GOVERNANCE BODIES GRI 102-8 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 < 30 years of 37,389 38,379 35,541 Board of Directors 9 9 9 age From 30 to 50 54,091 57,936 62,733 Fiscal Council 3 3 3 years of age > 50 years of 6,315 7,720 11,459 Executive Board 8 8 7 age Total 97,795 104,035 109,733 Total 20 20 19 * Data include employees in Turkey Attachments 159 HIRING, BY GENDER* GRI 401-1 29,37% 2015 2016 2017 By age group* No. Rate No. Rate No. Rate < 30 years of 15,781 43.99% 16,421 44.61% 14,723 43.25% age 24,25% 27,42% From 30 to 50 22,18% 7,040 13.02% 10,688 18.45% 6,993 11.15% years of age 26,09% 21.10% > 50 years of 144 2.28% 986 12.77% 211 1.84% age 23,85% 23,23% Total 22,965 23.85% 28,095 27.42% 21,927 20.26% * No data for Turkey, interns or apprentices. 19.46% 2015 2016 2017 15.864 By region* 14.173 13.889 No. Rate No. Rate No. Rate 12.231 Africa 5 35.71% 10 66.67% 5 50.00% 8.792 8.038 Latin America 383 14.69% 1.634 41.45% 252 6.20% Latin America 21,949 24.11% 16,287 18.86% 21,291 24.23% Brazil Asia 45 72.58% 9.432 99.69% 105 1.12% 2015 2016 2017 Europe 88 18.26% 162 29.14% 50 10.00% Total Total Total Middle East 495 23.80% 570 26.64% 224 3.50% 22,965 28,095 21,927 Total 22,965 23.85% 28,095 27.42% 21,927 20.26% Male Female Total Rate * No data for Turkey, interns or apprentices * No data for Turkey, interns or apprentices 2015 2016 2017 TERMINATIONS, BY GENDER GRI 401-1 By age group* No. Rate No. No. Rate No. 29.95% < 30 years of 15,327 42.73% 11,791 32.03% 10,225 30.04% age From 30 to 50 11,030 20.39% 9,204 15.89% 7,926 12.63% years of age > 50 years of age 804 12.73% 860 11.14% 1,116 9.74% 28.21% 27.09% 22.13% Total 27,161 28.21% 21,855 21.33% 19,267 17.80% 20.16% * No data for Turkey, interns or apprentices 21.33% 18.99% 18.25% 2015 2016 2017 15,827 18.54% By region* No. Rate No. Rate No. Rate 13,461 11.334 11,426 Africa 1 7.14% 5 33.33% 10 100% 8,394 7,841 Latin America 381 14.61% 293 7.43% 390 9.59% Latin America 26,488 29.10% 20,977 24.29% 18,381 20.92% Brazil Asia 17 27.42% 34 0.36% 55 0.59% 2015 2016 2017 Europe 69 14.32% 74 13.31% 49 9.80% Total Total Total Middle East 205 9.86% 472 22.06% 382 5.96% 27,161 21,855 19,267 Total 27,161 28.21% 21,855 21.33% 19,267 17.80% Male Female Total Rate * No data for Turkey, interns or apprentices * No data for Turkey, interns or apprentices 160 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 PARENTAL LEAVE* GRI 401-3 2015 2016 2017 Male 58,434 60,816 62,610 Employees who were entitled to take the leave Female 37,845 41,647 41,299 Male 2,127 1,917 1,936 Employees who took the leave Female 2,852 2,536 2,271 Male 2,127 1,917 1,936 Employees who returned to work after the leave Female 2,808 2,519 2,238 Employees who returned to work after the leave and who were still Male 1,600 1,714 1,514 employed 12 months after returning to work Female 2,278 2,003 2,136 Male 100% 100% 100% Rate of return Female 98.46% 99.33% 98.55% Male 75.22% 89.41% 78.20% Retention rate Female 81.13% 79.52% 95.44% * The information reflects the number of BRF employees (except apprentices and trainees) on the last day of each year, considering the respective groups of employees. Data for 2017 do not include employees in Turkey or apprentices and interns. HEALTH AND SAFETY NUMBERS FOR EMPLOYEES BY REGION AND GENDER (2017) GRI 403-2 Africa Male Female Total Latin America* Male Female Total Lost-time injuries NA NA NA Lost-time injuries ND ND 124 Injury rate NA NA NA Injury rate ND ND 17.22 Injuries without lost-time NA NA NA Injuries without lost-time ND ND 1,754 Injury rate NA NA NA Injury rate ND ND 243.53 Rate of occupational Rate of occupational NA NA NA ND ND 1.80 diseases diseases Total number of lost Total number of lost NA NA NA ND ND 4,325 days days Absenteeism rate NA NA NA Absenteeism rate ND ND ND Total number of fatalities NA NA NA Total number of fatalities ND ND 0 * Country included: Argentina. Latin America Brazil Male Female Total Lost-time injuries 240 151 391 Europe Male Female Total Injury rate 2.24 2.30 2.26 Lost-time injuries NA NA NA Injuries without lost-time 2,911 1,462 4,373 Injury rate NA NA NA Injury rate 27.17 22.25 25.30 Injuries without lost-time NA NA NA Rate of occupational Injury rate NA NA NA 0.12 0.26 0.17 diseases Rate of occupational NA NA NA Total number of lost days 9,925 9,114 19,039 diseases Absenteeism rate 1.88 3.28 5.16 Total number of lost days NA NA NA Total number of fatalities 0 1 1 Absenteeism rate NA NA NA Total number of fatalities NA NA NA Asia* Male Female Total Lost-time injuries ND ND 7 Middle East Male Female Total Injury rate ND ND 0.33 Lost-time injuries ND ND 0 Injuries without lost-time ND ND 24 Injury rate ND ND 0.00 Injury rate ND ND 1.11 Injuries without lost-time ND ND 19 Rate of occupational ND ND 0.00 Injury rate ND ND 14.68 diseases Total number of lost days ND ND 51 Rate of occupational ND ND 0.00 diseases Absenteeism rate ND ND ND Total number of lost days ND ND 0 Total number of fatalities ND ND 0 Absenteeism rate ND ND ND * Countries included: Malaysia and Thailand. Total number of fatalities ND ND 0 Attachments 161 HEALTH AND SAFETY NUMBERS FOR CONTRACTORS BY REGION AND GENDER (2017) GRI 403-2 Africa Male Female Total Latin America* Male Female Total Lost-time injuries NA NA NA Lost-time injuries ND ND 4 Injury rate NA NA NA Injury rate ND ND ND Injuries without lost-time NA NA NA Injuries without lost-time ND ND 4 Injury rate NA NA NA Injury rate ND ND ND Rate of occupational Rate of occupational NA NA NA ND ND 0.00 diseases diseases Total number of lost days NA NA NA Total number of lost days ND ND 165 Absenteeism rate NA NA NA Absenteeism rate ND ND ND Total number of fatalities NA NA NA Total number of fatalities ND ND 0 * Country included: Argentina. Latin America Brazil Male Female Total Asia* Male Female Total Lost-time injuries ND ND 51 Lost-time injuries ND ND 1 Injury rate ND ND 1.33 Injury rate ND ND 36.57 Injuries without lost-time ND ND 125 Injuries without lost-time ND ND 0 Injury rate ND ND 3.25 Injury rate ND ND 0.00 Rate of occupational ND ND 0.00 Rate of occupational diseases ND ND 0.00 diseases Total number of lost days ND ND 845 Total number of lost days ND ND 57 Absenteeism rate ND ND ND Absenteeism rate ND ND ND Total number of fatalities ND ND 2 Total number of fatalities ND ND 0 * Countries included: Malaysia and Thailand. Europe Male Female Total Middle East Male Female Total Lost-time injuries NA NA NA Lost-time injuries ND ND 0 Injury rate NA NA NA Injury rate ND ND 0.00 Injuries without lost-time NA NA NA Injuries without lost-time ND ND 2 Injury rate NA NA NA Injury rate ND ND 14.78 Rate of occupational Rate of occupational NA NA NA ND ND 0.00 diseases diseases Total number of lost days NA NA NA Total number of lost days ND ND 0 Absenteeism rate NA NA NA Absenteeism rate ND ND ND Total number of fatalities NA NA NA Total number of fatalities ND ND 0 DIVERSITY INDICATORS GRI 405-1 Individuals within the 2015 2016 2017 organization's governance bodies, by gender (%) Male Female Male Female Male Female Board of Directors 100% 0.0% 100% 0.0% 88.9% 11.1% Fiscal Council 100% 0.0% 100% 0.0% 100% 0.0% Executive Board 87.5% 12.5% 100% 0.0% 100% 0.0% Total 95.0% 5.0% 100% 0.0% 94.7% 5.3% 162 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Individuals within the 2015 2016 2017 organization's governance < 30 years 30 to 50 > 50ofyears < 30 years 30 to 50 > 50ofyears < 30 years bodies, by age group (%) 30 to 50 > 50ofyears of age age of age age of age age Board of Directors 0.0% 33.3% 66.7% 0.0% 22.2% 77.8% 0.0% 33.3% 66.7% Fiscal Council 0.0% 0.0% 100% 0.0% 0.0% 100% 0.0% 0.0% 100% Executive Board 0.0% 75.0% 25.0% 0.0% 75.0% 25.0% 0.0% 57.1% 42.9% Total 0.0% 45.0% 55.0% 0.0% 40.0% 60.0% 0.0% 36.8% 63.2% Employees, by employment 2015 2016 2017* category and gender (%) Male Female Male Female Male Female Directors 0.06% 0.01% 0.06% 0.01% 0.06% 0.005% Managers 0.43% 0.12% 0.46% 0.12% 0.44% 0.11% Supervisors and 2.09% 0.62% 2.01% 0.58% 2.14% 0.61% Coordinators Administration 5.44% 4.16% 8.34% 9.26% 7.79% 8.90% Operational 52.68% 34.40% 48.49% 30.68% 49.83% 30.13% Total 60.7% 39.3% 59.4% 40.6% 60.3% 39.7% * Does not include data for Turkey. 2015 2016 2017* Employees, by employment category > 50 > 50 < 30 years 30 to 50 > 50 yearsage of < 30 years and age group (%) 30 to 50 years of < 30ofyears 30 to 50 years of of age of age age age age Directors 0.00% 0.06% 0.01% 0.00% 0.06% 0.01% 0.00% 0.05% 0.01% Managers 0.03% 0.48% 0.04% 0.04% 0.50% 0.04% 0.02% 0.46% 0.07% Supervisors and 0.40% 2.15% 0.16% 0.39% 2.03% 0.17% 0.26% 2.15% 0.27% Coordinators Administration 3.74% 5.49% 0.37% 7.04% 9.54% 1.02% 5.32% 9.59% 1.36% Operational 33.08% 48.01% 5.99% 28.46% 44.41% 6.30% 25.85% 45.70% 8.87% Total 37.3% 56.2% 6.6% 35.9% 56.5% 7.5% 31.5% 58.0% 10.6% * Does not include data for Turkey. Black employees, by employment 2015 2016 2017* category and gender (%) Male Female Male Female Male Female Directors 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Managers 0.004% 0.00% 0.005% 0.00% 0.00% 0.003% Supervisors and Coordinators 0.03% 0.01% 0.03% 0.01% 0.02% 0.01% Administration 0.12% 0.08% 0.10% 0.07% 0.10% 0.07% Operational 3.45% 1.43% 3.15% 1.29% 1.57% 4.08% Total 3.60% 1.51% 3.29% 1.36% 1.70% 4.16% * Does not include data for Turkey. Employees PwDs, by employment 2015 2016 2017* category and gender (%) Male Female Male Female Male Female Directors 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.002 0.00 Managers 0.005 0.00 0.006 0.00 0.00 0.005 Supervisors and Coordinators 0.02 0.002 0.03 0.003 1.29 0.00 Administration 0.08 0.06 0.08 0.05 0.07 0.05 Operational 1.40 0.80 1.33 0.82 0.78 1.31 Total 1.51 0.86 1.44 0.87 2.15 1.36 * Does not include data for Turkey. Attachments 163 RATIO OF BASIC SALARY AND REMUNERATION OF WOMEN TO MEN IN EACH EMPLOYMENT CATEGORY BRAZIL* GRI 405-2 Salary ratio 2015 2016 2017 Directors 81% 82% 90% Managers 94% 93% 96% Supervisors and Coordinators 107% 106% 108% Administration 88% 88% 89% Operational 82% 83% 85% * Indicator reflects the company's position in Brazil. Regarding data referring to the foreign market, currently each region has its own control. BRF is working to fully centralized this information in a single system. ( Quality Management PURCHASES ACCORDING TO INTERNATIONAL STANDARDS AND CERTIFICATIONS (2017) GRI FP2 Types of certified Name of internationally recogSupplier area products % Geographic origin nized certification purchased European Biofuels Directive Brazil (MG, GO, MT, PR, MS, SP, SC, RS); Soybean meal (EURED), ISCC, HAA CCP, 78.36% Grains, Meals, Paraguay ISO14001, ISO18001, RTRS and Oils Brazil (MG, GO, MT, PR, MS, RS, PI, BA, Soybean oil GMP+ 67.03% SC) 1The total volume of purchases is considered strategic information, since it involves the trading methodology of purchasing departments. THIRD-PARTY CERTIFICATIONS IN ACCORDANCE WITH INTERNATIONALLY RECOGNIZED STANDARDS IN THE FOOD SAFETY MANAGEMENT SYSTEM1 (2017) GRI FP5 Certifications Units Final product BRC 2 Brazil (Chapecó, Toledo, Concórdia, Serafina Corrêa, Lajeado, Uberlândia, Várzea Grande, Capinzal, Francisco Beltrão, Mineiros, Marau, Rio Verde, and Dourados) Final product Brazil (Chapecó, Toledo, Concórdia, Serafina Corrêa, Lajeado, Uberlândia, Várzea Grande, IFS2 Capinzal, Francisco Beltrão, Mineiros, Marau, Rio Verde, and Dourados) Raw material GlobalGAP3 Brazil (Chapecó and Marau) Raw material AloFree Brazil (Capinzal, Marau, Serafina Corrêa) Brazil: Lab. Jundiaí, Uberlândia, Marau, Videira, Carambeí, Concórdia, Capinzal, Chapecó Raw material ISO 17025: (microbiology), Dois Vizinhos (Physical-Chemical), Francisco Beltrão (microbiology), Toledo, 2005 Dourados (microbiology), Rio Verde, Lucas do Rio Verde Raw material Certified Brazil (Chapecó, Buriti Alegre and Ponta Grossa) Humane Raw material GenesisGAP Thailand 1 In addition to the food safety-related certifications, some units have the ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, Halal certifications, in addition to accreditations and customer audits. 2 Certifications valid for 2017. 3 The Faxinal dos Guedes unit has certified broiler breeder farms and hatchery, and the Francisco Beltrão unit has a GlobalGAP certified hatchery. In 2017, the number of poultry farms certified with this standard was expanded in the Marau (RS) unit. 164 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( Supplier Development PROPORTION OF SPENDING ON LOCALLY-BASED SUPPLIERS – BRAZIL GRI 204-1 Procurement Agriculture Commodities 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 2015 2016 2017 Brazil AL 0.00% 0.016% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% AM 0.00% 0.16% 0.05% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% BA 0.00% 0.18% 0.04% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% CE 0.00% 0.05% 0.02% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% DF 0.00% 0.07% 0.02% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% ES 0.00% 0.07% 0.02% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% GO 0.00% 4.16% 1.21% 20.80% 18.50% 17.43% 19.42% 15.62% 26.70% MA 0.00% 0.01% 0.01% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% MG 0.00% 2.39% 2.50% 6.40% 6.90% 4.85% 11.87% 9.60% 9.64% MS 0.00% 0.39% 0.12% 2.20% 2.40% 2.51% 3.21% 2.24% 4.24% MT 0.00% 3.92% 1.76% 16.10% 15.70% 18.30% 18.23% 18.56% 19.02% PA 0.00% 0.15% 0.05% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% PE 0.00% 1.48% 0.44% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% PI 0.00% 0.01% 0.01% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% PR 0.00% 10.05% 6.11% 21.40% 21.80% 22.31% 28.48% 33.71% 12.72% RJ 0.00% 0.27% 0.08% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% RN 0.00% 0.03% 0.01% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% RS 0.00% 6.09% 3.41% 13.20% 12.60% 13.35% 14.31% 13.83% 21.52% SC 0.00% 10.08% 7.50% 19.90% 18.80% 21.25% 4.48% 6.44% 6.20% SP 0.00% 2.12% 3.34% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% 0.00% Latin America Argentina ND 86.4% 87.4% ND 0.70% 0.70% ND 90.42% 99.40% Attachments 165 ( Animal welfare PERCENTAGE AND TOTAL NUMBER OF ANIMALS REARED AND/OR PROCESSED, BY SPECIES AND BREED TYPE AND BY HOUSING TYPE GRI FP11 Turkeys Broilers Pigs Type* 2016 2017 2016 2017 2016 2017 Negative pressure 36.54% 40% 34% 31% Positive pressure 66.51% 60% 41% 34% Dark house 25% 35% Collective management 20.10% 26.50% Individual management 79.90% 73.50% * Negative pressure: Aviaries with yellow or blue curtains, with or without cooling equipment in the air intake and with nebulizers, or aviaries with black/silver curtains without cooling and with nebulizers. In this system, greater control of temperature and humidity is possible, offering the poultry a better comfort condition throughout life. Positive pressure: Aviaries working with open curtains making maximum use of the natural condition of the environment. In the first days of the lot, equipment is used to warm the facilities, providing thermal comfort to chicks. At high temperatures, they use fans and nebulizers to assist in ambient conditions. They provide an environment closer to the animals' usual environment. Dark house: Aviaries with black x silver curtains, cooling equipment, and nebulizers. They work with curtains closed. The air enters through one end and is forced out through the opposite end. In this system, lighting is supplied and controlled by the producer in order to guarantee the best condition for the animal in the different stages of production. Provides better control over the temperature and ventilation of the facility, ensuring thermal comfort for the poultry. Collective gestation: during the gestation period, broilers remain in collective bays (in group) with freedom of movement and to express their natural characteristics. Individual gestation: during the gestation period, broilers remain in individual bays. Despite limiting the space of the breeders, this practice facilitates the individual control of gestating breeders and provides conditions to avoid fights among the animals. ( Natural Capital Energy ENERGY CONSUMPTION WITHIN THE ORGANIZATION (GJ) GRI 302-1 Non-renewable sources 2015 2016 2017 Fuel oil 166,017.18 178,710.10 76,513.32 Diesel 109,030.87 110,380.87 68,120.95 Natural gas 266,331.36 184,186.94 881,504.50 Gasoline 1,501.97 144.64 852.21 LPG 595,626.97 585,322.59 513,963.70 Kerosene 0.00 0.00 0.00 Shale 106,181.00 99,716.27 92,873.61 Total 1,244,689.35 1,158,461.40 1,633,828.29 Renewable sources 2015 2016 2017 Sugarcane ethanol 23.71 40.18 5.73 Biodiesel 0.00 0.00 0.00 166 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 Wood briquette 7,133.28 20,843.55 25,395.76 Wood chips 12,510,507.12 12,895,029.47 14,243,132.02 Fire wood 11,019,877.29 9,538,042.37 8,023,260.30 Vegetable or animal oil 288,555.51 227,357.03 195,083.91 Wood strip 345,408.52 215,805.33 152,011.03 Sawdust 6,205.13 650.60 1,898.79 Palm Kernel Shell 0.00 57,176.93 16,705.00 Total 24,177,710.56 22,954,945.46 22,657,492.54 Energy consumption from non-renewable sources Gas 460,899.45 403,064.07 513,693.72 Oil 340,219.93 82,432.84 146,618.04 Nuclear 74,991.73 15,530.83 4,093.76 Coal 126,980.61 268,427.45 229,411.27 Total 1,003,091.72 769,455.18 893,816.79 Energy consumption from renewable sources Hydroelectric 6,662,464.13 6,195,891.59 7,404,013.34 Biomass 445,551.82 222,807.26 154,994.21 Wind power 173,868.77 77,654.13 79,580.48 Solar 3,452.76 1,202.45 6,681.31 Geothermal 0.00 0.00 11,848.73 Total 8,288,429.20 7,267,010.61 7,657,118.07 Energy sold Electricity 0.00 0.00 0.00 Heating 0.00 0.00 0.00 Cooling 0.00 0.00 0.00 Steam 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total 0.00 0.00 0.00 Total energy consumed Fuels from non-renewable sources 1,244,689.35 1,158,461.40 1,633,828.29 Fuels from renewable sources 24,177,710.56 22,954,945.46 22,657,492.54 Energy consumed from non-renewable sources 1,003,091.72 769,455.18 893,816.79 Energy consumed from renewable sources 8,288,429.20 7,267,010.61 7,657,118.07 Total 33,710,829.11 31,380,417.47 32,842,255.70 Attachments 167 Water WATER SOURCES AFFECTED BY WITHDRAWAL OF WATER1 GRI 303-2 Source designated as a Name of water Value of biodiverValue for local communities and Withdrawal (m³) protected area nationally source sity Indigenous peoples or internationally Iguaçu River 13.400.000.00 National N/D N/D Santa Rosa River 11.937.637.44 National N/D N/D Queimados River 14.065.056.00 National N/D N/D Santa Cruz River 13.140.000.00 National N/D N/D São José River 14.941.756.80 National N/D N/D São João River 17.250.192.00 National N/D N/D Marau River 23.652.000.00 National N/D N/D Cuiabá River2 29.802.150.720.00 National N/D N/D Dourados River2 Does not withdraw from surface source 1 The criterion for defining this list as affected sources was the withdrawal of more than 5% of the total flow of the source (river) and withdrawals from bodies of water that are considered by specialists to be particularly sensitive because of their relative size, function or condition as a rare, threatened or endangered system or for the support they give to a specific species of plant or animal threatened with extinction. 2 There is no withdrawal above 5% of the flow of the Cuiabá and Dourados Rivers they were cited for being on the Ramsar list. PERCENTAGE AND TOTAL VOLUME OF WATER RECYCLED AND REUSED GRI 303-3 Water recycled and reused 2015 2016 2017 Total volume of water recycled (m³) 8,416,355.28 8,376,260.93 7,218,991.68 Total volume of water reused (m³) 7,740,455.35 13,730,264.45 5,403,590.53 Total volume of water recycled and reused by the 16,156,810.63 22,106,525.38 12,622,582.21 organization (m³) Total volume of water withdrawn (m³) 58,314,506.77 61,082,557.42 65,786,767.58 Percentage of water recycled and reused 27.71% 36.19% 19.19% Recirculation rate (%) 23.93% 28.96% 18.67% Total indirect/direct volume of reuse water (WHO) 3,259,361.03 5,583,145.89 7,843,541.03 Recirculation rate (%) 29.90% 38.30% 31.15% 168 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 AREAS OF WATER STRESS* GRI 306-5 Source of % of water Is source consumption/ Withdrawal(m³) Withdrawal Expiration of Unit Withdrawal (m³) withdrawal in protectwithdrawal grant the grant from river ed area? of water Dois Ordinance Iguaçu River 4,437,803.37 13,400,000 33.12% Yes 03/04/2022 Vizinhos 429/2012 Francisco Santa Rosa Ordinance 2,825,415.01 11,937,637 23.67% Yes 30/07/2018 Beltrão River 674/2008 Valid for an CNUA 30313. Queimados indefinite Concórdia 3,543,908.90 14,065,056 25.20% Yes 23933. River period of 34393.45341 time Valid for an Santa Cruz CNUA 421 indefinite Capinzal 2,887,795.00 13,140,000 21.98% Yes 00418765-29/2010 River period of time Valid for an São José CNUA 421 indefinite Chapecó 3,323,458.90 14,941,757 22.24% Yes River 00414932-29 period of time São João Ordinance Carambeí 2,580,075.62 17,250,192 14.96% Yes 27/07/2021 River 766/2011 Valid for an indefinite Marau Aves Marau River 1,979,743.00 23,652,000 8.37% Yes DRH No. 190/2003 period of time Várzea Valid for an indefinite period of Cuiabá River 1,298,451.84 29,802,150,720 0.01% Yes Grande time Dourados Does not withdraw from surface source, enters the Ramsar list * Discharges account for an average of 5% or more of the average annual volume of the water body in the following rivers: Iguaçu; Santa Rosa; Queimados; Santa Cruz; São João; Marau; Cuiabá; and São José. EMISSIONS OF OZONE-DEPLETING SUBSTANCES (ODS) (TCFC-11E) GRI 305-6 2015 2016 2017 CFC 0.00 0.00 0.00 HCFC 883.53 1,720.47 1.004,04 Total 883.53 1,720.47 1.004,04 Attachments 169 SIGNIFICANT AIR EMISSIONS GRI 305-7 2015 2016 2017 NOx 2,065.37 1,285.28 xx SOx 208.68 131.42 xx Persistent Organic Pollutants (POP) 0.00 0.00 xx Volatile Organic Compounds (VOC) 0.00 0.00 xx Hazardous Air Pollutants (HAP) 0.00 0.00 xx Particulate Matter (PM) 2,344.87 2,323.71 xx CO 6,500.02 5,530.05 xx HC 0.00 0.00 xx Total xx * The data reported come from measurements/reports/analyses carried out by specialized companies and with the frequency required by the applicable legislation. For the analysis of combustion gases, we use high-technology equipment, which employs the principle of electrochemical cells conducting online analyses of the gases resulting from the combustion process (CO2, O2, NOx and SOx). Collection time complies with the applicable legislation in each location. To determine particulate matter, an isokinetic sampler of air pollutants is used. ( Financial Result GRI 201-1 VALUE ADDED (R$ BILLION) ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED (R$ MILLION) 2015 2016 2017 33,7 33,5 32,2 Human Resources 4,776 4,881 5,279 Taxes 3,239 3,711 3,717 Interest/Rent 5,346 4,874 3,969 Interest on capital 899 513 Retained 1,839 (984) (1,126) Non-controlling 20 5 (27) shareholding interest 2015 2016 2017 Dividends 91 98 Total 16,210 13,099 11,813 170 BRF ANNUAL AND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2017 ( Corporate Information General Coordination of the Project – BRF Vice Presidency of Finance and Investor Relations SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT GRI CONSULTING, EDITORIAL COORDINATION, CONTENT AND DESIGN Report Sustentabilidade PHOTOGRAPHY Leonardo Wen Images made in the Marau unit, in the state of Rio Grande do Sul TRANSLATION Gotcha! Idiomas INFOGRAPHIC Cássio Bittencourt FONT FAMILY Meta, FS Truman Web and Bungee Inline www.brf-global.com
