UN Global Compact Communication on Progress COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS – CEO STATEMENT “Sustainable behaviour towards people and nature has always been a key part of Kärcher’s corporate culture. This means that we always safeguard our future viability in the context of our responsibility for the environment and society. In recent years, we have taken major steps on our path to enhance sustainability. By the end of 2018, we achieved 95% of the sustainability targets we set ourselves for 2020. This relates to ecological matters, but also to the working conditions of our employees. Our efforts to reduce CO2 emissions by 20% by the year 2020 were already achieved at the end of 2018. We are Hartmut Jenner currently working on operational measures for our sustainability Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the program 2020+. To this end, comprehensive workshops are held Board of Management Alfred Kärcher SE & Co. KG with employees around the world and our contribution to the sustainable development goals are analysed in detail.” 2 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SELFASSESSMEN SDGs MEASURE DESCRIPTION T TOPICS In 2017, Kärcher conducted a survey in which every employee worldwide was allowed to participate. The response rate from 86% is very impressive and the result speaks for itself. Kärcher is a very attractive employer. 86% think that Human rights Employee survey Kärcher takes responsibility for society and community. And even 90% are proud to work for Kärcher. You can find the whole result in the sustainability report 2018. The first employee world meeting took place in 2018. 139 participants from 54 Employee world countries spoke about mindset, team spirit, collaboration and feedback culture in Labour meeting the form of workshops and other actions. The participation selection took place in the form of an idea competition and will take place every two years in the future. 3 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS SELFASSESSMEN SDGs MEASURE DESCRIPTION T TOPICS Technyl4Earth is a recycling polyamid (PA) orginiated from post-industrial airbag fabrics. This material is used to produce the first consumer high pressure washer Usage of recycling accessory with 100 % recycled material without compromising the product's quality Environment plastics or performance in any way. Additionally, the chosen Technyl 4earth grade not only helps to save valuable polyamide resources but also provides a carbon footprint reduced by 26 % and water consumption reduced by 69 %. With increasing company size and complex business relationships, the risk of Kärcher Code of corruption also increase in a company. Kärcher has updated the code of conduct Anti-Corruption Conduct / integrity for its employees worldwide that must be followed in order to prevent corruption. A guideline new integrity guideline has been established in 2018. 4
