1. Statement of Continued Support by the Chief Executive Officer 06 October 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Parami Energy Group of Companies reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication, including our website, local publications and social media. We continue to amend both internal and external engagement policies in line with the evolving socio-economic situation in Myanmar. Since submitting our last COP in October 2018, we have been focusing on strengthening our internal policies with particular emphasis on Gender Equality. Parami believes in fostering a healthy and sustainable workplace environment grounded on the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. Once they are integrated in our corporate culture and modus operandi internally within our organization, then we are able to properly and effectively drive and implement them in our expanding operations across the country. We have included for your information the Gender Equality document that we have developed as internal policy. Other key internal policies have been developed as well, including in Human Rights, Labor, Environment and AntiCorruption. We plan to deploy them this year with specific milestones and outcome measurements as we have successfully done with Gender Equality. Thank you for your consideration. Please refer to our website for updates (www.parami.com). Sincerely Yours, Ken Tun CEO Parami Energy Group of Companies 2. Description of Actions HUMAN RIGHTS Parami ensures workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. We are committed to protecting our workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats, as stated by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). LABOUR We ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labor. Parami complies with minimum wage standards in Myanmar and further ensures that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria. ENVIRONMENT In our operations, we avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection systems (air pollution control, waste, water treatment systems, etc.). We also ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health. We further promote renewable energy at all times and are committed to reforestation projects. ANTI-CORRUPTION We assess the risk of corruption when doing business by stating to our partners that we have zero tolerance for bribery and corruption. This is a direct message from our CEO, Ken Tun. We further ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment. 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Since submitting last year’s COP in October 2018, we are now in the process of implementing a system to measure outcomes. So far, we have done this in Gender Equality by recruiting and promoting women into management positions within our corporate as well as field-based functions. See attached “UNGC COP 2019-20 PARAMI Gender Equality Policy final 010719” document. As part of our Solar-powered rural electrification project in remote Yesagyo Island, Magway Region (https://www.mmtimes.com/news/parami-builds-mini-grids-yesagyo-community.html), we have achieved our target of CSR by supplying electricity free of charge (up to certain consumption level) to local school, hospital and monasteries given their social community impact. Parami will also provide street lighting in Yesagyo Island free of charge from 18:00 to 06:00 daily as part of its CSR commitment. We will continue to drive the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact in our operations and will soon have a system established to where each outcome is measured individually and more systematically.
