Better Energy Better World KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Better Energy Better World KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 About This Report Korea Gas Corporation (KOGAS) publishes its thirteenth sustainability report. KOGAS, a clean energy company that has contributed to people’s lives by supplying natural gas in a stable and safe manner, has been growing along with its stakeholders based on the corporate management activities of fulfilling its social responsibilities. KOGAS is pursuing balanced values in terms of economy, environment, and society in its businesses. The results have been transparently published in annual reports since 2006; the last report was published in June 2018. Reporting Period and Scope This report was written on the basis of sustainability performance data from January to December 2018. Some qualitative results include those of the first half of 2019. In the quantitative results, the data of the three years from 2016 were released so that the trends can be confirmed. The scope of this report basically encompasses the KOGAS’s headquarter, domestic offices, and KOGAS Research Institute, and overseas business sites as well, if necessary. Changes from the Previous Year For any changes in the data released in the existing published reports, the reasons are specified in the relevant pages*. Some performances and information that has not changed from the previous reports have been rewritten to help understanding. * including P.44, Job Creation in the Private sector (2017 data) Reporting Criteria and Assurance This report was written according to the GRI Standards Core Option, an international standard for sustainability reports. To improve the reliability and quality of the report, we were verified by an independent external organization; the results of the verification are included in the appendix. Additional Information For more information, please visit our website. For inquiries on our sustainability activities or opinions on the report, please feel free to contact us. Website http://www.kogas.or.kr Address 120, Cheomdan-ro, Dong-gu, Daegu City, South Korea (41062) Department Corporate Strategy Department, Corporate Planning & Coordination Team Email koj@kogas.or.kr Tel +82-53-670-0207 Fax +82-53-670-6349 Contents KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company Contributing to People’s Lives 04 CEO Message 06 KOGAS Profile 08 KOGAS Business Models 10 Vision & Strategy KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Sustainability 14 Governance 16 Risk Management 18 Stakeholder Engagement 20 Material Topic Assessment Implementing Sustainable Management 24 A Future Energy World Created with Global Innovation 36 Creating a Better Society Together 46 Responsible Company that Prioritizes People and Nature 58 Corporate Culture of Respecting and Trusting Each Other Appendix 73 Sustainability Performances 81 GRI Standards Index 88 Third-party Assurance Statement 90 Dedication to Achievement of UN SDGs through Creation of Social Value 92 Prizes and Awards/Memberships 02 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company Contributing to People’s Lives 03 04 CEO Message 06 KOGAS Profile 08 KOGAS Business Models 10 Vision & Strategy 04 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 CEO Message Dear honorable stakeholders, Over the past 36 years, KOGAS has been supplying natural gas safely and steadily, improving the convenience and benefits enjoyed by people in their daily lives. We have grown to become a global energy company through the construction and operation of 72 storage facilities with a total capacity of 1,147 ㎘ as well as a 4,854 km pipeline network. In 2018, we supplied natural gas to 210 municipalities nationwide, contributing to the penetration rate of natural gas reaching 91.7%. In addition, to secure energy resources and broaden future growth engines, we are carrying out 25 projects in 13 countries, in relation to resource exploration, development and production of petroleum gas, LNG project and infrastructure in the field of oil and gas. KOGAS plays a key role in the transition to eco-friendly energy. In order to improve the quality of air and sea air, we are promoting the phasing out of diesel in trucks, while also contributing to the transition to a more environmentally friendly fuel in vessels by establishing an LNG bunkering infrastructure. Moreover, we plan to aggressively build a hydrogen production and supply chain to expand the use of hydrogen as a pollution-free energy source. KOGAS is engaged in a variety of activities for creation of social value. We are expanding the energy welfare of vulnerable groups with our mobile One-Stop Service. In addition, we have established and currently operate a practical system for mutual growth with SMEs, including technology development support, test-bed provision, and market pioneering. We also strive to improve the quality of life of our staff by taking the initiative to introduce a human rights management system and improve the working environment of all employees. Dear stakeholders, KOGAS has been publishing sustainability reports every year since 2006, and has been recognized as a leader in terms of sustainability by being included in the DJSI Asia-Pacific Index for six consecutive years. Since 2007, we have been faithfully implementing the ten principles of the UN Global Compact and, in the future, KOGAS will continue to strive for harmonious growth with shareholders, local communities, and partner companies, contributing to the development of the national energy industry and becoming a company that is held in high regard by the general public. We appreciate the interest and affection you have kindly shown for the determination and efforts of KOGAS and all of our employees. Thank you. June 2019 Kim, Young-Doo Acting president of KOGAS KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 05 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management With sustainable management, KOGAS will continue to create better energy, a better world. 06 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 KOGAS Profile Overseas Credit Rate AAS&P KOGAS is a representative energy-based public enterprise established in 1983 to safely and steadily Aa2 Moodys supply natural gas to Korean people, with a corporate philosophy of “Better Energy, Better World”. AAFitch Domestic Credit Rates Overview (As of December 2018’s consolidated financial statement) Korea Ratings Corporation AAA Type of Company Name Korea Gas Corporation (KOGAS) Corporate Body Corporation AAA Korea Investors Service Inc. Representative Kim Young Doo (Acting president) Sales KRW 26.185 trillion Establishment Date August 18, 1983 Business Profits KRW 1.2768 trillion KRW 5,766 Foundation for Korea Gas Corporation Act Earnings Per (a common stock) Establishment (Law Article 16132, partly revised on December 31, 2018) Share KRW 5,518 (a diluted stock) Location 120, Cheomdan-ro, Dong-gu, Daegu, South Korea Employees 4,096 persons Key Business 1 Production/supply of natural gas and refinement/sale of the byproducts 2 Construction/operation of bases and supply chain for natural gas Area 3 Development, transport, and ex/import of natural gas 4 Development and ex/import of liquefied petroleum gas 5 Production and supply of hydrogen energy 6 Development and ex/import of hydrogen energy 7 R&D on related projects and auxiliary projects 8 Projects commissioned by the central or local governments 9 Overseas related projects 10 Exploration/development projects for oil resources and related projects Organization Chart Corporate CEO Auditor Office of Public Office of the Relations Auditor Sr. Executive Vice President Sr. Executive Vice President of Management of Safety Technology Management Dept. of Central Integrated Cooperation Dept. Dept. of EHSQ System Control Security Dept. Office of Emergency & Security Management Support Overseas Business Corporate Strategy Technology Business Marketing Division LNG Terminal Division Trunk Line Division Division Division Planning Division Division Management Marketing Dept. Overseas Project Corporate Strategy Terminal Operation Trunk Line Operation Dept. Technology Planing & Support Dept. LNG Procurement Planning & Dept. Dept. Trunk Line Construction Dept. Development Dept. Human Resources Dept. Management Dept. Innovation Terminal Seoul District Division New Business Dept. Dept. Overseas Business Management Dept. Construction Dept. Incheon District Division Overseas Infra Finance Dept. Development Dept. Pyeongtaek Business Dept. Gyeonggi District Division Resources Terminal Division KOGAS Research Technology Dept. Gangwon District Division Incheon Terminal Institute Division Daejeon Chungcheong District Division Tongyeong Terminal Division Jeonbuk District Division Samcheok Terminal Gwangju Jeonnam District Division Division Jeju Terminal Daegu Gyeongbuk District Construction Group Division Busan Gyeongnam District Division KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 07 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Key Milestones 1980’s 1990’s Foundation Development Expanding Growth 1983. 08 Establishment of KOGAS 1990. 05 Establishment of the R&D Center 1986. 10 First import of LNG 1993. 07 Commencement of natural gas supply to the mid region 11 Commencement of natural gas distribution (Daejeon, Cheonan, Chungju) to power plant operations (Pyeongtaek) 1994. 06 Commission of LNG national flag carriers 1987. 02 Commencement of city gas supply to Seoul 1995. 11 Commencement of natural gas supply to Yeongnam and metropolitan area Honam areas 04 Completion of terminal and distribution 1996. 12 Commencement of natural gas supply to Busan region facilities in Pyeongtaek 1997. 10 Completion of the Incheon terminal 1999. 10 Commencement of natural gas supply to the Korean Yellow Sea region 12 Listed on the Korea Stock Exchange 2000’s 12 Commencement of natural gas supply to Becoming a World Class the southern Korean region 2000. 03 MOU for development of the East Sea gas field 2002. 10 Completion of the Tongyeong terminal 11 Commencement of natural gas supply to Gangwon area 2004. 01 Reached 10 million houses using natural gas 2006. 07 Reached 10,000 buses powered by natural gas 2007. 12 Announcement ceremony of the KOGAS Vision 2017 2010’s Better Energy, Better World 2010. 01 The Incheon terminal surpassed the 100 million ton 2017. 06 C  ommencement of the three storage tanks mark in accumulated production of natural gas (270,000 ㎘; world’s largest) in the Samcheok Terminal 2011. 03  Ranked no. 4 among “the World’s Most Admired Companies” 06 Started commercial operation of floating liquefied natural list by Fortune (in energy) gas for Australian Prelude project. 2013. 09 Secured a total of 87Tcf natural gas in the Area 4 Gas Well in 09 Completion of the LNG terminal complex in Samcheok Mozambique 09 Hosted the Asia Pacific Gas Conference (APGC) in Daegu 09 Included in the DJSI Asia Pacific Level and ranked first in the 2018. 03 The naming ceremony of the Korean-type, gas area KC-1 LNG ship 2014. 03 Hosted the “Gastech 2014” for the first time in Northeast Asia 09 Awarded the overall grand prize of trust based 10 Acquired the right to host the World Gas Conference (WGC) in 2021 management in the Korean Management Grand Award 2016. 01 Announcement ceremony of the KOGAS Vision 2025 12 Joined the DJSI Asia-Pacific Level for six consecutive years 10 Awarded the Prime Minister’s Commendation on the World Standards Day 08 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 KOGAS Business The natural gas industry can be classified into upstream, midstream, and downstream, based on Models the scope of activities. The upstream sector indicates the exploration and mining of natural gas; the midstream sector for the liquefaction and transporting, and the downstream sector for the reevaporation and supply of the gas through pipeline for customers. KOGAS is carrying out a variety of projects in the upstream, middle, and downstream areas; these projects are located in 13 countries. Exploration Mining Liquefaction Bases Shipping Transportation Upstream Midstream Overseas Resources Exploration LNG Projects Procurement and Transportation of Natural Gas To secure a stable supply chain of natural KOGAS participates in large-scale LNG Importing overseas LNG safely into Korea gas, KOGAS has explored and developed projects ranged from the production, is as important as resource development. overseas natural resources through shipping, and transportation of LNG. KOGAS has diversified its procurement international bidding and share purchase. As for floating LNG(FLNG), there sources from the Middle East and Southeast is a collaboration with a domestic Asia to Australia and the United States in Outcome shipbuilding company under order to secure supply stability. KOGAS is • Offshore mining lots #2, #3, #9 in Cyprus • Offshore mining lot E in East Timor progress in terms of a large-scale also contributing to the growth of domestic offshore liquefaction plant capable of shipbuilding industry by utilizing national transporting and unloading the gas. vessels as LNG carriers and investing in the development of LNG transportation Outcome technology. • The Coral FLNG/Rovuma LNG project in Overseas Resources Development and Production Mozambique Outcome KOGAS reviews the business feasibility of • LNG Canada Project in Canada • 38.17 million tons of LNG imported in 2018 the resources discovered through resource • Development of Korean-type, KC-1 LNG ships exploration projects, and then establishes a development plan to be promoted. Outcome • Development and production project of A-1/A-3 in Myanmar • Development and production project of Senoro-Toili, Indonesia • Development and production in the oil and gas field located in Zubair, Iraq KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 09 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Unloading Production Supply Sales Downstream Production and Supply Natural Gas Sales The LNG imported into Korea is unloaded to KOGAS’s domestic As the public awareness for clean energy has grown, the sales LNG terminals and stored in large storage tanks during the volume of natural gas increased by 24 times in over 30 years summer when gas demand is low. In the winter season when the since its first supply was initiated in 1987. The gas is sold for a demand increases, the gas is re-evaporated and sent to city gas variety of purposes including household use, industrial use, and companies and power plants through national pipelines. power generation. Outcome Outcome • Total 4,854 km length of national main pipelines (as of the end of 2018) • The natural gas sales in 2018 amounted to 36,219,000 tons (Increase by 19.1% from the previous year) Production Capacity • Pyeongtaek LNG Terminal: 4,636 tons/hour The world’s largest storage capacity in a single base • Incheon LNG Terminal: 6,150 tons/hour The world’s largest delivery capacity in a single base • Tongyeong LNG Terminal: 3,030 tons/hour • Samcheok LNG Terminal: 1,320 tons/hour Overseas downstream Infrastructure The world’s largest storage tanks • Jeju LNG Terminal Based on the experiences of participating in overseas projects Scheduled to be completed in 2019 over years and the technology of constructing domestic supply chain. KOGAS is carrying out downstream infrastructure projects such as vaporization terminals and piping in foreign countries. Outcome • Manzanillo Terminal in Mexico • Gas supply project in Maputo, Mozambique 10 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Vision & Strategy The “KOGAS 2025” is based on the vision of “NEXT Energy, with KOGAS,” consisting of 4 strategic directions and 12 strategic tasks. Each of the 12 strategic tasks identifies the achievement of the fiveyear mid-term goals through each key performance indicator. KOGAS will achieve the “KOGAS 2025” vision to create “Better Energy, Better World.” Purpose of Establishment Promoting national benefits and improving public welfare through long-term and stable supply of natural gas Corporate Philosophy Better Energy, Better World Core Values Challenges to the world Changes for the future Responsibility for society Trust in people NEXT Energy, with KOGAS Vision KOGAS, promoting the transition to green energy through leading the natural gas industry, sharing its business processes and achievements with the public, and implementing innovations for the future Goals for Production cost saving by KRW 6 trillion, 7 million tons of new demand, creation of 90,000 new jobs and business integrity level 1 Vision Conversion to environmentConstitutional improvement to 4 Strategic Leading natural gas industry Realization of social value Directions friendly energy prepare for future ① Reinforcing public features of ④ Invigoration of new energy ⑦ Creation and sharing of jobs ⑩ Innovation of the ways of gas business business ⑧ Expanding shared and win-win working 12 Strategic ② Creation of overseas business ⑤ Expansion of the scope of fuel cooperation ⑪ Improvement of financial Tasks performance conversion ⑨ Reinforcing disaster and safety stability ③ Securing natural gas ⑥ Reinforcing the R&D of future environment management ⑫ Advancing ICT-based leadership in Northeast Asia energy technologies management system KOGAS 2025 Key Performance Indicators per Strategic Tasks and Mid-term plans(to 2023) in 2018 4 Strategic Directions 12 Strategic Tasks Key Performance Indicators Outcome in 2018 Goals by 2023 • Reinforcing public features of gas business • Reduced procurement cost (KRW billion) 3,058 3,441 Leading natural gas • Creation of overseas business performance • Overseas business investment collection (%) 27 51 industry • Securing natural gas leadership in Northeast Asia • PNG business progress Commencement of joint research Promotion of pipeline construction Conversion to • Invigoration of new energy business • Building hydrogen filling stations (cases) 0 110 (from 19 to 23) environment-friendly • Expansion of the scope of fuel conversion • Sales volume for transportation (thousand tons) 9,686 8,046 energy • Reinforcing the R&D of future energy technologies • Strategic skill levels (level) 6.4 10.0 • Creation and sharing of jobs • Job Created in the Private sector (persons) 15,226 52,558(from 19 to 23) Realization of • Expanding shared and win-win cooperation • Index of win-win cooperation 67.5 83.7 social value • Reinforcing disaster and safety environment • Gas accident and injury reduction (cases) 4 3 management Constitutional • Innovation of the ways of working • Composite index of organizational culture 89.4 91.1 improvement to prepare • Improvement of financial stability • Debt ratio (%) 367 259 for future • Advancing ICT-based management system • Building new ICT-based systems (cases) 1 18 KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 11 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Sustainability KOGAS have established a system of sustainability management strategies and listen to the opinions of a variety of Strategies stakeholders, striving to attain the balance between economic, environmental, and social values. The issues related to the KOGAS’s sustainable management are taken charge of by the Corporate Planning & Coordination Team. The establishment and progress of relevant strategies are periodically reported to the Sustainable Management Committee, where the main agendas are reviewed and decisions are made. Vision Global KOGASwith people, with the planet Sustainability Excellence: DJSI World Level Missions Governance Economy Environment Society Secure leadership of sustainable Minimize environmental impacts Strategic Promote sustainable businesses Create a corporate culture that management by strengthening via a leading environmental Directions through stable supply of energy prioritizes people management base management · Raise the Board of Directors (BOD)’s · Strengthen capacity to perform · Strengthen environmental · Strengthen ethics management efficiency and accountability for overseas projects management policies and systems operating system sustainable management · Develop new gas demand and · Promote internal and external · Promote advancement of human rights · Strengthen independent risk businesses reliability of environmental policies and labor practices management · Strengthen demand management · Strengthen response systems · Strengthen a performance · Establish integrated stakeholder for stable supply against climate changes compensation system Key Issues management system · Strengthen a system of safety and health · Strengthen alternative energy · Strengthen stakeholder issue development · Strengthen win-win cooperation analysis and sharing system · Build a system for antitrust infrastructure prevention · Strengthen social contribution strategies and performance management · Strengthen a customer management system Board of Directors (BOD) Strengthen capacity to perform Strengthening environmental Ethics management · Increase independence and overseas projects management policies and systems · Improve ethics management policies efficiency of BOD · Improve technical competence · Re-establish environmental · Strengthen transparency of ethics · Raise the Board of Directors (BOD)’s · Improve efficiency in E&P projects management procedures and management accountability for sustainable Management of demand side guidelines Talent management management · Improve demand-side efficiency · Build biodiversity policies and · Improve human rights and labor Risk Management · Prepare cooperation plans in the strategies practices · Systematize risk management for industry Promotion of internal and external · Strengthen the performance the entire company Development of new businesses reliability of environmental policies compensation system · Prepare methods to identify risk in · Develop business lines for LNG · Improve the environmental · Develop global talent advance facility operation/transportation pollutant management system Safety and health Stakeholder · Strengthen business network · Continue to share information on · Operate zero-accident/injury · Integrate stakeholder issues to be · Create hydrogen-based demands environmental pollutant emission workplaces managed · Enhance transparency of cost for · Maintain the health management · Share the issues internally and environmental activities system make public Strengthen response systems · Prevent industrial accidents of · Establish integrated stakeholder against climate changes suppliers / support for safety Major Tasks management system · Establish a low-carbon management activities management system Win-win cooperation · Contribute to the national reduction · Support sustainable management target of greenhouse gas of small businesses · Continue to develop greenhouse · Promote the capacity enhancement gas reduction projects of small businesses Customer satisfaction management · Customer VOC analysis and feedback · Strengthen the customer information protection system Social contribution · Strengthen the performance management in social contribution activities · Promote strategic social contribution activities 12 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Sustainability 13 14 Governance 16 Risk Management 18 Stakeholder Engagement 20 Material Topic Assessment 14 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Governance Composition of the BOD As of the end of 2018, The KOGAS Board of Directors (BOD) consists of eight non-executive directors and three executive directors (acting CEO, Sr. executive vice president, and corporate auditor). The BOD shall consist of seven or less executive directors, including the CEO, and eight or less non-executive directors. The number of executive directors shall be kept at less than one-half of the number of the nonPerformance of the BOD executive directors, in principle. We also endeavor to appoint the successor without any operational No. of meetings held (times) No. of agenda agreed (cases) gaps by establishing the Executive Recommendation Committee two months prior to the expiration of the director’s term. An executive is appointed by Strategy and Finance Minister after the deliberation 62 46 40 and resolution of the Committee. According to the “Guidelines for the Management of Public and Semi-Governmental Organizations,” KOGAS appoints executives who have professional knowledge 17 14 18 and experience in our work. To secure independence of the BOD, we have appointed a non-executive director as the Chairperson of the BOD since 2007, and those who have worked as employees in our company or companies that have important deal-making relations or are in competition with us within 2016 2017 2018 the past two years shall be excluded from appointment*. * Those who shall be limited in their qualifications are those who have worked in our affiliated companies as executive directors, executive officers, or auditors, who as corporate bodies have tenhundredths or more of total assets as the total value of their transactions during the past three business years, or who hold shares equal to or greater than one-hundredth of the total number of issued shares of the listed company. Operation of the BOD and Increase the Efficiency Attendance Rate The term of the chairperson is three years, and that of executives and auditor is two years, and the (Unit: %) directors whose terms have expired shall perform their duties until their successors are appointed. The 82 agendas are decided by a majority vote of the directors. Directors having special interests in relation to the resolutions of the BOD shall be limited in their voting rights on relevant agenda items, to prevent 81 77.7 conflict of interest. To increase the efficiency of the BOD, the board holds monthly meetings with at least 70% attendance rate. Non-executive directors cannot hold two or more positions except for the positions of our directors. 2016 2017 2018 Diversity of BOD KOGAS does not have any particular restrictions on gender, race or nationality in appointing directors for the diversity of the members of the BOD, and strives to ensure that gender and region are properly balanced within the BOD. To ensure that women are fairly represented on the BOD, KOGAS is making efforts to ensure that at least one director, and 20 percent of the total directors, are female. As a result, the first female non-executive director of KOGAS was appointed in 2018, which enhanced the diversity of the BOD and secured expertise of KOGAS in consumer policies as her specialized field. Division Name Gender Position Term Note Kim Young Doo Male Acting President 2018.9.28 ~ the end of his term Executive Lee Sang Hun Male Corporate Auditor 2017. 4.4 ~ 2019. 4.3 Directors Sr. Executive Vice President Lim Jong Kuk Male 2018.7.26 ~ 2020.7.25 of Management Huh Nam Il Male Director 2018.7.30 ~ 2020.7.29 Professor of the Dept. of Global Business, Kangnam University Lee Dong Hun Male Director 2018.8.23 ~ 2020.8.22 Representative of Lee Dong Hun Accounting Office Kim Chang Il Male Director 2018.8.23 ~ 2020.8.22 Representative Attorney of Eru Law Office Former deputy director-general of management division at NonLee Byung Hwa Male Director 2018.10.29 ~ 2020.10.28 Ministry of Planning and Budget executive directors Former policy researcher of Trade, Industry, Energy, SMEs, Kim Ui Hyun Male Director 2018.10.29 ~ 2020.10.28 and Startups Committee at National Assembly Kim Jong Chul Male Director 2018.12.4 ~ 2020.12.3 Representative Attorney of SaeSeoul Law Firm Ju Jin Woo Male Director 2018.12.4 ~ 2020.12.3 Member of the Presidential Committee on Jobs Kim Hye Sun Female Director 2018.12.4 ~ 2020.12.3 Professor of the Dept. of Consumer Science, Sunchon National University KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 15 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Subcommittees KOGAS strengthens the function of checking and supervising its business through non-executive directors, appointed on the basis of their expertise and diversity. This is why KOGAS established three subcommittees under the BOD: Audit Committee, Committee of Sustainable Management, and Overseas Project Committee. In 2018, KOGAS increased the number of directors of the Overseas Project Committee to three and organized its operation system by placing the Planning and Suggestions of non-executive directors on management increased Adjustment Department and Overseas Project Planning Department under the oversight of the Committee of Sustainable Management and the Overseas Project Committee, respectively. 3 items were adopted in our policies in 2018 Division Composition Key Roles • Report to the BOD on the violation of laws or articles of association of Executive (one) directors Audit Committee Non-Executives (two) • Items delegated by the BOD and matters specified by the laws or articles of association as agendas of the Audit Committee • Midand long-term administration plans and major investment projects Committee of Sustainable • Budget and operational plans, management evaluation, public Non-Executives (two) Management relations projects, etc. • Safety & Environment projects, ethics management, social contribution activities, etc. • Exploration, development, and production of overseas resources Overseas Project Non-Executives • Deliberation or consultation on overseas plant projects and other Committee (three) overseas projects Evaluation and Remuneration of the BOD KOGAS has established a BOD management system that manages the members’ activities and performance, including attendance rate, management suggestions, and percentage of comments, in order to ensure that the BOD faithfully performs its job and that fair and transparent compensation can be achieved. The BOD conducts self-assessments at the end of each year, and the results are reflected in the annual plan of the next BOD. KOGAS regularly conducts performance evaluations on all directors and shares the content in a transparent manner in its sustainability reports and on the electronic disclosure system. As for remuneration, service allowance is paid to the non-executive directors, and the annual basic salary of the CEO, executive directors, and auditors is determined by the BOD within the limited amount of the remuneration approved by the general meeting of shareholders. The CEO and the executive directors receive differential remuneration according to their performance evaluation results every year based on performance indexes such as financial performance, external evaluation, and environmental and social indicators of administration activities. Remuneration Amount of the BOD Members in 2018 (Unit: KRW 1,000) The number Total amount Average amount per director Note Registered Directors 3 505,059 168,353 Ownership Structure KRW 2.5 million per (Unit: %) Outside Directors 8 month (for service) 27.12 Auditor executive 1 152,183 152,183 Ordinary stockholders Ownership Structure 26.15 and others Government Total 100 KOGAS, listed on the Korea Exchange on December 15, 1999, has a legal capital of KRW 1 trillion. Our shareholders are composed of public and general shareholders, and the government, KEPCO, 3.32 Employee 20.47 Ownership Korean Electric Power and local governments hold 54.56 percent of the total shares. Our largest shareholder is the Korean Corporation 7.93 (KEPCO) government, which owns 26.15 percent. There have been no changes in the largest shareholder in Local Governments the past three years. 15.01 Foreigners 16 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Risk Management Systems of risk Management Strategies for Risk Management KOGAS defines risk as an element of uncertainty and opportunity loss that hinders the achievement of strategy and business goals, including crises* and hazards**. To respond to risk, KOGAS has established an enterprise-wide system of risk management with which we can identify potential risks that would prevent KOGAS from achieving its goals from an integrated perspective, determine a level of risk allowed, take reasonable measures, and perform risk management under clear accountability. *crises: critical threats to management or major services and facilities **hazards: conditions that may cause loss or adverse impact to the business condition or corporate image Organization for Risk Management KOGAS’s risk management organization has been established on the basis of the “3 Lines of Defense” model. In Phase 1, each dedicated department conducts daily risk management tasks with the support of the department of risk management. In Phase 2, the department of risk management, directly under the Chief Risk Officer (CRO), builds a risk management system and monitors the current risk management tasks. In Phase 3, the Audit Committee oversees the procedural suitability of risk management activities through periodic internal audits. The Risk Management Committee, consisting of the CEO, corporate auditor, and executive vice president, is responsible for overall risk management and deals with deliberating and resolving major issues. The committee is held at least once a year, reviewing corporate risk management and resolving agenda items. Through this organization, KOGAS ensures the independence of risk management. Monitoring and Reporting Risks KOGAS monitors the current risk management and recirculates the results to the designated departments in charge so they can effectively respond to major signs and risks on a quarterly basis. As for the reporting system, each department in charge according to the risk management organization reports the results of risk management activities to the general control department, the general control department gathers and reports them to the CRO, and finally, the CRO reports them to the Risk Management Committee. Organization and Reporting on Risk Management Procurement risk Overseas risk Operating risk Financial risk Crisis Management CEO Risk Management Committee Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President Executive Vice President CRO (Executive Vice President of Corporate Strategy Planning Division) General manager General manager General manager General manager General manager Corporate Manager Manager Manager Manager Manager Auditor Risk Control Support Internal Audit (Risk Management Procurement risk Overseas risk Operating risk Financial risk Department Team) Office of the Summary control control control control Supervising Dept. Auditor Risk management Crisis management 1st line 2nd line 3rd line Check and Internal Audits KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 17 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Risk Management Activities Risk Checklist Management of Emerging Risk KOGAS has set up “emerging risks” to identify and manage risks that may be presented in future Relevant nation management activities in advance, carrying out response activities for each of the risks. In 2018, Resource confiscation and nationalization, KOGAS identified climate and environmental changes such as greenhouse gases and airborne natural disasters, political and social instability, inconsistency in policies and regulations, default particulate matter, and decreases in brand value due to negative media coverage and various of the country, lack of labor, lack of infrastructure, incidents as major emerging risks. The shift to a low-carbon economy may reduce demand for civil complaints, border disputes natural gas, and the lowered brand value may lead to the loss of national confidence and loss of business power. In this context, KOGAS actively responds to each risk by leading the hydrogen Laws/Regulations economy, creating demand for natural gas*, and conducting ethics management**. The response Regulation of foreign exchange and remittance, restrictions on export, regulations of use of local strategies and measures for each risk are included in the “KOGAS Innovation Comprehensive Plan,” materials and companies, lack of laws/systems, which are systematically administered at the enterprise level. local labor issues, environmental regulations *See pages 29 and 35 of this report for creating natural gas demand and leading the hydrogen economy, respectively **See page 69-71 of this report for ethics management activities Market Failure to secure raw material gas or sales Management of Overseas Business Risk locations, drop of commodity price, demand stagnation in sales area KOGAS proactively identifies and manages potential risks in the course of its overseas business. The departments of relevant businesses develop and use “risk checklists” of the target nations to identify these risks. Meanwhile, risk assessments are conducted for five areas (nation, economy, Finance Exchange risk, PF and management ability, laws, technology, and operation) through the Investment Risk Committee as an independent accounting/ tax related issues, insurance related organization. These overseas business risks are shared throughout the company on the investment issues management system so that anyone can view and analyze them. Contract Unfavorable business contracts with the Management of Supply Chain Risks government (or company) of the relevant With the capability for quality, technical skills, and continuity of suppliers*, KOGAS manages its nation, unfavorable contracts between business operators, EPC contract, SPA contract supply chain in an integrated manner through environmental, social, and corporate governance (ESG) activities and performance check-ups. The Supplier Code of Conduct** provides the basic environment, human rights, health, ethics standards for suppliers, recommending compliance with Partner Companies Nonfulfillment of contractual obligations by the statutory requirements, the contents of the Code of Conduct, and the requirements specified in operators (participating companies), insufficient the transaction agreement. business management of operators, poor communication between business participants, As for construction service, KOGAS conducts assessments in qualification examination based on the nonfulfillment of liability to pay by purchasers ISO 45001 certification, injury rate, and the infraction history according to environment-related laws. These assessments are conducted on all construction works of more than KRW 5 billion. The major Technology equipment manufacturers (new or existing) are required to obtain ISO 9001 certification, and those who Exceeded CAPEX compared to a plan, fail to acquire and maintain this certification will be dropped through regular evaluation (2 times/year). underperformed facilities, delayed processes, insufficient technical analysis In 2018, there was no manufacturer sanctioned from the result of this evaluation. *Suppliers of construction service and five main equipment (valves, insulated joints, metering facilities, control facilities, static pressure facilities) **For more information about the Supplier Code of Conduct, see our website: http://www.kogas.or.kr/DATA/contents/kogasSCoC/ index.html#page=1 KOGAS Supply Chain in 2018 Strategies of Managing Supply Chain Number of Quality Technical ability Continuity Delivery Transparency Division companies ISO 9001 Verification of technical skills Checking on period in selection ISO 45001 such as design/fabrication management Actual production Public tender Tier 1 suppliers 131 Certification based on the delivery crises (mergers, capability Critical tier 1 suppliers* 56 performance of goods etc.) *Suppliers of 19 specifications of 5 items, including • ISO 9001 Certification Securing proper quality through building of a quality system and the natural gas ball valves, are identified as the critical suppliers. production capacity of major manufacturers Key ESG Targets • ISO 45001 Certification Adding points to companies possessing the ISO 45001 certification to enhance safety and health activities of suppliers to reduce industrial accidents at construction sites 18 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Stakeholder KOGAS actively encourages stakeholder participation throughout its administration activities by identifying Engagement new opportunities and risks by collecting stakeholders’ needs and opinions on economic, environmental, and social aspects surrounding the public corporation and by pursuing innovation with our stakeholders. KOGAS’s stakeholders refer to individuals or groups that can be significantly affected by the activities and services of the public corporation. Conversely, the actions of the stakeholders can affect the company’s implementation of our strategies and fulfillment of our goals. KOGAS divides stakeholders by comprehensively analyzing their influences on the public corporation, making every effort for what the stakeholders expect to be reflected in its administration activities by preparing communication channels for each group of stakeholders and activating communication through the channels. Leading Customers Division Actors of national benefit and the growth of the gas industry Stakeholder Groups Executives and employees, labor union Communication • Expanded executive council, management committee Channels • Talk with the CEO • Labor-management council, the Intranet Major Communication • KOGAS sketchbook and CEO meeting (a total of 42 times) Activities and • Managers’ listening to on-site problems and employees’ Performance suggestions (58 times) • Joint labor-management conference (42 times) • Collected 2,412 opinions by activating communication through the company’s Intranet (La Plaza) Cooperative Customers Division Relations of policy coordination for public service Stakeholder Groups People, the government, the National Assembly Communication • Business consultations on pending issues, forums, associations Channels • Midto long-term management strategy reports, etc. • Support for parliamentary activities such as parliamentary inspection Major Communication • Received 22 cases of national ideas and suggestions Activities and • Strengthened communications by establishing the “Love NG” of the Performance citizen participation innovation group • Established strategies for implementing KOGAS hydrogen business by discussing innovation promotion • Revised the Korea Gas Corporation Act and reformed the energy taxation system through persuasion of the revision of the law and the system KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 19 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Coexisting Customers Division Contribution to benefit enhancement through gas supply and sharing of growth with partnership Stakeholder Groups City Gas Producers, power generation companies, direct importers for their own consumption, local communities Communication • On-site orientation, business information session Channels • Seminar on Customer Satisfaction Improvement • Social contribution activities Major Communication • Through the Co-Marketing Committee*, an additional KRW 3.7 billion Activities and was saved by efforts to reduce the blind spots of welfare with the OnePerformance Stop service. *To seek social values by cooperation with city gas and wholesale and retail sales • Expanded local-specific energy welfare projects and social contribution projects through the Safe Village Councils and the social contribution budget system Underlying Customers Division Support and cooperation for performance for growth of the gas industry Stakeholder Groups Subsidiary companies, foreign relevant countries, contractors Communication • Sharing major market trends Channels • Intergovernmental agreements, etc. • Technology sharing and new business cooperation system Major Communication • Enacted and revised six relevant regulations by conducting joint Activities and workshops between the private sector, the public sector, and the industry. Performance • Prepared a plan to promote our hydrogen project through the hydrogen fusion alliance • Promoted university cooperation projects in Daegu and Gyeongsangbuk-do Province as the win-win platform for industry and school in the energy sector (2 cases, KRW 300 million) 20 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Material Topic KOGAS has drafted 14 material topic on sustainable management in consideration of their business Assessment impacts on corporate administration and influence on stakeholders. To select the issues, KOGAS built a KOGAS-specific sustainability issue pool, collecting the opinions of 604 internal and external stakeholders, and identifying priorities on sustainable management issues. The selected material topics are systematically managed in terms of performance based on the corporate goals and strategies and are disclosed through various channels, including sustainability reports. Awareness of Stakeholders on Sustainability Management Q1 Do you think KOGAS is “a public institution that carries out its Q2 Does KOGAS have the brand image of “a clean energy company responsibilities to the environment and society as a whole along contributing to people’s lives”? with its own administrative growth”? (Unit: points/maximum 5 points) (Unit: points/maximum 5 points) Total 4.60 Total 4.63 Inside 4.64 Internal stakeholder 4.66 Outside 4.42 External stakeholders 4.51 What do you think are the international issues (UN SDGs) that What areas of social values do you think can KOGAS effectively Q3 KOGAS can effectively deal with? Q4 create? (Multiple Responses, Unit: persons) (Multiple Responses, Unit: persons) SDG 7 410 Affordable and clean Energy 397 Safety Ethics of responsibility Climate action 299 SDG 13 329 288 Environment SDG 17 283 Partnerships for the goals 261 Win-win cooperation Industry, innovation and infrastructure Jobs SDG 9 266 241 SDG 8 226 Decent work and economic growth 207 Labor Process for the Selection of Material Topics STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 Identification Prioritization Review Building an issue pool Analyzing internal & external issues Selecting material topic Through a comprehensive analysis of the To understand the issues deemed Based on the result values calculated GRI Standards, benchmarking of peer important for the public corporation, an from the materiality assessment, the issues, media analysis, and the KOGAS analysis was carried out regarding internal importance of each issue was identified, Sustainability report 2016-2018, a pool of strategies, employee surveys, and the GRI and the top 14 material topic were 37 issues was built to derive critical issues. and DJSI evaluation response indicators. selected. External stakeholder surveys, media The 2019 KOGAS’s reports were reviewed analysis, and peer benchmarking were in terms of sustainability by considering also performed to measure the impact of the major issues and stakeholder feedback external stakeholders. from previous reports. KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 21 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Material Topic Assessment Results KOGAS performed a material topic assessment to select issues that internal and external stakeholders felt were important. The 14 most material topic in terms of business impact and stakeholder impact were selected, and the activities and results related to each issue were reported. Stable production and supply of natural gas 100(%) 1 Strengthening safety operation 2 Strengthening a win-win and disaster management system cooperation and fostering Influence on Stakeholder 10 4 start-ups 90 Promoting 3 Establishing a culture of ethics and integrity community investment and the Preventing safety incidents Securing R&D regional economy 6 and technical 80 5 competitiveness Strengthening greenhouse gas emission management 7 in the field of future energy 70 Strengthening the management of executives and employees’ safety and health 8 Spreading a culture of 9 Utilizing new business 60 respect for work and life energy and expanding 13 investment Promoting and spreading human rights management 12 11 50 Complying with and fostering fair trade 14 Creating and improving quality jobs 40 30 20 10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 70 80 90 100(%) Impact on Business Material topic GRI topic UN SDGs Pages A Future Energy World ❶ Stable production and supply of natural gas Created with Global ❺ Securing R&D and technical competitiveness in the field of future energy 24-35 Innovation ❾ Utilizing new business energy and expanding investment ❹ Strengthening a win-win cooperation and fostering start-ups Creating a Better Local Communities ❿ Promoting community investment and the regional economy 36-45 Society Together Employment ⓮ Creating and improving quality jobs ❷ Strengthening safety operation and disaster management Responsible system Company that ❻ Preventing safety incidents Occupational Health and Safety 46-57 Prioritizes People ❼ Strengthening greenhouse gas emission management Emission and Nature ❽ Strengthening the management of executives and employees’ safety and health ❸ Establishing a culture of ethics and integrity Anti-corruption Corporate Culture ⓫ Complying with and fostering fair trade Anti-competitive Behavior of Respecting and 58-71 ⓬ Promoting and spreading human rights management Human Rights Assessment Trusting Each Other ⓭ Spreading a culture of respect for work and life Diversity and Equal Opportunity * Material issues and relevant performance data cover more than 75% of our business sites based on the KOGAS's headquarter, domestic offices, KOGAS Research Institute, and overseas business sites. 22 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Implementing Sustainable Management 23 24 A Future Energy World Created with Global Innovation 36 Creating a Better Society Together 46 Responsible Company that Prioritizes People and Nature 58 Corporate Culture of Respecting and Trusting Each Other 24 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 A Future Energy World Created with Global Innovation Sustainability Context KOGAS Approach Natural gas has been used as a major fuel in all areas of daily life As a public institution that operates the entire processes of procurement, industry, transportation, cooling, and heating, replacing conventional production, supply, and sales of natural gas, KOGAS identifies safe and fossil fuels of oil and coal. It also serves as a driving force for high stable provision of natural gas and enhanced accessibility of natural gas to value-added generation in connection with the front/back industries be its key tasks for improving the national economy and people’s benefit. such as LNG carriers and plants. Natural gas will be more useful in For this end, KOGAS is making efforts to achieve stable supply through the future because it can be used in fuel cells to effectively utilize accurate demand forecast, production management, resource exploration hydrogen, a promising future energy source. and development, and continuous innovative activities, taking the lead in the future energy business. KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 25 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Key Performance Responsible Business Operation Sales Imported LNG in 2018 KRW 26.18 38 trillion million tons Leading the Future Energy LNG supply Research funds for future for ships technology and energy resources 4,571 tons KRW 59.1 billion Innovative Customer Services Households benefiting from Customer satisfaction the gas charge reduction 110,000 ‘Excellent’ for 13 consecutive years Interview Jae-kyong Kim, Researcher at Korea Energy Economics Institute KOGAS leading eco-friendly future energy through natural gas business infrastructure Natural gas is an important energy resource accounting for 15.7% of the country’s primary energy supply. It is considered to be an eco-friendly energy resource, since it not only emits little pollutant, but the thermal efficiency is also excellent. It can additionally be utilized for hydrogen supply, which is being considered as a future energy resource. Therefore, demand for natural gas is expected to increase, and, in turn, the role and status of KOGAS is expected to rise, as well. KOGAS, which represents a major part of the domestic introduction of LNG, is establishing stable supply infrastructure based on the national pipe network and production base. Based on this, KOGAS has been dedicated to the expansion of LNG supply and decrease in fine dust and greenhouse gases, such as CNG buses and gas-powered cooling. I am looking forward to KOGAS playing an important role in the activation of a hydrogen economy. Installing hydrogen extractors at LPG and CNG stations is necessary in order to establish a foundation for the mass supply of hydrogen at early stage, and KOGAS, with its natural gas infrastructure, has to take charge. I am looking forward to KOGAS successfully implementing a road map for the promotion of a hydrogen project, with business capability and experience, and contributing to the expansion of hydrogen supply. 26 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Responsible Business Energy Procurement Operation Improving Supply and Demand Management System and Achieving Zero Emergency KOGAS strives to proactively respond to changes in demand during winter by upgrading its natural gas supply and demand management system. In 2018, KOGAS applied the increase/decrease in demand for natural gas due to abnormal temperatures such as heatwaves to the existing demand forecasting model. After the calibration, the error rate of demand forecast was improved; it was 6.0%, a 3.1%p improvement when compared to that of 2017. KOGAS has established an optimal inventory management system to realize uninterrupted natural gas supply. In 2018, KOGAS set up a time to secure a shortage and the monthly amount to be procured via the Supply and Demand TF and the Committee of Procurement Contract Review. As a result, despite the rapid increase in demand for natural gas due to unusual cold waves (the natural gas supply reaching the highest ever, 224,621 tons a day), KOGAS achieved “Zero” supply emergencies. In 2018 Reduced Procurement Cost Enhancing Competitiveness of Natural Gas Pricing KOGAS has enhanced the procurement competitiveness of natural gas by improving the price KRW 305.8billion of long-term contracts and signing new short-term contracts, consequently contributing to the reduction of the public’s burden of charges. Through the method, which deals with winter volume reduced gas charges per household by and lower demand volume altogether, KOGAS has additionally secured preemptive volume to ▼KRW 11,075 per year respond to supply and demand crises in winter, lowering the LNG purchase cost by as much as KRW 148.1 billion. Operating LNG Carriers LNG carriers are essential for the stable procurement of LNG into South Korea. KOGAS has ordered 29 national flag carriers so far, contributing not only to the stable supply of LNG but also to the growth of the domestic shipbuilding and shipping industry. To enhance the stability of the LNG transport process, KOGAS minimizes the difference between the charges to be paid and those to be calculated and aims to operate the carriers without incident. In 2017, KOGAS achieved 0.18 percent in terms of transportation error rate, zero freight dispute, and 282 sailings without incident. LNG Procurement (2018) (Unit: Volume of procurement (thousand tons), In parenthesis: Share(%)) Total USA Peru Qatar Malaysia Brunei Russia 38,170 3,953 850 14,308 2,559 770 1,494 (100) (10) (2) (37) (7) (2) (4) Indonesia 1,897 (5) Australia Oman 6,116 4,305 (16) (11) Others* 1,918 (5) *Others: Angola, Trinidad, Equatorial Guinea, Papua New Guinea, Algeria, Singapore KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 27 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Production and Supply of Energy Expanding LNG Supply Infrastructure LNG Distribution for Local KOGAS makes efforts to expand its LNG supply infrastructure to ensure stable and convenient Governments use of LNG in every part of the country. KOGAS currently manages 72 LNG storage tanks, the (Unit: %) 92 vaporization delivery facility capable of producing 15,000 tons per hour, 4,854 kilometers of main 91 piping, and 403 supply control centers. Compared to January 2018, the main piping increased by 90 64km and the supply control centers increased by 6. The figures also reflect the construction of new pipes for the Honam region (from Imsil to Jinan) and for the Geoje-Jinhae section, which has recorded the longest undersea tunnel in Korea (7.8km). As part of the separation of production based in the Seoul metropolitan area, KOGAS completed a vaporization delivery facility in 2016 2017 2018 Incheon Terminal, which can deliver 1,080 tons of natural gas per hour, thus minimizing the risk of gas interruption due to facility failure. Comprehensive Improvement of LNG Terminal and Supply Facilities To ensure an uninterrupted supply of natural gas, it is essential to manage the supply systems connecting to domestic terminals and piping networks across the country. In 2018, KOGAS conducted 153 comprehensive maintenance procedures on its terminals. Its 877 long-term The Number of System Failures operating facilities with an operational period of more than 15 years received precision diagnosis, and 67 out of the 75 facilities that require reinforcement have been completed such tasks. Due to 70 % decrease from the previous year (9 cases) the maintenance, the number of system failures according to equipment failure was 9 in 2018, a 70% decrease when compared to that of the previous year. Improving the diagnosis and supply management of production facilities using ICT To respond to the increase in operating costs and the imbalance in the LNG inventory and gas calories due to the increase and aging of its gas production facilities, KOGAS has established a system of analyzing, diagnosing, and operating its facilities based on ICT. Now the existing personnel and systems were supplemented, which provides a stable basis of gas supply. m Sys for ▪ Big data-based LNG inventory an te m ▪Analyzing operating patterns of and calory management per ar ag m o ra em f i te ys es facilities and predicting failures terminal ng e nt gs r in ilu based on big data em nt eg rn fa en for rate wa ▪ Performance in 2018: t o au d i rly ▪Performance in 2018: Programs for optimal port f L tom nv Ea Developing a failure prediction Pre NG a en ion Pree ict arrangement d ca ted tor m program and pilot-operating it rri p y er or in the Pyeongtaek Terminal cility s t ive fa pt SMART ▪ Real-time diagnosis and prediction of key power KOGAS 4.0 facilities such as cables and g transformers in us ug tim er hly o ▪ Performance in 2018: ow e or em Re al forp Th st ▪ A system operated to Completed construction on em st es l sy es monitoring pipelines using all the terminals; preventing sy liti tro on seven incidents of power ic ci st fa pa dr drones in hard-to-reach areas failure and gas supply ag no ing ▪ Performance in 2018: Pilotp interruption Di Pi operating in two sections 28 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Overseas Projects Resource Development Project Development and Production KOGAS has promoted projects to develop overseas resources in order to reduce reliance on (Unit: 10,000 tons) imported energy and to contribute to strengthening national energy security by developing 476 resources directly. Considering that development of resources may take a long time to generate profits and that a failure could worsen the public perception of resource development, it has been 440 408 focusing on securing profitability and substantiality of resource development projects. KOGAS is currently performing 13 E&P projects and 8 LNG projects as of 2019. It selected North America and Africa as key strategic areas, additionally securing 2.56 million tons of LNG per year for use until 2025 and actively exploring new projects to secure natural gas resources in the future. 2016 2017 2018 In particular, the Prelude project in Australia started producing LNG in June 2019 at the world’s largest offshore liquefaction plant (FLNG) and is expected to contribute to the stabilization of domestic energy supply by securing 10% of the production as the amount of share that can be treated. Overseas Downstream Infrastructure Market Oil and Gas Reserves Overseas downstream infrastructure projects cover the development, investment, construction, (Unit: 100 million tons) operation, and technical service projects of various facilities, such as LNG plants and supply piping, 2.5 2.4 for supplying natural gas from abroad. KOGAS is currently carrying out four infrastructure projects 2.2 based on its 30 years of capability in the domestic gas infrastructure business. In Mozambique, it is in control of development, investment, construction, and operation from the gas pipeline to control tower; in Mexico, the company is performing the investment, construction management, operation, 2016 2017 2018 and maintenance of the LNG acquisition bases. Gas Leadership in Northeast Asia KOGAS has strengthened its gas cooperation system with Russia, which has abundant natural gas resources, in order to keep in line with the government’s New Northern Policy and secure new sources to diversify its procurement lines. It also launched a joint research project with Gazprom of Russia, in order to procure PNG through a pipeline connecting South Korea, North Korea, and Russia. In addition, as part of establishing a Northeast Asian circular network to enhance supply In 2018 Net Profit from Overseas Business stability, KOGAS discussed methods of cooperation with CNPC of China on a Korea-China pipeline. KOGAS will continue to improve the supply stability of natural gas by securing various energy KRW 42.2 billion sources, diversify supply sources, contribute to enhancing negotiating power in purchasing, and reducing the cost of importing the gas. The Offshore Drilling Rig, Myanmar The FLNG Facilities in Prelude, Australia KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 29 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Leading the Future Demand Creation for Natural Gas Energy LNG Bunkering Business As the International Maritime Organization (IMO) has tightened its regulations on sulfur oxides Sales of LNG for Ships (SOx) in all shipping fuels, LNG is drawing attention as a fuel that can replace the existing (Unit: tons) fuel for ships. The global LNG demand for marine fuel is expected to reach about 30 million 4,571 tons/year by 2030. KOGAS is promoting its LNG bunkering project to supply LNG as a marine fuel as part of its efforts to create the demand for LNG. KOGAS promoted an institutional 3,464 Reduced particulate matter by readjustment to expand the supply of LNG propulsion ships in 2018; it is currently working on increased 8.6 tons a business plan to conduct the bunkering project in 2019. KOGAS is preparing to supply LNG by ▲ 32% Reduced greenhouse gas by to two ore carriers and two iron ore carriers on the Korea-Australia route, which are scheduled 1,177tCO2eq to start operations from 2021 and 2022, respectively. These efforts resulted in a 32% increase 2017 2018 in sales of LNG for bunkering compared to the previous year. Expanding Supply of LNG Large Vehicles Sales of LNG for Trucks KOGAS is promoting the project to supply LNG large vehicles, in which the fuel of large vehicles (Unit: tons) such as cargo trucks, container transport vehicles, yard tractors, and ready-mix truck are converted 5,115 into LNG, in order to create new demand for LNG and contribute to reducing particulate matter on the roads. In September 2018, LNG freight cars that were jointly developed with Tata Daewoo Reduced particulate matter by and the Korea Natural Gas and Hydrogen Vehicle Association were pilot-operated. In 2019 KOGAS increased 5.6 tons 3,056 is scheduled to pilot-operate yard tractors, cleaning vehicles, and concrete mixer trucks as a result by ▲ 67% Reduced greenhouse gas by 1,854tCO2eq of joint development. KOGAS is also in the process of expanding small-scale charging facilities to expand the infrastructure of large LNG vehicles. Due to these efforts, the sales of LNG for large 2017 2018 vehicles increased by 67% compared to the previous year. Expanding Gas Cooling Gas cooling is the most reasonable method for mitigating summer energy peak problems due to its excellent replacement of electricity, requiring continuous expansion of supply. KOGAS has encouraged the use of gas cooling by providing support funds for the installation and design of the gas cooling equipment. The support funds are varied on the basis of capacity and efficiency of the equipment certified by the Korea Energy Agency as being high-efficiency energy material. As of 2018, KOGAS has supported KRW 5.8 billion to sources of demand. The sales of LNG for cooling in 2018 reached 270,000 tons due to the active promotion including seminars. LNG Bunkering LNG Truck 30 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 New Energy Business Launching Hydrogen Project Although hydrogen as an element occupies 75% of the universe, hydrogen as gas is rare in nature. Most hydrogen on Earth exists in molecular forms in water and fossil fuel (natural gas, coal, and petroleum). Therefore, use of hydrogen as energy requires its resolution, and the most economical and realistic way to produce hydrogen in quantity is natural gas reforming. KOGAS aims to lead the transfer to hydrogen economy, based on its natural gas supply technology and infrastructure managed for more than 30 years. It set up legal, organizational foundations in 2018 and signed a MOU with Woodside of Australia to strengthen cooperation in hydrogen-related R&D and human resources exchanges. Development of Fuel Cells KOGAS has reviewed a project of the world’s largest 100MW fuel cell using Boil Off Gas (BOG)* which are generated at LNG Terminals as a part of the activation of fuel cell business. In August 2018, it signed an MOU with Korea Hydro & Nuclear Power Co., Ltd. and other partners of joint business development. KOGAS is also making various efforts for development and activation of the fuel cell technology, including building and operating a fuel cell development consultative body with relevant institutes and suggesting policies and improvements in institutions. *BOG(Boil Off Gas): The gas evaporated during LNG storage, which is mostly generated in Summer New Gas Rates System for Fuel Cells Fuel cells refer to a technology that converts chemical energy from chemical reactions between hydrogen and oxygen by reforming natural gas into electrical energy. Therefore, fuel cells are associated with the hydrogen industry, which is considered a future energy source and growth engine, and can be expected to create demand for natural gas. Since 2018, KOGAS has undergone research of activating a distributed power system* with fuel cells and held public hearings. As a result, a gas rating system for fuel cells will be introduced in May 2019, which will lower the wholesale price of city gas used in fuel cells. This introduction is expected to popularize fuel cells by reducing fuel cost and improving economic efficiency of the cells. *Distributed power system: Power supplies that can be distributed for arrangement around places of power consumption (houses, commercial buildings, etc.) Operating Principle of Fuel Cell Hydrogen Electricity H2 Electrochemical Water Heat Oxygen O2 reaction H2O KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 31 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Research Activities Current Condition of R&D Investment Technological Innovation through Professional Research (Unit: KRW 100 million) KOGAS makes efforts to develop new technologies that can be applied to global sites and enhance its technological competitiveness in the energy sector through investment into R&D. The Gas 719 Research Institute of 110 researchers has conducted research on various fields, including the 679 518 development of technologies throughout the entire LNG industry and the utilization of renewable energy resources. Some of the results are the Korean-type cargo hold (KC-1), a design for LNG storage tanks, and the development of state-of-the-art pipeline management technology (intelligent pig). Major Businesses 2016 2017 2018 Current Condition of Intellectual Property Rights and Technical Transfer Exploration and Procurement and Supply of Clean energy development of transportation of natural gas (Unit: cases) natural gas natural gas Industrial property right 2016 2017 2018 Oil and gas field E&P Design of storage Intelligent pig Hydrogen fuel cell CBM* tanks Mensuration of gas Natural gas cars Application 48 69 62 Patent Shale, tight gas Cargo hold (KC-1) quality LNG bunkering Registration 53 45 30 GM/polar resources Liquefaction plant Risk and safety Synthetic natural gas and process diagnosis DME** Program 0 0 1 Integrity of methods GTL*** Technology transfer and pipes (maintaining the contract) 18 19 19 * Coalbed methane (CBM): The gas produced on the surface of coal by thermal action of microorganisms, pressure, and temperature **Dimethyl ether (DME): A type of synthetic material produced from various raw materials such as natural gas, coal, biomass, etc. ***Gas to liquid (GTL): The technology for making synthetic crude oil from natural gas 2025 Future Solutions Portfolio Current Key Technologies Next major technologies Future promising technologies Design of LNG storage tanks Shale gas production Design of gas field and terminals Pipeline gas procurement production system Design of liquefaction plant Demand creation for new natural gas Evaluation of oil and gas fields Risk assessment for safety Establishment of hydrogen and technology to enhance diagnosis of gas facilities infrastructure based on hydrogen production production/supply Smart Gas Grid Alternative natural gas The Korean-type cargo hold, KC-1 Intelligent Pig 32 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Management Innovation Innovations in Business and Technology Via Autonomy and Openness KOGAS creates outstanding collective knowledge and applies it to its managerial methods and business innovations through the autonomous participation of its executives and employees and by being transparent with outside stakeholders. To keep up with the era of convergence technology, KOGAS introduced the Open Innovation system to hold an idea contest for technology development in which the general public participated in. In addition, its executives and employees could operate voluntary learning communities and participate in the Best Practice (BP) contest, where internal ideas on innovation were collected, shared, and expanded upon. This innovative system for administration BP Contest and technology via autonomy and openness is entitled “Best & First (BnF),” attracting the interest of employees and those on the outside as well. Best & First Act first for the best First Activities Searching for outstanding tasks and ideas from inside and outside KOGAS to achieve advanced knowledge management Voluntary Community of Practice, CoP (Internal) The Community of Practice (CoP), KOGAS’s common learning doctrine with voluntary participation of employees, is our internal network for creating, sharing, and spreading knowledge that draws from innovative collaborative ideas on current issues in various fields, such as management, businesses, and technology development. Since 2017, the CoP’s practices have been reflected in internal evaluations to further enhance innovative activities. As a result, a total of 642 ideas were presented through the CoP in 2018. Best Activities Spreading and sharing best practices from the First Activities across the entire company The BP Contest KOGAS searches for and awards outstanding ideas and actual cases in which the ideas have been put into practice via the annual “BP Contest.” The selected best practices are shared and spread after they are reviewed for applicability to similar work sites. A total of 107 cases were received in 2018, and the case which received the grand prize was “the sensible uses for parts of the piping from facilities that have been deemed illegal due to their inability to meet depth standards.” KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 33 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Innovative Customer Strengthen Public-centered Services Services In August 2018, KOGAS announced the “Comprehensive Plan for Innovation at KOGAS” for the innovation of public services related to the public interest, job creation and collaborative cooperation, and public confidence in its business. Since KOGAS is a public corporation established to improve national welfare and benefit the public by supplying natural gas safely and stably, we are implementing company-wide innovations to increase the universal energy welfare for all citizens and meet the public’s needs and expectations. Goal of Natural Gas and Beyond Innovation Reduction of supply costs by KRW 3.2 trillion, creation 50,000 jobs, and cultivation of 200 small and innovative companies (2018 2022) Implementation Strengthening of public interest Leadership in the business paradigm shift Restoration of public trust Direction ① Improvement of public interest in its ③ Leadership in the income-led and job⑥ Strengthen of ethics management 7 business centered economy Implementation ⑦ Expansion of citizen participation and Programs ② Innovation in public services and ④ Support for innovative growth cooperation organization operation ⑤ Build of the basis for a fair economy ⑥ Creation of jobs ① Support energy transformation policy ⑦ Improvement of job quality ② Expansion of universal energy welfare ⑬ Strengthen of ethics management ⑧ Support for expansion of employment in the ③ Improvement of atmospheric quality ⑭ Introduction of preemptive human rights 16 private sector Implementation through new energy business management Tasks ⑨ Building of LNG industrial ecosystem ④ Delivery of pre-emptive public services ⑮ Guarantee of citizen participation ⑩ Cultivation of innovative small enterprises ⑤ Organizational and process efficiency ⑯ Public-oriented service programs ⑪ Strengthen of collaborative cooperation ⑫ Embody socially responsible HR policy Expand Energy Welfare Service for the Underprivileged KOGAS supports citizen energy welfare by lowering city gas fees for underprivileged customers, such as low-income families and the disabled, and for the social welfare facilities in our society. It operates the Visiting One-Stop Service as part of a joint marketing campaign with the Korea City Gas Association 33 city gas companies countrywide to expand the subjects of the fee reduction by strengthening PR and simplifying the application process. We also operate the Gas Tariff Reduction Management System to simplify the process of fee reductions. The system allows the qualified subjects to apply for fee reductions over the Internet or at a resident center without having to submit separate documents, and the approval process is linked with Haengbok-E-eum which is the government administration network. Expansion of LNG Cold Energy Supply Promoting Local Economy by Operating the Freezing and Refrigerating Cluster KOGAS is carrying out a project of supplying unutilized LNG cold energy* to freezing and refrigerating logistics complexes in local communities. The project collaborated with the Incheon Port Authority and is scheduled to be constructed in 2020. We expect that it will contribute to the revitalization of the local economy through the creation of about KRW 4.3 trillion worth of added value, the employment of 26,000 persons, and saving of electricity consumption by 70%, over the next ten years. * Cold energy: Heat generated during the storage and transport of natural gas 34 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Efforts to Ease Public Burdens and Improve Public Benefits City Gas Fee Reduction KOGAS has restructured the existing fee system to ease the burden faced by citizens. We changed the time of applying the cost for profit and loss settlement from the winter season (January), when the LNG prices are relatively high, to the summer season (May), when the prices decrease, resulting in the lowering of the gas charges. In addition, we reduced the burden on the public by applying discounts to customers suffering from natural disasters, such as earthquakes or forest fires. Construction of the Jeju Terminal Reflecting the Local Community’s Needs Residents in Jeju Island had difficulties and faced cost burdens when using city gas because of an inadequate supply of LNG. To solve the problem, KOGAS is constructing the Jeju Terminal in Aewoleup, Jeju Island to minimize residents’ inconvenience and enhance the image of a clean Jeju. When the construction is completed as scheduled in October 2019, KOGAS will supply city gas to 158,584 households over the next ten years to increase the distribution rate in Jeju Island to 57%. Furthermore, the gas charge will decrease by up to 40% so that residents will save KRW 14.7 billion annually in city gas costs. Customer Communications Customer Satisfaction Operation of Public Communication Channel (Unit: points) KOGAS operates PR Centers in Daegu, Incheon, Pyeongtaek, Tongyeong, Samcheok, and Seoul and communicates using various content via online channels, including websites, blogs, and social media. Moreover, we operate a separate website for children who are future leaders. In addition, we initiated the Network for Customer Satisfaction Management to actively identify customer 93.5 90.3 85.8 needs and carry out customer satisfaction projects according to customer types by the relevant KOGAS Average for Energy Group Average of All Public departments. Corporations Customer Satisfaction Programs Centered on Problem Solving KOGAS has expanded VOC channels to understand and solve customer complaints by type. We arranged meetings with smaller distributors and suppliers through the Customer Council and Onsite Workshops to receive a total of 87 VOCs and processed 39 of them by improving the gas charge payment guarantee and other measures. VOC Channels and Process City Gas Company Power Plants Facility Users Distributors and Suppliers (New) • CS Promotion • Customer Council • Customer Council Committee • Customer • CS Promotion • Customer Council New Customer Council and Workshop for • SNS and Customer Satisfaction Workshop Committee • On-site Workshop Council Customers which KOGAS Supply Directly 60 companies VOC collection VOC distribution to the responsible department Working Level Committee meeting and review VOC selection KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 35 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Be a Leader in the Hydrogen Economy by Social Value 1 Constructing Hydrogen Infrastructure KOGAS, the Leader in Hydrogen Economy Hydrogen business refers to the economic and industrial structure that uses hydrogen as its main energy source. Hydrogen has attracted attention as a new energy source, instead of existing fossil fuel-based energy systems, in recent years as the minimization of environmental impacts, to prevent things such as climate change and particulate matter, have become a social issue. In 2018, the Korean government selected the hydrogen economy as one of three areas for strategic investment and announced a roadmap for the promotion of the hydrogen economy as the plan to step forward and become a leading country in the world’s best hydrogen economy with hydrogen Strategic Cultivation of cars and fuel cells as the key driving force. Hydrogen Business KOGAS intends to take the lead in the construction of hydrogen infrastructure to lead the era of First Public low-carbon and eco-friendly energy and promote the hydrogen economy by cooperating with the Corporation government’s plan. For that purpose, KOGAS amended the Korea Gas Corporation Act to include & the hydrogen business as one of the intended businesses and establish an institutional basis for Selection as the Outstanding constructing hydrogen infrastructure, such as the Hydrogen Committee and Hydrogen Strategy Innovation Case TF. Moreover, we detailed the hydrogen economy plan with the roadmap for the implementation (by Ministry of Strategy and Finance) of the hydrogen business. KOGAS intends to shift the energy paradigm and contribute to the strengthening of energy security. Implementation Direction Preemptive Construction of Hydrogen Infrastructure Supply of 60% of total national demand Phase 1 (~2022) Objective (National Phase 2 (~2030) Phase 3 (~2040) Demand) 0.47 million tons 1.73 million tons 3.45 million tons (0.47 million tons) (1.94 million tons) (5.26 million tons) Production Base 9 sites 26 sites (including the manufacturing base) Diversification of manufacturing and transport Pipeline 100 km 1,740 km (Including the import pipeline) (Overseas manufacturing and import pipeline) Implementation Plan Charging Stations 100 sites 110 sites (Cumulative) To build the hydrogen industry ecosystem To secure the price competitiveness To advance the distribution structure To localize equipment Carbon capture and resource technology Water electrolysis technology and demonstration 36 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Creating a Better Society Together Sustainability Context KOGAS Approach Fulfilling social responsibility has become an essential factor for KOGAS carries out various activities to create a better society by corporate sustainability in recent years as the interest and demand for contributing to the national economy and people’s living. We are corporate social responsibility have increased. As such, companies are solidifying the partnership with local communities through mutual striving to fulfill their responsibilities as a corporate citizen by pursuing growth by localizing equipment and developing sales channels for mutual growth with diverse stakeholders through the social return of small companies and the social contribution activities for vulnerable corporate profits in addition to their core business activities. and underprivileged groups. Moreover, we are doing our utmost to become a public corporation that is trusted by the public and fulfills its social responsibility by contributing to solving job problems through recruitment of youth and creating jobs in the private sector. KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 37 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Key Performance Mutual Growth Export orders by SMEs Rate of purchase from SMEs USD 11.70 34% million Partnership with Local Community Lowering of gas charge for Scholarship for high school and college the underprivileged students from low-income families KRW 87.3 KRW 420 billion million Creation of Jobs Creation of jobs Rate of hiring youths in the private sector 15,226 jobs 94.2% Interview Gab-sik Lee, Section chief of Daegu Metropolitan City Association of Social Workers KOGAS bringing warmth to local communities Daegu Metropolitan City Association of Social Workers and KOGAS are collaborating to promote social contribution activities in order to support people who are underprivileged, and poorly supported social welfare facilities. The most representative social contribution we have worked on with KOGAS is a thermal efficiency improvement project, in which we aided social welfare centers and low-income households with installing insulation and boilers. This project enabled local welfare to improve by helping to reduce energy costs to welfare recipients. Aside from that, we have been implementing social contribution activities targeting every generation and stage of life. KOGAS’s social contribution programs have a huge advantage in terms of the fact that it listens to citizen opinions by holding contests for social contribution ideas and by considering constant support through satisfaction surveys after a program is complete. With such constant communication, KOGAS is distinctive compared to other companies, as it operates programs the offer welfare recipients actual aid. I hope KOGAS realizes sustainable management and keeps bringing warmth to the local community, through a variety of activities focused on social contribution and social value creation. 38 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Mutual Growth Mutual Growth Support System KOGAS has established the two-track support system for shared growth that reflects the gas industry conditions to fulfill its social roles and responsibilities as a public corporation and to grow together with SMEs. We have set up short-term and long-term implementation projects for expansion of internal and external shared growth culture and present tasks to implement them. Two Track Support System for Mutual Growth To establish an environment that reflects the gas industry conditions Objective for short-term and long-term cultivation and shared growth To strengthen the support To cultivate the technology of To establish the ground for Export Booking by SMEs Implementation for SMEs to benefit them partner SMEs by localizing gas shared growth by providing Direction immediately equipment opportunities to create outcomes USD 11.70 million (Highest record in KOGAS’s history) Implementation Track Ⅰ Short-term support Track Ⅱ Mid and long-term Expansion of internal and external Tasks cultivation culture for shared growth • Shared performance system • Localization through • Internal culture based on Execution • Management support and collaboration incentive Tasks protection of key technologies • Mitigation of barrier to supply • PR for the expansion of shared growth culture Track 1. Strengthening of competitiveness of SMEs through short-term support programs Improvement of Competitiveness of SMEs by Supporting the Development of Sales Channels in Korea and Abroad SMEs face many difficulties and limitations in developing sales channels. As such, KOGAS held purchasing workshops with 43 local SMEs and directly purchased KRW 9 million of products to enhance the competitiveness of SMEs. In addition, we provided five opportunities to promote SMEs for the development of overseas sales channels, and 38 small companies participated in them. We also held the regional strategic seminars through the cooperation with KOTRA and achieved the highest export orders ever worth USD 11.7 million. Other programs that contributed to helping the Operation of Shared Growth Hall for Natural Gas Industry at the 2018 World Gas growth of SMEs include the support for the acquisition of patents and certification for eight SMEs. Conference Win-Win Shared Growth by Promoting Performance Sharing System Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 Phase 4 Implementation Registration of Project Execution Performance Review of Process Performance Sharing Performance Sharing Projects Sharing Establishment of KOGAS support for Review of Implementation Performance joint goal for KOGAS SMEs to complete performance sharing Details sharing of projects and SMEs projects of project Registration of 29 Expansion of support Sharing of KRW 60 million through sales Review of 20 projects projects for project execution Outcomes increase (Six projects more than (Nine projects more than (KRW 50 million more (KRW 50 million more the previous year) the previous year) than the previous year) than the previous year) KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 39 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Track 2. Cultivation of SMEs through midand long-term support projects Establishment of Roadmap for Localization of Gas Equipment KOGAS set the Roadmap for Localization of Gas Equipment to improve the know-how of domestic SMEs for localization of gas equipment and to secure the infrastructure for the performance verification. Based on the roadmap, we plan to cultivate SMEs to expand the pool of companies participating in localization and to establish open performance verification procedures and demonstration infrastructure (test-bed) to encourage SMEs to participate in localization of gas equipment. Roadmap for Localization of Gas Equipment Phase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 2018 2019 2020 (Laying foundation) (Pilot project execution) (Stabilization and expansion) • Selection of three items including • Expansion of target technologies • Substitution of shipment ball valve for localization • Execution of the 1st phase of reference with the performance • Preparation of test-bed and localization project verification contest of candidate projects • Operation of the test-bed • Development of sales channel • Enactment of regulation and for the joint entry in overseas guidelines markets Test-Bed Opening to Encourage Improvement of Regulations and Schemes for Localization of Gas Equipment with SMEs to Participate in Proven Quality Localization of Gas Equipment KOGAS has demanded the past shipment records to bidding companies for localization of gas Contest of Projects equipment since the proven safety and performance were more important than anything. However, domestic startups and newly participating companies had the difficulties of having no reference and thus losing the opportunity even to bid. KOGAS listened to such VOC through the Shared Growth Selection and Execution of Projects Committee and established the measures that expand the opportunity for domestic ventures to bid by drastically lowering the required previous shipment record to 1/10 or more or the total goods Performance Verification value from 1/3 or more. (Test -bed operation) Moreover, we created a new scheme of adding extra points to the localized equipment with the performance proven through the test-bed to expand and encourage the performance verification Product Purchase of domestic equipment. The target for localization of gas equipment was 61% in 2018, and KOGAS plans to increase it to 81% by 2022 to substitute about KRW 105.3 billion worth of imports. Expansion of Internal and External Culture for Shared Growth KOGAS intends to expand the culture for shared growth internally and externally to form the sound industrial ecosystem in which we can grow together with SMEs. KOGAS awarded departments and individuals who made efforts to purchase products from SMEs each year and established the sales target of participating SMEs to enhance the execution power of shared growth. SME Participation Achievement of Moreover, we sponsored the production of a TV program that visited SMEs to meet the needs for promoting local SMEs and revitalizing the local economy. The program produced through 103% of Sales Target (KRW 678.6 billion) the collaboration of Daegu City Hall, SME associations, and TBC has contributed significantly to enhance the image of SMEs and promote and market the products from them. 40 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Partnership with Local Implementation System for Social Contribution Activities Community KOGAS is committed to taking full responsibility as a corporate citizen by engaging in fundamental management activities which contribute to the livelihood of the public and returning corporate profits to society. Slogan for Social Contribution Onnuri Benefiting the Whole World Goals for Social Contribution Contribution to the public interest and community development by fulfilling the social value Onnuri Expansion of Onnuri Fostering Onnuri Cultivation of Social Strategic Tasks for 2018 Onnuri Energy Welfare a Culture of Sharing Future Generations Enterprises and Creation of Jobs • Installation of fuel cells • Onnuri Volunteers • Scholarships • Social contribution projects to • Improvement of heat efficiency • Onnuri Fund • Improvement of the educational environment create jobs Projects for 2018 • Medical welfare projects • Development of social economic • Protection of the environment and cultural organizations treasures Alignment with UN Sustainable SDGs 1,2,3,6,7,10,11,12,15,17 SDGs 1,2,3,6,10,11,14,15,16,17 SDGs 1,2,3,4,5,8,10,11,17 SDGs 1,3,4,7,8,9,10,11,13,15,17 Development Goals (SDGs) • Purchase for the heat efficiency • Members of Onnuri Volunteers: All • Students receiving the scholarship: • Sales of social economic organizations improvement project: KRW 40 million employees 310 students in Korea and 5 students in participating in the heat efficiency • Satisfaction of the heat efficiency • Onnuri Fund: KRW 196,772,000 other countries improvement project: KRW 1.105 billion improvement project: 98% • Internal satisfaction of the social • Job created by the social contribution • Outcome of the heat efficiency contribution project: 98.3% project: 60 persons improvement project: KRW 35,745,707 • Satisfaction of social contribution service Key Performance Index (KPI) • Households and facilities benefiting from quality by outside users (satisfaction of the heat efficiency improvement project: Toy Library): 90% 67 households and 92 organizations • Individuals and organizations benefiting from the city gas charge reduction: 1,266,000 households and 23,535 organizations *For more details on UN SDGs, please refer to appendix. Realization of Social Responsibility through Energy Welfare Activities Outcome of Heat Efficiency Heat Efficiency Improvement Project Improvement Project in 2018 Since 2010, KOGAS has been supporting wallpaper work, floor work, insulation, and windowing for welfare facilities and low-income families and encouraged the participation of social economic Participating companies (number) 19 organizations in the project to help cultivate social enterprises and create jobs. We have invested Sales (KRW million) 1,105 KRW 1.67 billion in 163 locations in Daegu and Jeju regions as part of heat efficiency improvement Purchase amount (KRW million) 40 project in 2018 and have supported KRW 16.8 billion in a total of 1,698 locations, including 899 lowincome households and 799 welfare facilities nationwide since 2010. In the future, KOGAS plans to carry out various social contribution projects and lead the efforts to realize national energy welfare. Lowering of Gas Charge for the Underprivileged (Unit: KRW 100 million) Gas Charge Reduction for Underprivileged Groups 873 KOGAS has lowered the gas charge to underprivileged groups to expand universal energy welfare. We introduced the online verification system to simplify the administration procedure and minimize the 835 768 inconvenience of targets of city gas charge reduction such as the disabled, low-income families, and families with many children and upgraded the charging scheme to reduce the burden on heating expenses. As a result, the underprivileged groups managed to save KRW 3.7 billion more in the gas 2016 2017 2018 charge than the previous year, and 114 social welfare facilities received the charge reduction. KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 41 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Community-Oriented Social Contribution Activities to Fulfill Various Needs Investment in Social Contribution (Unit: KRW) Contribution Projects Customized for Stakeholders KOGAS has carried out projects that reflect the needs of stakeholders to improve the benefits of social 18,578,162,000 13,688,894,000 contribution projects. We adjusted the construction period for the winter season from November to September to improve the thermal efficiency and increased the support for underprivileged households by 2% from the previous to save 490,000 kWh of energy annually and maintain 98% satisfaction for two years in a row. Moreover, we fulfilled the need for concentrated education and indepth curriculum by separating the wallpaper work and floor work at the Architectural Academy and Cash and commodity Total donation donation achieved more than 60% employment of graduates for two years in a row. KOGAS continues to carry out effective contribution projects that reflect the needs of the beneficiaries. New Projects for the Underprivileged KOGAS initiated new projects for the underprivileged through open collaboration to increase the awareness for local partners. We collaborated with local agencies and supported the installation of CCTVs in 40 areas vulnerable to crimes to improve the environments for the groups that are exposed Received to crime and supported the expenses of livelihood and psychotherapy for 36 crime victims. As a ‘Award by the Ministry of result, KOGAS received the “Award by the Ministry of the Interior and Safety” in the enterprise sector the Interior and Safety’ for prevention of crime in Korea from the National Policy Agency. Moreover, we held a contest for in the Enterprise Sector for Prevention social contribution projects and received 182 ideas from citizens and plan to carry out the selected of Crime in Korea by the National Policy Agency idea of “the project to distribute fire extinguishers to underprivileged groups.” Happy Nest for Residential Stabilization of Low-Income Families KOGAS is carrying out the “Happy Nest Stepping Stone for Residential Stabilization” program that remodels deserted and vacant houses, and rents them free of charge to improve the residential stability and the quality of life of low-income families in Dong-gu, Daegu as part of the urban regeneration project. In addition to 10 households for Happy Nest in 2016, 21 households have received free rent by 2018, and KOGAS plans to continue the programs to support the underprivileged groups to become self-sufficient. Moving-in Ceremony for Happy Nest Expansion of Energy Welfare in Local Social Welfare Facilities KOGAS has been supporting the installation of fuel cells since 2016 to enhance the energy welfare in social welfare facilities in Daegu region and expand the distribution of new & renewable energy. Beginning in last year, we have linked the program with the fuel cell installation subsidy program by Korea Energy Agency. In 2018, we installed 5 kW fuel cells in three social welfare facilities in Daegu. Fuel cells help to lower the heating cost, which can be a burden to welfare facility operation, significantly and to reduce carbon dioxide emission to affect the environmental protection positively. KOGAS plans to continue its efforts to lower the energy expenses of welfare facilities and improve the welfare of the underprivileged groups in the region by expanding the distribution of fuel cells. Walking with Senior Citizens In October 2018, KOGAS delivered silver carts to more than 100 senior citizens at Dongchon Social Welfare Center in Daegu to assist them in walking and provided pedestrian safety education to prevent traffic accidents. We supported 1,100 silver carts and 5,000 calendars as part of the specific project for senior citizens, who are the vulnerable groups in the community, and served health food in hot seasons. The branch offices nationwide provided gifts for Chuseok holidays. In the future, KOGAS plans to expand its opportunities to share warm hearts as a member of the Daegu Delivery of Silver Carts community by carrying out various substantial social contribution projects specialized for the region. 42 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Expansion of Voluntary Sharing Culture by Employees Monthly Activities of KOGAS KOGAS operates KOGAS Onnuri Volunteers who practice the corporate philosophy of “Better Onnuri Volunteers energy, a Better world.” KOGAS Onnuri Volunteers celebrated the 19th anniversary in 2018 and carried out the joint volunteer services with nine public institutions in Daegu Innovation City. January The volunteer group has expanded the shared culture by distributing rice cake soup to senior ˙Campaign for fire prevention citizens in the Lunar New Year holiday. In addition, KOGAS operates the Onnuri Fund with the safety in multi-use facilities voluntary donations from wages of all employees and carries out the learning assistance and in winter career experience learning for teenagers from multicultural families to help them adapt to the February local community and supports the training and livelihood expenses for self-sufficiency of unwed mothers. Going forward, KOGAS will continue to do its best to embody true sharing through ˙Campaign for promoting national safety assessment caring for neglected neighbors and become a cornerstone of a happy world. ˙Sharing of rice cake soup with senior citizens in the Lunar New Year holiday Fostering Future Generations for a Better Future March Support for Rehabilitation of Severely Disabled Children ˙Pep rally for 2018 Pyeongchang KOGAS has been carrying out the Onnuri R-Bank project since 2010. The name signifies Winter Paralympics Rehabilitation and Recycling. This project repairs and reforms the rehabilitation aids that no longer fit the disabled children as they grow and recycles them to other disabled children June from low-income families. Until now, 375 children have received recycled rehabilitation aids. In addition, KOGAS’ Onnuri R-Bank project provides free mobile medical treatment to children in ˙Cleaning, goods delivery, and donation for an orphan center the vicinity of its business sites. As a result, 1,116 disabled children countrywide received the treatment. August Support for Teenagers from Multicultural Families and Immigrant Children ˙Serving of chicken soup and donation of massage chair KOGAS supports youths in various ways to support socially neglected groups and develop future to senior citizens in a welfare leaders. In November 2018, KOGAS held the opening ceremony for “Support for Teenagers from center Multicultural Family and Immigrant Children” program in Social Welfare Center in Dongchon, Daegu. Named YaoF (You are our Future), the project sponsored by Onnuri Fund established with September the donation from wages of KOGAS’ employees supported the customized learning, psychological ˙Support for the rehabilitation exam, and career experience learning of 25 teenagers. The program can contribute to increasing of severely disabled children the academic achievement and career development of teenagers from multicultural families and immigrant children to help them adapt to society. Support for High School and College Students from Low-Income Families KOGAS has been carrying out Onnuri Scholarship programs to assist high school and college students from low-income families since 1999. We are currently cooperating with Daegu’s Donggu Office and the Community Chest of Korea to offer scholarships to high school students and the Korea Student Aid Foundation for college students. In 2018, we paid the scholarship for the total amount of KRW 420 million to 200 high school students in Dong-gu, Daegu and 110 college students near the business sites nationwide. KOGAS realizes the great significance in supporting the unlimited possibilities and dreams of underprivileged students and plans to continue Scholarship for fostering of human talents expanding collaborative cooperation programs to support the cultivation of future leaders. KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 43 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Creation of Jobs Establishment of Sustainable Job Strategy Creating quality jobs is the crucial government agenda as youth unemployment has become a social issue. KOGAS carries out various efforts to create jobs by organizing Job Creation Subcommittee under the Social Value Committee in each division to fulfill our social obligations as a public corporation. KOGAS set the vision of “KOGAS Job Together for a Better Society” to create sustainable jobs. Intending to create 90,000 quality jobs by 2025, we select and implement the programs to create jobs. Sustainable Job Strategy Vision KOGAS Job Together for a Better Society Goal Creation of 90,000 jobs by 2025 Goal in 2,837 direct jobs / 11,540 indirect jobs* 2018 Direction Upgrading of the job creation system Creation of jobs in the private sector • Creation of Specialized Subcommittees for Job • Creation of jobs in the private sector throughout Creation the business value chain Tasks • Identification of areas for job creation by each • Creation of innovative jobs based on Specialized Subcommittee cooperation and sharing *Indirect job: Calculated by applying the employment inducement coefficient (the inter-industry table by the KDB Bank) of the related fields to the investment cost by each business Job Creation System KOGAS organized 24 Specialized Job Subcommittees throughout the natural gas industry’s value chain to reorganize the job creation system. We plan to identify 5,001 jobs in new areas by 2023 by continuing to consult with shareholders and power plant operators through the Specialized Job Subcommittees and establishing the private-government-public collaboration system. Moreover, we improved the sense of experience and reliability by changing the criteria for quantifying job creation goals and established specific and challenging job creation goals in all of our businesses. R&D and New Overseas Overseas LNG Domestic Business Value Upstream Downstream Transportation Infrastructure (4th Industrial Mutual Chain (Exploration and (Infrastructure (Shipbuilding (Terminal and Revolution, New Growth Development) Export) and Repair) Pipeline) & Renewable Energy, Etc.) Subcommittee to Construction Subcommittee to R&D Shared Growth Export Downstream Shared Growth Enter Upstream Subcommittee Council Infrastructure Council Specialized Subcommittee Transport/ Overseas Insurance Local Cooperation New Business Collaborative Shipbuilding Subcommittee Council Subcommittee Cooperation Council Subcommittee ① Identification of areas for job ② Change of criteria for goal ③ Setting of direct and indirect jobs Role creation quantification and performance management 44 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Resolving Youth Unemployment by Expanding Hiring of Youths Creation of Jobs by Expanding Youth Interns KOGAS expanded the experience-type internship linked with 18 universities and local governments (Daegu Metropolitan City) near its home office and branch offices by 16.7 times compared to the previous year to alleviate the employment barrier against young people and strengthen their Experience-type interns increased by employment capabilities. We provided the opportunity for on-the-job training by assigning 167 experience-type interns in production bases and regional headquarters and conducted global 16.7times compared to the previous year education to enhance job competency. It led to the enhancement of the employment capability of young people, and eight of the interns went to work in other organizations such as the Korea Gas Safety Corporation, and two joined KOGAS. Hiring of Youths Record High Hiring of Youths KOGAS promoted youth employment by hiring the record number of youths to solve 348 (Unit: persons) 206 unemployment among young people. In 2018, we held 23 employment seminars at universities 140.5 nationwide and conducted simulated interviews with professional interviewer as part of the support to increase the employment rate of young people. As a result, young people accounted for 94.2% of recruits, contributing to increasing the employment rate of young people. 2016 2017 2018 Realization of Social Value by Expanding Open Recruitment Hiring of High School Graduates KOGAS realized the need to provide jobs specific to high school graduates and carried out the (Unit: persons) policy of preferred hiring of high school graduates. We specified the jobs such as equipment 69 operation and testing that are suitable for NCS-based high school graduates and exempted the language skill qualification to lower the employment barrier and recruit talented people based on inherent capability rather than apparent specification. As a result, the hiring of high school 42 graduates increased to 153% of the previous year. In the future, KOGAS plans to strive for open 27.5 recruitment to lead the social equity employment culture. 2016 2017 2018 Creation of Jobs in the Private Sector KOGAS created jobs directly or indirectly throughout the value chain, including overseas business, LNG transport, and infrastructure construction in the private sector. In 2018, we created 3,081 direct jobs and 12,145 indirect jobs in the private sector. Creation of Jobs in the Private Sector Job Created in the Private Sector in 2018 (Unit: persons) Direct Jobs Indirect Jobs Value Chain Main Duties Created Created Total 21,982 (number) (number) Overseas 21,828 • Plant construction and booking support 629 5,494 6,123 15,226 Upstream Overseas • Terminal design and management and entry into overseas 726 419 1,145 Downstream infrastructure business jointly with private enterprises LNG • Cultivation of the domestic shipbuilding industry by 455 24 479 Transportation ordering and operating domestic ships • Expansion and addition of domestic production and supply Infrastructure equipment such as tank 1,226 6,082 7,308 Building • Construction of supply pipeline • Joint R&D and identification of new energy business 2016 2017 2018 R&D and New • Research of big data and AI with the instrument analysis 10 28 38 Business system *Change has occurred in 2017 data by reflecting employment inducement • Support of social economy and social contribution projects Mutual Growth 35 98 133 coefficient at job creation performance • Support of business fund of SMEs Total 3,081 12,145 15,226 KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 45 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Social Value 2 Productive Welfare through Social Contribution Helping Hand for the Homeless and Residents in Slums to Find Jobs Since 2016, KOGAS has been operating Onnuri Architectural Academy that trains construction techniques such as woodworking, flooring, wallpaper work, waterproofing, and insulation to help the homeless and residents in slums to be self-sufficient. Students learned specialized skills through the 3 hours a day and twice a week training for 6 months and participated in voluntary services to repair houses in slums in Daegu. In 2018, a new intensive course was set up to let the students select the specialty for in-depth training. As a result, 13 out of 25 graduates succeeded in finding jobs. Productive Welfare to Business Startup beyond Jobs Two of the KOGAS architectural academy graduates who completed the six-month curriculum went beyond finding jobs and succeeded in even starting a social cooperative named “Friends of the Street.” The Architectural Academy program is regarded as a good example of productive welfare in that it goes beyond just supporting the underprivileged of our society and guides them to become economically independent. Responsible Expansion of Continuous Support In June 2018, KOGAS held the Architectural Academy Exhibition to increase the awareness of the social cooperative started by its graduates and help them develop the sales channel. The event was participated by Friends of the Street, and social enterprises including Daul and Happiness Sharing House for the residents in slums. In the future, KOGAS plans to establish a stable employment base for the homeless through the support of the Architecture Academy program and actively respond to the government’s job creation policies and promote various regional Art Exhibition by ‘Friends of the Street’ cooperation projects. Completion Ceremony of 3rd Onnuri Architectural Academy 46 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Responsible Company that Prioritizes People and Nature Sustainability Context KOGAS Approach Natural gas has gained attention as an eco-friendly fuel since it KOGAS minimizes the environmental and safety risks in its business discharges little pollutant other than water and carbon dioxide even sites based on the management that integrates the environment, after combustion as it is processed through desulfurization and safety, health, and quality (EHSQ). We reduced the generation dehydration during the liquefaction process. Although it has relatively of pollutants by upgrading processes and applying advanced safe properties compared to other fuels, gas leakage or fire during an technologies and preemptively responded to climate change by accident can lead to a major disaster, and thus the safety management establishing countermeasures and detailed tasks. Moreover, KOGAS of the employees and nearby residents has become a crucial factor. improves the level of the safety culture of our employees through safety preventive activities and the countermeasure system for each type with the goal of zero accident and zero loss. KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 47 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Key Performance Environmental Management Greenhouse Gas Emission Surplus carbon reduction emission right 270,000 tCO2eq KRW 4.3billion Safety Management Lowest occupational MOIS Disaster disaster rate among Management Assessment public institutions 0.09% Excellent grade Interview Kyoung-seon Kim, General manager of disaster management team, KOGAS KOGAS contributing to fostering of safe and secure society through global-level safety management Our institute was reminded again of the importance of safety management, due to a gas explosion of a gas supply base in 1994. Afterward, we have been establishing advanced safety management systems, such as organizing KOGAS-typed safety systems and establishing EHSQ systems for the first time in public institutes. We implement safety inspections on a regular basis to prevent disasters and accidents, and conduct globallevel safety management by receiving international safety certifications, such as OHSAS 18001. We also secure the safety of gas facilities for preventive safety management, and conduct safety trainings. With such activities, our institute was selected as the institute with the lowest disaster rate for 2 consecutive years and received a presidential commendation as our institute was selected as an excellent institute in the “performance research of disaster management by institutes in 2018” by the Ministry of the Interior and Safety. Our institute is making a political effort by selecting 8 major promotion projects for constant improvement of the level of safety culture, and also enhancing site-centered safety management activities, such as reinforcement of the monitoring EHSQ management system. Our institute will try our best to secure a high level of safety culture awareness and foster a safe society through systematic safety management as well in the future. 48 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 EHSQ Management KOGAS-EHSQ Management System System KOGAS has developed and is operating the KOGAS EHSQ management system that integrates environment, safety, health, and quality, giving the utmost priority to “respecting human and nature.” We have acquired ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001, and ISO 29001 certifications for the system to minimize risks and improve productivity by managing EHSQ issues in an integrated and efficient manner. We continuously upgrade the system through the PDCA (plan–do–check–adjust) process. EHSQ Management Vision KOGAS pursues improving the health and quality of life of all employees and citizens and providing excellent quality and service that meet customer needs and expectations by establishing the safe and comfortable environment through the application of the safety, health, environment, and quality (EHSQ) as its top priority and continuous improvement and mutual cooperative prevention activities. • Management and • Gap Analysis and Improvement Action Plan Prioritization • Human Resources and EHSQ Budget Allocation Management System • Execution Check Do • Document (Procedure) Assessment of Development and EHSQ Management Operation System Components of KOGAS EHSQ Management System 1 General rules 8 Crisis management and accident investigation 2 Policy 9 Environmental management 3 Organization 10 Health management 4 Information technology 11 Education and drill 5 Risk management 12 PR & complaints 6 Design, materials, and construction management 13 Compliance 7 Facility operation and maintenance 14 Measurement and improvement management EHSQ Global Assessment System A management system requires steps of system inspection, evaluation, and upgrade to be in operation continuously. We developed and applied an objective and quantitative global evaluation system (Management & Assessment Tool for Efficient Rating, MASTER) to ensure continuous improvement of the operation of the EHSQ management system and achieve the best performance. KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 49 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Environmental Environment Management System Management Since KOGAS declared the environmental management in 1997, we have maintained the ISO 14001 certification and are operating the environmental management system that integrates environmental impact management and response to climate change with the objective of “Contribution to improving citizens’ quality of life through the preemptive response to climate change.” We examine the environmental impact of all processes and disclose it through the environmental information disclosure system and present it to all business sites and suppliers to alleviate the environmental risk. Goal Contribution to improving citizens’ quality of life through the preemptive response to climate change 5 Preemptive response to Establishment of the Strengthening of Active compliance with Creation of social values for Strategic Directions emission trade scheme and environmental and energy transparency of carbon and environmental regulation public interest climate change management system environmental information and government policy disclosure • Preemptive response to • Securing the operational • Expansion of low-carbon • Realization of social • Active response to the policy changes efficiency of the culture by raising the values by complying eco-friendly environment concerning the emission environmental and energy DJSI/CDP level with the environmental and GHG reduction with trade scheme management system • Strengthening of regulation local communities • Identification of GHG • Upgrading of the training the disclosure system • Integrated management • Construction of the 12 Implementation reduction projects to system to strengthen the of the environmental of atmospheric environmental network Tasks secure emission rights professional capability of management information pollutants (NOx, SOx, to create social values • Adaptation to climate employees and others) with change and establishment • Improvement of consideration to of the execution implementation of particulate matter inspection system government energy policy Costs of Environmental Activities Pollutant Treatment Pollution Prevention (Unit: KRW million) 9,391 (Unit: KRW million) 23,350 23,295 17,194 1,865 1,398 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Stakeholders Activities Legal Compliance Environmental Activities (Unit: KRW million) 265 (Unit: KRW million) (Unit: KRW million) 26,929 341 173 221 25,555 109 79 25,198 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 50 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Minimization of Environmental Impact NOx Emission Allowance Criteria Atmospheric Pollution Management (Unit: ppm) Natural gas production and supply facilities generate atmospheric pollutants such as nitrogen oxide 150 (NOx) and sulfur oxide (SOx) through the submerged combustion vaporizer (SCV) and salt water 130 heater (SWH). KOGAS manages the discharge from the environmental management system over the intranet monthly and carries out the reduction plan and improvement measures when the record 105 75 45 exceeds the annual target emission. Although the natural gas, which is the clean fuel, generates less atmospheric pollutants compared to other energy sources when combusted, it generates NOx which 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 causes particulate matter. As such, KOGAS manages atmospheric pollutants by applying the criteria that are stricter than the allowable emission criteria as prescribed by the Clean Air Conservation Act. The Incheon Terminal Division and Pyeongtaek Terminal Division that are located in the Seoul Allowable NOx Emission metropolitan area, in particular, are classified as air pollutant emission-cap regulation sites according (Unit: tons) to the Special Act on the Improvement of Air Quality in Seoul Metropolitan Area. As such, we manage 143.4 them methodically to control the NOx emission within the allowable limit set for each site. 139.7 137.9 Water Pollution Management Incheon Terminal Division Although KOGAS uses utility water and seawater heavily in its vaporization process, there is 133.8 tons no environmental impact since the seawater fed into the open rack vaporizer (ORV) is for heat exchange. Water treatment facilities are installed in LNG terminals to manage water pollutant 2018 2019 2020 concentration to below the allowable emission criteria. The Pyeongtaek, Incheon, and Samcheok Terminal Divisions, located on the coast, have their sewage treatment facilities to discharge sewage 19.4 19.3 at the concentrations below the emission limit after cleaning and treatment. The wastewater of 19.1 Tongyeong Terminal Division and supply office of regional headquarters is disposed of in the Pyeongtaek wastewater treatment plants. Terminal Division 35.6 tons Chemical Material Management KOGAS uses NaOH and HCl in SCV, but they are controlled at low concentration to adjust the pH in 2018 2019 2020 the vaporizer tank and are not classified as a hazardous chemical substance. We disclose the chemical substance discharge from each site through the environmental information disclosure system. Water* Usage (Unit: thousand m3) Waste Management 1,572,304 KOGAS minimizes the generation of waste from business activities such as natural gas production 1,241,908 1,184,987 and supply processes and construction and strives to make it easier to dispose of waste and recycle resources by type and use. We also prohibit the use of disposable items in offices according to the Guidelines for Reducing Disposables in the Public Sector, and our in-house coffee shop charges an environmental fee on beverage purchase in disposable cups to establish the eco-friendly consumption culture. 2016 2017 2018 *Seawater, water supply, and underground water Protection of Biodiversity Total Waste* Discharge KOGAS conducts the environment impact assessment to predict and evaluate the impact on the (Unit: tons) environmental change and prepare the measures to preserve the ecosystem for constructions 293,892 and operations that can affect the nearby ecosystems. We then organize a council consisting of project contractor, representatives of residents, and experts such as the environmental groups in the assessed area to discuss the process and results of the environmental impact assessment and 84,279 63,361 establish the improvement measures. We continuously monitor the surrounding ecosystem through the post-project environmental impact investigation after the project completion and operation. In 2016 2017 2018 2018, KOGAS carried out the otter, flying squirrel, and rare plant preservation project to restore the *General, designated, and construction waste discharge habitat of endangered species as part the ocean and forest ecosystem preservation program. KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 51 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Social Value 3 Construction of Eco-Friendly Business Site as Response to Climate Change Reduction: GHG Emission Reduction KOGAS has been managing GHG emissions systematically since it was designated as the emission allocation subject following the introduction of the emission trade scheme in 2015. We expanded the capacity of the ORV to reduce GHG from the natural gas production process and upgraded the methane collection system for maintenance, resulting in the direct GHG reduction of 9,387tCO2eq. Furthermore, we minimized the electricity usage by introducing the pre-cooler which is the cold energy recycling system, resulting in the direct GHG reduction of 2,252tCO2eq. Moreover, we established and monitored the GHG emission goal for each site and selected and awarded five excellent sites in achieving the goal. GHG Emission and Emission Right Trade Scheme Status (Unit: tCO2eq) Type 2015 2016 2017 2018 GHG emission right allocation* 758,231 704,565 666,240 745,268 Emission Direct GHG 456,413 469,305 551,549 663,206 (Including omission) Indirect GHG 352,277 359,290 360,571 388,593 Surplus emission right (reduction) About 270,000 tons * The allocation in the 1st plan period (2015 2017) excludes omission and includes it for the assignment in the 2nd plan period (2018 2020). Adaptation_Strategy to Cope with Climate Change Reduction and response measures to climate change that is accelerating globally are emphasized worldwide. As such, KOGAS established the measures and detailed plan to cope with climate change to reduce the damage of gas facilities from climate change and supply safe natural gas to the public. We analyzed six impact factors such as heat and cold waves for each area such as the production and supply facility, workers, and public service and established various detailed plans based on three strategies. Three Strategies and Detailed Plans to Cope with Climate Change Vision Supply of safe and clean energy to cope with climate change Objective Supply of stable and sustainable natural gas Strengthening of capability to prepare for Establishment of system to prevent 3 Strategies Climate change impact assessment climate change damage from climate change • Spatial data-based evaluation of regions • Formation of management organization to • Operation of measures for stable supply in vulnerable to extreme weather adapt to climate change winter • Detailed assessment of the impact of • Training of professionals and employees to • Establishment of BOG generation during hot seawater level increase adapt to climate change season and preparation for each load • Review and supplementation of design • Development of the process to assess the • Training of field measures according to the criteria of facilities to prepare for temperature impact of climate change weather alert Detailed Tasks change • Construction of the system to evaluate the • Preventive maintenance in areas vulnerable • Review and supplementation of design measures to adapt to climate change to drought alert criteria related to wind load • Improvement and management of classification • Waterproof construction and addition of • Investigation areas vulnerable to weak system of disaster type and cause humidity sensors to prevent electric short foundation and supplementation of • Supplementation of the facility disaster • Investigation and inspection of facilities to preventive measures management system prevent damage from lightning • Improvement of the detailed classification of • Inspection and maintenance of the disaster the disaster response system control facilities and equipment • Supplementation of the disaster scenario and accident prevention manual 52 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Environmental KOGAS practices environmental management to minimize the negative environmental impact Performance occurring during business activities and actively copes with climate change with low-carbon management including the GHG emission reduction programs. Moreover, we received the environmental management system (ISO14001) and energy management system (ISO50001) certifications and manage the atmospheric and water pollutants actively by setting the criteria that are stricter than the legal standards. KOGAS intends to fulfill its social responsibility and contribute to sustainable development through continuous environmental improvement programs through its business activities. Input Energy Usage Chemical Material Usage Total: 14,557 TJ Total: 352,288 kg (Direct: 6,583 TJ, Indirect: 7,980 TJ) (9.74 kg/thousand tons) Output GHG Emission Emission of Air Pollutants Total: 1,051,799 tCO2eq NOx: 311,538 kg (8.60 kg/thousand tons) Direct: 663,206 tCO2eq SOx: 1,535 kg (0.04 kg/thousand tons) Dust: 4,606 kg (0.13 kg/thousand tons) Indirect: 388,593 tCO2eq KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 53 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Water Usage Environmental Activities Cost Total: 1,184,987 thousand ㎥ KRW 26,929 million Seawater: 1,184,457 thousand ㎥, Water supply: 520 thousand ㎥, Underground water: 10 thousand ㎥ Emission of Water Pollutants Emission of Waste BOD: 73.1 kg (0.0020 kg/thousand tons) Total: 63,361 tons COD: 52.9 kg (0.0015 kg/thousand tons) (1.75 ton/thousand tons) SS: 84.2 kg (0.0023 kg/thousand tons) General: 1,892 tons Designated: 155 tons Construction: 61,314 tons 54 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Safety Safety Management Strategy Management KOGAS has established the advanced safety culture that highlights zero accident and zero disasters to prevent accidents. We implement global level safety and health management by maintaining the OHSAS 18001 certification. Safety Management Implementation Strategy Vision Zero Accidents and Zero Disasters through Advanced Safety Management Activities Increase in safety Increase in safety Strengthening of sympathy management execution awareness for safety culture capability • Leading by example by • Enhancement of internal • Remuneration for safety Implementation CEO and top management communication performance Direction • Strengthening of safety • Continuous improvement • Improvement of the management system in the of the safety management capability to cope with field system disaster • Enhancement of • Enhancement of support • Enhancement of weight occupational disaster for safety management in factor for assessment control the field Establishment of autonomous safety culture centered on the field Field Activities Voluntary Labor-management Initiation by Continuous Field-customized participation cooperation management implementation Mid-term and Long-term Objective of Safety Management Safety Culture KOGAS Suppliers Facility Level Disaster Rate Disaster Rate Accidents Goal for 2021 7.8 points/10 1/3 or less of the 1/3 or less of the 0 cases points scale disaster rate in average disaster the electrical, gas, rate of public and water service institutions industries Prevention of Industrial Disasters Priority to Prevent Accidents in Construction Sites KOGAS preemptively blocks the possibility of accidents through the unannounced inspection 44 Lowest Occupational Disaster Rate locations and safety fences to enhance the safety of construction sites of the gas supply chain. Moreover, we conduct the risk assessment with suppliers to enhance safety management by Average of public institutions: 0.53% KOGAS employees as well as the supplier’s employees. KOGAS achieved “Zero death of suppliers employees” for two years in a row by the prevention through the safety inspection. KOGAS 0.09% Remote Surveillance of Risky Sites KOGAS carries out remote surveillance of underground gas pipelines in areas where it is difficult for vehicles or personnel to enter or risky areas. In 2018, KOGAS participated in the drone project conducted by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport and conducted the pipeline patrolling and surveillance of unauthorized excavation using a drone in two areas. When there is an abnormality, the drone sends a signal to the pipeline drone control center which analyzes the pipeline status and improves it if necessary. We plan to expand the drone applied areas to seven and optimize the KOGAS drone system to enhance the safety of the gas pipeline. KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 55 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Establishment of Safe Workplace during Heat Waves Many heatstrokes can occur in the outdoor sites during summer heat waves. KOGAS preemptively responds to diseases to protect the safety of field personnel from heat waves. We minimize the damage of heat waves by suspending all outdoor work between 13:00 15:00, installing mobile rest heatstroke patients facilities in the field, and providing beverages to prevent dehydration. 0 persons Employee Disease Prevention KOGAS manages employees’ health and safety based on the comprehensive health management system to establish a comfortable and healthy organizational culture. KOGAS conducted the special medical examination of 1,253 employees who are in shift work and work in labs and operated the “Finding My Heart Happiness” to relieve job stress as a way to improve the mental health of the employees. A psychological consultation on the satisfaction of our executives and employees showed that they recorded as high as 4.4 points out of 5 points, indicating that the program contributed to their health and prevention of stress. We have also prepared guidelines Satisfaction of Employee Psychological Counseling for responding to infectious diseases at each stage to minimize the damage from the outbreak of infectious diseases. As a result, there was no case of infection among the employees who were 4.4 points dispatched or traveling at the time of issuance of the crisis of the MERS crisis in September 2018. Minimization of Injury KOGAS has been conducting systematic safety management to prevent the possibility of employee injuries. We conducted the work safety analysis of employees, suppliers, and construction workers and the risk assessment before construction to correct the risk factors. The risk assessment in 2018 improved and corrected 359 cases such as fire, collision, and jamming incidents in the workplace. In addition to risk assessment, KOGAS systematized safety and health education as a preventive measure against injuries and recorded 4 injuries in the workplace, which was the lowest compared to the average of public institutions. Safety and Health Education in 2018 Compulsory Job Specialized In-house Safety and Health Education Education Education 33 courses including 38 courses including the working Monthly Safety and safety managers environment improvement Health Education in All Sites 500 persons 565 persons 192 times Finding My Heart Happiness Safety and Health Education 56 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Dissemination of Safety Culture Dissemination of Safety Mind Safety Culture Level Indicator (ISRS-C) KOGAS establishes the safety culture that emphasizes the communication and participation to improve (Unit: points) the safety consciousness of employees. We shared the field safety letter to promote safety communication 7.19 7.40 7.51 between management and field workers and conducted BBS*, which is the autonomous safety recommendation program, in all sites. As a result, it received 7.51 points, which was significantly higher than the domestic average of 5.76 points, in ISRS-C** in recognition of the global-level safety culture. *BBS (Behavior Based Safety Program): A program to encourage safe actions by identifying unsafe behaviors **ISRS-C (International Safety Rating System-Culture): The internationally accepted rating for safety culture developed by DNV-GL 2016 2017 2018 Sharing of Safety Culture with suppliers Safety management of suppliers has become a crucial factor because construction contractors cause many injuries. KOGAS conducted the construction safety prevention experience and gas fire training with the theme of “Falling, Collision, and Jamming,” which are three disasters that occur most commonly in workplaces, for 450 supplier employees and residents to contribute to the improvement of safety. Moreover, we spread the KOGAS’ safety culture through safety guidance, system diagnosis, and consulting support. As a result, the safety satisfaction of suppliers in 2018 was high at 82.3 points. Specialization of Disaster Management Strengthening of Response for Each Disaster Type KOGAS upgraded the safety manual and preparation system for each disaster type enacted last year to help to respond to disasters such as the gas leakage, earthquake, and forest fire quickly. We built the collaboration system with the local government and relevant organizations for each disaster In MOIS Disaster Management type to establish joint response measures for quick evacuation of residents in the disaster area and Assessment Excellent grade conducted the disaster response training to strengthen the disaster management capability. As a result, KOGAS received the “Excellent” grade for the third consecutive year in the Disaster Management Assessment of the Ministry of the Interior and Safety in 2018 and also achieved the “Excellent” grade for 3 years consecutive years in disaster response training by the Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy. Response System for Each Disaster Type Gas Leakage Earthquake Forest Fire • Alert issuance according to • Alert according to the size • Alert issued according to the the leakage size and damage distance Upgrading • Broadcasting of local • Inspection of the emergency • Response and collaboration of Manual government status gas facility according to the size • Response procedure for earthquake and tsunami District heating and Korea Meteorological Korea Forest Service, Fire Strengthening oil pipeline Administration Department, and local government of Cooperation System Collaboration with pipeline Sharing of earthquake Implementation of the joint contractors observation information response system In-house Development of Forest Fire Radiated Heat Analysis System Gas facilities near forests can cause grave damage due to the radiated heat when there is a forest fire. As such, KOGAS developed Korea’s first forest fire numeric analysis system and enacted the forest fire manual based on the analysis results to minimize the danger of forest fire. We conducted the numerical analysis of forest fire radiated heat of 135 gas facilities near forests and reinforced the 44 gas facilities that require improvement. There was no damage from forest fires in 2018. KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 57 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Information Security Information Security Execution System Information Security Strategy System It is becoming important to manage customer information safely and respond quickly to Plan: Establishment of the infringement incidents as various types of security incidents such as personal information leakage security target and procedure and ransomware have occurred recently. KOGAS has implemented the information security strategy • Establishment of a security plan system focusing on personal information protection, cyber infringement, and security culture to • Enhancement of the security system secure the ability to respond to security incidents. Security Operation of fault-free information protection system by preemptively responding to cyber threats Objective Do: Systematic security activities • Strengthening of information security activities • Strengthening of face-to -face Performance Target No leakage of personal No cyber Establishment of voluntary training information infringement participation in security Implementation Strengthening of privacy Deployment of a preemptive Establishment of autonomous Strategy protection defense system security culture Check: Inspection, analysis, and evaluation • Two-track concentrated • Enhancement of the response • Improvement of security policy • Evaluation by higher-level Key management of personal system to business network threats • Strengthening of customized organization Projects information • Advancement of control network information security capability • Internal security inspection information protection system Absolute Protection of Personal Information Action: Establishment and KOGAS is strengthening the safety of personal information by managing it in two tracks based supplementation of measures on management and technology. We have strengthened information management through the • Countermeasures • Reflection of regulation customized education of privacy protection and regular disclosure of information transfer history. We changed the exposure inspection from once a year to once a month to prevent information leakage on the web system and upgraded the bidirectional encryption system to unidirectional encryption to reduce the risk of leakage. We inspected 40,000 personal information records and 10,000 expired DB records to delete unneeded information. Securing Cyber Safety KOGAS has implemented the cyber defense system to respond to new attacks preemptively. We expanded the business network blocking policies to 15 and added the OTP authentication for e-mails to restrict the access by unauthorized users. Moreover, KOGAS operates the company council for a preliminary review of security and has implemented the malware detection system specialized in the control systems. As a result, KOGAS received the “Excellent” rating in vulnerability analysis and assessment of the information and communication infrastructure held by MOTIE. Establishment of Autonomous Security Culture KOGAS has designated 2018 as the “Year of Establishing an Autonomous Security Culture” to spread awareness of information security so that employees can perform the security job more actively. We jointly conducted various activities such as hacking education with universities and professional organizations to strengthen the customized information security capability, the online education “Jikyojub (Protect) Show!,” and the joint workshop to enhance the privacy protection system to enhance the employees’ security capability. Moreover, KOGAS improved the employees’ security consciousness using the PC screen saver. “Information security is the FIRST, you practicing it is the Joint Workshop to Strengthen Personal Information Protection System BEST!” that was the winning motto in a contest was used as the message for the PC screen saver. 58 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Corporate Culture Respecting and Trusting Each Other Sustainability Context KOGAS Approach Recently, the importance of realization of social value is becoming KOGAS is making efforts to realize the social value of human respect. higher. The government is emphasizing human rights and ethics by For this, we are practicing an approach to internalize a human rights establishing「The Third National Human Rights Plans of Action」 ,「Five management system and activities by proactively establishing the Year Comprehensive Plan for Anti-corruption」.With this trend, internal system. In addition to this, we are carrying out a policy for a familyand external stakeholders are required to establish a culture of respect friendly system, establishment of nondiscriminatory working culture for human rights and settle a foundation of ethics management for the and so forth. We are also trying to eradicate corruption through constant growth of public institutions and security of competitiveness. integrity&ethics management and to secure the public’s trust by enhancing transparency with various innovative activities of integrity. KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 59 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Key Performance Human Rights Management Rate of application of complementary/ Protect the human rights of improvement measures construction workers among those identified risks 100% 2,354persons Great Company to Work Saftisfaction in Satisfaction in education work and life balance in 2018 79.1 points 85.9 points Integrity&Ethics Management Level of comprehensive Evaluation of integrity anti-corruption initiatives 3rd grade (up by 1 grade over a year ago) Excellent(2nd grade) Interview Seung-ki Shim, General manager of corporate culture team, KOGAS KOGAS dedicated to invigoration of culture for respecting human rights, by embracing inclusive human rights management Human rights are an important value to secure our institute’s sustainability. KOGAS is committed to cultivating a culture of respecting human rights by introducing human rights management as a management principle that includes internal and external stakeholders. We established a midand long-term road map in 2018, regarding human rights management. In particular, we conduct human rights impact assessments for different value chains, to identify risks to human rights in each area. Until now, no serious problems or particularly weak areas have been detected, but comprehensive and inclusive promotion of human rights management for stakeholders in the supply chain has been limited by policy. In order to improve this point, we have been promoting the human rights of construction workers and we are making efforts to resolve violations of human rights by suppliers. As a leading public authority in the field of human rights, we are dedicated to the spread of human rights culture by presenting at the 2019 National Human Rights Management Forum and sharing introductory examples of human rights management with local communities and public institutes. We will continue to lead the way in realizing human rights culture, rather than simply regarding human rights management as a system and slogan. 60 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Human Rights Policy of Human Rights Management Management Mid and Long-Term Road Map for KOGAS Human Rights Management KOGAS is establishing a global level of policy for human rights management by devising a midand long-term roadmap for KOGAS human rights management and seeking to realize a goal of humancentric social value. We are planning to link human rights with an enterprise-wide managerial objective, system and evaluation of management and reflect them, and create a synergy effect by connecting them with existing ethics management and sustainable management system. In addition, we are attempting to realize human rights management by gradually promoting subjects by stages according to a three-year master plan. Objective To realize human-centric social value by introducing and spreading a global level of human rights management Implementation Introduction (2018) Maturity (2019) Settlement (2020) Stages Objective of To establish a global level of human rights To introduce and implement global human rights To supplement, share and spread human rights Promotion management system management management system •E  nactment of human rights standards(charter, • Improvement of regulation and system based •E  nhancement of regulation and system based on rule, minor regulation) on human rights impact assessment(Manual human rights impact assessment • Establishment of basic system(Human Rights development across fields) • Advancement of education of human rights Commission, Human Rights Counseling Center, • Expansion of education about human rights sensitivity Violation Rectification System and so forth) sensitivity • Implementation of human rights practices Main • Education of human rights sensitivity(Executives, • Education of human rights management capacity and examination on a regular basis(Expansion Subjects employees and stakeholders) • Implementation of human rights practice and of human rights impact assessment of main • Education of human rights management capacity examination on a regular basis(Expansion of businesses across the supply chain) • Human rights impact assessment(Agency human rights impact assessment in main business • Publication of sustainable management-human operation and main business) by different supply chain) rights management • Publication of sustainability-human rights • Comprehensive evaluation of three-year human management report rights management (By external expert) Establishing Process of Human Rights Management System Stage 1 Stage 2 Establishment of human rights Implementation of human rights management system impact assessment Establishment of enforcement system and declaration of Process which ascertains human rights vision of human rights management and a pledge risks and evaluates KOGAS established a related system by reflecting opinions from KOGAS examined potential and practical human rights issues the Human Rights Commission, executives, related departments in institutional administration and its main business, and and experts in order to establish human-centric human rights implemented a human rights impact assessment to prevent management. Through this, we revised the existing management and seek a solution. Through this, we created a checklist charter and newly enacted rules of human rights management regarding institution administration and main business and and created a Management Commission on Human Rights for secured professionalism and trust through apprehensive effective promotion of human rights management. evaluation from an external expert. KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 61 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Standards of Human Rights Management Human rights management charter KOGAS declared a vision of the company’s human rights management and enacted a standards of (’17. 4. enacted) human rights management. We are planning to apply this norm to all the executives, employees of Announcement of a pledge of human the company and stakeholders, including suppliers. As well as that, we are making an effort to let rights management through the declaration of vision of human rights a foreign branch comply with the standards of human rights management by adding the item of management respect for human rights onto a contract of a foreign subsidiary. Exclusive Organization for Human Rights Management Standards of human rights KOGAS runs the ‘Management Commission on Human Rights’ and ‘Deliberation Committee.’ The management Management Commission on Human Rights is a legislative organization that is entirely in charge of (’18. 6. enacted) planning, evaluation, system and policy all related to human rights management and composed of Establishment of basic standards to implement KOGAS’s human rights a board of directors, including CEO. The Deliberation Committee is an organization of petition and management deliberation, and it also aids cases of human rights violations separated from Management Commission on Human Rights and is composed of more than half of external members and designates a chairperson to improve independence and speed of aiding the handling of violations of human rights. Detailed rules of standards of human rights management Exclusive Organization for Human Rights (’18. 9. enacted) Handling cases of human rights Management Commission on Human Rights Deliberation Committee violations and regulating specific procedures regarding relief of victims • Consideration of plans regarding human • Deliberation of cases of violation of human rights management rights Role • Practice of human rights and examination • Advice of victim relief measures duty including human rights impact assessment • Internal members (4 people): CEO, corporate • Internal members (2 people): Officer in charge auditor, Sr. executive vice president of of human rights management and head of management and executive vice president of office of the auditor Composition Management Support Division • External members (3 people): External experts • External members (3 people): Experts in human (Professor, lawyer and labor attorney) rights (Professors and civic organization) Stage 3 Stage 4 Implementation and disclosure of Provision of aiding procedure human rights management Reflect current status of human rights, prevention of violation Receipt of petition from victims and Resolution of conflicts of human rights and mitigation measure on management and restoration of victims KOGAS established a master plan for human rights management KOGAS created the Consultation Center for Human Rights reflecting mid and long-term management objectives and and Deliberation Committee to relieve victims and eradicate management environment based on the evaluation result of similar cases through case consultation by internal and external human rights to internalize human rights management into stakeholders and receipt of petition. the organization. Through this, we created foundation which systematically implements human rights management. 62 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Implementation of Human Rights Impact Assessment KOGAS implemented the human rights impact assessment targeting entire workplaces and supply chains in order to figure out potential and practical human rights risks that could occur in management and business, and prevent and find solutions. We carried out examination and evaluation from experts based on human rights management charter and standards after selfinspection and Management Commission on Human Rights finally considered and adopted. In addition, we created a checklist for 190 institutions in 13 areas for assessing human rights impact that reflects the business environment and characteristics, and implemented a comprehensive human rights impact assessment with external experts based on self-inspection and raised professionalism and trust. Based on the result of the human rights impact assessment such as urgency, we established a three-year promotion road map and KOGAS’s human rights management system including establishment of KOGAS’s master plan in the midand long-term. KOGAS will make a constant effort for improvement of human rights of internal and external stakeholders. Process of Human Rights Impact Assessment Identification of risk and potential human rights issue Writing a checklist of Considering a lead Deliberating and Department’s selfExamining and adopting from human rights impact department of human inspection of checklist evaluating from experts Management Commission assessment rights management on Human Right Feedback of entire process (On a regular basis) Checklist for KOGAS Human Rights Impact Evaluation Human rights impact assessment on institution administration Human rights impact assessment on the main business Creating KOGAS’s checklists based on ones of National Human Rights Assessing the level of human rights impact by supply chains Characteristics Commission of Korea reflecting company strategy and managerial and selecting the main business through the meeting of the environment board of directors (Extended enforcement every year) 190 checklist items in 13 areas 58 checklist items in 4 areas (manual of National Human Rights Commission of Korea + 3 areas, 32 checklists) (Area of production management in 2018) (Area1) Establishment of human rights (Area8) P  rotection of local people’s (Area 1) Construction and operation of terminals management system human rights (Area 2) Workplace facilities and facility operation (Area2) Non-discrimination on (Area9) G  uarantee of environment (Area 3) Labor rights in workplaces employment rights Structure (Area 4) Assessment procedures of human rights impacts (Area3) Guarantee of freedom of (Area10) Protection of customer rights association and group (Area11) Protection of information negotiation rights (Area4) Prohibition of compulsory labor (Area12) Protection of women’s and (Area5) Prohibition of child labor maternal rights (Area6) Guarantee of industrial safety (Area13) Protection of employees’ (Area7) Responsible management of human rights supply chain KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 63 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Settlement of Culture of Respect for Human Rights Efforts to Preemptively Eradicate Human Rights Violations through Customized Education by Different Areas and Targets KOGAS performed customized education of human rights so as to raise executives’ awareness of respect for human rights. We conducted courtesy training on human rights management and respect for human rights for 2,104 executives and employees and special training for departments in charge by areas of human rights. Members of the committee for human rights management participated in a session for studying global human rights managing trends. Training of Human Rights for Employees Implementation of Special Training by Areas of Human Rights Rights for Rights for Human rights for Classification Rights for labor industrial safety environment employees Our company’s and Cyber training for Environment Prevention supplier’s gas fire all employees on training on energy education on sexual Content of experience training labor-management management system harassment and training (649 persons) relations and marine pollution sexual violation (3,472 persons) (1,329 persons) (3,612 persons) • Reinforcement of • Inspiration of • Understanding of • Prevention of cases safety awareness understanding of environmental system of sexual harassment Expected • Improvement of labor system • Obtaining awareness Increase of gender impact disaster response • Establishment of of environment sensitivity Appointment Ceremony of Deliberation capability culture of work and life improvement balance Committee Preparation of KOGAS’s Own Human Rights Aiding Process for Protection of Human Rights KOGAS created its own support process against violations of human rights with independent stakeholders by adding a Consultation Center for Human Rights and Deliberation Committee to the existing support process. In particular, the Deliberation Committee, an exclusive organization for deliberation of cases of human rights violation, consists of more than half of external members and secured professionalism and independence by designating a chairperson from external members. In 2018, we had face-to-face talks with employees, executives in charge and the other party and ascertained all the facts after reporting a case of human rights violations with a supplier, and held the Deliberation Committee to advise CEO of a supplier to conduct self-operated education of human rights and prepare a solution for prevention of recurrence. As well as that, we informed a petitioner of the result and raised the effectiveness of protection of human rights by promising information on an external support system when protesting against a decision. Human Rights Violation Relief Process Consulting and receipting Categorization and investigation Petition and decision cases of cases (Deliberation Committee) (Consultation Center for (Director in charge of human rights Human Rights) management) • (Objects) Internal and external • (Step 1) Categorization of cases • (Content) Petition and decision stakeholders such as executives according to job divisions and of cases for prevention of aid of and employees and a supplier handling of the department in victims and recurrence and similar • (Content) Consulting and charge by themselves cases receipting various cases of • (Step 2) Consultation Center for • (Procedure) Petition and decision human rights problems like unfair Human Rights will investigate of investigation result report → treatment and violation in person in cases of protesting Recommendation of performance a decision of step 1 or petitioner choosing support system 64 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Spreading a Culture of Respect for Human Rights Leading Human Rights Management of Public Institution by Spreading Benefits of Human Rights Management KOGAS was selected as a model institution of human rights management manual of the National Human Rights Commission of Korea and proactively established a human rights management system. With this effort, we presented an example of KOGAS’s promotion of human rights management at the ‘2018 Human Rights Management Forum’. We will constantly dedicate to the realization of human-centered sustainable administration by advancing human rights management system of KOGAS. Mutual Cooperation for the Spread of Human Rights Management KOGAS is co-operating with other institutions to spread a culture of respect for human rights. With the experience that we proactively introduced a human rights management system, we shared the promotion result of our human rights management system with 37 public institutions such as the Korea Water Resources Corporation and Korea National Oil Corporation and through this, we are attempting to expand public human rights management. In addition, we are sharing information relating to human rights management by signing a business agreement with Daegu Innovation Town public institutions (KOGAS, Credit Guarantee Fund and Korea Evaluation Institute of Industrial Technology) and making a mutual effort to settle culture of anti-corruption and integrity. Through this, we are seeking to spread a culture of human rights management and inspire competitiveness regarding anti-corruption. Establishment of A System of Respect for Human Rights for the First Time among Public Institutions With the increase of danger of safety accidents due to intense heat, the necessity of establishing a system of respect for human rights such as health and resting rights for construction workers has increased. Regarding this, KOGAS protected 2,354 construction workers’ human rights by prohibiting working amid heat wave warnings and preserving wages during prohibition time of working and Protecting Human Rights of improving the resting environment on construction sites. Furthermore, KOGAS is aiming to introduce a system of respect for human rights to construction sites by launching a consultative group for 2,354 improvement of human rights on construction sites. We will do our best to protect worker’s human construction workers rights and secure people’s safety by creating human rights-prioritized construction sites. 2018 Human Rights Management Forum Agreement ceremony of human rights and ethics management KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 65 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Social Value 4 Transparent Recruiting Process through Audit System With a recent issue of the recruiting scandal of public institutions, people’s concern regarding transparency and fairness of recruiting has increased. KOGAS developed and adopted KOHAS(KOgas Hiring process internal Audit System) for the earlier stage of recruiting on its own at the instigation of standing members of the audit and the department of audit in order to prevent corruption scandals in advance that can happen in the process of recruiting. We determine adequacy about the necessary capability of work and potential candidates of recruiting and implement thorough audits in the whole types and process of recruiting. As a result, we could obtain positive effects of prevention and management of pre and post risks related to recruiting and enhancing stakeholders’ trust as well as simply auditing the process of recruiting. In addition, we sought to concentrate on cooperation with executives and the department of audit and settle culture of mutual respect and secure an optimal number of audit members for the successful settlement of KOHAS. We, especially, actively invited external audit members and expanded the number of audit members and shared process of recruiting inspection so as to secure audit members. KOGAS introduced a blind interview for the first time among public institutions and NCS (National Competency Standard) and created quality jobs, and will create an intellectual culture that people can trust by reinforcing the cooperation system of the audit with other public institutions. KOGAS Hiring process internal Audit System (KOHAS) Recruitment Planning and Document Recruitment procedure Written test Interview recruiting evaluation decision Demand and supply of human resources Risk of recruiting activity(Failure to secure suitable candidates) Risk of recruitment management Recruiting activity Risk due to damage of procedural fairness and transparency (Decrease of trust about recruiting process) Daily audit of • Revision of document • Revision of written • Revision of interview • Completion of audit recruitment plan evaluation plan test plan plan report (Considering duty of • Overseeing of • Overseeing written • Overseeing interview • Report to Personnel Main activity of audit recruitment, personnel, document evaluation test • Check result of Committee about time of placement and • Check result of • Checking the result of interview result of audit appropriateness of document evaluation written test training) Design of customized checklist based on risk by types of Audit Tool recruitment + Training auditor → Structured implementation of recruitment process Monitoring and 24/7 inspection of exclusive auditor in charge of recruiting process, auditor’s feedback feedback by types at any time and inspection meeting with recruiting department at all times 66 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Great Company to Work and Life Balance Work Creation of Work&Life Balance Culture KOGAS is making efforts to realize executives and employees’ work and life balance regarding the development direction of working conditions. We are dedicated to the improvement of life quality through invigoration of a family-friendly system and parental leave, and expansion and diversification of flexible work shifts. Promotion Plan for the Culture of Work and Life Balance Objective Invigoration of Work & Life Balance Satisfaction of work and life balance Promotion direction Extension of family-friendly Invigoration of parental Expansion and diversification certification leave of flexible workplace 79.1points • Reinforcement of family• Maintaining automatic • Introduction of flexible Practice friendly supporting system parental leave system working hours system task • Resolution of longtime • Strong encouragement of • Expansion of the flexible working parental leave workplace for each person Continued Operation of the Family-friendly System KOGAS is conducting a family-friendly system to establish a culture of organization that balances work and life. We are supporting childbirth through shortened working time and provision of childbirth subsidy and helping to mitigate executives’ and employees’ burden of child care through operation of six nursery facilities, and we realized a work & life balance for executives and employees by resolving a problem with longtime work by changing to a shift system in 2018. In addition, we Status of parental leave tried to establish a familial culture of organization by more extensively implementing ‘Day of Family (Unit : persons) Love’ and running ‘Campaign of Long Leave’, and we successfully achieved certification of the family-friendly institution from Ministry of Gender Equality and Family. Automatic parental leave system 19 19 Revitalization of Parental leave We reformed the system to resolve hardship of application due to concerns of employee’s career 16 gap from a parental leave and aggravation of colleagues’ burden of work. We supported cyber 2016 2017 2018 training during parental leave for a career gap of employees and reduced the burden of employees on parental leave by supplementing substitute workers in the occurrence of parental leave. We also Parental leave (Total) removed concerns on penalties of the personnel because of parental leave by reforming the system to arrange desired workplaces first. With this effort, applicants for parental leave increased with 15 71 people in 2018 and especially, the number of men applying for parental leave went up to 16 people 56 which was an increase of 78% compared to last year. 46 Expansion of Flexible Workplace 2016 2017 2018 KOGAS implemented a customized, flexible workplace more extensively by reflecting many different suggestions from employees. In 2018, we created a flexible workplace by inspiring work effectiveness Paternity leave 16 and invigoration of work and life balance culture. The flexible workplace is to change and operate working hours for employees concentrated on workload for a certain period, and it enables to inspire 9 effectiveness of work through an arrangement of working hours. Furthermore, we promoted institutional 2 improvements such as application of flexible work, simplification of approval, an extension of reasons for this and various introductions of time selection. With these improvements considering task characteristics, 2016 2017 2018 we activated operation of the system more extensively as employee’s right for work time selection. KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 67 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Working Culture with Non-discrimination Operation of Fair Personnel System KOGAS is applying 100% equal wage with no discrimination by gender or educational background and welfare benefits system to offer employees an equal opportunity reasonable wages, and managing fairly and properly in terms of personnel and training. KOGAS complies with the Labor Standards Act and Act on Gender Equality in the Employment, and is based upon the principle of equal provision of wages according to the same value of labor regardless of gender. There is only a wage difference between gender due to the working period, and we offer employees in the same salary bracket and equal position wages. In February 2018, we designated a female executive vice president for the first time among public institutions to realize gender equality within the organization. When it comes to the personnel, the entry for sixth grade used to be applied by those who graduated from university, however, in 2018, four of the people who graduated from high school were recruited after expanding recruiting criteria and length of service. In addition, if work performance of new entrants from high school meets a certain standard, they can be promoted at the same degree as those from university, and we are also trying to make an equal personnel system by applying the same wage between entrants from high school and those from university. Operation of Non-discrimination System KOGAS is constantly operating a non-discrimination system to exclude discriminative factors about contract position for an indefinite period, short-term positions and separate positions. For regular positions and indefinite positions, the equal wage welfare is applied, and the same degree of wage system, position treatment and annual salary system are equally applied to short-term positions. In addition, we are supporting constant management by transferring recipients of salary peak to special positions and applying the same welfare system. Continuing to operate these non-discrimination systems, KOGAS will make efforts to ban unreasonable discrimination toward thorough elimination of discriminatory elements. Facility Improvement for Vulnerable Workers KOGAS sought to foster the improvement of facilities and working environment for vulnerable workers. In 2018, we ascertained requirements of vulnerable workers and conducted improvement of facilities. We guaranteed the right of mobility and extension of accessibility by installing more braille boards for the blind where they used to be limited only in the washrooms of the first to the third floor. Also, by accepting the requirement to install nursery rooms, we expanded vulnerable workers’ amenities by building a lounge only for pregnant women, ladies-friendly washrooms considering pregnant women’s scope of activity and parking lots considering the shortest distance for pregnant women. In the future, KOGAS will be striving to improve the working environment in order for all the workers of KOGAS to work in a great and safe working environment. Facility Improvement for Vulnerable Workers 68 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Cultivation of Human Resources Training Program for Executives and Employees KOGAS established a training roadmap to achieve a mid-long-term management strategy and is Increase in Satisfaction of Training now operating a development program of human resources based on a strategic objective and employee’s needs. Furthermore, we contributed to improvement in the satisfaction of training 83.8 points 85.9points under the annual plan established for the viewpoint in the mid-term by implementing training to secure growth capability and improving training environment through system improvement. 2018 Training by Capabilities Capability Global capability Leadership capability R&D capability Social value capability Innovation capability Task capability · Training process of · Implementation · 32 programs such · Training for · Implementation of · Session for safety global leaders of administrative as special training for understanding of human collective intelligence specialist · Implementation of executive's innovation filming 4th Industrial rights management training(Idea generating · Implementation special training by capability training Revolution trend and respect for human and creativity inspiring) of equipment and areas of E&P cyber training by rights for executives and · Innovation maintenance and safety drone, policy training employees academy(Once per each session Content of supply expansion of · 8 training programs quarter), site briefing air-conditioning by gas such as a process session and so forth for technicians of air environment and special training by Environmental Preservation Association · E&P capability↑ · Capability inspiration · Achieved Zero accident · Won a grand prize of · Activation of innovative · Level of safety culture (Level 3.36 ➡ 3.6) of executives’ leadership · through reinforced environmental energy ideas and finding 7.51 points Result · LNG capacity↑ · Won the grand safety management with excellent examples · Excellent in disaster (Level 2.8 ➡ 3.0) prize of innovative advanced technology safety evaluation management(society part) by MOTIE Labor-management System KOGAS has constantly been operating a 4Way channel since 2017 to cultivate sound labormanagement relationship through communication. In 2018, we analyzed both advantages and disadvantages of existing communication environment for enhancing communication and Increase in Labor-management management capability, and implemented improvement activity by determining some parts needed Communication Index to be supplemented. We expanded communication between executives and employee by creating 66.9 points 70.0 points a CEO communication channel. We also dedicated to the improvement of working condition and organizational culture through direct communication between each representative of labor and management. It led to an increase in communication score from 66.9 points to 70.0 points in 2018. Comparison of Communication with Last Year 4Way 4Way channel Names of channel Achievement of operation 2017 2018 Joint labor-management conference Improvement of managing method and direct participation of representatives of labor-management 36 cases 42 cases Institution-centered Joint committee of labor-management Operating 3 sub-division: personnel, welfare and organizational culture 7 times 13 times CEO meeting KOGAS sketchbook and brown-bag meeting 7 times 42 times Executives-centered Executives’ site visit Dealing with grievances and suggestions of employees 34 times 58 times La Plaza, Blind Improvement of irrational customs and activation of communication 1,050 number 2,412 number Bottom-up type Committee of the Youth Overcoming generation conflicts and improving organizational culture 2 times 20 times Briefing session of pending issues by head of business Sharing pending issue of management and direction of business 114 times 182 times Site-centered Team building Reinforcement of teamwork by sharing core value 2,213 persons 2,321 persons Various Day activities Holding a variety of activities suitable for characteristics of site 14 times 26 times KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 69 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Integrity&Ethics Integrity and Ethics Management System Management Promoting Integrity and Ethics Management System KOGAS is going further to realize a ‘transparent, fair, clean and ethics management institution’ by establishing a clean and ethics management system based on KOGAS’s four core values. KOGAS cultivates the integrity and ethics culture of the organization with the clean and ethics system. Ethics Vision Emerge as a transparent and fair corporation leading in integrity & ethics Transition Challenge Trust Responsibility to ethics to create human to be restored by for voluntarily Core value management rights-friendly strengthening practicing integrity system where all management culture internal control to with ownership Level of Overall Integrity members can freely eradicate corruption communicate 3rd Grade (1 grade higher than last year) Sophisticate the integrity & ethics Improve work integrity and Strengthen the internal control Establish integrity culture based on Implementation strategy management reliability system spontaneity infrastructure Enhancement of Inspiration of Self-improvement Reinforcement of implementing sympathy of of weak areas of anti-corruption Subject of organization cleanness and cleanness activity promotion and expansion ethic of cooperation channel Enhancement of awareness Prevention of violation System of · Code of Actions of KOGAS’ Employees · Guideline on reporting standard · Regulations of task integrity, agreements of · Regulations of personnel reward and executives punishment Reinforcement of Executing Team of Integral and Ethics management KOGAS newly established an independent ethics management committee called ‘Integral and Ethics Management Committee’ to promote a system of integrity and ethics across the company. This committee is KOGAS’s best legislative organization of integral and ethics policy. CEO presides over the committee and functions as a control tower that decides important policies and implements a master plan for integral and ethics management in the mid and long-term. In addition, we achieved the integrity and ethics management of human respect by unifying the organization that was divided into two groups, covering integrity, anti-corruption, and human rights. Expansion of Cooperation Channel of External Integrity and Ethics business KOGAS is enhancing the level of integrity and ethics by communicating and co-operating with external institutions. We concluded business agreements with two excellent institutions in the field of ethics and human rights and established an ethics department of Industry-University-Institute Collaboration with three major universities of Daegu and Gyeongsangbuk-do and utilized them to establish integrity and ethics plan in the midand long-term. KOGAS has been conducting cooperative activities by establishing an integrity network such as Daegu Private-Public Committee for Integrity and Integrity Cluster. Working-level Meeting of Partner Institution of Integrity in Daegu Innovation Town 70 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Realization of Clean and Ethic Organizational Culture Four Major Corruption Actions Strict Regulation on Four Corruption Actions (Unit: cases) 14 KOGAS is seeking to find solutions to deal with employees’ bribery actively. We apply the zerotolerance policy four major corrupting actions* and adopt One Strike Out system to eradicate 5 corruption. Furthermore, we reinforced the level of punishment by newly creating a degradation 5 system and imposing collective responsibility on managers. With these actions, KOGAS is seeking to eradicate four major corrupting actions and enhance the transparency of the organization. Significantly *Four major corrupting actions: Bribery, speculation, sex crime and corruption of personnel Decreased Eradication of Actions Against Ethics through Operation of Various Report Channels KOGAS is running many report channels to eradicate actions against ethics by activating internal reports fundamentally. In case of the currently operated anonymous corruption report (Red Whistle) 2016 2017 2018 and reporting center of sexual harassment and sexual violation, they are used internally and thus we encouraged utilizing reporting centers by adding an external reporting channel. In addition, we also created a channel for reporting power trips, and a consultation center in which reporting violations of human rights are available. KOGAS is enhancing the overall transparency of corporation by implementing various internal and external reporting systems. Reinforcement of Training on Awareness of Ethics Level of Self-evaluation of Ethics KOGAS is operating various programs to cultivate integrity culture within the organization by (Unit: points) enhancing executives’ and employees’ awareness of integrity and ethics. We conducted training such as training by positions and Integrity Talk-talk for cultivation of basic awareness of cleanness 85.7 83.7 84.0 and ethics and reinforced participation activities such as Integrity Golden Bell and completion of good examples of ethics for executives and employees in order to take training easily. In addition, 1.7Points we developed task-customized educational contents to increase the sympathy of executives and increased employees about clean and ethics management and carried out ethics training by seven different tasks. As a result of such an effort, satisfaction of curriculum of integrity and ethics training went up 2016 2017 2018 to 82% compared with last year. Cultivation of basic awareness Training content customized of integrity and ethics for pratical tasks • Training by positions (5 times) • Case study on the corrupt audit and Group • Integrity Talk-talk (Internally 16 By tasks integrity training by 7 different tasks times, overseas 7 times) • Cyber training for integrity (2 times) • Creating and sharing a content Video • Training for those who committed Anti-graft guideline of Anti-graft Law training Law corruption • ‘Easy External Session’ for researchers • Integrity Golden Bell and Integrity • Distribution of ‘diary of subordinate’, Activity Camp Eradication of based on an interview by suppliers • Ethics event and BP contest power trips and affiliated companies • Training through a play ‘Gabijaeul’ based on examples of on-site discussion • Eradication of power trip within institution, self-check, and campaign for workplace etiquette Challenge! Golden Bell for Integrity KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 71 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Strengthening of Responsibility for Integrity and Ethics Evaluation of Policy on Anti-corruption Reinforcing Internal Audit Based on Risk Excellent KOGAS is inspiring internal integrity by conducting audits regarding areas vulnerable to high risk. We divided business activities based on risks based on previous internal and external audit results and quality evaluation to conduct an intensive audit. Afterward, we identified and evaluated a level 2nd 2nd grade 3rd grade of risk, considering its frequency and level of effect on business activity. KOGAS are enhancing the grade responsibility of integrity and ethics and transparency of the organization by operating such internal audit system. 2016 2017 2018 Selecting Process of Vulnerable Area for Audit Classification of business Identification and Selection of vulnerable activity based on risk evaluation of risk areas for audit • (Medium division) 23 activities • (Frequency of risk occurrence) • (Vulnerable) Operation of such as foreign business and 3 grades foreign branch and research supply and demand • (Level of risk effect) 4 grades performance • (Subdivision) 36 activities • (Level of risk) • (High risk) management of related to medium division Frequency×level of effectn supply and demand for natural gas and financial *Consideration of internal and external audit in the past and sector (Tax, contract and assets) quality evaluation Law-abiding System for Self-compliance KOGAS newly implemented KOGAS’s self-compliance system, ‘law-abiding system’ which prevent corruption through the participation of employees. This system is a program that enables to perform functions of monitoring and guiding about conventional ignorance of compliance with the law by Satisfaction of ‘Law-abiding system’ designating two representatives in a headquarters and each branch. Designated representatives provide information on compliance with the law for belonged employees and enable employees to 95% take part in the improvement of related systems by thoroughly monitoring compliance with the law across the business. Through this, we realize the innovation of organizational culture by overcoming the limit of post control method based on punishment and forming sympathy of executives and employees regarding compliance with the law. Establishment of Fair Economy Level of Integrity in Construction KOGAS is making an effort to establish a fair economic order by resolving unfair contract condition. Industry In 2018, we enhanced transparency by improving the unfair customs of every construction business. (Unit: points) 9.60 We also identified the current status of unfairness such as an unfair reduction in construction cost 9.10 and uncovered 107 cases of absurd practice by holding a joint workshop with KOGAS, suppliers, 7.97 non-governmental organization and Anti-Corruption & Civil Rights Commission. In order to improve increase of it, we dedicated ourselves to the invigoration of fair construction culture and eradication of unfair 1.63points compared activity by creating specific criteria of design change and implementing a blind test of the technical to last year proposal. 2016 2017 2018 72 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Appendix 73 Sustainability Performances 81 GRI Standards Index 88 Third-party Assurance Statement 90 Dedication to Achievement of UN SDGs through Creation of Social Value 92 Prizes and Awards/Memberships KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 73 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Sustainability Performances Economic Performances Main economic result(Based on consolidated financial statement) Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Sales KRW 100 million 211,081 221,722 261,850 Business profits KRW 100 million 9,982 10,352 12,769 Net profit(loss) KRW 100 million (6,125) (11,917) 5,267 Main financial metrics(Based on consolidated financial statement) Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Increase rate of sales % (18.98) 5.04 18.10 Growth index Increase rate of net profit % (309.75) (94.58) 144.20 Return of Assest % (1.49) (3.09) 1.37 Profitability Index Return on Equity % (6.31) (14.03) 6.36 Current ratio % 155.82 115.05 100.54 Stability Index Debt ratio % 322.70 356.24 367 Capital ratio % 23.66 21.92 21.41 Productivity Index Productivity of capital % 5.64 5.15 10.20 Summary of consolidated statement of financial position(Based on consolidated financial statement) Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Current assets KRW 100 million 86,580 75,822 99,249 Assets Non-current assets KRW 100 million 313,840 295,572 297,648 Total assets KRW 100 million 400,420 371,394 396,897 Current liabilities KRW 100 million 55,562 65,904 98,712 Liabilities Non-current liabilities KRW 100 million 250,127 224,086 213,205 Total liabilities KRW 100 million 305,689 289,990 311,917 Paid-in capital KRW 100 million 17,651 17,651 17,651 Others KRW 100 million 75,953 60,482 64,277 Stockholders’ Equity Equity Attributable to Owners of Parent (subtotal) KRW 100 million 93,604 78,133 81,928 Non-controlling interest KRW 100 million 1,127 3,271 3,052 Total assets KRW 100 million 94,731 81,404 84,980 74 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Economic value distributed(Based on consolidated financial statement) Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Sales KRW 100 million 211,081 221,723 261,850 Business profits KRW 100 million 9,982 10,352 12,768 Net profit(loss) KRW 100 million (6,125) (11,917) 5,267 Wage and welfare benefit for executive and employee KRW 100 million 3,480 3,848 3,918 Dividend KRW 100 million 1,192 Interest KRW 100 million 8,408 8,295 7,854 Corporate tax payment KRW 100 million 3,146 2,729 0 Donation and activity cost of social contribution KRW 100 million 183 171 186 Research·development(Based on consolidated financial statement) Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 R&D investment expenses KRW 100 million 719 679 518 Patents for technology(accumulative) Cases 347 378 373 Environmental Performances Emission of greenhouse gas Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Total GHG emissions tCO2eq 525,573 623,639 1,051,799 663,206 Direct emissions tCO2eq 166,283 263,068 (2018 Target) 590,454 388,593 Indirect emissions tCO2eq 359,290 360,571 (2018 Target) 345,966 Total energy consumption Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Total amount of energy TJ 10,651 12,624 14,557 Direct energy TJ 3,248 5,187 6,583 Indirect energy TJ 7,414 7,442 7,980 Total amount of energy Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Non-renewable energy fuel purchased and consumed for energy use MWh 902,222 1,440,833 1,813,858 Purchased non-renewable electricity MWh 765,337 769,532 830,694 Purchase of steam/heating/cooling and other energy MWh 18,333 13,611 14,633 Purchase or production of renewable energy MWh 2,059 3,249 1,425 2,659,186 Total amount of non-renewable energy MWh 1,686,666 2,223,976 (2018 Target) 2,526,226 Total cost of energy consumption KRW 125,190,729,333 141,935,706,750 173,580,142,885 KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 75 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Amount of water usage Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 1,184,987,205 Total amount of water usage m3 1,572,304,237 1,241,908,454 (2018 Target) 1,395,500,000 Sea water m3 1,571,859,597 1,241,441,822 1,184,456,715 Water supply m 3 436,182 459,130 519,919 Underground water m3 8,458 7,502 10,571 Amount of chemicals usage Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Sales volume of natural gas Thousand tons 32,773 32,162 36,219 Amount of use kg 142,358 87,302 352,288 Basic unit kg/thousand tons 4.34 2.71 9.73 Emission of environmental pollutants Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Sales volume of natural gas Thousand tons 32,773 32,162 36,219 311,538 Amount of emissions kg 278,257 212,995 (2018 Target) 335,000 NOx Basic unit kg/thousand tons 8.49 6.62 8.60 Air pollution Amount of emissions kg 749 1,175 1,535 SOx Basic unit kg/thousand tons 0.02 0.04 0.04 Amount of emissions kg 2,363 3,548 4,606 Dust Basic unit kg/thousand tons 0.07 0.11 0.13 Amount of emissions kg 124.2 55.9 73.1 BOD Basic unit kg/thousand tons 0.004 0.002 0.0020 Amount of emissions kg 48.6 61.3 52.9 Water pollution COD Basic unit kg/thousand tons 0.002 0.002 0.0015 Amount of emissions kg 139.5 124.5 84.2 SS Basic unit kg/thousand tons 0.0043 0.0039 0.0023 General tons 3,300 547 1,892 Designated tons 198 53 155 Construction tons 290,394 83,679 61,314 Waste 63,361 Amount of emissions tons 293,892 84,279 (2018 Target) 213,627 Total Basic unit ton/thousand tons 8.97 2.62 1.75 76 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Danger and opportunity of climate change Emission of carbon resulting in global warming is constantly increasing, and attention to the solution of climate change is also increasing after the Paris Agreement. Recently, a positive review of the direction of conversion of power generation fuel (coal, etc.) has been made in Korea, and the role of natural gas (LNG), a low-carbon emission fuel, is expected to be strengthened, which will serve as an opportunity for KOGAS. Furthermore, KOGAS is conducting diversification of business towards such as hydrogen energy and LNG bunkering, and it is anticipated to contribute to an increase in sales and financial structure. KOGAS is pursuing reduction projects such as purchase of emission rights and facility improvement in accordance with the government’s phased reduction of emission rights quota (including taxable allocation) and recognizes the need for CDM projects in the future. In addition, we selected and analyzed the risk list by weather impact factors (hot weather, cold waves, heavy rain, heavy snow, strong winds, and rising sea levels) that affect gas facilities, and established measures to adapt to climate change and manage risks through continuous implementation evaluations. KOGAS operates a climate change/energy committee and a working-level committee to proactively respond to climate change risks and establish plans for energy management, and has prepared indicators to evaluate each base and regional headquarters’ compliance with allotment of greenhouse gas emissions and energy-saving efforts to make use of climate change as an opportunity for development. Violation of environmental law and regulations Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Violation of statutory obligations/regulations Times 0 0 0 Amount of penalty KRW 0 0 0 Social Performances BOD operation Performance Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Number of holding committee meeting Times 17 14 18 Agenda items agreed upon Cases 46 40 62 Rate of preliminary review % 95 86 80 Revised agree-upon agenda items Cases (%) 1(2) 0(0) 1(2) Reported agenda items Cases 29 21 21 BOD attendance rate % 82 81 77.7 Attendance rate of non-executive director % 79 77 72 Substance of statements/ motions delivered by non-executive directors % 56 68 59 Status of labor union membership KOGAS notifies administrative changes such as a change in articles and organization, open and closure of regulation regarding labor condition, a general meeting of stockholders relating to rights and interests of union members, boarder’s meeting, submitted items and consequence of Committee of Management with documents and specifies those contents on a collective agreement. Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Number of labor union member Persons 3,186 3,242 3,650 Labor union membership rate % 86.1 84.7 88.6 KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 77 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Occupational safety and health Labor rate represented by the Joint Health and Safety Commission of Labor and Management is 73.73%(End of 2018, total: 3,742, branches: 2,759) and it is in accordance with Article 19 of the Korean Industrial Safety and Health Act and Article 25-2 of Enforcement Ordinance, and we are targeting the establishment of prevention of industrial accidents, harm/danger or safety/health followed by introduction of equipment or machinery as agreement. KOGAS implements annual medical examinations for employees to prevent work-related illnesses, and we also implement special medical examinations annually for shift workers and security guards. 2017 2018 Classification Unit Figure Note Figure Note 1 case(Traffic accident Injury rate % 0 0.02 while commuting) Absenteeism Rate % 0 0 Number of Occupational Executives and employees Persons 0 0 deaths Contractor Persons 0 0 Lost Time Injury Executives and employees Number/Million Working time 0 0.12 Frequency Rate Contractor Number/Million Working time 0.24 0.43 Information security Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Violation of client information security Cases 0 0 0 IT infrastructure breach Cases 0 0 0 Status of suppliers Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target Number of critical tier 1 suppliers Number 85 93 56* Self-evaluation rate % 100 100 100 100 *Share of total procurement spent for our critical suppliers in 2018: 4.98% Product of suppliers and purchasing contract Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Purchase of products from SMEs KRW 100 million 2,983 2,705 3,229 Purchasing rate of products from SMEs % 28.1 29.1 34 Support for SMEs’ competitiveness Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 2019 Target Number of cases Cases 18 22 17 18 Joint research Participating companies Number 18 21 16 18 and development R&D budget KRW 100 million 10 17 12 15 Training for technical/research personnel Persons 180 83 90 Training executives On-the-job training Persons 16 35 35 and employees SMEs partners Online training Persons 37 40 151 151 Subtotal Persons 37 236 269 276 Customer satisfaction Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 2023 target Public-service Customer Satisfaction Index(PCSI) Grade (points) S(94.9) A(94.4) A(93.5) S 78 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Status of employees Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Total number of executives and employees Persons 3,626 3,752 4,096 Full-time (Male) Standing members included Persons 3,215 3,331 3,570 Full-time (Female) Persons 390 411 472 Type of employment Temporary position (Male) Persons 7 0 27 Temporary position (Female) Persons 14 10 27 Non-affiliated person Persons 1,196 1,211 1,176 Full-time Persons 3,574 3,710 4,031 Working hours per day Part-time Persons 26.75 28.35 8.225 Domestic Persons 3,518 3,644 3,985 Locations Overseas Persons 108 108 111 Under 30 Persons 1,374 1,410 1,705 Age 40s Persons 1,578 1,527 1,397 Over 50 Persons 701 815 994 Female executives and employees* Persons, (%) 390(10.8) 412(11.0) 473(11.7) Female Female managers** Persons, (%) 37(1.03) 4(0.11) 7(0.2) Disabled people Persons 131 122 128 Recruitment based on High school graduates Persons 497 521 540 social equity Patriots and Veterans Persons 356 367 385 Local talents Persons 1,749 1,756 1,883 *Rate of female executives and employees(%): Number of female executives and employees / Total number of executives and employees **Rate of female managers(%): Number of female managers / Total number of executives and employees Rate of female managers were measured for Senior Manager position(level 3) and above until 2016. From 2017, the boundary has changed for female managers in General Manager position(level 2) and above. Status of training for employees Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Investment expense of educating and training KRW million 8,364 8,660 8,470 Education hours per person(full-time) Hours 102 114 104 Education expense per person KRW thousand 2,382 2,530 2,078 Educational satisfaction/ Satisfaction compared to education cost 0.99 0.97 1.01 education cost(KRW 100 million) Rate of employees’ returning to work after parental leave Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Number of applicants for parental leave Persons 46 56 71 Number of male applicants for parental leave Persons 2 9 16 Returning rate after parental leave % 92 100 100 KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 79 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Performance evaluation of executives and employees Apart from exceptional cases of dispatched workers and long-term trainees, we receive regular self-review, review by supervisor and opinions from entire employees of the company and manage them on the system. Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Rate of application of performance evaluation % 96.5 96.0 96.8 Employees’ satisfaction rate Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Satisfaction of internal education points 83.4 83.8 85.9 Satisfaction of personnel system points 66.2 70.6 72.1 Employees’ retirement management KOGAS supports employees’ preparation for retirement by operating a retirement pension. We are providing opportunities to choose by operating DB and DC based system. On the other hand, we are implementing educational subsidies in order to support a life plan (KRW 2 million per person) after the retirement of recipients of salary peak and running commissioned education to design a process and have them attend. Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Retirement Amount of asset under management KRW 100 million 2,566 2,494 3,065 pension Number of participants in retirement pension Persons 3,640 3,666 3,561 Number of retired Retirement Persons 0 0 53 employees Voluntary retirement Persons 10 18 9 Case of violations and prevention of anti-corruption We monitor the entire business activities of all branches by establishing an internal monitoring system on a regular basis. Aside from this, we prevent anti-corruption and management risk through counseling and monitoring activities from Integrity ombudsman and Integrity auditors by operating an internal reporting system. Prevention and inspection system for enhancement of control of main anti-corruption and management risk is operated as follows. Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Case of violation of anti-corruption Cases (Persons) 1(22) 3(3) 2*(2) *1 case of obtaining treat, 1 case of violation of code of conduct Human rights policy and education of employees about process Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Completion of ethics education Persons 3,144 3,422 3,324 Completion of on-line education of code of conduct Persons 5,980 6,877 7,242 Completion of education of human rights Persons 2,104 Hours of training for workers on human rights policies and Hours 1 procedures related to business Percentage of workers trained in human rights policies and % 95 procedures related to business 80 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Social contribution activities Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 Total hours of service Hours 34,711 45,093 14,392 Hours of service per person Hours 9.4 14.4 3.5 Reduction in gas cost KRW 100 million 768 835 873 Job creation through social contribution business (2018) Classification Business cost (KRW million) Number of Jobs Note Onnuri improvement project of thermal efficiency (Energy welfare) 1,670 25 Indirect jobs Independence program for the homeless (architectural academy) 150 15 Relief factory, operation of Office Café (BIG HANDS) 13 Toy library, multicultural child support project 120 7 Subtotal 1,940 60 Amount of contributions Classification Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total contributions KRW 5,107,753,500 4,452,000,260 3,909,700,000 4,889,268,000 (Trade associations or tax-exempt groups) *No contributions to lobbying, interest representation and political activities Top five source of contributions Classification Unit 2017 2018 Foundation for Overseas Resources Development KRW 610,000,000 1,366,000,000 Korea Energy Economics Institute KRW 700,000,000 1,000,000,000 Korea Energy Agency KRW 700,000,000 800,000,000 The Korea Gas Union KRW 700,000,000 700,000,000 Foundation for Cooperation of Large Enterprises and SMEs in KRW 404,700,000 476,129,000 Agriculture and Fishery Total KRW 3,114,700,000 4,342,129,000 KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 81 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management GRI Standards Index Universal Standards UN SDGs Topic No. Disclosure Description ISO 26000 Page Assurance & Social value GRI 102: General Disclosure 102-1 Name of the organization Korea Gas Corporation 6 ◯ Introducing LNG from overseas natural gas production sites, supply to domestic power generation company Activities, brands, products, 102-2 and city gas company, development of overseas 6 ◯ and services resources exploration and development and infrastructure such as LNG plants 102-3 Location of headquarters 120, Cheomdan-ro, Dong-gu, Daegu 6 ◯ 102-4 Location of operations Korea and 13 countries in abroad ◯ 102-5 Ownership and legal form Corporation 6 ◯ 102-6 Markets served Natural gas and related business 6 ◯ Total number of executives and employees: 4,096 6.3.10/ 102-7 Scale of the organization 6.4.1/ 6 ◯ Organization Sales: KRW 26,185,038 million 6.4.2/6.4.3/ profile Information on employees 102-8 See Sustainability Performances 6.4.4/6.4.5/ 73-80 ◯ and other workers 6.8.5/7.8 Promoting shared growth to enhance the 102-9 Supply chain 38-39 ◯ competitiveness of SMEs in energy and natural gas Significant changes to the 102-10 None ◯ organization and its supply chain Precautionary Principle or Preventing environmental pollution across the business 102-11 48-53 ◯ approach and fostering a sustainable environment 102-12 External initiatives UN Global Compact, UN SDGs support ◯ 102-13 Membership of associations See Prizes and Awards/Memberships 94 ◯ Statement from senior Strategy 102-14 See CEO Message 4.7/6.2/7.4.2 4 ◯ decision-maker Ethics and Values, principles, standards, See Corporate Culture of Respecting and Trusting 102-16 4.4/6.6.3 58 ◯ integrity and norms of behavior Each Other Responsibility and ethics Operation of board of directors, top decision6.2/7.4.3/ Governance 102-18 Governance structure 14 ◯ making group 7.7.5 Responsibility and ethics Executives and employees, citizens, government, parliament, research institution, city gas company, 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 18 ◯ public institution, venture and small business and socially disadvantaged people or group Collective bargaining Employees applied by joint agreement are 89% out 102-41 ◯ Stakeholder agreements of whole employees 5.3 engagement Identifying and selecting Participation 102-42 See Stakeholder Engagement ◯ stakeholders 18 Approach to stakeholder 102-43 See Stakeholder Engagement ◯ engagement Key topics and concerns See Stakeholder Engagement and Material Topic 102-44 18-20 ◯ raised Assessment 82 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Universal Standards UN SDGs Topic No. Disclosure Description ISO 26000 Page Assurance & Social value GRI 102: General Disclosure Entities included in the 102-45 consolidated financial See Sustainability Performances 73 ◯ statements Defining report content and See About This Report and Material Topic 5.2/ 102-46 7.3.2/ 20 ◯ topic Boundaries Assessment 7.3.3/ 102-47 List of material topics See Material Topic Assessment 7.3.4 20 ◯ 102-48 Restatements of information None ◯ 102-49 Changes in reporting See Material Topic Assessment 20 ◯ 2018. 1. 1 ~ 2018. 12. 31. 102-50 Reporting period ◯ (First half of 2019 partially included) Reporting 102-51 Date of most recent report 2018. 6. ◯ practice 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual ◯ Contact point for questions 102-53 Korea Gas Corporation (Tel. +82-53-670-0114) ◯ regarding the report 7.5.3/ Claims of reporting in 7.6.2 102-54 accordance with the GRI Complying with GRI Standards Core Option ◯ Standards Reporting key index of universal standards and at 102-55 GRI Content Index ◯ least one index of topic-specific standards Implementing the third-party assurance from special 102-56 External assurance organization, Korean Standards Association for open ◯ information and trust KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 83 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Topic-specific Standards UN SDGs Topic No. Disclosure Description ISO 26000 Page Assurance & Social value GRI 200: Economic Disclosures Economic Performance GRI 103: Explanation of the material Management 103-1 See KOGAS Profile 6 ◯ topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 6.8.1/ Mutual Economic Direct economic value 6.8.2/ cooperation 201-1 See Sustainability Performances 6 ◯ Performance generated and distributed 6.8.3/6.8.7/ 6.8.9 Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 103: As a public company aimed at developing, refining, Explanation of the material Management 103-1 supplying and refining natural gas, KOGAS supplies ◯ topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 natural gas to the people in a stable manner. Environment, 24-35 KOGAS creates indirect economic effect through social 6.3.9/ safety and Indirect Economic Infrastructure investments value creation across business such as construction of 6.8.1/ health welfare 203-1 ◯ Impacts and services supported national pipeline network, supply of city gas, reduction 6.8.2/6.8.7/ in fine dust and emission of greenhouse gas 6.8.9 Procurement Practices GRI 103: KOGAS is playing a leading role for mutual growth and Explanation of the material Management 103-1 fostering conditions for mutual growth with small and ◯ topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 social businesses in order to realize social value Performance of purchasing products from small businesses 36-45 (Unit: KRW 100 million, %) 6.4.3/ Mutual Procurement Proportion of spending on Classification 2016 2017 2018 6.6.6/ cooperation 204-1 ◯ Practices local suppliers 6.8.1/6.8.2/ Amount of purchasing products from 2,983 2,705 3,229 small businesses 6.8.7 Rate of purchasing products from small businesses 28.1 29.1 34 Anti-corruption We are implementing monitoring entire institutions GRI 103: and business activities on a regular business through Explanation of the material Management 103-1 internal control system and cultivating foundation ◯ topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 of integrity and ethics management and practicing related activities 58-71 Examples of violation of anti-corruption Responsibility (Unit: cases (persons)) 6.6.1/ and ethics Communication and training 2016 2017 2018 Anti-corruption 205-2 6.6.2/ ◯ about anti-corruption policies 1(22) 3(3) 2*(2) 6.6.3 *1 case of obtaining treats, 1 case of violation of code of conduct Anti-competitive Behavior GRI 103: Explanation of the material We are trying to improve customs of unfair trade Management 103-1 ◯ topic and its Boundary and foster a fair culture of competition Approach 2016 36-45 Legal actions for antiMutual Anti-competitive competitive behavior, 6.6.1-6.6.2/ cooperation 206-1 None ◯ Behavior anti-trust, and monopoly 6.6.5/6.6.7 practices 84 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Topic-specific Standards UN SDGs Topic No. Disclosure Description ISO 26000 Page Assurance & Social value GRI 300: Environment Disclosures Energy GRI 103: We are aware of energy consumption by business and Explanation of the material Management 103-1 administration activity and dedicated to the spread of 46-57 ◯ topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 renewable energy through business capability Energy consumption within the 302-1 See Sustainability Performances 6.5.4 Environment 73-80 ◯ organization Energy Reduction of energy 302-4 See Sustainability Performances 6.5.4/6.5.5 73-80 ◯ consumption Water We are aware of the total use of water and quantity of GRI 103: Explanation of the material water intake by sources of supply and use of seawater Management 103-1 46-57 ◯ topic and its Boundary is very high, but we are managing it in order to prevent Approach 2016 environmental influences Environment Water 303-1 Water withdrawal by souce See Sustainability Performances 6.5.4 73-80 ◯ Biodiversity When implementing construction or business which could GRI 103: Explanation of the material have effects on an entity in the vicinity, we are conducting an Management 103-1 46-57 ◯ topic and its Boundary evaluation of environmental influence to prepare for solution Approach 2016 for prevention of ecosystem deterioration Operational sites owned, leased, We restored the habitat of endangered species by managed in, or adjacent to, protected conducting prevention business of otters, flying squirrels 304-1 6.5.6 73-80 areas and areas of high biodiversity and endangered plants as a part of the protection Environment Biodiversity value outside protected areas activity of ocean and ecosystem When conducting business, we hold joint meetings 304-3 Habitats protected or restored composed of local representatives of residents, experts 6.5.6 73-80 of environment preservation association Emissions We are actively preparing for climate change by GRI 103: practicing low carbon management through reduction Explanation of the material Management 103-1 of emission of greenhouse gas and dedicating to the 46-57 ◯ topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 reduction of air pollution by managing emission of air pollutants such as NOx and SOx 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions See Sustainability Performances 6.5.5 ◯ Environment Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG 305-2 See Sustainability Performances 6.5.5 ◯ Emissions emissions 73-80 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur 305-7 oxides (SOx), and other significant See Sustainability Performances 6.5.3 ◯ air emissions Effluents and Waste We are making an effort to minimize wastewater and GRI 103: Explanation of the material waste caused by administration activity and facilitating the Management 103-1 46-57 ◯ topic and its Boundary process by discharging waste by types and purposes of use Approach 2016 and dedicating to activation of the cycle of resources Water discharge by quality and Environment 306-1 See Sustainability Performances ◯ Effluents and destination 73-80 Waste Waste by type and disposal 306-2 See Sustainability Performances 6.5.3 ◯ method Environmental Compliance GRI 103: We are actively managing by creating more enhanced Explanation of the material Management 103-1 standards than legal one about pollutants such as 46-57 ◯ topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 atmospheric aspects and water quality Environmental Non-compliance with environmental Environment 307-1 See Sustainability Performances 4.6 73-80 Compliance laws and regulations KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 85 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Topic-specific Standards UN SDGs Topic No. Disclosure Description ISO 26000 Page Assurance & Social value GRI 400: Social Disclosures Employment Creation of jobs is becoming the government’s GRI 103: Explanation of the material important issue and we are establishing a strategy Management 103-1 36-45 ◯ topic and its Boundary for sustainable jobs and implementing it for quality Approach 2016 job creation 2018 number of new recruitment and rate of turnover (Unit: persons, %) Male 308.5 Female 61 Disabled people 6 New High school graduates 42 recruitment Patriots and Veterans 19 Local talents 290 New employee hires and Total 369.5 401-1 6.4.3 ◯ employee turnover Male 17 Number of Female 1 employee Under 30 5 turnover* Ages 30-50 8 Labor Over 50 5 Job Employment Total rate of turnover 0.9 Rate of employee turnover Rate of voluntary 0.4 turnover *voluntary turnover 2018 current status of Parental leave Number of male users 16 Number of female users 55 Returning persons after use of parental 29 leave 401-3 Parental leave Number of employees working for 6.4.4 ◯ more than one year after returning from 15 parental leave Return Rate (%) 100 Percentage of working for more than 12 100 months (%) Labor/Management Relations GRI 103: We are fostering cooperative and rational labor Explanation of the material Management 103-1 relation by activating communication between 58-71 ◯ topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 labor and management KOGAS notifies administrative changes such as a change in articles and organization, open and closure of regulation regarding labor condition, Labor Labor/ Minimum notice periods general meeting of stockholders relating to rights Management 402-1 6.4.3/6.4.5 regarding operational changes and interests of union members, boarder’s meeting, Relations submitted items and consequence of Committee of Management with documentation and specifies those contents in a collective agreement. 86 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Topic-specific Standards UN SDGs Topic No. Disclosure Description ISO 26000 Page Assurance & Social value GRI 400: Society Disclosures Occupational Health and Safety We are preventing accidents in the process of GRI 103: Explanation of the material production of LNG, construction of supply facility Management 103-1 46-57 ◯ topic and its Boundary and maintenance and we are reinforcing activities for Approach 2016 employees’ safe environment Workers representation in formal joint management403-1 End of 2018, 73.73% 6.4.6 ◯ worker health and safety committees Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, 6.4.6/ Labor 403-2 lost days, and absenteeism, See Sustainability Performances ◯ 6.8.8 Safety and number of work-related Occupational fatalities Health welfare Health and Safety Workers with high incidence or We conduct special management for prevention 6.4.6/ 403-3 high risk of diseases of disease of outdoor workers and shift workers in 46-57 ◯ 6.8.8 related to their occupation Summer Preparation for industrial plan, establishment of Health and safety topics prevention of industrial accidents, harm/danger or 403-4 covered in formal agreements 6.4.6 46-57 safety/health followed by introduction of equipment with trade unions or machine as agreement Training and Education GRI 103: Explanation of the material We conduct education to enhance capability of Management 103-1 58-71 ◯ topic and its Boundary employee’s task professionalism Approach 2016 Education hours of employees (Unit: hours) Classification 2016 2017 2018 Average hours of training per Education hour per person(Full-time) 102 114 104 404-1 6.4.7 ◯ year per employee Male 100 116 102 Female 106 112 112 *Temporary position does not have training Training and Labor Education Except for exceptional cases of dispatched workers or long-term trainees, all the employees undergo regular performance evaluations in terms of job Percentage of employees performance and career development. receiving regular performance 404-3 Rate of application of employee’s performance 6.4.7 ◯ and career development reviews evaluation (Unit: %) 2016 2017 2018 96.5 96.0 96.8 Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103: We offer community members diverse opportunities Explanation of the material Management 103-1 and create quality jobs through socially balanced 36-45 ◯ topic and its Boundary Approach 2016 recruitment Labor Human rights Diversity Job Diversity of governance bodies 6.2.3/6.3.7/ 14, and Equal 405-1 See Governance and Sustainability Performances Supporting socially ◯ and employees 6.3.10/6.4.3 weak group 73-80 Opportunity KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 87 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Topic-specific Standards UN SDGs Topic No. Disclosure Description ISO 26000 Page Assurance & Social value GRI 400: Society Disclosures Non-discrimination GRI 103: Explanation of the We strive to create a workplace that is free of Management 103-1 material topic and its discrimination based on position, employment type, ◯ Approach 2016 Boundary etc. and to improve the quality of employment. Labor The same remuneration and annual salary system 58-71 Incidents of 6.3.6/6.3.7/ Human rights are applied to personnel, education, etc. in order to Non-discrimination 406-1 discrimination and 6.3.10/ Supporting socially solve unreasonable discrimination against the term weak group corrective actions taken 6.4.3 system, the contract position, etc. Human Rights Assessment We established human rights management system for GRI 103: Explanation of the invigoration of a culture of respect for human rights Management 103-1 material topic and its 58-71 ◯ and implemented related education, and we are now Approach 2016 Boundary preparing for aiding process for difficulty treatment (Unit: persons) Classification 2016 2017 2018 Completion of ethics 3,144 3,422 3,324 education Completion of online training on 5,980 6,877 7,242 Human rights code of conduct Completion of training on Labor Employee training on human rights 2,104 Human Rights Responsibility and 412-2 human rights policies or 6.3.5 ◯ Assessment ethics procedures Classification Unit 2018 Supporting socially Hours of training for workers on weak group human rights policies and procedures Hours 1 related to business Rate of training for workers on human rights policies and procedures related % 95 to business Local Communities We are trying to realize social responsibility of GRI 103: Explanation of the organization through social contribution by utilizing Management 103-1 material topic and its 36-45 ◯ business capability and spread a culture of voluntary Approach 2016 Boundary sharing by running Onnuri Corps We are enhancing the effectiveness of social contribution projects by conducting stakeholder customized contribution projects considering the Restoration of needs of the local community 6.3.9/ community Operations with local 6.5.1/ Local economy community engagement, Local Communities 413-1 Classification Unit 2016 2017 2018 6.5.2/ Participation ◯ impact assessments, and Total hours of Hours 34,711 45,093 29,659 6.5.3/ development programs service 6.8 Hours of service per person Hours 9.4 14.4 3.5 Reduction of gas bill KRW 100 million 768 835 873 Customer Privacy GRI 103: Explanation of the We possess capability against security accident and Management 103-1 material topic and its establish security system of information in order to 46-57 ◯ Approach 2016 Boundary protect client’s information Case of violation of information security (Unit: cases) Substantiated complaints regarding concerning Classification 2016 2017 2018 6.7.1/ Human rights Customer Privacy 418-1 breaches of customer Violation of client 6.7.2/ ◯ 0 0 0 privacy and losses of information security 6.7.7 customer data IT infrastructure breach 0 0 0 88 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Third-party Assurance Statement Dear Korea Gas Corporation Management and Stakeholders ▣ Introduction The Korean Standards Association (“KSA”) was commissioned by Korea Gas Corporation(“KOGAS”) to perform a third-party Assurance Engagement of ‘KOGAS sustainability Report 2019’ (the “Report”). KSA presents independent opinions as follows as a result of feasibility of the data contained in this Report. KOGAS has sole responsibility for content and performance contained in this Report. ▣ Independence As an independent assurance agency, KSA does not have any kinds of commercial interest in businesses of KOGAS apart from undertaking a third-party assurance on the Report. We have no other contract with KOGAS that may undermine credibility and integrity as an independent assurance agency. ▣ Assurance Standards and Level This Assurance Engagement followed the AA1000AS (2008 with 2018 addendum) assurance standards to provide Moderate Level assurance. We checked the four principles of inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness and impact in combination with information credibility of the Report. We also reviewed whether the Report content was created in accordance with the GRI Standards. ▣ Assurance Type and Scope This Assurance Engagement followed the AA1000AS (2008) assurance standards to provide Type 2 assurance, which means that the assurance assessed the accuracy and reliability of the company’s statements and performance data provided in the Report. The assurance scope is from January 1, 2018, to December 31, 2018 and the assurance focused on systems and activities including policies and goals, businesses and programs, standards, and achievements of the Company’s sustainability management. While the company’s environmental and social data as well as financial data was verified, the scope of review concerning stakeholder engagement was limited to the materiality test process. ▣ Assurance Methodology We used the following methods to gather information, documents and evidence with respect to the assurance scope. • Analyses of articles related to KOGAS’s sustainability management published by domestic media outlets • Review of management system and process used in improving the performance of sustainability management and preparing the Report • Review of the consistency between the financial performance data and the company’s audit report/publicly announced data • Examination of internal documents and basic materials ▣ Assurance Results and Opinions [On an assurance principle/process level] KSA reviewed the draft version of this Report to present our opinions as an assurance provider. Modifications were made of the Report content if deemed necessary. We were not aware of any significant errors or inappropriate descriptions in this Report as a result of our Assurance Engagement. As such, we present our opinions of the KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 as follows. ￭ Inclusivity ￮ Has KOGAS engaged its stakeholders in strategically responding to sustainability? KSA believe KOGAS is aware of the importance of stakeholder participation and is making an all-out effort to establish a process that will increase their participation. KOGAS has selected stakeholders including government and related organization, employees, corporate customers, individuals, partner companies, local communities and local government body to receive diverse feedbacks and opinions. ￭ Materiality ￮ Has KOGAS included material information in the Report to help stakeholders make informed decisions? We are not aware of any significant omissions or exclusions of data that is material to stakeholders. We verified that KOGAS conducted materiality test with issues identified from analyses of internal and external environments and reported according to the result. ￭ Responsiveness ￮ Has KOGAS appropriately responded to stakeholder requirements and interest in this Report? We verified that KOGAS responded stakeholders’ needs and interests through reflecting stakeholders’ opinions in the Report. We are not aware of any evidence that KOGAS’s response to significant issues of stakeholders was reported inappropriately. ￭ Impact ￮ Has KOGAS appropriately monitored its impact on the stakeholders? KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 89 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management We verified that the Company is monitoring and assessing its impact on the stakeholders by conducting an enhanced verification of its standard business activities. Furthermore, it has been verified that the Company appropriately publishes its findings in the Report. ▣ GRI Standards Application We confirmed that this Report was prepared in accordance with GRI Standards Core Option. Based on data KOGAS provided, we also confirmed a validity of the contents related to General Standard Disclosure and Specific Standard Disclosure. ￭ Universal Standards We have verified that the Report complied(s) with the requirements of the Universal Standards of Core Option, and (have) reviewed the following disclosures: 102-1 to 102-13(Organizational profile), 102-14(Strategy), 102-16 (Ethics and Integrity), 102-18(Governance), 102-40 to 102-44(Stakeholder Engagement), 102-45 to 102-56(Reporting Practice), 103(Management Approach) ￭ Topic-specific Standards We have checked the material topics identified from a materiality test process in which content to be disclosed. We examined disclosures below: • Economy: 201-1, 203-1, 204-1, 205-2, 206-1 • Environment: 302-1, 302-4, 303-1, 305-1, 305-2, 305-7, 306-1, 306-2 • Social: 401-1, 401-3, 403-1, 403-2, 403-3, 404-1, 404-3, 405-1, 412-2, 413-1, 418-1 ▣ Opinions and Recommendations [Performance /Issues] We present the following recommendations to help KOGAS establish a company-wide sustainability management strategy and respond to continuous issues of sustainability. ￭ Economic Under the management philosophy of “Better Energy, Better World”, expert of clean energy provider, KOGAS is implementing sustainable management activities to achieve improved convenience, benefit and well-being of the people through providing natural gas, known for clean energy. To successfully pursue these goals and sustainable management, it is vital to achieve performance-based responsible management for transparency in accounting and upper-level transparent management. Thus, we recommend enhancing proactive comprehensive response to financial and non-financial risk management as well as the external fluctuation in management environment beyond the short-term response. ￭ Environment The importance the awareness on the environmental safety is growing globally as well as for the stakeholders. To reflect on the global and domestic trend, we have found that KOGAS has put its effort on analyzing the opportunities and risks in relation to the climate change, along with the continuous effort to reduce GHG emission. In the future, we expect to implement proactive environmental management system through performance check system that is organically connected to the increased internal and external trust and goalachievements by index through structural installment to reflect environmental achievement within the core value, management philosophy, and transparently managed data. ￭ Social Since the new administration took place, the demand for realizing social value of the public sector has grown. KOGAS has put effort to meet the demand by strengthening social responsibility management and to create social value. Especially, the activities in relation to social value creation and sustainable development goals are highly regarded as well as the implementing human rights management system through improved awareness within the company. We look forward to see the internalization of the human rights management and spread human rights management through the supply chain, to minimize potential human rights risk. June 2019 Sang-Jin Lee, KSA Chairman & CEO The Korean Standards Association (KSA), established as a special corporation in accordance with the Law for Industrial Standardization in 1962, serves as a knowledge service provider that distributes and disseminates such services as industrial standardization, quality management, sustainability management, KS certification and ISO certification. The KSA is committed to the sustainable development of Korean society as an ISO 26000 national secretary, certified GRI training partner, AA1000 assurance provider, KSI (Korea Sustainability Index) operator, and UN CDM DOE (development operational entity), and as an assurance provider of the Korean government’s greenhouse gas energy target management system. 90 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Dedication to Achievement of UN SDGs through Creation of Social Value KOGAS’s strategy for the creation of social value(Onnuri) UN Creation of Job Sustainable objectives and training social Energy welfare Training future Voluntary sharing company generation culture 1 End poverty in all its forms everywhere ○ ○ ○ ○ End hunger, achieve food security and improved nutrition and 2 ○ ○ promote sustainable agriculture 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages ○ ○ ○ ○ Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote 4 ○ ○ lifelong learning opportunities for all 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls ○ Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and 6 ○ ○ sanitation for all Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern 7 ○ energy for all Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full 8 ○ and productive employment and decent work for all Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable 9 ○ industrialization and foster innovation 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries ○ ○ ○ ○ Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and 11 ○ ○ ○ ○ sustainable 12 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns ○ ○ 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts ○ Conserve and sustainably use the oceans, seas and marine 14 ○ resources for sustainable development Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial 15 ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, ○ ○ and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Protect, restore and promote sustainable use of terrestrial 16 ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, ○ and halt and reverse land degradation and halt biodiversity loss Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalize the global 17 ○ ○ ○ partnership for sustainable development KOGAS, a Clean Energy Company KOGAS’s Solid Foundation for Implementing Sustainable Appendix 91 Contributing to People’s Lives Sustainability Management Alignment • Domestic: Dedication to reduction in economic poverty and starvation by conducting a variety of social contribution activities such as support of gas bills and medical expenses for vulnerable groups, business to establish independence foundation of the homeless, support of scholarship for youth and so forth. • Overseas: Dedication to improvement of skills in developing countries through operation of technical institution in Mozambique Effort to eliminate starvation within and outside of country through constant support like the Republic of Korea National Red Cross Implementation of comprehensive and systematic welfare business by conducting business of creating social value by life cycle stages • Children: Toy library, invitation and operation of Uzbek patients, support of serious patients and so forth • Teenagers: Scholarship for high school/university students, Operation of technical institutions in Mozambique(Business cost: KRW 70 million) and R-Bank(Business cost: KRW 70 million) • Young and older adults: Business for improvement of energy efficiency and construction academy • The elderly: Supply of silver cart Support of quality educational environment through scholarship project for children and teenagers of low income families inside and outside of the country, business for improvement in educational environment and toy library. Constant support of quality comprehensive education such as operation of construction education for independence and rehabilitation of fundamental life escaping from economic support and permanent opportunity for education for the homeless and those living in dosshouses through Help single moms’ independence through support of education and career and implementation of business to support medical expenses for single moms’ serious patients. Dedication to increase in rights and interests of women and girls through invitation and operation of Uzbek patients and support medical expenses. We are carrying out sustainable environmental preservation activities like river purification and supporting residential environment improvement for improvement of hygiene of vulnerable groups. Support for reduction in energy consumption like fuel cells to reduce heating and cooling, installing gas chillers and heaters. Implementation of business for sustainable and steady supply of clean natural gas through policy of reduction in gas bills for vulnerable groups Constant implementation of business to create supply such as installment of fuel cells to increase use of natural gas, clean and economical energy resources. Job creation through construction academy(obtaining construction skill and job program) to prepare for foundation of independence of the homeless and those living in dosshouses. Sustainable development of industry through social investment through spread of dispersal types of strategy such as support of installing incoming pipes of city gas and fuel cells is possible. • Between countries: Continuous implementation of business for advancement of developing countries through medical support business for children in developing countries, building Korean-style playgrounds and business for enhancing capability of jobs for middle and high school students in developing countries through operation of vocational training class. • Within country: Constant effort for eradication of inequality through scholarships for high school students of low income families, environmental improvement for guarantee of residence and energy usage through business for improvement of energy efficiency Under generation and implementation of diverse business for improvement of the settlement of Daegu • Development of region: Holding Global Innovative Festa (GIF) and Creative Business Cup(CBC) and support of local innovate forum and Ansim factory • Improvement of condition of settlement: Opening of football pitch, tennis court and foot volleyball pitch for local residents, heat efficiency improvement project, toy library etc. Dedication to the stability of supply and demand of natural gas and structure of virtuous circle of domestic demand by devoting to the expansion of safe and stable storage equipment of natural gas through conflict management within the region from heat efficiency improvement project and volunteering activities around business sites. Business for creation of social value for creation of supply and demand of clean fossil fuel, natural gas is part of combatting effect against climate change and first aid. Assisting support fund for recovery of damage by minimizing damage of marine environment around the base of natural gas is available from internal rules. Environmental improvement through business projects to increase supply and demand of clean fossil fuel, natural gas with activities of purification of environment such as Blue Sky Project and Cultural Assets Preservation Project Preparing for foundation enabling citizens to participate in the business by suggesting ideas regarding social contribution business through the contest of social contribution business. Constant implementation of business, Onnuri Fund Matching Grant that selects and implements supportive business for the vulnerable class by reflecting the preference of employees with collection of employee. Preparation for driving force through creation and operation of the Committee of Social Value for creation of social value and mutual cooperation. Continue of cooperation with local government for support of the surrounding area of the producing region of natural gas and constant promotion of cooperative business with Daegu, transferred area. Continuous effort to enhance partnership with domestic and overseas institutions and the government such as improvement in the educational environment in developing countries connected with foreign business and support of medical expenses. 92 KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Prizes and Awards/Memberships Prizes and Awards Name of award Host Year Best institute in disaster management evaluation and won the presidential Ministry of the Interior and Safety 2018 commendation Grand prize of Trust Management among Korea Management Korea Management Association 2018 Grand prize of Retirement Pension among joined companies Maeil Business News Korea 2018 Grand Prize in the Social Innovation of the Korea Innovation Frontier Award The Dong-A Ilbo 2018 Prime Minister’s Award for Early Supply of Natural Gas in Saemangeum District – Office for Government Policy Coordination 2017 Jeonbuk Regional Headquarters Prime Minister’s Award in Korea Energy Efficiency Award – Pyeongtaek Terminal Division Korea Energy Agency 2017 Grand Prize in Social Contribution Sector Daegu Metropolitan City 2017 Korea CSR Film Festival – Minister’s Prize Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy 2016 Selection as the best contractor for construction disaster prevention Korea Occupational Safety and Health Agency 2016 Ranked top in national infrastructure disaster management evaluation Ministry of Public Safety and Security 2016 1st Place in Best Companies to Work GWP KOREA 2016 Certification as an excellent company in Standard Service Quality Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy 2016 Industry Minister Award of Energy Voucher Business Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy 2016 Prime Ministerial Commendation commemorating 2016 World Standards Day 2016 Ministry of Government Administration and Prime Minister Award of Korea Safety 2016 Home Affairs Korea Gas Safety Corporation, ISO Integrated Certification (ISO 8001, ISO 14001, ISO 29001, OHSAS 18001) 2016 British Standard Institution (BSI) Memberships Name of Association Joining Year Korea Gas Union 1985 WEC Korean Committee 1985 GIIGNL (International Group of Liquefied Natural Gas Importers) 1985 SIGTTO (the Society of International Gas Tanker and Terminal Operators) 1990 Environment Preservation Association (KOGAS Pyeongtaek Terminal Division) 1997 UN Global Compact 2007 Energy and Mineral Resources Development Association of Korea 2008 Korea-Japan Economic Association 2013 Green Company Association (KOGAS Incheon Terminal Division) 2013 Korean-American Association 2014 Korea-Indonesia Partnership Council 2014 IGU (International Gas Union) 2014 Better Energy Better World KOGAS Sustainability Report 2019 Publisher Kim Young Doo Place of publication Korea Gas Corporation Address 120, Cheomdan-ro, Dong-gu, Daegu, Korea (41062) Tel +82-53-670-0114 Website www.kogas.or.kr
