Annual Report 2018 TABLE OF CONTENTS Introduction 2 Biotage in Brief 4 Message from the CEO 6 Strategically important areas Business Operations 8 The company’s product segments 10 Organic Chemistry 12 Analytical Chemistry 14 Industrial Products 16 Continued strong sales growth 18 Megatrends affecting Biotage 20 Innovation and product development for long-term growth Sustainability 22 Sustainability initiatives with a lasting This is Biotage impact 24 Employees our most important asset 26 Reduced environmental impact 27 A global social responsibility Financial overview – facilitators and problem solvers 28 The company’s shares 30 Board of Directors’ report Biotage is a global life science company that 35 Five-year summary develops innovative, effective chemical separation Financial statements and synthesis solutions. 36 Consolidated financial statements 40 Parent Company financial statements The company’s products are used in areas such as pharmaceutical research, development and 44 Summary of significant accounting and manufacturing and analytical examination of patient, forensic, environmental, and foodstuff valuation principles for the Group and samples. Separation is an important part of our customers’ production process and often involves extracting a compound from other substances, isolating the components of a substance, or Parent Company chemically purifying substances from contaminants. 55 Notes 78 Auditor’s report Through our broad selection of innovative products, Biotage helps customers streamline their 82 Board and Management workflows and reduce the impact of their activities on the environment. For example, this is done 84 Product lines by cutting down on the use of solvents in the manufacturing process, by helping doctors make more accurate diagnoses, and by enabling pharmaceutical research scientists to work more 85 Glossary efficiently. By making the customer’s work easier, increasing productivity, and offering more susThe Company’s annual financial statements and tainable solutions, Biotage is laying the foundation for better, more cost-effective manufacturing consolidated accounts are included on Pages 22-27 for customers all around the world. and 30-77. Business concept The entire value chain Making progress in separation From R&D to products Biotage offers effective separation technoloBiotage aims to be a natural part of our gies and high-quality solutions for everything customers’ workflow. Thanks to our close from small-scale analysis to industrial-scale relationship with end users and our market analytics. We develop and manufacture presence, we are able to identify customer systems and consumables and offer services needs and respond to future challenges by in three product areas: Organic Chemistry, introducing new products and solutions. Analytical Chemistry, and Industrial Products. Biotage covers the entire value chain Our customers include pharmaceutical from research and development through companies, government agencies, scientific production, sales, and service. We have a institutions, and forensic and commercial well-developed global infrastructure around analytical laboratories. 96 percent of our sales are direct and only 4 percent occur through distributors. System Though our acquisition of PhyNexus Inc., sales made up around 51 percent of our total which was completed in January 2019, we 2018 revenue, while sales of consumables have strengthened our position as a leading and services accounted for the remaining chemical separation company in the rapidly 49 percent. growing field of biomolecules. | A | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Introduction Business Operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial statements Continued strong growth 2018 was yet another record year for Biotage. Sales increased in all regions where Biotage has direct sales. Revenue rose 21.8 percent and an organic growth rate of 8.0 percent was achieved. Operating profit (EBIT) amounted to SEK 172.5 Mil, corresponding to an operating margin of 18.9%. In January 2018 Horizon Technology Inc. was acquired, an acquisition that strengthens our market position in environmental applications and food safety. In addition, we also signed an agreement in December to purchase PhyNexus Inc. The acquisition, which was completed in January 2019, is in line with our strategy for growth within the chemical separation market and addresses the rapidly growing biomolecules segment. Another important event during the year was the market introduction of Biotage® Selekt and Biotage® Sfär the largest product launches in the company’s history. Financial summary 2018 2017 Net revenues, million SEK 910.9 748.1 Gross profit, million SEK 556.6 456.7 Gross margin, % 61.1 61.0 Operating profit (EBIT), million SEK 172.5 133.6 Operating margin, % 18.9 17.9 Earnings per share, SEK* 2.59 2.14 Average number of employees 404 335 *Before and after dilution è Certain financial figures presented by Biotage are not defined in accordance with IFRS standards. Refer to Pages 75-76 for more information. Growth objectives 2018 Results Comment Organic growth of 8.0% was achieved in 8% 2018. Over the last three years, the average organic growth rate was 9.5 percent. Organic growth, % 15 Organic growth is defined as 12 revenue growth, excluding 12.7 9 For the segments where Biotage acquisitions and adjusting for 8.4 8.0 competes, overall market growth is exchange rate differences. Our 6 7.8 goal is for average annual organic 3 5.5 estimated to be around 3-5%. Our growth to equal 8% or more over growth objectives call for the company 0 a three-year period. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 to grow at a faster rate than the underlying markets. Profitability goal 2018 Results Biotage requires a reasonably high The operating margin in 2018 was 18.9%. level of profitability in order to Over the last three years, the average facilitate investment in new, innova20% operating margin was 17.2 percent. tive products and market segments, strengthen the company’s marketing organization, and generate returns for our owners. Operating margin, % 20 Due to the favorable growth of the company, in 2018, the board decided to 15 raise the profitability goal for the averThis refers to earnings after 14.8 17.9 18.9 age operating profit margin from 15 to depreciation and amortization 10 20 percent. The new level is considered (EBIT margin). Our goal is to 12.8 12.2 to be reasonable and enables the con5 achieve an average operating tinuation of a reasonably brisk pace of margin of 20% or more over a 0 investment in the business, along with rolling three-year period. 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 the active evaluation of acquisitions. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 1 | Biotage in Brief Biotage in Brief Biotage is a global life sciences company developing innovative, effective San Jose, USA separation solutions for organic and analytical chemistry as well as industrial applications. Following the acquisition of PhyNexus Inc. in January 2019, Biotage is now an active player in the rapidly growing field of biomolecules. ORGANIC CHEMISTRY ANALYTICAL CHEMISTRY INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS 51% 39% 10% Products used in the early stages of Products that facilitate and streamline Industrial-scale products that separate pharmaceutical development, for the analysis of clinical and bio­ substances during the production process example, to chemically create or analytical tests, for example, patient or extract new substances for further purify the base substances of new samples, forensic samples, and processing, for example, in pharmaceutical drugs. environmental and foodstuff samples. and food manufacturing. è Refer to Pages 10-11 è Refer to Pages 12-13 è Refer to Pages 14-15 for more information. for more information. for more information. A PLATFORM FOR PROFITABLE GROWTH Biotage has designed a strategic platform for growth and profitability. This serves as a solid GLOBAL foundation to build upon for the future. INFRASTRUCTURE • Around 96% direct sales • Scalable business STRONG CASH FLOW • Enables acquisitions and dividends INNOVATION • Investments in R&D • Extensive product portfolio • Quality and design GROWTH OF • Software THE BUSINESS EFFECTIVE • Growing faster than ORGANIZATIONAL underlying markets STRUCTURE • Expanding into new • Improved profitability markets and customer • Lean manufacturing segments • Business management • Cost control | 2 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Introduction Business Operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial statements Headquarters Uppsala, Sweden Lund, Sweden Cardiff, Wales Salem, USA Charlotte, USA Seongnam, S. Korea Tokyo, Japan Shanghai, China Osaka, Japan Mumbai, India Sales Office Production and R&D SALES DISTRIBUTED BY GEOGRAPHIC MARKET THE COMPANY’S VISION 42% 29% 29% Biotage aims to offer the most effective and sustainable synthesis and separation solutions by combining innovation and knowledge while focusing on satisfying AMERICAS EUROPE & EMEA ASIA customer needs. NET SALES OPERATING PROFIT NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 910.9 (+22 %) MILLION SEK 172.5 (+29 %) MILLION SEK 405 (+16 %) LEAN MANUFACTURING Production takes place in a combination of company-owned and contract manufacturing facilities. The production plant in Cardiff, Wales manufactures our consumables as well as certain systems. Following the acquisitions of Horizon and PhyNexus, systems and consumables are now also manufactured in New Hampshire and California in the USA. All other production of systems is carried out by contract manufacturers. The plant in Lund manufactures bulk polymer materials for our Industrial Products operations. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 3 | Message from the CEO streamlining our manufacturing processes. I always say that efficiency needs to be a pervasive hallmark of our business as well as our product offerings. Our products and solutions must always be simple to use and need to improve the workflows of our customers. Investments in research and development are just as important to our future growth as lean manufacturing and cost control are to our profitability. Innovation is a crucial driving force, and we continue to invest both time and resources into the development of new and improved products. During the year, we invested 7.4% of our sales in research and development, and we have worked intently on structuring our R&D processes to maximize the return on investment. Among other things, we have expanded our external collaborations when it comes to innovations. This means that we quickly gain access to specialized skills so that the development time for new products is shortened. We have also continued to work on our internal innovation forums, and several new projects are under development. Successful launches In October the largest commercial launch in the company’s history took place when the new technology platforms, the Biotage® Selekt flash purification system and the Biotage® Sfär consumables, were introduced to the market. This is an excellent example of getting results out of our own research and development efforts. The products enable more efficient separation with better We are well positioned quality and a reduced environmental footprint thanks to their lower solvent usage. In light of the extensive innovation and for continued growth development we have put into the project, it is especially satisfying that the launch was well received by the market. One of the secrets of successful product launches is being close to your customers, allowing you to listen to their needs. Our 2018 was the company’s most successful year an extensive period of thirteen years, we sales take place almost exclusively through ever. Sales rose in all regions where we have have grown our operating profits by over 25 our own sales channels, which account for established a direct sales network, which percent per year on average, while at the 96 percent of our sales. The direct contact is proof positive that our strategy of being same time, we have succeeded in strengthenand close collaboration with customers gives close to our customers is working. As a result ing our market position and building a stable us an enormous advantage. The knowledge of very favorable developments, resulting in platform for continued growth. This incrediand feedback we receive about the needs strong growth as well as continued profitble development is the result of all the hard and issues of customers serve as valuable ability, our profitability goal was raised from work put in by our many skilled employees. information, enabling the development of an operating margin of 15 to 20 percent, new technology and new applications. measured as a rolling average over a threeFocus on innovation and lean manufacturing year period. Even if this new goal proves to One reason that Biotage is so successful at Sustainability and green chemistry be challenging going forward, I am extremely maintaining a good level of profitability is Sustainability is an important issue for proud of the profit growth at Biotage. Over that we are constantly in the machine room, Biotage and our goal is to play an active role | 4 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Introduction Business Operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial statements and contribute to a more sustainable world, with respect for the environment and people. “Together, we have built an innovaAs a part of our work in strengthening our sustainability initiatives, during the year tive and effective organization with we became a signatory of the UN’s Global Compact, whose ten principles provide us the financial strength to provide us with a stable foundation and clear guidelines for operating a more sustainable business. with more opportunities, and we A trend we have noticed in recent years is the increased awareness of the effect of are well prepared for the future.” corporations on the environment and their surroundings. One of the biggest environmental challenges for our customers is their usage of solvents in the separation and purification of molecules, a necessity in, for example, the development of new drugs. ranged price by the end of 2018. However, Thank you for a wonderful time Over several years, we have been successful we decided that this price was too high in Thanks to the dedicated employees at in introducing new products that facilitate relation to Chreto’s level of progress in their Biotage, 2018 was yet another eventful year “green chemistry,” reducing the usage of soldevelopment efforts and the future investfilled with progress. We can feel satisfied vents, and we doggedly continue to develop ments we considered necessary in order to that we increased sales by 22 percent, while even better methods. For example, we have commercialize this technology. Therefore, at the same time maintaining a stable gross an exciting project going on to evaluate new Biotage did not exercise this option and margin of 61 percent. Together, we have built methods to completely eliminate the use of instead initiated discussions concerning an an innovative and effective organization with solvents in chromatography. acquisition at a different valuation. the financial clout to provide us with more opportunities, and we are well prepared for Strategically important acquisitions Growth on multiple fronts the future. Acquisitions are an important part of our The Americas continue to be our largest After almost 14 years as the CEO of strategy for expanding and strengthening market, and even though there were certain Biotage, it is now time for me to step aside. our market position within existing and new challenges, sales grew 23 percent during the It has been a wonderful time, and I am regions and product segments. Thanks to year. Growth in Asia continues to be strong. extremely proud and impressed by all that our high profitability, growth, and global South Korea has delivered exceptional we have achieved and the dedication I see organization, today we have the resources growth since we established a presence every day among the company’s employees. needed to carry out an effective M&A stratthere in 2016. In addition, we continue to see It is thanks to the hard work of all the egy. At the beginning of 2018, we completed growing sales numbers out of China. India, employees in the organization that we enjoy the acquisition of Horizon Technology, and where we established a local organization the leading position we have today. the integration process has exceeded our during the year, is a challenging market in I do not intend to completely leave Biotage expectations. Thanks to Horizon, Biotage many respects, but the potential makes it a just yet. I have accepted the invitation of the has welcomed over 30 new employees to very exciting investment. In Europe & EMEA, nomination committee to become a board the company, and we now have access we are pleased to see that sales in Analytical member, and ultimately, to also serve as to exciting new market segments within Chemistry have gained momentum over the Chairman of the Board once the new CEO is in food manufacturing, the environment, and course of the year, with sales in the region place. I am hoping for a vote of confidence at other areas. Toward the end of the year, increasing 14 percent. the AGM so that I can continue to contribute we also announced the consummation of While we grow, we are continuing to invest to the company’s growth. Finally, I would like an agreement to acquire PhyNexus in the in our future growth, where the acquisitions to sincerely thank all the employees for their USA, which will be completed early in 2019. of Horizon and PhyNexus serve as examoutstanding effort, both during the past year The goal is to strengthen our position as a ples of investments with the potential for and throughout the time I have had the privchemical separation company within the future growth. Otherwise, we have seen ilege to work with you all. I am really looking rapidly growing field of small-scale purificaan increased interest in our products from forward to growing the business together with tion of biomolecules and consequently gain life science companies within the medical you in new ways. access to new customers and markets. With cannabis industry. This is an industry that is our established direct sales channels, we developing rapidly and facing new challenges also see good opportunities for the global from legislation on pesticide residue limits Uppsala, Sweden, March 2019 expansion of products based on PhyNexus’ in the end product. Among manufacturers of patent-protected technology platform. medical cannabis, there is an increased need Our minority investment in Chreto A/S for industrial-scale products for analysis was made to increase our exposure to the and purification, and during the course of biomolecular field, with an option to acquire the year, we have sold our larger systems for Torben Jørgensen the remaining shares of Chreto at a pre-arflash purification to stakeholders in this area. CEO and Group Director Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 5 | Strategy Strategically important areas Operating a successful business and achieving our financial goals calls for a clear strategy. Biotage has defined seven strategically important areas that will have an impact on the company’s future opportunities. OUR STRATEGIC AREAS OF FOCUS IMPORTANCE TO THE BUSINESS IN 2018 Investment in research and development Biotage continues to invest in research and development, and in 2018 Successful research and development is needed in order the company allocated 7.4 percent of sales to this area. As Biotage to ensure the company’s long-term growth and generate grows, more and more focus is placed on structuring the research increased sales. Continuous new product launches are and development processes in a way that maximizes the return from critical to create growth in the markets where Biotage these investments. Among other things, over the course of the year, competes. Innovative products that add functionality, enable Biotage allocated more resources to technological development customers to work in new ways, and improve performance and external collaborations centered around innovation and growth strengthen the company’s market position and increase end while continuing to improve the company’s internal innovation forum. user demand. The goal at all times is to offer an up-to-date The goal is to generate a stable flow of innovative products within line-up of systems as well as consumables. existing as well as new areas, and we would ideally like for 20 percent of our sales to come from products launched within the last 3 years. In October 2018, the largest commercial launch in the company’s history took place when the new technology platforms, the Biotage® Selekt flash purification system and the Biotage® Sfär consumables, were introduced to the market. Reach new market segments and customer groups Through the acquisition of Horizon Technology, Biotage has signifiAn important part of our growth initiatives involves reachcantly strengthened its Analytical Chemistry product line within the ing new market segments and customer groups. Biotage environmental and food manufacturing segments areas with good is constantly working on improving sales initiatives as potential for further expansion. The medical cannabis industry is well as current technology so they can be applied to new another area where the company has noticed increased demand, and applications. Biotage has sold a number of the company’s larger systems for flash purification to customers in this field. Biotage also continues to invest in the biomolecular field. The acquisition of PhyNexus has enabled Biotage to strengthen its market position within this rapidly growing field and consequently gain access to new customers in industries not previously focused upon. With our established direct sales channels, the door is now open for the global expansion of products based upon PhyNexus’ patent-protected technology platforms. Increased share of aftermarket sales For the year, our sales were made up of 49 percent aftermarket The long-term goal is to have at least 60 percent of products and 51 percent systems. In the USA and Europe this ratio sales come from aftermarket products, which consist of was 60/40 while the company’s various market segments in Asia consumables and service. On the whole, aftermarket sales have a higher proportion of system sales. Competition with Chinese are more evenly distributed throughout the year, more consumables, which are cheaper than our products, continues to be profitable, and relatively insensitive to cyclical fluctuations. tough. The company’s strategy for turning these numbers around is Continued investment in the sales of consumables within to sell locally-manufactured consumables in China a strategy that all product areas is an important part of this strategy. we also plan on expanding to Japan and South Korea in 2019. Biotage Biotage also works on continuously strengthening its believes that it is important to continue the direct sales work in Asia service offerings to customers. since it strengthens long-term customer relationships and improves opportunities for aftermarket sales. | 6 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Introduction Business Operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial statements IMPORTANCE TO THE BUSINESS IN 2018 OUR STRATEGIC AREAS OF FOCUS Enhanced market presence Biotage has continued to establish direct sales operations in India, Biotage must increase its presence in markets where where a lot of effort has been put into setting up and improving the the company sees clear potential. This may involve a sales organization. In Europe, the company has strengthened its sales establishing a new presence in a market through our organization and established direct sales in the Benelux countries. own sales office, a distributor, or a strategic alliance or Through the acquisitions of Horizon and PhyNexus, the company has strengthening our existing presence in a market by, for positioned itself with a presence in several parts of the USA. With example, expanding our sales force or opening a direct the Horizon acquisition, Biotage has expanded its product lines and sales office in a part of the market that previously was enhanced its opportunity to reach a more global audience within covered by a distributor. several areas of application in Analytical Chemistry. Beginning in 2019, PhyNexus’ existing products and products under development will enable Biotage to address the rapidly growing market for small-scale biomolecules purification. Continuous lean manufacturing improvements During the course of the year, Biotage has continued to automate Biotage seeks to achieve an optimal balance between consumables manufacturing, a growing priority as sales continue to internal and contract manufacturing. This balance is increase. In 2018 the work continued on the new factory in Cardiff, based upon what is most appropriate for each product where Biotage has invested in lean manufacturing improvements and line with respect to the overall cost, flexibility, risk, automation control along with expansion of the production capacity. investment, etc. Our goal is to increase each individual Robots are now used in Cardiff to carry out certain tasks that used product’s contribution to the gross margin. Furthermore, to be performed manually. We have made significant investments in a part of our overall strategy is to constantly evaluate lean manufacturing during the development of Biotage® Selekt and and introduce new work procedures that can increase Biotage® Sfär. This is expected to have a positive impact on profits manufacturing efficiency. going forward. Another example of an investment with a positive impact on the bottom line is an ongoing innovation project designed to improve the manufacturing cost basis for the UV detectors used in the company’s products. This is expected to result in improved margins for these products. Improvements to reduce our environmental footprint Our manufacturing facility in Cardiff is certified in accordance with Sustainability is an important focal point both for Biotage the ISO 14001 environmental management standard. This standard and many of our customers. These issues are not just helps Biotage continue its efforts to reduce its impact on the about working on constant improvements to reduce the environment on an ongoing basis. During the course of the year, the environmental impact of our own operations, but also management system was updated to conform with the latest update about offering products that allow customers to reduce to the standard. Another important focal point for the company is their impact on the environment. to constantly improve its products and enable customers to lower their usage of solvents. With the new Biotage® Selekt system and the Biotage® Sfär columns, large amounts of samples can be purified more quickly with less usage of solvent. Acquisitions Thanks to our robust profitability, strong growth, and global organiThe life sciences industry is currently undergoing a zation, today we have the resources needed to carry out an effective trend toward consolidation, and Biotage plans to take M&A strategy, where we are constantly evaluating potential acquisiadvantage of this opportunity. We are constantly on the tions. During the course of the year, we have focused on the intelookout for acquisitions that can expand our product line gration of Horizon, which was acquired in January. The acquisition of and strengthen our market position in both existing and PhyNexus, completed in early 2019, is in line with our growth strategy related areas. for the chemical separation market, and has allowed us to expand into new areas of application. PhyNexus products can reach a larger global audience through our direct sales channels while conversely enabling us to gain access to customers in industries that we have not actively focused on in the past. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 7 | Product segments The company’s product segments In the three product segments of Organic Chemistry, Analytical Chemistry, and Industrial Products, Biotage offers systems, consumables, and service. PRODUCTS MARKETS CUSTOMER GROUPS PRODUCT SEGMENTS ORGANIC CHEMISTRY Global market focused on the The company’s largest • Microwave-assisted US, Europe, Japan, and China. customer groups consist of synthesis Products that streamline pharmaceutical The market is mainly served pharmaceutical and biotech development, i.e., the process of chemically by our sales organization, companies, contract research creating or purifying substances used in new but also to a lesser extent by organizations (CROs), and • Peptide synthesis drugs. distributors. academic institutions. • Purification (flash chromatography) • Evaporation of samples ANALYTICAL CHEMISTRY Global market focused on the The company’s largest • Consumables US, Europe, Japan, and the customer groups include com(sample prep) Products that streamline the analysis of Middle East.* The market is mercial labs, CROs, hospitals various tests, for example, patient samples, mainly served by our direct and bioanalytical laboraforensic samples, and environmental and sales organization, but also to tories, food manufacturers, foodstuff samples. a lesser extent by distributors. and labs performing, e.g., food safety or environmental • Automated SPE analysis. • Evaporation of samples INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS The largest markets are the The company’s most • Purification US, Europe, and Japan. important customer groups (flash chromatography) Products that separate substances during in this product segment are industrial-scale production processes, pharmaceutical companies for example, in pharmaceutical and food and contract manufacturers manufacturing. (CMOs/CDMOs). • Resins/chemical media * Going forward, Biotage also sees a great amount of potential in China. | 8 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business Operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial statements ORGANIC CHEMISTRY Biotage Organic Chemistry products are used in research to effectively produce and purify the base substances of new pharmaceuticals. The process can be divided into three steps synthesis, purification, and evaporation. The company offers high-quality systems and consumables that help customers with all process steps. Our focus is on providing pharmaceutical research scientists with effective workflows and rapid, reliable results. ANALYTICAL CHEMISTRY Biotage Analytical Chemistry products are used by organizations such as hospitals and commercial research labs to purify, for example, blood, soil or foodstuff samples before they are sent for final analysis. Preparation and purification of samples are important and time-consuming, and Biotage has developed and automated the entire process in order to improve the level of quality and reduce the amount of time involved. INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS Biotage Industrial Products are used to purify or separate substances on an industrial scale, for example, in the pharmaceutical and food manufacturing industries. They are used in manufacturing processes as well as process development. An example of this is the purification of citric acid from pesticide residues. Industrial-scale purification with flash chromatography works in the same manner as it does in Organic Chemistry. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 9 | Product line Organic Chemistry Biotage Organic Chemistry products are used in the early stages of pharmaceutical development. The products make it possible to produce the base substances of new pharmaceuticals both traditional pharmaceuticals as well as second-generation pharmaceuticals. n 2018, a new generation of Product differentiation and “Biotage® Selekt and I purification system, Biotage® competitive advantages Selekt, was launched. Together with the Biotage® The company’s products are characterized by high quality and reliability, which creates Biotage® Sfär enable Sfär consumables, this system enables the company’s customers to smooth workflows that streamline the work of pharmaceutical researchers. The close more effective sepacut down on their development time. collaboration with customers provides us ration with a reduced with insight into their needs at an early stage Product segments and product lines and leads to advances in the development of usage of solvent in less • Microwave-assisted synthesis new systems and rapid innovation. Customer • Peptide synthesis demand for simplicity has prompted Biotage time quality and reli• Purification (flash chromatography) to prioritize the development of advanced • Evaporation software. Intuitive user interfaces reduce ability provide smooth Most of the Organic Chemistry products the time required for training and make the software easier to use. Biotage columns are workflows and rapid are used for synthesis and purification. Synthesis involves creating new substances market leading in the green chemistry arena. They facilitate more sustainable processes by results.” through chemical reactions of various lowering the consumption of materials and organic or inorganic materials. Purification solvents. in this context involves removing impurities The majority of the company’s sales from synthesized substances with the help in Organic Chemistry take place through è See our entire product line on Page 84 of flash chromatography. After purification, its own sales organization. Consumables the substance must be transformed from and service and support are a part of the a liquid to a solid, which is done through product line in each and every market, evaporation, where the chemical compound which promotes close, long-term, customer is dried until it solidifies. relationships. | 1 0 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business Operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial statements A B This is how we do it Synthesis, purification, evaporation O Cl HO Br Biotage Organic Chemistry products are used in drug discovery, streamlining the work involved in producing the base substances of a drug. Cl In the example below, pharmaceutical substance C is produced, which will be used in a new drug. Simply put, several organic substances must be combined to create C. We can call these inputs “Substance A” and “Substance B.” 1 Synthesis – combining the various 2 Purification – removing 3 Evaporation – drying the new substance ingredients contaminants Biotage Selekt ® The two substances, A and B, cannot be The work involved to create, i.e., synthesize After purification, the new substance is still combined without a little help. In this case, a the new substance forms by-products that dissolved in a fluid made up of solvent. solvent, heat, and reagents for catalyzing the must be removed. The company’s purification Therefore, before it can be used, this chemical reaction are needed. The ­company’s system automates the entire purification prosolvent must be removed from the slurry. synthesis procedure uses microwaves to cess. The result is a product consisting only The c­ ompany’s evaporation process uses rapidly and accurately generate the heat of the desired substance in this case C. With a vacuum, heating, and centrifugation to and energy required to combine A and B and the new system using Biotage® Selekt and rapidly and safely dry the product. create a new substance. Biotage® Sfär, larger amounts of substances can be purified with less usage of solvents in a shorter amount of time. C Finished! The new substance, C, is now a OH OH solid and is ready for the next step in the O O Cl O O Cl development process for a new drug. Cl Cl Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 1 1 | Product line Analytical Chemistry Biotage Analytical Chemistry products are used by chemists to prepare various types of samples for analysis. The products are used within many areas, for example, the environmental field, food manufacturing and drug development. The company’s product line consists of two parts: consumables, specially made for the separation of selected substances from samples, and automated, customized systems that streamline sample preparation and provide significant time savings for laboratories that carry out analysis on an industrial scale. n Analytical Chemistry, the the samples after they’ve been separated. “Through the acquisiI company’s products are Sample preparation prior to analysis is often used to prepare samples for analysis. The products are a time-consuming activity but is important for the quality of the subsequent analysis. The tion of Horizon Techused within many areas and for many different types of company’s products provide chemists with reliable tools that streamline this work. nology Inc. in early analytical tests, for example, to discover 2018, Biotage took contaminants in soil, water and food, in Product differentiation and forensic medicine to find traces of drugs competitive advantages another important step or doping compounds, or in the analysis of High quality and reliable, stable performance blood and urine samples in order to provide are hallmarks of the company’s Analytical forward in response to a diagnosis or in conjunction with drug Chemistry product line. The consumables trials. are easy to use and manufacture during the the increased demand Product segments and product lines sustainable processing of samples, otherwise known as “green chemistry.” Biotage has a for analytical products • Consumables • Automated SPE (Solid Phase Extractions) broad selection of standardized products but also partners with customers to develop within the pharmaceu• Evaporation of samples customized products and methods to solve tical and environmental the customers’ specific challenges. The close The first part of the product line consists of collaboration with end users allows us to industries.” consumables and their associated applicabetter understand their needs and contintions (methods), which are used to separate uously develop new applications. The more specific substances from various samples. applications we can offer for our consumè See our entire product line on Page 84 The consumables utilize various separaables, the larger the share of the underlying tion techniques, such as, e.g., SPE (Solid market we can capture. Biotage is a market Phase Extraction) or SLE (Supported Liquid leader in SLE, and the majority of our sales Extraction). flow through local sales organizations. The second part of the product line Service and support are an important part of consists of systems that streamline and our product line in all markets. automate sample processing and concentrate | 1 2 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business Operations BusinessOperations Sustainability Financial overview Financial statements Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Load Wait Elute This is how we do it mponents Sample purification, automation and pholipids, salts ins additives, concentration, analysis ort diatoms) Biotage Analytical Chemistry products are used to analyze various samples, for example, blood work, urine samples, soil and water samples, and foodstuff samples. A very sensitive instrument called a mass spectrometer is used Aqueous sample flows Analytes partition for these analyses. The sample must be cleansed of all impurities onto extraction bed, into elution solvent and is dispersed and are collected that could contaminate the analysis. The company’s products are in small droplets. used for this part of the work sample preparation for analysis. 1 Sample purification 2 Automation 3 Sample concentration Biotage has a large number of consumables The Biotage® Extrahera™ system automates In certain cases, the sample needs to be conand bundled methods that are specialized for the entire process of preparing samples for centrated before it’s analyzed. This involves the purification of various types of samples. analysis. This results in efficiency gains for removing excess solvent, which is done with Simply put, they are very advanced filters laboratories that carry out a large number of the TurboVap® evaporation system. that remove impurities from the sample, analyses. only allowing the substances needed for the analysis to pass on through. 4 Analysis After the company’s products have removed the impurities, the samples can be accurately analyzed by a mass spectrometer. A chemist later reviews the result, which can then, for example, help a doctor make a patient diagnosis, enable a food safety inspector to verify that food is fit for consumption, or allow a police officer to confirm the presence of narcotics in an offender’s bloodstream. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 1 3 | Product line Industrial Products Biotage Industrial Products are primarily used by pharmaceutical companies, chemical manufacturers, and consumer goods manufacturers to purify their products of contaminants through separation or to isolate the substances to be processed. Biotage offers industrial-scale purification systems based on flash chromatography and consumables. he company’s systems and the customers isolate substances from their “The medical cannabis T consumables for large-scale products. The company’s “Resins” provide flash chromatography, Biotage® Flash 150 and 400, customers with access to methods that can remove unwanted substances from products industry is growing rapwork in the same manner as the flash chromatography products in the down to extraordinarily minute levels, for example, to meet the strict requirements of idly and has displayed Organic Chemistry product line. Customers authorities. an interest in the comusing the company’s systems and consumables can therefore use the same methods Product differentiation and pany’s industrial-scale when developing drugs in the lab that competitive advantages they use to manufacture larger quantities The company’s products for industrial flash chromatography, of a substance. This is because the work applications are characterized by strong procedure is in principle the same only the customer relationships with repeat sales. which makes it possible manufacturing scale is different. Biotage is one of the few companies offering ready-made consumables for large-scale to purify the medicinal Product segments and product lines • Purification purification systems based on flash chromatography. These products result in end products from pes• Resins/chemical growth media both efficiency gains and cost savings for ticide residues.” • Customer-specific projects customers. A key selling point is that the company’s products can be customized The company’s Industrial Products include to meet the needs of customers. Biotage systems, consumables, and research services. has collected a team of highly educated è See our entire product line on Page 84 The majority of the product line consists of professionals to staff its research and industrial-scale purification systems that use development groups. This team possesses a flash chromatography with bundled consumconsiderable body of knowledge and expeables either based on silica or polymers. rience, allowing it to effectively respond Biotage also offers advanced research to customers’ future needs for chemical services to help customers manufacture growth media. effective, custom consumables that help | 1 4 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business Operations BusinessOperations Sustainability Financial overview Financial statements This is how we do it Scale-up, bulk consumables, customer-specific development All of the company’s products in the Industrial Products line are used to purify or separate various substances on a large scale. This can be to remove traces of pesticide from citric acid or to purify a drug from by-products or trace amounts of excipients left over from the manufacturing process. 1 Scale-up 2 Bulk consumables 3 Customer-specific development The company’s systems and consumables for Biotage offers a line of so-called Resins In the event customers need to purify a large-scale flash chromatography, Biotage® that remove traces of unwanted substances product in an area where no ready-made Flash 150 and 400, work in the same way as in customers’ products. A common area of consumable is currently available to solve the flash chromatography products in the application is in removing excipients used the task, Biotage can help them develop a Organic Chemistry product line. This allows, in manufacturing for example, the metal customized solution that suits their needs. for example, pharmaceutical companies palladium, which is often used as a catalyst This is done in the form of a research project, and contract manufacturers to purify large in pharmaceutical manufacturing. designed to develop a consumable that can amounts of a substance with the same methCustomers can use the products in several effectively remove the unwanted substance ods used in the lab during development work. different ways. They can pack columns from the customer’s product. Pharmaceutical companies do this, for with consumables and allow the fluid that example, when they need mass quantities needs to be purified to pass on through. of a substance for clinical drug trials. The Biotage Resins trap the unwanted substance. company’s purification system is also used Alternatively, they can mix the consumables for small-scale commercial production of with the fluid that needs to be purified. The drug ingredients. Resins trap the unwanted substance so it can then be filtered out. The company’s products allow customers to effectively remove unwanted substances from their products. This allows Biotage to help its customers, for example, to satisfy regulatory requirements and offer purer and safer end products to consumers. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 1 5 | Market Continued strong sales growth Biotage has sales in the majority of international markets. In 2018 sales continued to grow in all of the regions where the company has an established direct sales force. The positive growth during the year was strengthened by the successful integration of Horizon Technology, which was acquired in January 2018. iotage competes in markets safeguard the market’s potential. “A large part of the comB in three geographic regions The regions where markets are served by the Americas, Europe & EMEA, and Asia. In 2018 the Americas distributors, mainly the Middle East, Africa, and the Pacific, accounted for 6 percent of pany’s growth is attribaccounted for 43% of sales, total sales in 2018. utable to the fact that Europe & EMEA for 29%, and Asia for 28%. The USA continues to be the company’s Customer-focused and responsive working we have established our largest individual market. During the course methods of the year, Horizon Technology in New A large part of the company’s success is own sales organization Hampshire was acquired, and the successful attributable to the fact that we have estabintegration of the company has had a lished our own sales organization in almost for direct sales in almost positive impact on both sales and profitability. The acquisition has strengthened all of our markets. By working closely with customers and listening to their requests, all of our geographic the company’s positioning in Analytical Chemistry within the environmental and food Biotage is able to continuously develop new products with a high performance level that markets.” manufacturing industries, two areas where meet customers’ needs. Customers expect to Biotage sees favorable opportunities for furbe able to use the company’s products in an ther expansion. The launch of the Biotage® increasingly broader range of applications, Selekt flash purification system and Biotage® which often leads to changing requirements Sfär consumables in the fourth quarter was for product characteristics. An important well received by the market and is expected part of the ongoing product development to be an important growth stimulus going and quality control work thus deals with forward. customers being able to use the company’s Europe, where the United Kingdom and product within new areas. Germany are the two largest individual Biotage actively addresses new markets markets, has been on an upward trajectory for continued expansion, which at times in 2018. Biotage has actively worked on requires obtaining regulatory compliance. developing existing as well as new customer In such cases, Biotage must ensure that relationships in order to improve its position the products comply with the regulations in the market. applicable to specific markets, which is Percentage growth over the course of made easier by the fact that the company’s the year was greatest in Asia. This can be organizational structure is made up of local explained by the direct sales organizations business offices with considerable knowledge that were recently established by the comof those specific markets. pany. In China, system sales volumes have risen significantly within Organic Chemistry. Sales also rose in South Korea, and at the end of 2018, an analytical testing method for foodstuffs using one of the company’s products was approved as an official method for analyzing mold contamination in the country. In India, Biotage set up a new sales office in 2017 and focused this past year on establishing a sales organization in order to | 1 6 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business Operations BusinessOperations Sustainability Financial overview Financial statements Organic Chemistry Analytical Chemistry Industrial Products O The market for the company’s Organic Chemistry product line A The company’s Analytical Chemistry product line is used to analyze I Our Industrial Products market is largely tied to drug development is largely tied to pharmaceutical samples for, among other things, and pharmaceutical manufacdrug development. The largest customer clinical diagnostic testing of patients, bioanturing. Customers include pharmaceutical group is made up of pharmaceutical alytical tests in conjunction with drug trials, companies and, to a larger extent, contract companies, but biotech companies, acaforensic samples for, e.g., drug detection, manufacturers that produce substances for demic institutions, and contract research environmental testing to detect pollutants in the pharmaceutical industry. Part of these organizations are also among the company’s soil and water, and the analysis of foodstuffs operations are centered around consumer customers. for chemical impurities. Customers include goods manufacturers in, e.g., the food The market is characterized by close commercial, hospital, and forensic labs, manufacturing industry who need to isolate similarities between different geographical pharmaceutical companies, and private as certain substances from their products areas since research into new drugs employs well as governmental laboratories in the during the production process. the same work procedures and principles environmental and food manufacturing By offering a high-performance technology regardless whether it’s being conducted in industries. that can be customized to selectively separate Europe, the Americas, or Asia. Biotage is still a relatively small player in specific substances, Biotage occupies a unique The company’s brand is associated with the Analytical Chemistry market. However, position in the market. The products are high-quality products that help customers our market position is strengthening as the certified so that they can be sold internationstreamline their workflows. In Organic company expands its product line and makes ally in compliance with applicable regulations. Chemistry, Biotage is one of the market’s inroads into its targeted market niches. Biotage is one of the market-leading players leading suppliers of systems and consumFor example, in 2018, Biotage succeeded in in industrial-scale purification using flash ables for the synthesis and purification of strengthening its position in environmental chromatography, a method used in drug substances used in pharmaceutical research. and foodstuff analysis. The company is manufacturing. In 2018 the medical cannabis The company is either number one or two in moreover a market-leading player in SLE sector has also shown an increased level most of its geographic markets. (Supported Liquid Extraction) separation of interest in larger-scale flash purification technology. systems. 2018 sales distribution 2018 sales growth 2018 sales distribution by geographic market, % by geographic market, % by segment, % 30 25 27.4 Americas 42% 20 Organic Chemistry 51% Europe & EMEA 29% Analytical Chemistry 39% 15 19.1 Asia 29% Industrial Products 10% 10 5 8.3 0 America Europe & EMEA Asia Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 1 7 | Market Megatrends affecting Biotage The company’s research and development activities are actively focused on reducing the need for solvents. Personalized medicine Biomolecules A A very pronounced trend in medicine is research and development O A Today, biomolecules are one of the most centered around so-called personrapidly growing areas alized medicine, i.e., drugs customized for an within drug development. This includes, individual. This means that more methods will for example, drugs based on monoclonal be needed in the future and there were be a antibodies used to treat diseases such as higher demand for advanced clinical diagnosrheumatoid arthritis and cancer. For diseases tics within the Analytical Chemistry segment. where biologics have already been approved When it comes, for example, to cancer and launched on the market, these treatpatients, there are enormous opportunities in ments have represented astonishing medical personalized medicine. Just as each patient is breakthroughs that have reduced suffering and unique, so is each type of cancer. Instead of improved the quality of life of many patients. experimenting with various types of treatment, The processes involved in the development risking either severe side effects or a lack of of biomolecules are complex and extensive therapeutic response, researchers are looking and do not follow the same synthetic pathways at the potential advantages of clinically testing used in the development of small molecule each patient beforehand in order to determine drugs. Currently, the purification of biomolwhich treatment is most likely to be beneficial. ecules is often complicated and expensive. This is more cost effective in the long run and, As the level of activity around biomolecules more importantly, lowers the risk of losing increases, this area becomes more appealing valuable time for the patient following a to Biotage for both Organic Chemistry and diagnosis of cancer, where each and every day Analytical Chemistry. We already offer a pharcounts. maceutical development product line based Numerous research institutions around the on peptides. The acquisition of PhyNexus, world are currently evaluating personalized which offers products for small-scale purificamedicine approaches and many experts expect tion of biomolecules and patented technola breakthrough in this field within the next ogies with significant future potential for the five years. To respond to this demand in the development of new products, has allowed us marketplace, Biotage is researching, among to strengthen our position in the biomolecular other things, lipids. As a responsible company, field and reach new customers in industries Biotage aims to play a leading role in medical that we have not actively focused on in the research and development. At the same time, past. In addition, our minority stake in the from a commercial perspective, personalized Danish company Chreto is another example of medicine offers the company an expanded our investment in the area of biomolecules. market in Organic Chemistry as well as a new frontier in Analytical Chemistry. | 1 8 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business Operations BusinessOperations Sustainability Financial overview Financial statements Helping customers Rising industrial production Increasing automation O A to reduce their environmental impact I in the USA and Europe In recent years, there has been O and intelligent systems There is global demand for higher A clear multi-year a trend where the production of quality, increased levels of autotrend is customers trying to reduce their chemical substances for pharmaceuticals is mation, and the use of Artificial Intelligence environmental impact. This issue is highly returning to the USA and Europe instead of (AI) designed to streamline the work of chemrelevant for Biotage both in Organic Chemistry continuing to be contracted out to companies ists. Product development and design are both and Analytical Chemistry. A significant part of in, for example, China and India. This can be trending toward increasingly more advanced customers’ environmental challenges is linked explained by the improved opportunity for systems that either reduce or eliminate the to the solvent used in separating and purifying quality control and the sped-up processes due need for certain process steps. Customers are molecules. Customers are therefore very interto reduced waiting times between different looking for rapid workflows and quality-conested in products that can perform separation research institutions. The company’s answer trolled processes, where they can easily select and purification with less usage of solvents. In to this trend has been primarily to focus a method and allow the equipment to read Analytical Chemistry, end users are demanding on products that can shorten development the codes on samples and start the process. products that can analyze smaller and smaller cycles, such as the larger-scale Biotage® Flash Once the analysis is complete, the results are sample amounts, thereby reducing the need 150 and 400 purification systems, in order to automatically transferred to the chemists’ for solvents. For several years, Biotage has respond to customers’ increasing demands for computers. In response to this trend, Biotage successfully reduced the usage of solvents quality and time savings. is constantly investing in innovative products in several of its products. The most recent Biotage has, for example, received an and systems for streamlining workflows. The example of this is the new Biotage® Selekt increased amount of interest in its Induscompany focuses on making products that are system with the Biotage® Sfär columns that trial Products from the medical cannabis intuitive and user friendly. The new Biotage® makes it possible to realize higher productivity sector for treating, among other things, Selekt system with the Biotage® Sfär columns with less solvent usage. Through its research epilepsy and multiple sclerosis (MS). In the is one example of how Biotage is responding and development activities, Biotage is actively USA, this is an industry that is developing to this trend and delivering improved producworking on reducing the need for solvents and rapidly and facing new challenges from tivity with a high level of control, ease of use, developing methods that completely eliminate legislation on pesticide residue limits in the and reliability. the use of solvents in chromatography. end product. The company’s products are currently being evaluated for both analytical testing and purification within this field. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 1 9 | Research and development Innovation and product development for long-term growth The company’s operations are based on rapid, innovative development. The goal is for approximately 8-10 percent of the company’s revenues to be reinvested in research and development. The work is divided into three parts: research, product development and product care. Biotage strives to ensure that innovative concepts can be transformed swiftly into development and production. All employees are encouraged to submit project descriptions for new concepts, which are then evaluated by a specially appointed team. 1 2 3 RESEARCH PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT PRODUCT CARE AREA OF FOCUS Biotage develops innovative new techBiotage is constantly developing new Work within product care mainly concerns nology for next-gen products. This work products to be launched in the next one to product improvement and the addition is conducted both internally at Biotage two years. Safety, reliability, and usability of new functionality to enhance the and in collaboration with other compaare prioritized in each development performance of products that have already nies and academic institutions. Biotage project in order to enhance the user been launched. It is also about improving research is focused on streamlining experience and improve the workflow. competitive advantages in the marketplace customers’ workflows and reducing their by reducing the costs of various components environmental impact. used in the manufacturing process. FOLLOWING THE TRENDS USABILITY A COMPETITIVE ADVANTAGE PARALLEL DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS Research is often based upon growing Product safety and reliability are always The company’s project managers routinely trends in the marketplace. This is to priority number one, and usability is communicate with their product teams OUR APPROACH ensure that Biotage is able to continue one of the company’s main competitive about potential improvements to existing to offer customers relevant, cutting-edge advantages. These factors play a key part products. The work is constantly changing, products as their needs and requirein all development, and the aim is to and a number of parallel development ments change. Examples of such trends have the market’s most advanced system projects are always in progress. The include the increasing demand for cost software while ensuring that the products development team employs a process that efficiency and automation, products with are intuitive, well designed, and userensures that projects are evaluated on a a reduced environmental impact and friendly. Customers need to be confident technical basis in order to identify and the continuing focus on analysis and that they are getting reliable results, with mitigate any risks, so that the projects can purification of biomolecules. an efficient, safe and smooth workflow. be completed on time and within budget. MORE EFFECTIVE REMOTE CONTROL LEADS TO SOFTWARE ENABLES MORE EFFECTIVE PURIFICATION PROCESSES TIME SAVINGS PURIFICATION TECHNIQUES One example of progress that has been The ability to remotely control and monitor In 2018 Biotage developed new software made in reducing the usage of solvents instruments and processes saves time and that can be applied to existing equipment. during substance purification includes resources. One example of Biotage creatThis has streamlined the purification EXAMPLE new, smaller columns that can handle ing efficient workflows for its customers process and reduced solvent usage. The larger sample amounts when combined is through Bluetooth® technology, where company has made purification technology with intelligent software algorithms. information can be smoothly transferred more cost effective by developing its own Another example is a research project from an analytical tool to one or more UV detectors to improve performance. examining how to virtually eliminate devices. This is one of several digitalization The project is constantly undergoing the use of solvents in chromatography. initiatives Biotage is developing for the improvements, with a focus on improving The method has been refined, and new future. New, intuitive interfaces also make performance and reducing environmental prototypes have been developed during it easier for customers to familiarize new impact in order to continue to improve the the course of the year. user groups with the system. cost efficiency. | 20 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business Operations BusinessOperations Sustainability Financial overview Financial statements Successful product launches The company’s largest indiBiotage® Selekt – for increased Biotage® Sfär lower usage of materials productivity and more efficient separation vidual product area within Biotage® Selekt is a very compact system for In tandem with the new system, Biotage® Organic Chemistry is purificaflash purification. The new smaller columns Sfär was launched a complete suite of new, can be mounted either on the side or front of more efficient flash purification columns tion, where the flash purificathe instrument and have been developed for that come in different sizes, from 5 g to tion system and its line of conmaximum productivity. The instrument’s high 350 g, with a variety of media. The media flow and high-pressure capacity allows flash in the c­ olumns are made from spherical sumable accessories account purification to be performed more efficiently silicon dioxide with a large surface area that for the majority of sales. Within and quickly with less consumption of solvents. provides a higher load capacity, making Biotage® Selekt has a redesigned large touchit possible for chemists to use a smaller this area, Biotage® Selekt and screen with an intuitive interface that makes column for the same separation process. Biotage® Sfär were launched it easy to locate the controls and lessens the This not only reduces the amount of solvent time needed for training. needed, but also the cost of the separation. in 2018. These products were developed to position Biotage as a complete partner for customers seeking efficient Biotage® Selekt – a system that can be counted on chemistry, delivering high 1. Improved productivity. It’s important for 3. Incredibly simple to use. Biotage® quality and reliability with less the job to be done right the first time. Selekt is flexible, intuitive, and simple The company’s system is designed for to use for novices and experts alike. impact on the environment. maximum productivity. 4. More control. Lightning-quick, The products facilitate more 2. The most environmentally-friendly exact chromatography for advanced columns. All Biotage® Sfär columns separation efficient separation with higher are packed with spherical silicon 5. Trust. The results aren’t the only thing quality and less environmental dioxide, which has a large surface area that need to be reliable. High-quality and reduces the usage of solvents and Biotage instruments ensure greater impact. materials. dependability and safety. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 21 | Sustainability Sustainability initiatives with a lasting impact The goal of Biotage is for our business to contribute to a more sustainable world, with respect for both the environment and people. To strengthen this commitment, during the year, we became a signatory of the UN’s Global Compact, whose ten principles provide us with a stable foundation and guidelines for operating a more sustainable business. iotage competes in several Our sustainability initiatives are governed tional freedom, and opposition to child labor B international markets, with by the the Biotage Code of Conduct, our and forced labor. a global responsibility for its whistleblower policy, and our company production processes as well policies. Whistleblowing as its employees. Our business Biotage aims for the highest possible levels is built on close, long-term Code of Conduct of transparency, honesty, and accountability. relationships with customers, suppliers, and The Biotage Code of Conduct contains The group has a global whistleblower system, other business partners. In each individual guidelines specifying the responsibility where employees, customers, and other case, Biotage takes pride in being a reliable the company has toward employees and business partners are given the opportunity and stable partner. The company's activities stakeholders. The company’s goal is for to report any irregularities or deviations from benefit the community at large, for example, all employees, partners, and suppliers to the Code of Conduct. All employees must be through our products and solutions being follow the Code of Conduct. The CEO of each able to feel comfortable reporting anomalies, used for chemical separation and synthesis, individual group company is responsible for irregularities, or serious incidents related which are, among other things, important ensuring that everyday work activities are to Biotage without any fear of reprisal. No steps in the development of new drugs. performed in accordance with this code. violations were reported in 2018. The company’s business concept is based The work in following up on the Code upon responsibility and a long-term view, of Conduct, which was started in 2017, was Sustainability risks both when it comes to ensuring financial designed in a manner that all employees If Biotage fails to perform as expected in its stability and reducing our impact on the participate on a regular basis and certify sustainability efforts, there is a risk of negative environment. We constantly work on that they are familiar with the code and impacts in several areas. In 2018 the risk improving customers’ efficiency, which leads comply with it during their everyday work analyses concerning the company’s internal to lower costs and a smaller environmental activities. The Code of Conduct covers areas manufacturing processes were revised. The footprint. This is, for example, facilitated by such as anti-corruption, the environment, sustainability risks Biotage has identified are the extended lifespan of our products and financial reporting, human rights, and presented below. Please refer to Page 32 for so-called green chemistry solutions. We are working conditions as well as, e.g., equal a more detailed description of the company’s constantly making improvements in order to opportunity, non-discrimination, organizarisks. create sustainable manufacturing processes that reduce the need for solvents in chemical processes. One example where we have made sustainability improvements is the launch of the Biotage seeks to have a positive Biotage® Selekt flash chromatography system and the Biotage® Sfär consumables. influence on communities and serve a role Biotage® Selekt and Biotage® Sfär make it possible to fit a larger quantity of samples model wherever the company is active. into the same size column, resulting in less solvent usage with effective separation Aside from our commercial goals and of a larger quantity of samples. This time-saving increase in throughput means that principles, our business activities must customers can process a larger number of samples in less time and with lower usage be performed with strict requirements for of materials, reducing their impact on the environment. integrity and ethics. Therefore, Biotage The lifespan of existing equipment can be extended, among other things, through is focused on acting in a professional, the company’s development of “smart” products that can be customized to meet honest, and ethically-correct manner. In changing needs and requirements. Existing products can, for example, be updated with addition to being a signatory of the UN’s new software or consumables in order to prolong their lifespan and/or expand their Global Compact, Biotage supports the ILO’s areas of application. fundamental conventions and the OECD’s Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. | 22 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business Operations Sustainability Sustainability Financial overview Financial statements “Biotage seeks to have a positive influence on communities and serve as a role model wherever the company is active.” RISK AREA DESCRIPTION OF RISK AND HOW BIOTAGE REMEDIATES RISK POTENTIAL IMPACTS Environmental Chemical spills in the lab environRoutine assessment of the business’s environmental risks. Biotage has ment and emission of chemicals routines and procedures for chemical processing and the prevention into the run-off system of effluence into the run-off system, for example by sealing wells. Employee Lack of appropriate skills. Recruiting Annual performance reviews that set goals and monitor the progress skills and retaining qualified, skilled of each employee, along with individual career planning sessions. workers is a prerequisite in order Biotage actively works on maintaining an attractive work environment to carry out the group’s business that provides employees with opportunities for personal growth and strategies. development. The company also actively recruits new employees in order to find the right skills. Employee The risk that employees are injured Routine assessments of the business’s health and safety risks. health and in a production accident and risk Appointed workplace environment groups and safety ombudsmen safety related to the psychosocial workcarry out ongoing audits to handle local workplace environment place environment issues. Breach of the The risk that employees, suppliers, Training of Biotage personnel, updated Code of Conduct, supplier Code of Conduct or subcontractors do not comply agreements, and a global whistleblower system. Biotage has also in a Biotage with the Biotage Code of Conduct, introduced the “Biotage Group Modern Slavery and Human Trafficking business or the including with respect to the Statement,” which discusses the process for identifying individual supply chain environment, working conditions, risks and risk areas and discusses the internal allocation of responsihuman rights, or anti-corruption. bilities, inspection, monitoring, and training. Corruption and bribery: individuals Policy of zero tolerance for bribery and corruption, internal control Corruption acting wrongly or criminally in order mechanisms to prevent and discover irregularities, and anti-bribery to derive financial or personal gain and anti-corruption clauses in agreements with partners. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 23 | Employees Employees our most important asset Employees are the company’s most important asset. It is the commitment and knowledge of our employees that leads to growth. By offering empowerment, a positive environment for development, and rapid decision-making pathways Biotage is able to recruit dedicated employees with top-notch skills. In 2018 over 100 new employees were welcomed into the company. In addition, many employees have found new career opportunities within the group. iotage has grown at a brisk survey. The results show, among other things, their work. Individualized career planning is pace in recent years, and for that 87 percent of the employees indicate also included, where the employee’s goals B the first time in history, the workforce now exceeds 400 employees. As of December they are optimistic about the company’s future and 84% feel their supervisors listen to them. The areas for improvement included, and motivation are assessed in order to outline appropriate developmental steps. 31, 2018, the total number e.g., suggestions to improve internal commuDiversity and equal opportunity of employees was 405 an increase of 16 nication and update certain IT structures. A basic principle at Biotage is that all percent. The higher employee turnover during the employees must be treated equally and fairly. Ethics and morals are of paramount year primarily stems from more turnover within In order to achieve its business goals, Biotage importance to Biotage, and the company’s the sales force in Europe and the USA. There seeks to attract employees with a diverse set position with respect to this is reflected is currently low unemployment in the United of skills and experience. Diversity is becoming in the majority of our policy documents States, which both affects employee turnover increasingly more important in a global as well in as the Biotage Code of Conduct. in the region and within our group as a whole. environment, where customers as well as In order for new employees to be able to suppliers come from far-ranging markets and quickly assimilate the company’s values and Motivational leadership a variety of cultural backgrounds. Biotage has routines, they participate in an introduction Biotage is a global employer with an owner tried to eliminate gender bias in its manageprogram including training in the company’s dedicated to ensuring that the company’s ment group (43% women) as well as its board Code of Conduct. Each year, a follow-up workplace is an attractive place to work. A (40% women, nominated by shareholders) and is performed, where all of the company’s flexible organizational structure and rapid constantly strives to achieve overall gender employees in every country read the Code decision-making pathways make it possible equality in its recruitment of new employees of Conduct and certify that they are familiar for employees to develop and contribute to for the group. The Code of Conduct contains with it and agree to comply with it. the company’s growth. Leadership is a key guidelines that aim to ensure that all employBiotage carried out its first employee factor in what makes a workplace attractive. ees, regardless of gender, ethnicity, religion, survey during the year to measure and assess For this reason, Biotage focuses strongly or sexual preference, are provided with equal the work environment in all countries. The on the recruitment of senior executives. All goal of the survey was not only to measure supervisors and senior managers have the 2.0% 17% the health of the organization, but also to opportunity to participate in professional identify areas for future improvement. We training focused on leadership. An important plan to carry out this survey on a routine part of leadership is about supporting the basis going forward in order to improve development of employees and promoting an our follow-up and assessment of the work open, transparent corporate culture. Annual Sick leave in Sweden Employee turnover environment. 76% of the company’s employperformance reviews provide employees with during the year in the Biotage group ees responded to this completely anonymous constructive feedback and clear goals for (2017 1.3%, 2016 1.0%) (2017 8.6%, 2016 6.5%) | 24 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business Operations Sustainability Sustainability Financial overview Financial statements “Biotage is a global employer and is dedicated to ensuring that the company’s workplace is an attractive Career opportunities place to work.” within the group Dan Menasco worked at Biotage as an Application Chemist in Charlotte, North Carolina (USA). When a position was advertised in the Marketing department at the head office in Uppsala, Sweden, he decided to apply. When he was hired for the position, he moved his entire family to Sweden. We asked Dan a few questions about career opportunities within the Biotage group. How are the career opportunities within the group? Biotage is a relatively small company. Therefore, there are a limited number of new positions. At the same time, it’s a global company with many opportunities. Naturally, it makes it easier if you take the initiative, plan your career, and dare to climb out of your comfort zone. How did you find your new position? An area was being divided into two, and an individual fitting my profile was needed in Uppsala, so I applied directly. Number of employees by geography and Health and safety gender as of December 31 I wanted to take the next step and be Biotage seeks to have a safe, healthy able to use all of my skills and be able to workplace environment, both when it comes • Women • Men work on development projects, so I was to the physical as well as the psychosocial 150 very happy when I got the opportunity. environment. The workplace environment 132 initiatives include setting quality goals What was the deciding factor when it 120 108 and carrying out risk assessments, so came to moving to Sweden? 85 employees enjoy their jobs and can have a That I got a position that involved more 90 reasonable work-life balance. The company responsibility and more opportunities 60 approaches workplace environment issues in to participate in and affect the develop7,8 a systematic, structured manner, based on ment of new instruments. In addition, 30 28 21 the company-wide workplace environment my wife was in favor of moving and, in 17 policy and in accordance with international general, working conditions in Sweden 7 7 0 standards and local legislation. All of the are very good. UK USA company’s policies include action plans for Sweden Japan China Rest of Europe Korea India Any tips on making a career at Biotage? handling any transgressions. Biotage has historically had a low level of Believe in yourself! Take the initiative sick leave. In 2018 overall sick leave incidence and network. Don’t be afraid to ask in Sweden was 2.0% (4.4% for women and about plans for the future and new positions. Keep your eyes open and when an 0.8% for men). opportunity pops up, take the chance. opportunities for growth and receive equal pay The health risks at Biotage are low, and Let your supervisor know the direction for equivalent work tasks. This is also clarified any incidents related to the workplace you want to develop in. in the company’s equal opportunity policy, environment or safety are reported. In 2018 which applies to the entire group, as well as in the company had a small number of reported Dan Menasco the local employee handbooks in each country. incidents. Measures that were adopted Title: Global Technical Product The equal opportunity policy includes an included updating risk assessments and work Manager – Analytical equal opportunity plan that’s revised every processes as well as increasing requirements Living: in Uppsala, Sweden three years. The goal of this action plan is for the mandatory usage of personal protecBirthplace: Medford, Oregon, USA not only to evaluate past years, but also to tive gear in certain processes. For preventive Education: B.S. in Biochemistry and peer into the future and define any measures purposes, “near-miss incidents” are reported Ph.D. in Chemistry, University of that need to be adopted in the upcoming internally, and action plans are drafted to South Carolina period. In order to ensure equal pay as far as prevent future incidents. Employed since: 2015. possible, wage analyses are run. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 25 | Environment and community Reduced environmental impact The demand for less environmental impact is rising both via new legislation and from the company’s stakeholders. Biotage strives to minimize environmental impacts both in its business activities and through the products and services the company offers. he company’s manufacturing increased by 37% in 2018 compared to 2017. T processes are flexible and can be adapted in response to changing needs or environThe company’s environmental goals This increase can be explained by the fact that demand for chemical media has risen significantly and the production of silicaand mental requirements. Most of polymer-based materials rose by 30 and 91 our manufacturing is done at our production 1 R  educe the amount of waste percent, respectively. However, relative to the plant in Cardiff, Wales as well as in New Hampgenerated in manufacturing production volumes of these products, the shire, following the acquisition of Horizon Techoperations manufacturing has become more efficient. nology Inc. We also have a smaller production facility in Lund, Sweden. Biotage is currently 2 Reduce  the use of environmentally Energy use in the process of expanding its capacity with a hazardous substances The main environmental impact from new manufacturing plant adjoining the existing manufacturing operations stems from energy Cardiff plant and is intently focused on making 3 I ncrease manufacturing efficiency consumption. In Cardiff energy consumption sure the facility complies with the company’s with respect to water and electricity was the same as for the prior year, while strict requirements for smooth workflows with The goals are monitored by internal audits at the same time, overall production value the lowest possible impact on the environwithin the scope of our environmental increased by 15 percent. This more efficient ment. Integration of the company’s most system as well as tracking of the data use of energy is the result of investments in recent acquisition, Horizon Technology Inc., is reported on, for example, waste and new ventilation facilities with better energy still ongoing and has followed our environmenenergy. performance. tal goals according to plan. In 2016 the facility in Cardiff was certified Waste in accordance with ISO 14001 by the British has been able to offer customers new software Biotage actively works on reducing the overall Standards Institute. The facility in Lund is for existing platforms to shorten process times amount of waste and increasing the proporpreparing for certification, and work pursuant and reduce the usage of solvents. tion of waste that’s recycled. The amount to the ISO 14001 requirements is already of waste sorted as corrugated cardboard underway. As part of the ISO 14001 program, Usage of solvents decreased by 33 percent, but other non-hazBiotage is monitoring a number of importBoth of the manufacturing facilities in Cardiff ardous waste increased by 70 percent. During ant parameters that affect the Company’s and Lund are required to have a license for the year, the company’s non-hazardous waste environmental performance. These include the usage of solvents in the manufacturing removal supplier provided assurances that 100 the usage of water, gas, and electricity. process. Assessment and manufacturing percent of this waste is recycled for energy. Through strategic research focused on development of the business in New “smart” products with a reduced usage of solHampshire, which was acquired in 2018, is Shipping vents, Biotage is an innovator and a leader in still ongoing. To reduce the usage of solvents To reduce the environmental impact of shipthe growing green chemistry revolution. Morewithin the group, Biotage is constantly ping, Biotage tries as far as possible to minover, the company is evaluating how products working on changes to its manufacturing imize the share of air freight in favor of OTR that are already on the market can continue processes, for example, by reducing the and sea freight. The majority of freight from to be improved, especially with respect to the number of cleaning steps where solvents are Cardiff to Uppsala and customers in Europe manufacturing process. As an example, Biotage used. The usage of solvents in manufacturing is shipped by truck and boat, most shipments to the US are sent via sea freight. In 2018 the overall volume of sea freight shipments to the Electricity consumption Solvent concentration USA increased since shipping from Sweden to kWh per 1,000 KGBP Amount of solvent per relevant unit of the USA also goes by sea. However, for some manufacturing weight shipments, air freight is difficult to avoid due 80 8 to either low production volumes, the high Electricity con-7 % In relation to 70 -15% sumption was 7 the weight of value of the goods, and/or time constraints. 68 -13 % -14 % 60 unchanged, while 6 manufactured This applies not only to shipping within 50 57 at the same time 5 goods, where 50 Europe, but also to the USA and Asia. 40 production value 4 solvent is used increased 15% in in the production One way to reduce the company’s envi30 3 20 2018 (24%). This 2 process, solvent ronmental impact is by regulating employee 10 is an efficiency 1 consumption was business travel. The group encourages the gain equivalent to reduced by 14% in 0 0 use of videoconferencing in order to avoid 2016 2017 2018 around 13% (15%). 2016 2017 2018 2018 (7%). unnecessary business trips. | 26 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business Operations Sustainability Sustainability Financial overview Financial statements A global social responsibility A global presence is accompanied by global responsibility. Biotage pliers are assessed based on their geographic location and industry using the Global Risk promotes anti-corruption and human rights in its governing policies Index and the US Department of Labor’s List that pertain to its relationship with stakeholders, regardless of the of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor. Biotage has a system called the Supplier market. In recent years, Biotage has stepped up its work in this area Performance Management System that through the introduction of new policy documents an initiative routinely monitors, inspects, and follows up on suppliers in order to ensure that they comply that has continued throughout the year in 2018. with the company’s Code of Conduct. The contract with the supplier stipulates requirements for worker rights, health and safety, the thics and morals are at the or personal favors may only be offered to environment, non-discrimination, and diverE core of the company’s busithird parties if they are of insignificant value sity. Suppliers who breach the Code of Conduct ness and must be reflected in and are consistent with prevailing practices. are held accountable. The company’s response all of the company’s relationIn order to lower the risk of improprieties, to violations is determined on a case-by-case ships. To address the issue Biotage has routines and procedures in place basis in proportion to the seriousness of the internally and agree upon a for all subsidiaries with clear rules regarding infringement. Biotage has moreover identified common global approach within the group, the jurisdiction and authorization procedure a number of high-risk activities in relation to an anti-corruption policy has been issued. for approval of payments. Furthermore, purchasing. In the event the company is not This emphasizes the value Biotage places on monthly audits are carried out by the Finance able to verify that a supplier can meet the integrity and transparency and describes the department at the headquarters in Uppsala. requirements, another supplier is chosen. In zero tolerance policy for corruption. During Training on the existing policies is provided 2018 Biotage increased the number of supplier the course of the year, all employees were on an annual basis. audits and 4 audits were carried out. informed about the Code of Conduct, where During the prior fiscal year, internal anti-corruption is an important part, and Modern slavery and human training was started in parts of Biotage to certified that they have read it and comply trafficking statement ensure that the policy for human rights was with it. No cases of corruption within the Biotage reserves the right to take action in being complied with. In 2018 the organization Biotage group were reported during the year. the event any activities of its own employees continued its work on this training program. Bribery and corruption can occur in a varior suppliers provide grounds for suspicion For example, the training includes the early ety of forms, including for example, offering that human rights may have been violated. identification of risks within various corpoor giving money or gifts to an individual or In addition to incorporating human rights rate activities and departments, awareness family member or in the shape of inflated in the Code of Conduct, in 2017 a policy was of risks when purchasing or contracting with commissions, fake consulting contracts, implemented addressing human rights within suppliers, available assistance in the area, unauthorized rebates, or political or charitathe company. This aims to lower the risk of and measures that should be adopted if a ble donations. If abused, ordinary business modern slave trading or human trafficking supplier does not comply with the company’s methods may be interpreted as corrupt within our business or any supply chain policies for human rights. payments. Giving, offering, requesting, or Biotage may be associated with. Four internal audits have been carried out receiving bribes are all forms of corruption, Biotage follows a procedure for identifying over the course of the year and no significant even if they’re carried out indirectly via a high-risk countries and potential activities that discrepancies from the company’s requirethird party. Gifts, influence, compensation, may pose a risk for human trafficking. All supments have been discovered. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 27 | The Company’s shares The Company’s shares Biotage shares were listed on NASDAQ Stockholm’s Mid Cap list and traded under the name Biotage AB (BIOT.ST) during 2018. The number of shares outstanding on December 31, 2018 was 64,714,447 (64,714,447). Based on the closing price per share on December 28, 2018, the Company’s market cap amounted to SEK 7,054 (5,436) million. Price development (41.5) percent of the total capital and votes. Dividend policy and dividends The share price increased by 28 percent from The highest proportion of foreign ownership The Biotage dividend policy requires at SEK 85.00 to SEK 109.00 million in 2018. The was in Norway, the US, the UK and France. least 50 percent earnings per share to be highest closing price in 2018 was SEK 143.20 distributed to shareholders. The Board on November 8. The lowest closing price Authorization to issue shares of Biotage AB proposes a dividend of SEK was SEK 69.20 on April 4. In 2018, 36.4 (28.4) At the 2018 AGM, the Board was authorized 1.50 per share for the fiscal year 2018. The million shares were traded at a market value to adopt a resolution regarding the issuance previous year’s dividend was SEK 1.40 per of SEK 3,802 (1.790) million. The turnover rate of one or more offerings of shares and/or share, and would have been SEK 1.39 based for the year was 56 (44) percent. convertibles. On January 15, 2019 the Board on the new number of shares outstanding decided to exercise the authorization to after the January 2019 issue. Earnings per Shareholders issue shares as part of the consideration for share amounted to SEK 2.59 (2.14). As of December 31, 2018, the number of the acquisition of PhyNexus Inc. Following known shareholders in Biotage was 7,561 the issue, the number of Biotage shares (7,105). The 15 largest owners accounted for increased from 64,714,447 to 65,201,784, 41.7 (45.6) percent of the total capital and resulting in dilution of 0.7 percent for votes. Foreign owners accounted for 51.4 existing shareholders. Change in price per share and volume • Biotage • OMX Stockholm_PI • Volume of shares traded in thousands SEK Volume 150 15,000 120 12,000 90 9,000 60 6,000 30 3,000 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Biotage OMX Stockholm_PI Omsatt antal aktier i 1000-tal Source: | 28 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial Financial overview overview Financial statements Ownership categories, December 31, 2018 Number of Share of capital Owner shares and votes, % Foreign institutional owners 16,277,152 25.2 Private individuals in Sweden 14,727,084 22.8 Swedish institutional owners 11,835,603 18.3 Other owners 8,299,995 12.8 Anonymous ownership 13,574,613 21.0 Total 64,717,447 100.0 15 largest known owners, December 31, 2018 Number of Share of capital Owner shares and votes, % Swedbank Robur Fonder 5,198,062 8.0 Vind LV AS 3,544,261 5.5 The Fourth Swedish National Pension Fund 3,365,788 5.2 Montanaro 3,290,000 5.1 Oppenheimer 2,295,300 3.5 ODIN Fonder 1,500,000 2.3 Ove Mattsson 1,434,450 2.2 Groupama Asset Management 948,943 1.5 Norges Bank 853,379 1.3 Lena Westergren 772,859 1.2 Susanne Wetterlin 772,700 1.2 Eva Forsberg 772,700 1.2 Ann-Charlotte Bergström 772,700 1.2 Jonas Lenman 772,700 1.2 Dimensional Fund Advisors 682,893 1.1 Total 26,976,735 41.7 Shareholders grouped by size, December 31, 2018 Number of known shareShare of capital Number of shares per owner holders and votes, % 1-1,000 6,183 2.1 1,001-10,000 1,081 5.3 10,001-100,000 229 10.5 100,001-500,000 47 17.0 500,001-1,000,000 14 14.9 1,000,0017 31.9 Anonymous ownership N/A 18.4 Total 7,561 100.0 Source: Monitor, Modular Finance Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 29 | Board of Directors’ Report Board of Directors' Report About the Company that strengthen the Group’s analytical chemistry offering in the areas Biotage provides effective separation technology, from analysis to of environment and food. Biotage has also worked to improve margins industrial scale, and high-quality solutions for organic and analytical in the acquired business and these are now in line with the Group’s chemistry in everything from research to commercial analytical overall profitability. The process of transferring production from laboratories and industry applications. Users of Biotage products the current contract manufacturer of the V10 evaporation system to include government agencies, academic institutions and the pharmaHorizon also began during the final months of the year. These activceutical and food industries. Biotage AB, headquartered in Uppsala, ities move the integration of Horizon a step further, while capacity Sweden, is the Parent Company of the Group and has wholly-owned utilization and profitability in the acquired business are increasing. subsidiaries in Sweden, the United Kingdom, Germany, France, Italy, On December 4, 2018, Biotage signed an agreement to acquire the United States, Japan, China, South Korea and India. The Biotage another US company, PhyNexus, Inc. The acquisition was finalized on share is listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. January 15, 2019. With this acquisition, Biotage broadens its separation operations into small-scale purification of biomolecules – an area Summary of business activities in 2018 in which the Company has wanted to participate for a long time. The Biotage set a new sales record with sales in excess of SEK 900 million sales organization is now being strengthened to take full advantage of for 2018. Reported net sales increased by 21.8 percent. At comparable the opportunities in the acquired business. The feasibility of moving exchange rates and adjusted for acquisitions, net sales increased by the PhyNexus instrument manufacturing to Horizon is also being 8.0 percent, which is exactly in line with the Company’s growth target. considered. Geographically, the United States continued to be the largest market, The minority investment in Chreto A/S in fall 2016 was aimed at with 42 (42) percent of net sales. The EU and EMEA accounted for 29 increasing exposure to the biomolecular field. Biotage also had an (32) percent of net sales and Asia for 29 (26) percent. option to acquire the remaining Chreto shares at a pre-arranged price by Asia accounted for the strongest percentage growth for Q4 and the end of 2018. However, Biotage decided that the price was too high in the full year. Sales growth in this region continues to be dominated relation to Chreto’s level of progress in its development and the future by organic chemistry system sales, but Biotage also began a market investments that were considered necessary to commercialize this drive in Asia for analytical chemistry in 2018. The two more developed, technology. Biotage did not therefore exercise this option and instead and single largest, geographic markets for Biotage products, the US initiated discussions concerning an acquisition at a different valuation. and Europe, continue to grow. Although these markets do not match The Company’s investments in research and development have the expansive growth of Asia, they are growing faster than the global generated several successful new products in recent years. On market for the Company’s products on a full-year basis. In 2018, the October 1, Biotage launched a brand-new technology platform in development of a local organization began in India, where Biotage Purification, the Company’s largest product area. The launch of the registered a subsidiary at the end of 2017. Biotage® Selekt flash purification system and associated Biotage® In addition to the year’s major new product launches in organic Sfär consumables represents a significant investment in more efficient chemistry, Biotage has successfully worked to provide complete and environmentally sound purification. The launch has been well workflow solutions for customers in this area. There has also been received by the market. strong sales growth for the Company’s industrial products, which Biotage works continuously on social responsibility issues and represented a total of 10 percent of sales at the end of 2018, while regulatory compliance. Policies for compliance with GDPR legislation analytical chemistry products had something of an off year, with lower were updated and adopted in 2018. growth than expected. During the year, we worked with succession arrangements, in The company has returned to profitable growth and operating profit particular with regard to the current CEO Torben Jørgensen whose (EBIT) increased by 29 percent during the year. The operating margin employment contract expires in April 2020. In a press release improved by one percentage point to 18.9 percent, compared with the published on January 2, 2019, the Board informed the market that a new profitability target of an average of 20 percent over a three-year recruitment process had been initiated. period. Successful efficiency measures and increased sales are enabling Earnings and cash flow Biotage to continue to grow with increased profitability. Biotage The Group’s net sales increased by 21.8 percent to SEK 910.9 (748.1) works constantly to improve efficiency at the production facility in million. At comparable exchange rates and adjusted for acquisitions, Cardiff, Wales. Efficiency improvements continued in 2018, with larger net sales increased by 8.0 percent. The gross margin was 61.1 (61.0) production volumes and focused efforts to achieve a higher degree percent. Systems accounted for 51 (47) percent of sales, while aftermarof production automation. The gross margin remained unchanged ket products accounted for 49 (53) percent. The unfavorable product at 61 percent, despite an unfavorable product mix, with systems mix had an adverse impact on profitability, as did exchange differences accounting for 51 (47) percent of sales and aftermarket products for on translating the Cardiff production facility’s costs from GBP to SEK. 49 (53) percent. The main reason why Biotage has not come closer However, this is offset by the positive contribution of volume increases to the strategic target of 40/60 for the systems/aftermarket ratio is and increased production efficiency to increased profitability. the success in Asia, notably in China, where the Company’s sales are Operating expenses were SEK 384.1 (323.0) million. The higher figure almost exclusively systems. is mainly due to sales expenses increasing by SEK 49.0 million to SEK The integration of Horizon Technology, Inc., which was acquired 256.7 (207.6) million as a result of sales organization expansion and in January 2018, has progressed well. The acquisition of Horizon has the Horizon acquisition. Research and development costs increased brought Biotage access to important knowledge and new products by SEK 9.9 million to SEK 65.9 (56.0) million, while administrative | 30 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial Financial overview overview Financial statements expenses rose by SEK 15.5 million to SEK 70.2 (54.7) million. The latter of the figure. Depreciation, amortization and impairment amounted increase is largely attributable to the acquisition of Horizon. Other to SEK 39.4 (34.2) million. Capitalized development costs accounted operating items, consisting mainly of currency effects on operating for SEK 24.0 (22.8) million of investments and SEK 17.3 (18.6) million of liabilities and receivables and the Company’s share of the associate depreciation, amortization and impairment. Chreto’s profit/loss, which was SEK -1.7 (-1.2) million, amounted to SEK 8.6 (-4.7) million for the year, yielding a positive effect of SEK 13.3 Research and development million between the years. The Company’s strategy for research and development is marOperating profit improved by 29.1 percent to SEK 172.5 (133.6) milket-driven. Development of new, innovative products is an important lion, corresponding to an operating margin (EBIT) of 18.9 (17.9) percent. competitive instrument and a way of creating opportunities for Net financial items amounted to SEK 3.8 (2.6) million. Profit after tax increased growth. Efforts are largely aimed at developing new prodwas SEK 167.6 (138.7) million, an increase of 21 percent. The previous ucts by improving existing technology and adding new functionality. In year’s positive income tax and the majority of the tax expense the short term, the continuing development of the system platforms reported for the year are due to the effects of changes in the carrying and new applications for existing products are key growth drivers. The amounts of recognized loss carryforwards. Company’s long-term target is a level of investment in research and Cash flow from operations was SEK 155.0 (168.9) million. The year’s development of about 10 percent of sales. This investment level was cash flow from changes in working capital is negative, mainly due to 7.4 (7.6) percent in 2018. Capitalization amounted to SEK 24.0 (22.8) large new product launches and increased sales as capital tied up in million. About one-tenth of the research and development budget increased inventories and trade receivables. is allocated to innovative research on new concepts, and Biotage collaborates with academic research groups within this framework. Balance sheet items and financial position The Group’s cash & cash equivalents totaled SEK 177.0 (174.3) million Intellectual property rights on December 31, 2018. The Group had interest-bearing liabilities of SEK Biotage uses its intellectual property rights as a commercial instru109.4 (-) million at the end of the reporting period. These liabilities ment to create competitive advantages. Patent protection is sought are related to loans within the framework of a credit facility that was for strategically important results, including processes, synthesis and arranged in connection with the acquisition of Horizon. The net cash analysis methods, products and applications. In addition to filing position on December 31 was SEK 67.6 (174.3) million. A dividend of SEK patent applications, the Company seeks to register its intellectual 90.6 (80.9) million was paid to shareholders during the year. property rights in the form of design protection and trademarks. The Group’s goodwill amounted to SEK 186.1 (104.0) million on Biotage regularly evaluates its own portfolio of intellectual property December 31. The increase is due the acquisition of Horizon Techrights on a cost-benefit basis. Biotage actively monitors the external nology, which was completed in January 2018. Other goodwill is environment and third-party intellectual property rights to ensure the attributable to the acquisition of MIP Technologies AB in 2010 and the Company does not infringe on the rights of others and other parties acquisition of two product lines from Caliper Life Sciences, Inc. in the do not infringe on the rights of the Company. Biotage currently has same year. 140 (129) registered patents and 56 (45) patent applications, divided Other intangible assets amounted to SEK 192.7 (118.6) million, with into 52 (46) patent families. During the year, 4 (2) new patents were capitalized development costs accounting for SEK 101.2 (95.0) million of granted and 5 (5) new patent applications were submitted. the figure. The largest single capitalized projects during the year were the development of the Biotage® Selekt and Biotage® Sfär products, Personnel which were launched on October 1, 2018. The increase in intangible The Group had 405 (349) employees at the end of the year. Within the assets consists mainly of identified surplus values of acquired assets in framework of the Group’s systematic work environment management, Horizon. Biotage performs risk analyses and annual reviews to ensure a good Trade receivables increased to SEK 185.1 (139.2) million as a result of physical and social work environment. Biotage has had relatively low sales growth. Inventories increased to SEK 132.3 (95.8) million, mainly due sick leave over the years. Sick leave (including long-term sick leave) for to launches of proprietary products and an expanded product range folall employees in the Swedish companies was 2.0 (1.3) percent. Sick leave lowing the Horizon acquisition and global expansion of these products. (including long-term sick leave) for all employees in the UK company The increase is also related to the construction of local warehouses to was 4.2 (3.1) percent. The Company invests in fitness activities and is manage risks associated with deliveries to and from Cardiff in the event prepared to act quickly and take measures should an employee suffer of Brexit. ill-health. In addition to its Work Environment Policy, the Company Trade payables amounted to SEK 167.1 (139.7) million. has a Code of Conduct, an Alcohol and Drug Policy, an Anti-corruption Equity amounted to SEK 702.2 (608.6) million on December 31. The policy, a Policy on Sexual and Other Harassment and a whistleblowing main changes in equity during the year are as follows: net profit for procedure. All of the policies include action plans for handling any the year SEK 167.6 (138.7) million and dividend to shareholders SEK breaches of the guidelines. The Company’s Equal Opportunities and -90.6 (-80.9) million. Discrimination Policy is regularly updated and an updated Equal Opportunities Plan will be produced in 2019. Biotage conducts annual Investments, depreciation and amortization salary analyses in order to ensure equal pay as far as possible. Investments amounted to SEK 178.4 (36.9) million, with the acquisition Biotage Sweden AB has a collective agreement with Innovation and of Cardiff, completed in January 2018, accounting for SEK 131.2 million Chemical Industries in Sweden. Other companies in the Group comply Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 31 | Board of Directors’ Report with prevailing local regulations and guidelines. The Company applies Company’s own facility in Cardiff, Wales, in Salem, New Hampshire an individual, performance-based and market-related pay structure. and, after the acquisition of PhyNexus in January 2019, in San Jose, California. Consumables are produced at the Lund, Cardiff and Salem Environment facilities. All of the production facilities have the capacity to increase Biotage production has a low environmental impact, as the Company production at short notice. Dependence on external production does not have any manufacturing processes. The Company’s produccapacity could increase the risk of delays or non-delivery, although tion consists primarily of assembly and installation of components, this risk is considered minimal. Biotage has special staff who closely and is conducted in compliance with the European Union’s RoHS monitor how suppliers discharge their obligations in terms of quality Directive. The environmental impact of Biotage operations is primarily and delivery times. In cases where Biotage enters into large call-off related to freight and transportation. To reduce this impact, Biotage contracts, under which the Company commits to purchase certain endeavors to switch from air to sea transport where possible and volumes over a certain period, there is a risk of loss if sales do not to optimize packaging by measures such as increasing the number meet the expectations on which the contracts are based. When the UK of products in each package and buying packaging material and leaves the EU, the Company’s operations in Wales could be adversely components locally if it can. affected by trade and other agreements signed between the countries. The main environmental impact of the production activities is from Biotage has prepared for any transitional problems by building up the use of energy, although production is not electricity-intensive. inventories of selected products in strategically selected locations. The facilities in Cardiff and Lund also generate waste in the form of solvents used in the production process. The Company’s aim is to Personnel regularly replace these solvents, where possible, with others that have Biotage has a large number of highly skilled, committed and motia lower environmental impact. Most of the solvents that are used are vated employees, who have developed strong customer relationships. recycled. At the Cardiff facility, waste is also generated in the form of Recruiting and retaining qualified staff is a prerequisite for pursuing packaging materials from incoming goods, which are sorted and sent the Group’s business strategies. Biotage offers its employees competifor recycling where possible. The environment is also an important tive employment conditions, scope for input into the Group’s products aspect of product development. Ensuring that an environmental and services, some control over their own duties, and opportunities approach is an integral part of new product design helps minimize the for personal development through initial training, continuing training environmental impact of the Company’s own production and product and career planning. use in customers’ own operations. In 2013, Biotage set up environmental management systems in Lund Competitors and Cardiff as part of the program to obtain ISO 14001 certification. Competition in the Company’s market is intense and Biotage often The Cardiff facility, where most of the Company’s own production finds itself competing against large, well-established companies takes place, was awarded ISO 14001 certification in April 2016. As with vast financial and industrial resources at their disposal. It is not part of the ISO 14001 program, Biotage is monitoring a number of inconceivable that this competition could lead to lower market shares important parameters that affect the Company’s environmental and reduced profitability for Biotage in the future. Biotage endeavors performance. In 2018, there was an increase in material for recycling, to maintain a strong market presence and to outperform its competibut also in the quantity of waste. During the year, the company’s tors in focusing on customer needs. non-hazardous waste removal supplier provided assurances that 100 percent of this waste is recycled for energy. External risks The Company’s operations are exposed to risks associated with Risks the effects of external factors and events. The main external risks Biotage operations are associated with risks in certain areas. include macroeconomic changes, political decisions on bilateral trade agreements, taxes, duties and other regulatory changes. By their Customers and market very nature, external risks are out of the Company’s control. Biotage The Company has a broad customer base in several different sectors. endeavors to minimize this type of risk through business intelligence The fact that no customer accounts for more than five percent of sales and access to the resources and expertise that will enable the Comreduces the risk of variations in demand arising from fluctuations pany to respond quickly when it needs to grasp and adapt to changes in certain sectors or customer-specific circumstances. New or less in the external environment. expensive products from competitors could affect the Company’s market position. Biotage seeks to establish the broadest possible areas Intellectual property rights of use for its products and to have sufficient customer segments to Biotage is dependent on non-patentable business secrets, know-how ensure that each customer’s proportion of sales is kept to a minimum. and continuing technological inventions, and on the ability to obtain In recent years, Biotage has worked to broaden its customer base to and maintain patents to protect its technologies and products. areas of application in food and the environment. Biotage continuously applies for patent protection for the methods and products it develops. Should the Company be unsuccessful in Products and technologies protecting its patents, business secrets, know-how or technologies, The Company's broad product portfolio reduces sensitivity to product or have insufficient protection against competitors, the Company’s lifecycles and economic fluctuations. New biotechnology takes a competitive position could be undermined and the value of its relatively long time to establish, and Biotage is unable to guarantee existing and future products could be adversely affected. Should a that others will not develop products based on new technologies, party claim that the Company has infringed its intellectual property which would reduce the competitiveness of the Company’s products rights, the Company would be obliged to pay damages if the party or make them redundant. were considered to have valid grounds for its claim against Biotage in a court of law. The Company might also need to initiate proceedings Production to defend its intellectual property rights. Even if Biotage were to win Production of systems is handled by contract manufacturers in a case, the process would be time-consuming and costly, and would Sweden and the United States. Production also takes place at the also take up much of management’s time and attention. Biotage | 32 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial Financial overview overview Financial statements endeavors to monitor the development of new products and methods as part of the consideration for the acquisition of PhyNexus Inc. See in the external environment as far as possible, and to maintain good also “The Biotage share” below. technical and legal expertise within its organization. There were no ongoing disputes when this annual report was issued. The Biotage share Biotage had a total of 64,714,447 shares outstanding on December 31, Financial risks 2018. On January 15, the Board decided to issue shares as part of the Financial risks include currency risk, interest rate risk, credit risk, purchase consideration for the acquisition of PhyNexus. The issue liquidity risk and refinancing risk. Currency risk is the most significant increased the number of Biotage shares from 64,714,447 to 65,201,784, financial risk for Biotage, while interest risk and credit risk are less of resulting in dilution of 0.7 percent for existing shareholders. Each of a priority. the Company’s shares gives the right to one vote, and the articles of The Group’s operating income is exposed to foreign currencies to a association do not contain any restrictions on the number of shares greater extent than its operating expenses. Exchange rate movements a shareholder may vote at general meetings. There are no restrictions may shift the relationship between income and expenses and affect on transferability of shares. Shareholders Ann-Charlotte Bergström, the Group’s profitability. In order to reduce currency risk, some of the Eva Forsberg, Lena Westergren, Jonas Lenman, Ove Mattsson and net flows have forward cover. In the long term, currency risk could Susanne Wetterlin have concluded an agreement whereby they adopt, be reduced if the Group relocated parts of its activities, although by concerted exercise of the voting rights they hold, a lasting common this might involve costs and loss of expertise. In addition, the Parent policy towards the management of the Company. The Company is not Company has invested in subsidiaries, notably in the U.S., U.K., China aware of any agreements between shareholders in this regard. and Japan. As a result of these investments, the Group’s equity is affected by exchange rate movements in relation to these countries’ Sustainability reporting currencies. As required by Chapter 6, Section 11, of the Annual Accounts Act, BioLiquidity risk is primarily the risk of Biotage being unable to convert tage AB prepares a statutory sustainability report. The sustainability a financial asset sufficiently quickly at a market price, and incurring report is included in the annual report on pages 22-27. unforeseen losses if cash funds need to be released. Biotage’s financial position and liquidity are satisfactory, with an equity ratio of Corporate governance 80 (80) percent, cash and cash equivalents of SEK 177.0 (174.3) million Biotage has prepared a Corporate Governance Report in accordance and liabilities to credit institutions of SEK 109.4 (0.0) million on the with the provisions and implementation guidelines contained in reporting date. The cash flow statements show a satisfactory positive Swedish legislation and the Swedish Corporate Governance Code. cash flow from operating activities, providing reasonable assurance The report has been prepared separately from the annual report. that the obligations associated with the current scope of operations The report and related auditors’ report are available on the Group’s can be fulfilled, and also taking into account the loan facility of up website at www.biotage.com together with other information about to SEK 150 million obtained in connection with the acquisition of corporate governance within Biotage. Horizon Technology in January 2018. Consequently, Biotage does not currently have any tangible liquidity or financing risks that would Guidelines for remuneration of senior executives leave the Group dependent on credit facilities or capital contributions Current principles and guidelines for remuneration of senior execufor its expansion, with decision-making falling outside its control. tives adopted by the 2018 AGM are described in note 1 on pages 57-58. Biotage addresses these risks in the long term by focusing strongly on operating profit, financial position and cash flow from operating The Board’s proposed guidelines for the remuneration of activities. This will create the conditions for long-term organic growth senior executives to be presented for adoption at and confidence among shareholders and lenders. the 2019 annual general meeting A description of the Group’s financial risks and risk management is The Board proposes that the annual general meeting adopt the presented on pages 51–54. following guidelines for remuneration of senior executives (the CEO and other members of Group management). The guidelines shall Parent Company apply to employment contracts entered into after the AGM's decision The Group’s Parent Company, Biotage AB, has wholly-owned subsidon the guidelines and to any changes made to existing conditions of iaries in Sweden, the US, the UK, Germany, France, Italy, Japan, China, employment after the meeting’s decision. South Korea and India. The Parent Company is responsible for Group The Company shall endeavor to offer its senior executives marmanagement, strategic business development and administrative ket-based salaries. The remuneration committee shall prepare remufunctions at Group and subsidiary level. neration matters and present proposals for the Board's consideration. The Parent Company’s net sales amounted to SEK 2.5 (2.3) million. Proposals for remuneration shall take into account the importance of Operating expenses were SEK 24.4 (20.9) million. The increase is duties, expertise, experience and performance. Remuneration shall mainly due to costs associated with the acquisition of PhyNexus. comprise a fixed annual salary, variable pay, retirement benefits, Operating profit/loss was SEK -21.9 (-18.6) million. discretionary payments, other benefits and termination benefits. The The Parent Company’s net financial items were SEK 92.3 (88.5) Board is entitled to derogate from these guidelines if it believes there million. The Parent Company’s profit after financial items amounted is sufficient reason to do so in a particular case. to SEK 70.7 (70.0) million. Investments in intangible assets amounted to SEK 2.0 (1.7) million. CEO The Parent Company’s cash and bank balances were SEK 2.1 (1.5) The Company’s CEO receives a fixed annual salary and variable pay million on December 31. under the terms of his employment contract. In accordance with the contract, the Company makes a pension provision corresponding to Mandate to issue shares 35 percent of the CEO’s fixed annual salary. In addition to the fixed At the 2018 AGM, the Board was given a mandate to adopt the issue of annual salary, the CEO receives variable pay of up to 100 percent of shares and/or convertibles on one or more occasions. On January 15, his fixed annual salary. The variable pay is linked to the Company’s 2019 the Board decided to exercise the authorization to issue shares achievement of defined financial targets. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 33 | Board of Directors’ Report The CEO receives annual compensation of SEK 100,000 for travel Proposed appropriation of profit and increased housing costs. The annual general meeting has the following amounts from the Parent Company at its disposal (SEK): Other senior executives This group consists of two individuals, who report directly to the CEO. Retained earnings 380,532,355 All members of Company management receive a fixed annual Profit for the year 55,800,590 salary which is in line with market salaries, and variable pay of up to Total 436,332,945 40 percent of the fixed annual salary. 75 percent of the variable pay is linked to the Company's achievement of defined financial targets. The Board of Directors and CEO propose that the amounts be distribThe remaining 25 percent is based on performance-related goals for uted as follows: the individual. The pension provision is up to 30 percent of the fixed salary. Dividend payment of SEK 1.50 per share to Any new members of Company management can expect the same 97,802,676 shareholders remuneration conditions. Carried forward 338,530,269 Total 436,332,945 Variable pay and performance requirements The Board is entitled to decide on the criteria for variable pay. The Board proposes a dividend of SEK 1.50 (1.40) per share. Based on the current number of shares, the previous year's dividend would Discretionary payments have been SEK 1.39 per share. The proposed dividend reduces the The Board may decide to award a discretionary payment to members Parent Company’s equity ratio by 4.7 percentage points to 62.3 percent of Company management, including the CEO. Such a discretionary and the Group's equity ratio by 3.2 percentage points to 66.8 percent. payment may only be made in exceptional circumstances. DiscretionThe calculations are based on the Group's statement of financial ary payments are not covered by the thresholds for senior executives. position and the Parent Company's balance sheet as of December 31, 2018. Other benefits The Board proposes Friday, April 26, 2019 as the record date, and Senior executives may be awarded other customary benefits such as a the dividend payment is expected to be made by Euroclear Sweden AB company car, health care, etc. on Thursday, May 2, 2019. The proposed dividend has been made possible by cash generation Termination benefits from operations in 2018. The equity ratio is satisfactory in view of Salaries during the period of notice and termination benefits for the fact that the Group's operations are expected to continue to be senior executives shall not exceed 24 monthly salaries. profitable. It is also the assessment that the Group's liquidity can be maintained at a similarly satisfactory level. It is the Board’s opinion Equity and share-based incentive programs that the proposed dividend does not prevent the Company from disAny equity and share-based incentive programs shall be adopted by charging its current and long-term commitments or making necessary the Annual General Meeting. Allotment shall be in accordance with the investments. The dividend also appears justifiable considering the decision of the AGM. There were no such programs when this annual demands that the nature, scope and risks of the business place on the report was issued. size of equity. In this regard, the Board of Directors has considered the current economic situation, historical trends and future projecPreviously decided remuneration tions for both the Company and the market. It is hereby noted that There is no previously agreed upon remuneration that is not yet due the Board has taken into account the part of the purchase price that for payment. A description of remuneration can be found in note 1. was paid in cash (SEK 43.3 million) when the acquisition of PhyNexus was closed on January 15, 2019. The proposed dividend can therefore Remuneration in 2018 be justified pursuant to Chapter 17, section 3, paragraphs 2-3, of the For information on remuneration of senior executives in 2018, see Swedish Companies Act (the precautionary principle). note 1 on pages 55–58. The earnings and financial position of the Group and the Parent Company are presented in the Group’s statement of comprehensive Significant events after the end of the fiscal year income, statement of financial position and statement of cash • On January 2, the Board announced that a recruitment process flows, the Parent Company's income statement, balance sheet and had been initiated to appoint a new CEO. The current CEO Torben statement of cash flows, the statements of changes in equity and the Jørgensen has announced that he intends to continue as CEO until a accounting policies and notes which follow. replacement has been engaged. • The acquisition of PhyNexus was finalized on January 15. The purchase consideration was approximately USD 21.4 million, which corresponds to about SEK 191.3 million based on a transaction date SEK/USD exchange rate of 8.93. USD 4.8 million (SEK 43.3 million) was paid in cash and USD 6.6 million (SEK 58.6 million) was settled in newly issued Biotage shares on the closing date. The remaining USD 10.0 million (SEK 89.3 million) consists of contingent consideration based on future results. • On January 15, the Board decided to issue consideration shares in connection with the acquisition of PhyNexus. The issue increased the number of Biotage shares from 64,714,447 to 65,201,784, resulting in dilution of 0.7 percent for existing shareholders. | 34 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial Financial overview overview Financial statements Five years in summary Key figures and ratios 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 2) Group Net sales, SEK thousands 910,896 748,147 667,912 610,534 490,381 Growth in net sales, % 21.8 12.0 9.4 24.5 10.3 Gross profit, SEK thousands 556,626 456,664 385,813 342,568 266,919 Gross margin, % 61.1 61.0 57.8 56.1 54.4 Operating margin, % 18.9 17.9 14.8 12.2 12.8 Profit margin, % 19.4 18.6 13.8 12.5 14.0 Profit before tax, SEK thousands 176,289 136,260 92,401 76,190 68,361 Total assets, SEK thousands 1,003,203 757,201 695,196 668,832 632,510 Equity/assets ratio, % 69.8 80.4 81.0 81.7 81.6 Capital expenditure, SEK thousands 178,411 3) 37,804 68,161 32,126 32,177 Average number of employees 404 335 308 293 292 Return on equity, % 25.6 23.7 16.7 12.8 13.0 Return on capital employed, % 25.2 23.3 18.1 14.3 13.7 Return on total assets, % 20.3 18.8 14.7 11.9 11.0 Key figures and ratios Earnings, SEK/share 2.59 2.14 1.43 1.13 1.00 Earnings after dilution, SEK/share 2.59 2.14 1.43 1.13 1.00 Dividend, SEK/share 1) 1.50 1.40 1.25 0.75 0.60 Stock market price at end of period, SEK/share 109.00 84.00 46.00 24.60 13.10 Equity, SEK/share 10.84 9.40 8.70 8.45 7.98 Equity after dilution, SEK/share 10.84 9.40 8.70 8.45 7.98 P/E ratio, times 42.1 39.3 32.2 21.7 13.1 P/S ratio, times 7.7 7.3 4.5 2.6 1.7 Cash flow from operations, SEK/share 2.40 2.61 2.15 1.86 1.25 Weighted average number of shares, thousands 64,714 64,714 64,714 64,714 64,714 Weighted average number of shares after dilution, thousands 64,714 64,714 64,714 64,714 64,714 Total number of shares outstanding at end of the period, thousands 64,714 64,714 64,714 64,714 64,714 Total number of shares outstanding after dilution at end of the period, thousands 64,714 64,714 64,714 64,714 64,714 1) A  mounts refer to dividends paid for each year. The Board recommends that the AGM adopt a dividend of SEK 1.50 per share for the fiscal year 2018. 2) The 2014 figures include a positive one-time item of SEK 13.5 million attributable to the revaluation of the additional purchase consideration provision. 3) SEK 131.2 million relates to the acquisition of Horizon Technology Inc. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 35 | Group Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Amounts in SEK thousands Note 2018 2017 Net sales 3 910,896 748,147 Cost of sales 1,2,4,5,6 -354,270 -291,483 Gross profit 556,626 456,664 Distribution costs 1,2,5,6 -256,670 -207,628 Administrative expenses 1,2,4,5,6 -70,165 -54,705 Research & development expenses 1,2,5,6 -65,925 -55,986 Other operating income 7 16,396 8,963 Other operating expenses -7,784 -13,678 Total operating expenses -384,148 -323,034 Operating profit 172,478 133,630 Finance income 8 6,126 3,210 Finance costs 8 -2,315 -580 Net financial items 3,811 2,631 Profit before tax 176,289 136,260 Income tax 9 -8,662 2,487 Profit/loss for the year 167,627 138,747 Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss for the year: Exchange differences from translation of foreign subsidiaries 16,623 -12,268 Cash flow hedges -81 -213 Total other comprehensive income 16,542 -12,481 Total comprehensive income for the year 184,169 126,267 Profit/loss for the year attributable to owners of the Parent 167,627 138,747 Total comprehensive income attributable to owners of the Parent 184,169 126,267 Average number of shares outstanding 64,714,447 64,714,447 Average number of shares outstanding after dilution 64,714,447 64,714,447 Ordinary shares outstanding at the reporting date 64,714,447 64,714,447 Earnings per share SEK 2.59 SEK 2.14 Earnings per share after dilution SEK 2.59 SEK 2.14 Total comprehensive income per share after dilution SEK 2.85 SEK 1.95 Quarterly overview 2018 2017 Amounts in SEK thousands Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Q4 Q3 Q2 Q1 Net sales 234,574 232,204 236,071 208,048 188,888 177,716 196,315 185,228 Cost of sales -90,534 -90,815 -91,678 -81,242 -73,271 -70,469 -75,270 -72,473 Gross profit 144,040 141,389 144,392 126,805 115,618 107,246 121,045 112,755 Gross margin 61.4% 60.9% 61.2% 61.0% 61.2% 60.3% 61.7% 60.9% Operating expenses -108,303 -96,250 -94,381 -85,214 -83,387 -77,986 -83,853 -77,808 Operating profit 35,737 45,139 50,011 41,591 32,231 29,260 37,192 34,947 Net financial items -290 -1,846 1,903 4,044 2 725 600 1,304 Profit before tax 35,448 43,293 51,914 45,635 32,233 29,984 37,793 36,250 Tax -8,120 735 -495 -782 2,417 1,143 -116 -958 Profit/loss for the period 27,327 44,027 51,419 44,853 34,650 31,127 37,677 35,293 | 36 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Amounts in SEK thousands Note 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 ASSETS Non-current assets Property, plant & equipment 10 48,630 45,303 Goodwill 11 186,055 104,023 Other intangible assets 12 192,654 118,646 Investments in associates 13 17,368 17,838 Deferred tax asset 23 62,205 60,735 Other non-current receivables 14,19 1,853 1,404 Total non-current assets 508,765 347,949 Current assets Inventories 15 132,338 95,794 Trade and other receivables 16,19 185,080 139,195 Cash and cash equivalents 19 177,020 174,263 Total current assets 494,438 409,252 Total assets 1,003,203 757,201 EQUITY AND LIABILITIES Capital and reserves attributable to owners of the parent 17 Share capital 89,953 89,953 Reserves -79,877 -96,419 Retained earnings 692,104 615,077 Total equity 702,180 608,611 Non-current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 18,19 109,400 – Other financial liabilities 19,20,21 1,201 656 Deferred tax liabilities 23 14,780 1,621 Non-current provisions 22 2,245 1,936 Total non-current liabilities 127,625 4,213 Current liabilities Trade and other payables 19,21,24 167,106 139,693 Tax liabilities 3,132 1,899 Current provisions 22 3,159 2,785 Total current liabilities 173,397 144,377 Total equity and liabilities 1,003,203 757,201 Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 37 | Group Consolidated statement of changes in equity Translation Hedging Retained Amounts in SEK thousands Share capital reserve reserve earnings Total equity Opening balance January 1, 2017 89,953 -84,227 288 557,223 563,238 Changes in equity in 2017 Profit/loss for the year – – – 138,747 138,747 Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedges – – -213 – -213 Exchange differences on translation of foreign subsidiaries – -12,268 – – -12,268 Total comprehensive income – -12,268 -213 138,747 126,267 Transactions with owners of the parent Dividend to shareholders of the parent – – – -80,893 -80,893 Closing balance December 31, 2017 89,953 -96,494 76 615,077 608,611 Changes in equity in 2018 Profit/loss for the year – – – 167,627 167,627 Other comprehensive income: Cash flow hedges – – -81 – -81 Exchange differences on translation of foreign subsidiaries – 16,623 – – 16,623 Total comprehensive income – 16,623 -81 167,627 184,169 Transactions with owners of the parent Dividend to shareholders of the parent – – – -90,600 -90,600 Closing balance December 31, 2018 89,953 -79,871 -5 692,104 702,180 | 38 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows Amounts in SEK thousands Note 2018 2017 Operating activities Profit before tax 176,289 136,260 Adjustments for non-cash items 27,684 36,216 203,974 172,476 Income tax paid -9,314 -5,091 Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital 194,659 167,385 Cash flow from changes in working capital: Increase (-)/decrease (+) in inventories -21,416 -12,544 Increase (-)/decrease (+) in current receivables -30,020 -6,372 Increase (+)/decrease (-) in other liabilities 11,781 20,463 Cash flow from operating activities 155,005 168,932 Investing activities Acquisition of intangible assets 12 -34,179 -26,998 Acquisition of property, plant and equipment 10 -12,979 -10,806 Acquisition of financial assets 13,14 -131,253 – Sale of financial assets – 902 Cash flow from investing activities -178,411 -36,903 Financing activities Dividend to shareholders -90,600 -80,893 New borrowing 109,942 – Repayment of borrowings – -160 Cash flow from financing activities 19,342 -81,053 Cash flow for the year -4,064 50,976 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 174,263 128,622 Exchange differences 6,821 -5,336 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 177,020 174,263 Additional disclosures Adjustments for non-cash items: Depreciation and impairment 6 39,412 34,225 Other items 25 -11,727 1,991 Total 27,684 36,216 Interest received 630 410 Interest paid -1,738 -2 Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 39 | Parent Company Income Statement, Parent Amounts in SEK thousands Note 2018 2017 Net sales 3 2,537 2,304 Administrative expenses 1,2,4,5,6 -21,998 -18,011 Research & development expenses 2,6 -2,467 -2,874 Other operating income 7 17 14 Operating expenses, net -24,448 -20,871 Operating profit -21,911 -18,567 Profit/loss from financial investments: Interest income, receivables from group companies 216 150 Interest expense, liabilities to group companies – -2,550 Other interest and similar income – 0 Interest and similar expense -1,613 – Currency effects 3,335 4,608 Group contributions received 90,645 86,334 Net financial items 8 92,584 88,543 Profit/loss after financial items 70,673 69,976 Income tax 9,23 -14,872 8,649 Profit/loss for the year 55,801 78,626 Statement of Comprehensive Income, Parent Amounts in SEK thousands Note 2018 2017 Profit/loss for the year 55,801 78,626 Other comprehensive income Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss for the year: – – Comprehensive income for the year 55,801 78,626 | 40 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements Balance Sheet, Parent Amounts in SEK thousands Note 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 ASSETS Non-current assets Intangible assets Patents and licenses 12 10,983 10,053 Financial assets Investments in group companies 26 471,922 470,399 Receivables from Group companies 28 169,378 11,685 Investments in associates 13 19,284 19,284 Deferred tax asset 23 33,623 48,495 694,207 549,863 Total non-current assets 705,190 559,916 Current assets Current receivables Receivables from Group companies 28 73,783 55,600 Other receivables 16 2,616 307 Prepayments and accrued income 16 2,389 3,410 78,788 59,317 Cash and bank balances 2,111 1,459 Total current assets 80,899 60,776 Total assets 786,088 620,692 EQUITY, PROVISIONS AND LIABILITIES Equity Restricted equity Share capital 89,953 89,953 Unrestricted equity 17 Retained earnings 380,532 392,507 Profit/loss for the year 55,801 78,626 436,333 471,133 Total equity 526,286 561,086 Non-current liabilities Liabilities to credit institutions 18 110,000 – Current liabilities Trade payables 24 1,717 876 Liabilities to group companies 28 139,974 50,669 Other current liabilities 24 71 47 Accruals and deferred income 24 8,041 8,014 149,802 59,606 Total equity and liabilities 786,088 620,692 Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 41 | Parent Company Statement of Changes in Equity, Parent Retained Amounts in SEK thousands Share capital earnings Total equity Opening balance January 1, 2017 89,953 473,400 563,353 Changes in equity in 2017 Profit/loss for the year – 78,626 78,626 Total comprehensive income – 78,626 78,626 Owner transactions: Dividend to shareholders of the parent – -80,893 -80,893 Closing balance December 31, 2017 89,953 471,133 561,086 Changes in equity in 2018 Profit/loss for the year – 55,801 55,801 Total comprehensive income – 55,801 55,801 Owner transactions: Dividend to shareholders of the parent – -90,600 -90,600 Closing balance December 31, 2018 89,953 436,333 526,286 | 42 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements Statement of Cash Flows, Parent Amounts in SEK thousands Note 2018 2017 Operating activities Profit/loss after financial items 70,673 69,976 Adjustments for non-cash items -89,545 -85,461 -18,872 -15,485 Income tax paid – – Cash flow from operating activities before changes in working capital -18,872 -15,485 Cash flow from changes in working capital: Increase (-)/decrease (+) in other current receivables -86,517 101,803 Increase (+)/decrease (-) in other liabilities 90,195 -2,547 Cash flow from operating activities -15,194 83,771 Investing activities Acquisition of subsidiaries -1,524 -1,128 Acquisition of intangible assets 12 -2,030 -1,683 Cash flow from investing activities -3,554 -2,811 Cash flow from financing activities New borrowing 110,000 – Dividend to shareholders of the parent -90,600 -80,893 Cash flow from financing activities 19,400 -80,893 Cash flow for the year 652 68 Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year 1,459 1,391 Cash and cash equivalents at end of year 2,111 1,459 Additional disclosures: Adjustments for non-cash items: Depreciation and impairment 6,26 1,100 873 Group contributions -90,645 -86,334 Total -89,545 -85,461 Interest received 216 150 Interest paid -1,613 -2,550 Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 43 | Accounting and Measurement Policies Summary of Significant Accounting and Measurement ­Policies for the Group and Parent Company Contents IFRS 9 Financial instruments IFRS 9 Financial Instruments is effective from January 1, 2018. The standard introduces significant changes in the areas of classification 1. Introductory information and measurement, impairment and hedge accounting. 2. Basis of preparation The transition to IFRS 9 has not had any material effect on the Group’s 3. Consolidation and business combinations earnings and financial position. Under the new standard, classification 4. Segment reporting and measurement of financial assets is based on the business model 5. Foreign currency translation used to manage them and their contractual cash flow characteristics. 6. Items in the consolidated statement of financial position IFRS 9 has not resulted in any changes to the Group’s measurement of 7. Items in the consolidated income statement assets. The new impairment rules require an allowance for expected 8. The Parent Company's accounting policies credit losses for all financial assets measured at amortized cost 9. Financial risks and the Group's risk management on recognition in the balance sheet. This affects the principles for 10. Significant accounting estimates provisions for trade and other receivables. See note 16. The Company has elected to apply the transitional provisions contained in IFRS 9, which allow a continuation of the hedge accounting 1 Introductory information requirements in IAS 39. The Company has also chosen not to restate previous periods. The consolidated annual financial statements and the Parent Company's annual financial statements for the fiscal year ending December IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers 31, 2018 were approved by the Board and CEO for publication on March The transition to IFRS 15 has not had any material effect on the 25, 2019 and will be presented for adoption at the annual general Group’s earnings and financial position. The new application is meeting on April 24, 2019. described below under 7.1 Revenue recognition. The consolidated financial statements include the Parent Company Biotage AB (the Company) and its subsidiaries, which together are New and amended standards and interpretations not yet effective referred to as the Group or Biotage. The Parent Company is a Swedish Under IFRS 16 Leases, all assets that Biotage holds under leases, public limited liability company. The address of the registered office is including leases for premises, are recognized as assets and liabilities, Vimpelgatan 5, 751 03 Uppsala, and this is where the Group’s manwith amortization and interest charges recognized separately in the agement and central functions are located. The Company’s shares are income statement. The standard will lead to higher amounts for listed on Nasdaq Stockholm. assets and liabilities being recognized on the balance sheet than is Biotage offers effective separation technology, from analysis to currently the case. industrial scale, and high-quality solutions for analytical chemistry in Leases are reported as a right of use asset and a corresponding everything from research to commercial analytical laboratories. Users lease liability. The lease payments are apportioned between the of Biotage products include government agencies, academic institurepayment of the liability and the interest charge. The right-of-use tions and the pharmaceutical and food industries. Biotage had 405 asset is amortized on a straight-line basis over the asset’s useful employees at the end of 2018 and net sales of SEK 911 million for the life. The lease liability is initially recognized at the present value of year. The Group has offices in Sweden, the United States, the United future lease payments. Fixed payments and significant variable lease Kingdom, China, Japan, South Korea and India. payments that depend on an index or a rate are included in the initial measurement of the lease liability. Amounts payable under residual 2 Basis of preparation value guarantees are also included. IFRS 16 is effective for annual periods beginning on or after January Statement of compliance with reporting standards 1, 2019. The Group’s existing leases and the effects on the financial The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accorstatements have been analyzed. The Group applies the standard with dance with International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) issued effect from 2019. The simplified transition approach will be used. See by the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB), as adopted also note 5 for a description of the considerations and assessments by the European Union, effective for periods beginning on or after used to calculate lease liabilities and right-of-use assets. January 1, 2018. The Group also applies the Swedish Annual Accounts It is management's assessment that other new and amended stanAct and the Swedish Financial Reporting Board's recommendation RFR dards and interpretations are not likely to have any material effect on 1, Supplementary Accounting Rules for Groups. Differences between the the Group's financial reports in the period of initial application. Parent Company's and the Group's accounting policies are described in Section 8. The accounting policies have been applied consistently to Functional currency and presentation currency all periods presented in the consolidated financial statements and to The financial statements are reported in Swedish kronor (SEK), which the financial statements of companies in the Biotage Group. is the Parent Company's functional currency and the presentation currency for the Group's financial reporting. Unless otherwise stated, New and amended standards and interpretations applicable for 2018 amounts are reported in SEK thousands. New and amended standards and interpretations from the IASB and IFRS have not had any material effect on the Group's financial reports. | 44 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements Basis of measurement tingent consideration), which are subsequently measured at fair value Assets, liabilities, contingent assets and contingent liabilities are through profit or loss are initially recognized at fair value. Identifiable measured at cost, apart from certain financial assets and liabilities, assets and liabilities also include assets, liabilities and provisions which are measured at fair value. (including obligations and claims from external parties) which are not recognized in the balance sheet of the acquiree. For business comUse of accounting estimates binations where the total of the purchase consideration transferred, Preparation of financial statements in accordance with IFRS, Swedish any non-controlling interests, and the acquisition-date fair value of legislation and generally accepted accounting principles requires the acquirer’s previous equity interest in the acquiree, exceeds the management to make critical judgments, accounting estimates and acquisition-date fair value of identifiable net assets, the difference assumptions which affect the application of the accounting policies. is reported as goodwill in the statement of financial position. If on These accounting estimates take into account internal and external acquisition of a subsidiary the fair value of acquired assets, liabilities circumstances and the Group’s goals and strategic plans. If the actual and contingent liabilities is higher than cost, the surplus is recognized outcome differs from these accounting estimates, this may have an immediately in the income statement. Acquisition costs are recognized effect on the Group's future financial position and performance. in the income statement in the period in which they are incurred. Accounting estimates and assessments are regularly reviewed. Changes in accounting estimates are recognized in the period of the Reporting of associates change if the change only affects that period. Changes are recognized Associates are partly-owned entities over which the Group has in the period of the change and future periods if the change affects significant influence, being in the power to participate in financial both. Information about complex areas that require a high degree and operating policy, but not control. This normally corresponds to a of estimation or where accounting estimates are of key significance shareholding of between 20 and 50 percent of the votes. Investments to the consolidated financial statements can be found in Section 10, in associates are reported in the consolidated accounts using the Significant accounting estimates. equity method. The equity method means that the carrying amount of shares in associates corresponds to the Group’s share of the Classification associates’ equity and any goodwill and fair value adjustments Non-current assets, liabilities and provisions are essentially amounts recognized on the acquisition date. The share of associates’ profit and that are expected to be recovered or paid more than 12 months after loss, adjusted for recognized fair value changes, is reported under the reporting date. Current assets, liabilities and provisions are other operating income and expenses in the consolidated income amounts expected to be recovered or settled within 12 months of the statement. reporting date. Investments in financial instruments for managing temporary excess liquidity are classified as cash & cash equivalents if they have an original maturity of three months or less. Financial 4 Segment reporting instruments with an original maturity of over three months are classified as other short-term investments. Segment information is required to be presented using a management approach, and operating segments are identified on the basis of internal reporting to the chief operating decision-maker, which for 3 Consolidation and business combinations Biotage is the Group's CEO. In the internal reporting system used by the CEO to review operating results and make decisions about the Consolidation allocation of resources, financial information is presented for the The consolidated financial statements comprise the Parent Company Group as a whole. Consequently, the Group consists of one operating and its subsidiaries. The financial statements of companies included segment, and for this reason Biotage does not report separate in the consolidated financial statements relate to the same period segment information. and are prepared using the Group’s accounting policies. All intragroup balances, income, expenses, gains and losses arising from transactions between consolidated companies are eliminated in their 5 Foreign currency translation entirety. The results of operations of a subsidiary are included in the conFunctional currency and presentation currency solidated financial statements from the date of acquisition, which is Items in the individual financial statements of each Group entity are the date on which the Parent Company obtains control, until the date presented in the currency used in the area in which the entity operon which control ceases. Control exists when the Parent Company is ates (its functional currency). The consolidated financial statements exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with are presented in SEK, which is the Parent Company’s functional an investee and has the ability to affect those returns through its currency. power over the investee. The Group’s structure is shown in note 26. Transactions and balances Business combinations Foreign currency transactions are translated into the functional The consolidated financial statements have been prepared using the currency using the exchange rates prevailing at the dates of the transacquisition method. The purchase consideration consists of the fair actions. Exchange gains and losses arising on settlement of these value of assets acquired and liabilities incurred by Biotage to the transactions and on translation of foreign currency monetary assets former owners and the fair value of the shares issued by the Group. and liabilities using the closing rate are recognized in profit or loss. Contingent consideration is a liability incurred by Biotage to former Foreign currency receivables and liabilities are translated to SEK at owners and is recognized at the acquisition-date fair value and the closing rate. Unrealized exchange gains and losses on operating included in the cost of acquisition. Subsequent changes in fair value receivables and liabilities are recognized in operating profit or loss, are recognized in the income statement. The fair value of identifiable while unrealized exchange gains and losses on financial assets and acquired assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities is determined at liabilities are recognized in net financial items. the acquisition date. Financial assets and financial liabilities (e.g., conA monetary item receivable from or payable to a foreign operation, Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 45 | Accounting and Measurement Policies for which settlement is neither planned nor likely to occur in the intended. In many cases, this is when the new product is launched. foreseeable future, is a part of the Company’s net investment in that Amortization is on a straight-line basis over a period of time and foreign operation. Exchange differences arising on the translation of is based on an assessment of the product's estimated useful life. such monetary items are recognized in other comprehensive income. The Company's capitalized development costs can be divided into systems, consumables and software. The estimated useful life for Group companies systems and consumables is 7 years, and for software 3 years. Useful The results and financial position of Group companies (none of which life expectations are based on the Company’s experience of the life­ has a functional currency that is the currency of a hyperinflationary span of its products and on its innovation cycles, i.e., the intervals at economy) are translated into the Group's presentation currency using which Biotage could be expected to launch new products to replace, the following procedures: or partly replace, previous ones. These useful life assumptions are (i) assets and liabilities are translated at the closing rate; reviewed regularly during impairment testing, which is conducted on (ii) income and expenses are translated at the average exchange an individual level annually or more frequently if there is an indicarate for the reporting period. On consolidation, exchange differences tion of impairment. arising from the translation of the net investment in foreign operations and the translation of borrowings and other currency instruments Market and customer-related intangible assets designated as hedges of such investments are accounted for in other Patent and license rights and trademarks are recognized at cost less comprehensive income. When a foreign operation is disposed of, these accumulated amortization. The amortization period for patents is exchange differences are recognized in the income statement as part of normally 10 years, but never longer than the patent term. Amortithe gain or loss on sale. zation begins when the first national patent is granted. The patent Goodwill and fair value adjustments arising on the acquisition of a portfolio is also evaluated annually to identify any need for additional foreign entity are treated as assets and liabilities of the acquiree. amortization. License rights are amortized over their duration. Brands have an indefinite useful life. 6 Items in the consolidated statement of financial position Goodwill Goodwill is recognized as an intangible asset at cost less accumulated impairment in the balance sheet. For business combinations 6.1 Intangible assets where the total of the purchase consideration transferred, any Intangible assets are recognized at cost less accumulated amortization non-controlling interests, and the acquisition-date fair value of and impairment. The useful life of each intangible asset is determined the acquirer’s previous equity interest in the acquiree, exceeds the and amortization is applied on a straight-line basis over the useful acquisition-date fair value of identifiable net assets, the difference life. Intangible assets with an indefinite useful life are not amortized; is reported as goodwill. Goodwill is tested for impairment annually instead, they are tested for impairment when the annual financial or more frequently if there are indications of a decline in value. The statements are prepared or when there is an indication of a decline in carrying amount of goodwill is compared with its recoverable amount, value. The useful life of goodwill is generally assumed to be indefinite. which is the higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell. Any The useful life of acquired technology-based assets is 3-15 years. impairment is recognized as an expense in the income statement. For impairment testing, goodwill is allocated to the smallest Capitalized development expenditure cash-generating unit in the Company in which the goodwill in Expenditure on development projects are recognized as an asset question is monitored during internal control. See also Section 10, in the consolidated financial statements when it is probable that Significant accounting estimates, on page 54, which describes the the projects will generate future economic benefits. If a business estimates and assumptions made during impairment testing. combination gives the Group access to products, technological equipment or processes it did not previously have, and utilization of Software licenses these is expected to provide economic benefits for the Group, a value Acquired software licenses are capitalized on the basis of the for these technology-based intangible assets may be reported in the expenditure incurred when the software itself is acquired and placed consolidated statement of financial position. in service. Amortization is applied over the useful life, which is 3 to 7 The purpose of development projects is to develop new products and years, depending on the contractual terms. improve existing ones. Because development of products in the areas in which Biotage is active is a long process, it is not uncommon for a 6.2 Property, plant & equipment development project to span several fiscal years. Reporting and control Items of property, plant & equipment are recognized at cost less accuof development expenses takes place through project reporting, which mulated depreciation and impairment losses. These assets include is part of the Group’s ERP system. factories, offices, testing instruments, production tools, computers Development projects are classified as Product Care, Pre-Study and peripherals and office and warehouse equipment. The cost of or Product Development. Expenditure associated with Product Care property, plant & equipment comprises the purchase price and any projects are recognized immediately as an expense. Pre-Study projcosts directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and ects in the research phase are recognized immediately as an expense. condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner When a project moves from the research phase to the development intended. The cost of an item of property, plant & equipment is phase, and it can be demonstrated how the intangible asset will recognized as an asset on initial measurement, as is the cost of major generate probable future economic benefits, and it meets the criteria spare parts if it is probable that future economic benefits associated in IAS 38 for capitalization of internally-generated intangible assets, with the asset will flow to the Group. Other costs are recognized as an it is reclassified as Product Development. The development phase is expense in the period in which they are incurred. aimed at producing new technology or a new product and ends when Depreciation is applied on a straight-line basis over the asset's the technology is placed in service or the new product is launched in estimated useful life. Parts of an item of property, plant & equipment the Group’s sales markets. which constitute a large proportion of the asset's total cost and which The amortization period for capitalized development costs begins have different useful lives are treated as separate components of when the fully developed asset is available for use in the manner property, plant & equipment and are subject to separate depreciation. | 46 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements The following useful lives apply: basis, or to realize the asset and settle the liability simultaneously. The Land No depreciation Group does not offset financial assets and liabilities on the reporting Site improvements 10-20 years date. Buildings 30-40 years Production tools 3-7 years Classification and measurement under IFRS 9 Improvement of 3rd-party property 2-10 years Financial assets are classified into categories on initial recognition. Computers 3-4 years The classification is based on the business model used to manage the Other property, plant & equipment 3-5 years assets and their contractual cash flow characteristics. The Company considers whether the contractual terms of the financial asset give The gain or loss arising from the disposal of an item of property, rise on specified dates to cash flows that are solely payments of plant & equipment is the difference between the selling price and principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. the asset's carrying amount, and is reported under other operating income or other operating expenses. Financial assets are classified in the following categories: 6.3 Financial assets 1. Financial assets at amortized cost Financial assets are accounted for in accordance with the description These assets are held to collect contractual cash flows that are in section 6.6 Financial instruments. solely payments of principal and interest on the principal amount outstanding. 6.4 Leased assets A lease is classified as a finance lease if it transfers substantially all the 2. Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. risks and rewards incidental to ownership. Otherwise, it is classified These assets are held to collect contractual cash flows and to as an operating lease. The Group recognizes finance leases as assets sell investments, and have contractual cash flows that are solely and a corresponding liability is recognized on initial recognition. An payments of principal and interest on the principal amount asset leased under a finance lease is subject to depreciation over its outstanding. estimated useful life, while minimum lease payments are apportioned between the finance charge and the reduction of the outstanding 3. Financial assets at fair value through OCI liability. Leased assets held under operating leases are not recognized These are other financial assets and investments in equity instruin the balance sheet. The lease payments are recognized in the income ments. statement on a straight-line basis over the lease term. In financial and cost terms, Biotage has a small proportion of The Group holds trade receivables, cash and other non-current leases, which are mainly rental agreements for premises. All the receivables to collect contractual cash flows. As the contractual cash Group's leases and rental agreements are classified as operating flows from these assets consist of payments of principal and interest leases. on the principal amount outstanding, they are measured at amortized cost. Financial liabilities are measured at fair value through profit 6.5 Inventories or loss if they are held for trading or were placed in this category on Inventories are measured using the lower value principle, i.e., initial recognition. the lower of cost and net realizable value. Cost is measured using The Group’s financial liabilities consist of liabilities to credit the FIFO method. The cost of finished goods and work in progress institutions, other financial liabilities and trade and other payables. consists of design costs, raw materials, direct labor, other direct costs These liabilities are all measured at amortized cost. and related indirect manufacturing costs. Borrowing costs are not Amortized cost is the amount at which an asset or liability is included in cost. The net realizable value is the estimated selling price ­measured at initial recognition minus principal repayments, plus in the ordinary course of business less costs of completion and costs or minus the cumulative amortization using the effective interest necessary to make the sale. method of any difference between the initial amount and the maturity amount, and minus any reduction for impairment or uncollectibility. 6.6 Financial instruments The effective interest rate is the rate that discounts all estimated Financial instruments reported in the statement of financial position future cash payments or receipts through the expected life of the include securities, other financial receivables, trade and other receivfinancial instrument to the initially recognized carrying amount of the ables, cash & cash equivalents, trade payables, loans, other liabilities financial asset or liability. and derivatives. The fair values of assets and liabilities with a remaining maturity of less than three months, such as cash deposits, trade and other Recognition in the statement of financial position receivables, and trade and other payables, are considered equal to Financial assets are recognized in the statement of financial position their carrying amounts. when the Group becomes a party to the contractual provisions of The transition to IFRS 9 does not have any material effect on the the instrument. Trade receivables are recognized when an invoice Group’s earnings and financial position. Although the new rules has been sent. A liability is recognized when the counterparty has introduce a change to the classification of financial assets, this does performed and there is a contractual obligation to pay. not affect the measurement of financial assets and liabilities. A financial asset or part of a financial asset is derecognized when the For a description and definition of fair value measurement, see notes rights to receive cash flows from the asset have expired or have been 19 and 20. transferred or the Group no longer has control of it. Financial liabilities are derecognized when the contractual obligation has been discharged Impairment, IFRS 9 or extinguished in some other way. The Group recognizes a loss allowance for expected credit losses on A financial asset and a financial liability may be offset and the net financial assets measured at amortized cost. At each reporting date, amount presented in the statement of financial position when, and the Group reports the change in expected credit losses since initial only when, the Company has a legally enforceable right to set off the recognition. recognized amounts, and the Company intends either to settle on a net Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 47 | Accounting and Measurement Policies The Group measures losses for all financial assets through a loss Non-current securities and other financial assets allowance equal to 12-month expected credit losses. If the credit Non-current receivables are measured at amortized cost and the risk of a financial instrument has increased significantly since initial general approach is used for credit impairment of these receivables. recognition, a loss allowance for full lifetime expected credit losses is Assessment of whether financial assets are credit-impaired is made recognized (the general approach). by reference to known and probable circumstances, based on the The Group assesses these full lifetime expected credit losses either knowledge available at each point in time, established financial plans individually or collectively, based on all reasonable and supportable and relevant forward-looking factors. information, including forward-looking factors. The Group’s measurement of expected credit losses on financial instruments reflects Trade payables an unbiased and probability-weighted amount that is determined by Trade payables are categorized as Financial liabilities at amortized evaluating the range of possible outcomes, the time value of money, cost. As trade payables are of short duration, they are measured at and reasonable, supportable information about current conditions nominal amounts without discounting. and forecasts of future economic conditions. Under the simplified approach, the Group reports full lifetime Loans expected credit losses for trade receivables, contract assets and lease Amounts due to credit institutions, bank overdrafts and other receivables. liabilities are categorized as Financial liabilities at amortized cost. Any The general approach is used for cash and cash equivalents. A transaction costs are distributed over the term of the loan using the practical expedient is applied for cash and cash equivalents with a effective interest method. Non-current liabilities are due for settlelow credit risk on the reporting date. The general approach is also ment more than 12 months after the reporting date, while current used for other non-current receivables. liabilities are due within 12 months of the reporting date. The Group considers a default to exist when it is unlikely that a Financial instruments, December 31, 2017, IAS 39 counterparty will meet its obligations based on indicators such as Classification and Measurement financial difficulties and missed payments. A default is also considOn initial recognition, a financial instrument is classified according to ered to exist when payment is 90 days overdue. The Group writes off the purpose for which it was acquired. The definitions of the different receivables when it is considered that there is no possibility of further categories are such that a financial instrument may be classified cash flows. in more than one category. Financial assets and financial liabilities Derivatives and hedge accounting which are not subsequently measured at fair value through profit or The Group has elected to apply the transitional provisions contained loss are initially recognized at fair value, plus or minus transaction in IFRS 9, which allow a continuation of the hedge accounting requirecosts. Financial assets and financial liabilities which are subsequently ments in IAS 39. Derivatives are recognized on the contract date measured at fair value through profit or loss are initially recognized and are subsequently measured at fair value. Under the Company's at fair value. Financial instruments are subsequently measured at financial policy, derivative financial instruments may only be held for amortized cost or fair value, depending on their initial classification hedging purposes. In its hedge accounting, the Group uses cash flow in accordance with IAS 39. IAS 39 classifies financial instruments in the hedges and fair value hedges. The Company’s derivatives consist of following categories: forward contracts which are used to hedge currency risk associated with external and internal flows of products and services. In accor1. Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss dance with IAS 39, the portion of the gain or loss on a derivative This category comprises three types of items: designated as a cash flow hedge that is determined to be an effective a) F inancial assets and liabilities held for trading. These are items that hedge is recognized in other comprehensive income, and the accuare held for the main purpose of short-term profit-taking. mulated changes in fair value are recognized in the hedging reserve b) Derivatives that are not effective hedging instruments. in equity. Any gain or loss on the ineffective portion of the hedge c) Designated – other financial assets or liabilities the Company has is recognized immediately in profit or loss. Amounts in the hedging chosen to report in this category. reserve are recycled into profit or loss in the same period in which the hedged item affects profit or loss. Biotage hedges currency risk in 2. Held-to-maturity investments accordance with the Board’s established financial policies. Currency Held-to-maturity investments are non-derivative financial assets with hedging is based on the expected difference between the cash flow in fixed or determinable payments and fixed maturity which an entity SEK and other currencies. has the positive intention and ability to hold to maturity. Other information about financial instruments 3. Loans and receivables Trade receivables Loans and receivables are non-derivative financial assets with fixed Trade receivables are reported net of provisions for expected losses As or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market. trade receivables are of short duration, they are measured at nominal This category includes trade receivables, other receivables and other amounts without discounting, using the amortized cost method. non-current receivables. Expected credit losses on trade receivables are measured through a loss allowance. The simplified approach is used, as the receivables do not 4. Available-for-sale financial assets contain any significant financing component and are of short duration. Available-for-sale financial assets are non-derivatives that are either The allowance for credit losses is based on the matrix model, which designated in this category or not classified in any of the other takes into account historical data on the number of days outstanding. categories. The allowance is adjusted for relevant current conditions and probable future outcomes. The provision amount is recognized in the income 5. Other liabilities statement. Financial liabilities that are not measured at fair value through profit or loss are classified as other liabilities. | 48 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements After the date of acquisition, financial instruments classified as Deferred tax assets are only recognized to the extent that it is Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss and probable that taxable profit will be available against which they can Available-for-sale financial assets are measured at fair value. Financial be utilized. Deferred tax is measured using national tax rates that instruments in the categories Held-to-maturity investments, Loans have been enacted or substantively enacted by the reporting date in and receivables and Other liabilities are subsequently measured at the countries where the Group has legal entities with tax losses that amortized cost using the effective interest method. Amortized cost can be utilized. is the amount at which an asset or liability is measured at initial recognition minus principal repayments, plus or minus the cumulative 6.8 Provisions amortization using the effective interest method of any difference Provisions for restructuring are recognized when the Group has a between the initial amount and the maturity amount, and minus any present obligation (legal or constructive) as a result of a past event, reduction for impairment or uncollectibility. The effective interest and it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to rate is the rate that discounts all estimated future cash payments or settle the obligation, and a reliable estimate can be made of the receipts through the expected life of the financial instrument to the amount of the obligation. Restructuring provisions include the cost of initially recognized carrying amount of the financial asset or liability. lease cancellation and termination benefits to employees. Provisions For a description and definition of fair value measurement, see are not recognized for future operating losses. notes 19 and 20. Provisions for warranties for products sold are based on the warranty terms & conditions and historical warranty costs and quality Trade receivables rates. Provisions are classified as non-current and current items. Trade receivables are classified as Loans and receivables. Trade Non-current obligations will not require an outflow of resources receivables are reported net of provision for doubtful debts. As trade during the next 12 months. All other obligations are classified as receivables are of short duration, they are measured at nominal current. amounts without discounting, using the amortized cost method. A provision for doubtful debts is recognized when there are objective 6.9 Share capital grounds for assuming that the Group will not receive all amounts due All issued shares are ordinary shares, which are classified as equity. under the original terms and conditions. The size of the provision is Transaction costs directly attributable to the issue of new shares or the difference between the asset's carrying amount and the value of options are recognized in equity, net of tax, as a deduction from the estimated future cash flows. The provision amount is recognized in issue proceeds. the income statement. 7 Items in the consolidated income statement Non-current securities and other financial assets Non-current receivables are classified as Loans and receivables. An impairment loss is recognized for a financial asset when there is 7.1 Revenue recognition objective evidence that the asset's cash flows are affected by events Revenue is the value of the consideration that the Company is entitled occurring after its initial recognition. to receive for goods sold or services rendered in the course of the Group's ordinary activities, excluding VAT and discounts, and after Trade payables elimination of intra-group sales. Trade payables are classified as Other liabilities. As trade payables IFRS 15 Revenue from Contracts with Customers is effective from are of short duration, they are measured at nominal amounts without 2018. The first steps involve identifying the type of contract and its discounting, using the amortized cost method. performance obligations. The price is then determined and allocated to the different components of the contract. Revenue is recognized Loans when control of the goods or service has been transferred to the Amounts due to credit institutions, bank overdrafts and other liabilbuyer. This has not involved any significant changes, as previous ities are categorized as Other liabilities and measured at amortized revenue recognition has largely coincided with the requirements of cost. Any transaction costs are distributed over the term of the loan IFRS 15. The transition has not had any effect on revenue recognition, using the effective interest method. Non-current liabilities are due but IFRS 15 requires enhanced disclosures on the composition of net for settlement more than 12 months after the reporting date, while sales to provide a picture of revenue streams. See also note 3. current liabilities are due within 12 months of the reporting date. Sale of goods 6.7 Taxes The Group develops and sells systems, re-agents, accessories, spare Income tax consists of current tax and deferred tax. Taxes are parts and services on a global basis directly to end users through its recognized in the income statement except when the underlying subsidiaries, and through distributors. Revenue is recognized when transaction is recognized in OCI or directly in equity, in which case the control of the products has been transferred from seller to buyer and related tax effect is also recognized in OCI or equity. the customer has confirmed acceptance, which is normally on delivA current tax liability or asset is the amount of income taxes payable ery. In these circumstances, revenue is recognized at a point in time. or recoverable in respect of the taxable profit or loss for the current year and prior years. Rendering of services A deferred tax liability or asset is recognized for temporary differSales of services are recognized as revenue in the reporting period ences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their in which the services are performed. The Company’s sales of services corresponding tax bases or the carryforward of unused tax losses and include servicing of systems and customer-specific development credits. Biotage does not recognize deferred tax liabilities or assets projects. For customized development projects, services are performed for temporary differences arising from non-deductible goodwill or over a long period and revenue is therefore is recognized by reference the initial recognition of an asset or liability which does not affect to the stage of completion of the transaction at the end of the reporting accounting profit or taxable profit or loss. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 49 | Accounting and Measurement Policies period. There is a small proportion of customized development Short-term employee benefits projects. For employee benefits (such as wages, paid vacation and sick leave) Service contracts can be signed by customers who purchase the and pensions, the amount of benefits expected to be paid in respect Company’s systems. They normally extend over twelve months, but of service rendered by employees in a period is recognized in that longer contract periods have also been initiated in 2018. It is not period. known to what extent or at what point in the contract term customers will use the service agreements. It is therefore the assessment that 7.4 Impairment this represents a stand-ready obligation under IFRS 15. The customer Impairment is recognized when a significant increase in a financial simultaneously receives and consumes all of the benefits provided by asset’s credit risk is identified during an individual or collective the entity as the entity performs. The obligation therefore meets the assessment. Impairment losses are recognized in profit or loss on the criterion for being a performance obligation satisfied over time. The basis of reasonable and verifiable data, including forward-looking facentity’s commitment to provide services during the contract period is tors. The impairment reflects an unbiased and probability-weighted separately identifiable from other promises. There is no integration, amount that is determined by evaluating the range of possible modification or close dependence on other services that customers outcomes, the time value of money, and reasonable, supportable are offered. The service is therefore considered to be distinct in information about current conditions and forecasts of future nature and within the scope of the contract, and is reported as a economic conditions. single obligation under IFRS 15. The company’s satisfaction of its Full lifetime expected losses are recognized for trade receivables, performance obligation is considered to be evenly distributed over contract assets and lease receivables using the simplified approach. the contract period. The customer can benefit from the service and The general approach is used for cash and cash equivalents and other has unlimited access to it throughout the contract period. Revenue is non-current receivables. A practical expedient is also applied for cash therefore recognized on a straight-line basis over the contract period. and cash equivalents with a low credit risk on the reporting date. If there is supportable and objective evidence that an impairment Interest income loss recognized in prior periods no longer exists, the impairment loss Interest income is distributed over the term of the interest-bearing is reversed. Reversed impairment losses are recognized in the income investment using the effective interest method. statement. Testing of previous impairment losses is conducted on an individual basis. Goodwill impairment is not reversed. 7.2 Cost of sales Cost of sales comprises payment of sub-contractors when the Com7.5 Other operating income and expenses pany uses other manufacturers, raw materials for production, salaries Other operating income and other operating expenses include share and other personnel expenses for production staff, costs of premises, of profit/loss of associates, one-time payments, exchange gains/ packing and freight costs, depreciation of production facilities and losses on operating receivables and liabilities and gains/losses on the other facilities used in production and a share of common costs. sale or disposal of non-current assets. 7.3 Employee benefits Retirement benefit obligations 8 The Parent Company's accounting policies The Group's pension plans are funded by contributions to insurance policies. They are all defined-contribution plans. Defined-contribution The Parent Company applies the Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the plans are plans under which companies pay fixed contributions into Swedish Financial Reporting Board's recommendation RFR 2 Accounta separate entity (a fund). Under defined-contribution pension plans, ing for Legal Entities. This allows application of IFRS as adopted by the Group’s legal or constructive obligation is limited to the amount the EU to the extent that such application is not in conflict with the that it agrees to contribute to the fund. It has no legal or constructive Swedish Annual Accounts Act and the Pension Obligations Vesting Act, obligation to pay further contributions if the fund does not hold suffiand also takes into account the relationship between tax expense and cient assets to pay all employee benefits relating to employee service accounting profit. in the current and prior periods. The expenses are charged to the Group’s income as the benefits are earned, which normally coincides Amended accounting policies for the Parent Company with the date on which the premium is paid. The amendments to RFR 2 Accounting for Legal Entities that came into effect in 2018 have not had any material effect on the Parent CompaTermination benefits ny’s financial reporting. Termination benefits are paid when employment is terminated before The differences between the Parent Company’s and the Group’s the normal retirement age or when an employee accepts voluntary accounting policies are described below. layoff in return for termination benefits. Termination benefits are recognized when the Company is committed to terminating the 8.1 Classification and presentation employment of employees before the normal retirement date or proThe Parent Company's income statement and balance sheet are viding termination benefits as a result of an offer made to encourage presented in accordance with the format described in the Annual voluntary layoff. The Company is committed to a termination when it Accounts Act. The main difference from IAS 1 Presentation of Finanhas a detailed formal plan for the termination. cial Statements, which is applied when preparing the consolidated financial statements, concerns the reporting of finance income, Variable pay finance costs, non-current assets and equity, and the presentation The Group provides variable pay for employees in positions where of provisions as a separate item. The Parent Company also presents their performance has a measurable effect on the Group’s earnings. a statement of comprehensive income, which is separate from the Estimated expenses for variable pay are recognized on an ongoing income statement. basis and provision is made for these expenses in the consolidated statement of financial position. Variable pay for key management personnel is described on pages 56-58. | 50 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements 8.2 Investments in Group companies have intra-group balances. Translation of these balances to SEK may Investments in subsidiaries are recognized at cost in the Parent have a significant effect on the Group's financial position and results. Company's financial statements. Acquisition-related costs for As the Group’s functional currency is SEK, movements of the Swedish subsidiaries, which are recognized as an expense in the consolidated krona against other transaction currencies will have an effect on the financial statements, are included as part of the cost of investments Group’s results and financial position. A 10 percent change in the in ­subsidiaries. USD/SEK exchange rate would affect income and equity by SEK 30,980 (1,952) thousand. The corresponding effect of a 10 percent change in 8.3 Investments in associates the EUR/SEK rate would be SEK -20 (-141) thousand. Hedging instruInvestments in associates are recognized at cost in the Parent Compaments were used only to a limited extent in 2018. The main exposures ny’s financial statements. Any future dividend from an associate will are trade receivables in EUR, USD and GBP, which amount to SEK be reported on a separate line under financial items. 117,875 thousand. A 10 percent change in the EUR/SEK, USD/SEK and GBP/SEK rates would have an effect of SEK 11,788 thousand on the 8.4 Financial instruments income statement. Other financial instruments are essentially in SEK. The Parent Company does not apply IFRS 9 for legal entities. The Parent Company recognizes an allowance for expected credit losses Interest rate risk on financial assets reported under non-current assets and measured Interest rate risk is the risk that the value of financial instruments will at amortized cost. At each reporting date, the Parent Company reports fluctuate because of changes in market interest rates. The Group’s changes in expected credit losses since initial recognition. When financial assets are not particularly exposed to these changes as the calculating the net realizable value of financial assets reported as curholdings are of short duration. The Group’s interest risk is essentially rent assets, the impairment principles contained in IFRS 9 are applied. the risk that its refinancing will be more expensive if general interest Derivative instruments that are not subject to hedge accounting and rates rise and vice versa. Interest-bearing liabilities have increased sighave a negative fair value are reported at this value. A financial asset nificantly during the year as a result of large investments. A change of 1 is derecognized when the contractual right to receive cash flows has percentage point in the Group's interest rate on interest-bearing assets expired or been settled and a financial liability is derecognized when would affect income and equity by SEK 1,770 (1,743) thousand. A change the contractual obligation has been discharged or extinguished. of 1 percentage point in the Group's interest rate on interest-bearing liabilities would affect income and equity by SEK 1,094 (-) thousand. 8.5 Shareholder and Group contributions Group contributions the Parent Company receives from subsidiaries Credit risk are reported under finance income using the same principles as ordiCredit risk can be divided into financial and operational. Operational nary dividends from subsidiaries. Group contributions made by the credit risk is the risk of customers being unable to pay for delivered Parent to subsidiaries are reported as an increase in investments in goods. The majority of customers are large companies and scientific Group companies. Shareholder contributions are recognized directly institutions with operations which are normally state-financed. Based in the recipient's equity and are reported in the issuer's shares and on historical data, it is management’s assessment that Biotage has a interests, to the extent that impairment is not required. low credit risk, as losses have historically corresponded to less than 0.5 percent of sales. No single customer accounts for more sale than 8.6 Untaxed reserves 5 percent of the Group’s total sales. The Group applies the simplified Changes in untaxed reserves are recognized as an appropriation in matrix model for calculating expected credit losses on trade receivthe income statement. The accumulated value of the provisions is ables. See note 16 The model is based on historical losses, but also reported under untaxed reserves in the balance sheet. Tax depreciation considers forward-looking factors. allowances are calculated in accordance with current tax legislation. Tax The Group's financial credit risk is counterparty risk in bank depreciation allowances are regarded as accelerated depreciation, which deposits, trade receivables, derivatives and financial investments. is reported as an untaxed reserve. The financial policy sets limits for each counterparty, and only Swedish banks with low credit risk and high ratings in the long-term assessments of the rating agencies Standard & Poor’s and Moody’s 9 Financial risks and the Group's risk management may be used for investments and derivatives. The Group’s method for managing expected credit losses is described in section 6.6 Financial instruments and in note 16 Trade and other receivables. 9.1 Financial risks in the Biotage Group Total credit exposure was SEK 335 (294) million at the reporting date In addition to the business risks that Biotage faces in the course of and consisted primarily of cash and cash equivalents of SEK 177 (174) its operations, there are also different types of financial risks, which million and trade receivables of SEK 156 (118) million. include currency risk, interest rate risk, credit risk and refinancing risk. Credit risk associated with customer relationships is managed Liquidity risk within a defined framework and is decentralized by means of local Liquidity risk is the risk that the Group will encounter difficulty in credit ratings. Other risks are managed centrally. The Group’s financial accessing funds to discharge its financial obligations. The statements policy requires financial risks to be minimized, taking into account of cash flow for 2017 and 2018 show sufficiently positive cash flows reasonable hedging expenses, and access to liquidity to be mainfrom operations to allow the Group to fully discharge its current tained. obligations. In addition, Biotage has cash & cash equivalents that are considerably higher than current and non-current liabilities. In a Currency risk long-term perspective, the Group's liquidity and financing risk is the A significant proportion of the Group’s sales are conducted in USD, risk that it may become dependent on credit facilities or capital conEUR, JPY and GBP. The proportion of sales in SEK is relatively small. tributions for its expansion. This risk is managed by means of liquidity Operating expenses and financial instruments are also related to planning and liquidity monitoring and by ensuring good relations are these currencies, although SEK is dominant. The Group's legal entities maintained with lending institutions and major shareholders. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 51 | Accounting and Measurement Policies A maturity analysis of contractual payment obligations related to be reconciled with those reported in the balance sheets. Interest the Group’s non-derivative financial liabilities is presented in the payments are determined based on the conditions that apply on the tables below. The amounts in these tables are not discounted values reporting date. Amounts in foreign currency are translated to Swedish and also include interest payments; therefore, the amounts cannot kronor at the closing rate. Financial liabilities, December 31, 2018 Within 3 months 3-12 months 1-5 years After 5 years Total Liabilities to credit institutions 664 664 114,712 – 116,040 Trade and other payables 106,958 13,064 – – 120,022 Total 107,622 13,728 114,712 0 236,062 Financial liabilities, December 31, 2017 Within 3 months 3-12 months 1-5 years After 5 years Total Liabilities to credit institutions – – – – – Trade and other payables 91,400 11,333 – – 102,733 Total 91,400 11,333 0 0 102,733 There is no significant difference between the liability on December 31, 2018 and the actual payment including interest, i.e., undiscounted cash flows. 9.2 The Group's risk management Biotage has a Risk Management Policy and conducts an annual intersure and currency risk. This exposure is largely managed by choice nal risk audit based on a survey that all managers and all regional of currency for sales and purchases, loans and foreign currency managers are asked to complete, after which a compilation of the investments. Group’s overall risks and their management is made. To deal with the Biotage aims to minimize the currency risk that arises in commereffects of the financial risks associated with Biotage operations and cial flows. Biotage will never engage in speculative position-taking financial management, the Board has established a financial policy to exploit exchange rate volatility by entering into transactions for for the Group. This policy is designed to facilitate the Group's financial which there is no underlying commercial cash flow or imbalance. work and alleviate the economic consequences of financial risks. Credit risk associated with trade receivables must be monitored on Work must be performed carefully and professionally. Implemented an ongoing basis. measures must be documented and reported to the appropriate Available liquidity must be managed by the CFO or a person company body. designated by the CFO. The necessary credit facilities for business The policy contains a division of responsibilities, duties and financing must be in place in the Swedish companies and the foreign authority between the Company's Board, CEO, CFO and Accounting companies as far as possible. For foreign companies, the purpose of Manager. Administrative procedures have also been established on the operating loans is to reduce currency exposure, cover working capital basis that those who conduct transactions should be separate from requirements, offset liquidity fluctuations and avoid unnecessary those responsible for control, accounting and reporting of transacexcess liquidity in individual subsidiaries. tions. Systematic reporting documentation for financial transactions must be submitted to the accounting manager for checking against the Effects of financial instruments on the Group's results documents received by the transaction counterparty. and financial position The strategy is for the central finance function at corporate office The Group’s financial instruments, as reported in the consolidated to manage currency risk for the entire Group. Because the Group statement of comprehensive income or additional information, are engages in operations, production and sales in a number of countries, essentially based on transactions associated with the Group's business it has a certain income statement exposure as a result of its income operations. Biotage does not engage in active trading or conduct and expenses being in different currencies. This exposure may be transactions in financial instruments other than for the development, affected by factors such as choice of currency for sales and purchases. production and sale of the Company’s products and services. The main Similarly, the Group's assets, liabilities and equity in its wholly-owned financial instruments are trade receivables, other operating receivsubsidiaries, and receivables from/liabilities to external customers ables, shares, trade payables and other operating liabilities. Exchange and suppliers in different currencies result in balance sheet exporate movements may have a material impact on the Group’s results and financial position, and this has previously been the case. | 52 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements Net sales The Group's most significant revenue currencies are USD and EUR. 2018 2017 Currency Currency Net sales by currency thousands SEK thousands Distribution % thousands SEK thousands Distribution % EUR 15,086 154,617 17 14,749 142,786 19 USD 53,979 469,764 52 44,956 383,616 51 GBP 4,979 57,699 6 4,983 54,988 7 JPY 1,318,872 103,795 11 1,212,420 92,265 12 CNY 30,169 39,631 4 20,193 25,506 4 KRW 4,007,891 31,662 3 2,699,139 20,513 3 SEK 26,726 26,726 3 28,193 28,193 4 CAD 3,666 24,538 3 42 279 0 CHF 140 1,269 0 – – – NOK 608 663 0 – – – INR 4,188 532 0 – – – Total SEK thousands 910,896 100 748,147 100 Net assets The Group’s net assets have been predominantly in SEK. This changed in 2018, mainly as a result of the acquisition of the American company Horizon Technology Inc., which was financed with a loan in SEK. 2018 2017 Net assets by foreign Currency Currency currency, December 31 thousands SEK thousands Distribution % thousands SEK thousands Distribution % EUR -20 -201 -0 -1,410 -13,890 -2 USD 34,534 309,803 44 19,517 160,671 26 GBP 7,802 88,535 13 4,970 55,191 9 JPY 565,729 45,937 7 42,086 3,077 1 CNY 25,268 33,021 5 -8,505 -10,752 -2 KRW 2,259,372 18,075 3 455,113 3,504 1 CAD 956 6,302 1 – – – INR 8,884 1,139 0 – – – CHF 62 561 0 – – – SEK 199,008 199,008 28 410,810 410,810 67 Total SEK thousands 702,180 100 608,611 100 The table below shows the Group’s net assets by exposure to transaction risk and exposure to translation risk as of December 31, 2018. The latter refers to the risk of variations in exchange rates affecting the carrying amounts of subsidiaries and foreign assets when translated to SEK. Transaction risk Translation risk Currency Currency Net assets, December 31, 2018 thousands SEK thousands Distribution % thousands SEK thousands Distribution % EUR 2,449 25,162 10 -2,468 -25,363 -11 USD 13,208 118,487 45 21,326 191,316 80 GBP 1,663 18,870 7 6,139 69,665 29 JPY 430,979 34,995 13 134,750 10,942 5 CNY 35,985 47,025 18 -10,716 -14,004 -6 KRW 1,632,212 13,058 5 627,160 5,017 2 CAD 956 6,302 2 – – – INR 0 0 0 8,884 1,139 0 CHF 62 561 0 – – – Total SEK thousands 264,460 100 238,711 100 Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 53 | Accounting and Measurement Policies 9.3 Capital management Capitalized development expenditure Biotage defines capital as equity. The Group’s capital management Development costs are capitalized when a project enters the Product objective is to safeguard its ability to conduct operations and Development phase and meets the recognition criteria set out in IAS generate reasonable returns for shareholders and value for other 38. Under the standard, an intangible asset qualifies for recognition stakeholders. The Group monitors its capital structure on the basis if it is probable that the future economic benefits attributable to the of the equity/assets ratio, which is calculated as equity divided by asset will flow to the Company and and the cost of the asset can be total assets. At the end of the year, the equity/assets ratio was 70 (80) measured reliably. percent for the Group and 67 (90) percent for the Parent Company. In accordance with IAS 38, Biotage capitalizes its development on the basis of a measurement of each project's expected contribution to the Group's sales revenue and cash flows. Projects are measured 10 Significant accounting estimates at cost. An item is derecognized in the statement of financial position when the product is no longer marketed or the technology is no When preparing the consolidated and Parent Company's financial longer used by Biotage, or when it is only expected to generate sales statements, the Board and CEO make a number of judgments and revenue on a limited scale. Preparation of the consolidated financial estimates that may affect the reported financial position and results. statements involves reviewing the carrying amounts of products and projects in progress in the statement of financial position. As Estimation uncertainty this is based on an assessment of the product’s or the technology’s Accounting estimates and assessments are evaluated regularly. expected demand, use and price, it is subject to some uncertainty. They are largely based on historical experience and expectations Impairment losses may also arise from rapid technological developabout future events which are considered reasonable in the present ment and improved products from competitors. At the end of the year, circumstances. Certain accounting estimates and assumptions are of the Group's capitalized development expenditure was SEK 101 (95) particular significance when measuring assets and liabilities in the million. See also note 12. balance sheet. Goodwill is the balance sheet item with the greatest Biotage reports amortization and impairment of capitalized risk of value changes as a result of adjusted assumptions or estidevelopment costs under the item research & development expenses. mates. The most significant judgments used in the measurement of Another possible income statement presentation method would have assets and liabilities are based on assumptions regarding the future been to report all or parts of the above-mentioned amortization scope for marketing the Group’s products and services in volumes and charge under cost of sales. Had the Company reported the year’s full at prices that allow a reasonable economic return. Scope for marketamortization charges and impairment for these assets in this way, cost ing is highly dependent on the Group’s access to technical expertise of sales would have increased and research & development expenses for the production of new and improved products and on the level of would have decreased by SEK 18 (19) million. This would not therefore customer investment in new product development, knowledge and have had any effect on operating profit. Capitalization of development methods in the scientific areas in which the Group’s products are costs has reduced research & development expenses by SEK 24 (23) used. The estimated success of the Group’s objective to broaden its million. products' areas of application also affects overall estimates of sales figures and financial results for Biotage. Deferred tax asset Biotage recognizes tax loss carryforwards on the basis of how they Impairment testing of goodwill and other assets are expected to be utilized against future profit and the extent to Goodwill is tested for impairment annually when the annual financial which the Company can demonstrate that it is probable that such statements are prepared, or as soon as impairment is indicated by profit will be available in future periods before the unused tax losses changes. Goodwill testing involves calculating the recoverable amount expire. Tax loss carryforwards are mainly associated with the Swedish of the cash-generating unit to which the carrying amount of goodwill and US companies. When determining the value of tax losses carried is allocated, which for Biotage is the Group as a whole, as it consists of forward, an assessment is made of the coming year's tax credits and one single operating segment. The forecasts of the Group’s expected the countries in which they are expected to occur. Biotage bases cash flows used in the calculations (discounted cash flow) are deterthis on management's assessments of each company's development mined by members of Biotage management, who base their judgment and results in future years. Should the Group be unable to realize on past experience and the Company's own expectations about the its plans, an impairment loss would have to be recognized for this future. During impairment testing, management makes a number of item. Similarly, the value of tax losses can be affected by changes in other assumptions when applying the discounted cash flow model and legislation regarding their utilization and changes in tax rates. Based these may have a significant effect on the measurement result. See on a new assessment at the end of the year, recognized deferred tax also note 11 for a description of key assumptions. However, sensitivity assets arising from unused tax losses amounted to SEK 60 (61) million, analyses show that the outcome of the testing would not change if corresponding to a tax effect of SEK 279 (278) million in historical tax the growth rate were reduced by 50 percent or the discount rate were losses. A deferred tax asset has not been recognized for other remainincreased by 20 percent compared with the assumptions made. An ing tax losses, as Biotage has been unable to confirm the probability impairment loss is recognized in the income statement if the carrying that taxable profit corresponding to an unrecognized tax asset of SEK amount exceeds the recoverable amount. At the end of the year, the 14 (32) million will be generated for the remaining historical tax losses Group’s goodwill was SEK 186 (104) million. See also note 11. of SEK 65 (146) million. See also note 23. | 54 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements NOTES Note 1 Average number of employees, salaries, employee benefits and social security contributions Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Board and senior executives A presentation of Board members and senior executives can be found on pages 82-83. Board Female 2 2 2 2 Male 3 4 3 4 Total 5 6 5 6 Group Management Female 1 1 – – Male 2 2 1 1 Total 3 3 1 1 Average number of employees Female 128 111 – – Male 276 224 1 1 Total 404 335 1 1 Salaries and benefits Board and CEO 6,307 5,362 6,307 5,362 Other senior executives, 2 individuals 4,300 3,835 – – Other employees 223,762 185,055 – – Total salaries and benefits 234,369 194,252 6,307 5,362 Contractual and statutory social security contributions Board and CEO 2,203 1,951 2,203 1,951 Other senior executives 1,491 1,444 – – Other employees 48,352 41,274 – – Total contractual and statutory social security contributions 52,046 44,669 2,203 1,951 Pension expenses *) Board and CEO 902 909 902 909 Other senior executives 809 805 – – Other employees 12,734 10,545 – – Total pension expenses 14,445 12,259 902 909 Total salaries, social security contributions and pension expenses 300,860 251,180 9,411 8,222 *) For salaried employees in Sweden, the ITP 2 plan's defined-benefit retirement and 0.01714 (0.0020) percent, while its share of the total number of active members in the family pension obligation (or family pension) is covered by insurance through Alecta. plan is 0.01219 (0.010) percent. According to the Swedish Financial Reporting Board's statement UFR 10, Accounting The collective consolidation level is the market value of Alecta’s assets as a for ITP 2 Plans Financed by Insurance in Alecta, this is a multi-employer defined benpercentage of its insurance obligations calculated by reference to Alecta’s actuarial efit-pension plan. The Company did not have access to sufficient information for the methods and assumptions. This is not consistent with IAS 19. The collective consolida2018 fiscal year to report its proportionate share of the plan's obligations, plan assets tion level is normally allowed to vary between 125 and 155 percent. If Alecta’s collecand costs, which meant that it was not possible to report the plan as a defined-bentive consolidation level falls below 125 percent or exceeds 155 percent, measures must efit plan. Consequently, the ITP 2 pension plan insured through Alecta is reported be taken to create the right conditions for the level to return to the normal range. If as a defined-contribution plan. The premium for the defined-benefit retirement and the consolidation level is too low, an appropriate measure could be to increase the family pension is calculated individually and is based on factors that include salary, agreed price for new insurance and extension of existing benefits. If the consolidation previously earned pensions and the expected remaining period of service. Expected level is too high, premium reductions could be introduced. At the end of 2018, Alecta’s contributions for ITP 2 insurance covered by Alecta in the next reporting period are surplus, which was reported as a collective consolidation level, was 142 (154) percent. SEK 3,153 (2,467) thousand. The Group's share of the total contributions to the plan is Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 55 | Notes Note 1 cont'd Average number of employees by country 2018 2017 Total Male Female Total Male Female Parent, Sweden 1 1 – 1 1 – Subsidiaries, Sweden 85 54 31 77 47 30 USA 109 72 37 69 46 23 UK 134 92 42 125 83 42 Germany 12 9 3 12 9 3 France 4 4 – 4 4 – China 21 16 5 18 15 3 Japan 27 20 7 24 16 8 South Korea 7 5 2 5 3 2 India 5 4 1 0 0 0 Total 404 276 128 335 224 111 Distribution % 68% 32% 67% 33% Remuneration of Board members and senior executives variable pay, other benefits and a pension. Group management is made Principles up of other senior executives (two individuals) and the President & CEO. The Chairman and members of the Board receive fees as adopted by The basic salary to variable pay ratio must be proportional to responsithe annual general meeting. The President & CEO receives a basic bility and authority. The President & CEO receives variable pay, which is salary, variable pay, other benefits and a pension. An upward adjustlinked to the Group’s annual results, up to a maximum of SEK 2,600,000. ment of the basic salary for 2018 has been made in order to keep the Other senior executives receive variable pay up to a maximum of 40 Company’s total wage costs neutral. This is because social security percent of their basic salary. The Board may also decide to award a contributions decreased when the President & CEO reached retirement discretionary payment to the CEO and other senior executives. age (65) in 2017. Other senior executives also receive a basic salary, Accrued salaries, fees and other benefits in 2018 Variable Other Pension Other Board fees Basic salary pay benefits expense remuneration Total Chairman of the Board: Ove Mattsson *) ***) 165,000 – – – – – 165,000 Thomas Eklund *) ***) 440,000 – – – – – 440,000 Board members: Yvonne Mårtensson *) 260,000 – – – – – 260,000 Peter Ehrenheim *) 275,000 – – – – – 275,000 Karolina Lawitz *) 256,667 – – – – – 256,667 Nils Olof Björk *) 240,000 – – – – – 240,000 Total accrued cost of fees paid to Board members in 2018 1,636,667 – – – – – 1,636,667 CEO Torben Jørgensen **) – 3,046,620 2,973,015 174,392 902,214 286,913 7,383,154 Other senior executives (2 individuals) **) – 2,802,000 1,354,144 131,774 808,608 143,667 5,240,193 Total for 2018 1,636,667 5,848,620 4,327,159 306,166 1,710,822 430,580 14,260,014 *) Board members also received compensation for statutory employer contributions, as listed below, as their fees were paid to legal entities. Ove Mattsson SEK 80,982. Thomas Eklund SEK 78,554. Yvonne Mårtensson SEK 65,982. Peter Ehrenheim SEK 70,695. Karolina Lawitz SEK 62,840. Nils-Olof Björk SEK 35,990. **) Other remuneration is mainly vacation allowances paid in accordance with the Swedish Annual Leave Act. ***) Ove Mattsson was Chairman of the Board until the end of the AGM in April 2018, when Board member Thomas Eklund was elected Chairman. | 56 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements Accrued salaries, fees and other benefits in 2017 Variable Other Pension Other Board fees Basic salary pay benefits expense remuneration Total Chairman of the Board: Ove Mattsson *) 495,000 – – – – – 495,000 Board members: Yvonne Mårtensson 140,000 – – – – – 140,000 Thomas Eklund *) 250,000 – – – – – 250,000 Peter Ehrenheim *) 225,000 – – – – – 225,000 Karolina Lawitz *) 200,000 – – – – – 200,000 Nils Olof Björk *) 232,277 – – – – – 232,277 Total accrued cost of fees paid to Board members in 2017 1,542,277 – – – – – 1,542,277 CEO Torben Jørgensen **) – 2,600,000 2,600,000 147,470 908,795 161,529 6,417,794 Other senior executives (2 individuals) **) – 2,744,400 943,104 141,350 805,047 147,655 4,781,556 Total for 2017 1,542,277 5,344,400 3,543,104 288,820 1,713,842 309,184 12,741,627 *) Board members also received compensation for statutory employer Pensions contributions, as listed below, as their fees were paid to legal entities. The retirement age for President & CEO Torben Jørgensen is 68. Ove Mattsson SEK 80,982. The pension premium is 35 percent of the pensionable salary. The Thomas Eklund SEK 78,550. pensionable salary is the basic salary. Peter Ehrenheim SEK 70,695. Karolina Lawitz SEK 62,840. Termination of employment/termination benefits Nils-Olof Björk SEK 23,715. The Company may remove President & CEO Torben Jørgensen from his post at any time. The contract will terminate without prior notice on **) Other remuneration is mainly vacation allowances paid in accorApril 16, 2020. In the case of termination of employment initiated by dance with the Swedish Annual Leave Act. the Company (not based on gross neglect of duties to the Company), Comments on the tables above and on the previous page the President & CEO will retain his fixed annual salary until April 2020. Board This remuneration is pensionable and counts towards vacation pay. The 2018 AGM adopted Board fees of SEK 1,400,000 for the period Guidelines for remuneration of senior executives adopted by until the 2019 AGM. The Chairman’s fees accounted for SEK 500,000 of the 2018 AGM. this amount. In addition, a maximum of SEK 255,000 was adopted for The 2018 AGM adopted the following guidelines for remuneration of remuneration of committee work. The 2017 annual general meeting senior executives. Senior executives consists of the CEO and other adopted Board fees of SEK 1,460,000 for the period until the 2018 members of Group management. The guidelines shall apply to annual general meeting. SEK 460,000 of this amount relates to the employment contracts entered into after the AGM's decision on the Chairman's fees. In addition, a maximum of SEK 140,000 was adopted guidelines and to any changes made to existing conditions of employfor remuneration of committee work. This framework was defined by ment after the meeting’s decision. The Company shall endeavor to the 2017 and 2018 annual general meetings. offer its senior executives market-based salaries. The remuneration committee shall prepare remuneration matters and present proposals President & CEO for the Board's consideration. Proposals for remuneration shall take The President & CEO Torben Jørgensen receives a basic monthly salary into account the importance of duties, expertise, experience and of SEK 227,500. An upward adjustment of the basic salary for 2018 has performance. Remuneration shall comprise a fixed annual salary, been made in order to keep the Company’s total wage costs neutral. variable pay, retirement benefits, discretionary payments, other This is because social security contributions decreased when the benefits and termination benefits. The Board is entitled to derogate President & CEO reached retirement age (65) in 2017. In addition to from these guidelines if it believes there is sufficient reason to do so the basic salary, a vacation allowance is paid in accordance with the in a particular case. Swedish Annual Leave Act. The President & CEO also receives variable pay and a pension, and is entitled to termination benefits, which are CEO described below. The Company's CEO receives an annual salary of SEK 2,730,000 under the terms of his employment contract. An upward adjustment of Variable pay and other benefits the basic salary has been made with effect from 2018 in order to President & CEO Torben Jørgensen receives variable pay of up to keep the Company’s total wage costs neutral. This is because social 100 (100) percent of his fixed annual salary, i.e., a maximum of SEK security contributions decreased when the President & CEO reached 2,730,000 per year. The Board may also decide to award a discretionretirement age (65) in 2017. The Company makes a pension provision ary payment. corresponding to 35 percent of the CEO’s fixed annual salary. In addition to the fixed annual salary, the CEO receives variable pay of Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 57 | Notes Note 1 cont'd up to 100 percent of his fixed annual salary. The variable pay is linked Other benefits to the Company’s achievement of defined financial targets. The CEO Senior executives may be awarded other customary benefits such as a receives annual compensation of SEK 100,000 for travel and increased company car, health care, etc. housing costs. Termination benefits Other members of Company management Salaries during the period of notice and termination benefits for This group consists of two individuals, who report directly to the CEO. senior executives shall not exceed 24 monthly salaries. All members of Company management receive a fixed annual salary which is in line with market salaries, and variable pay of up to 40 Equity and share-based incentive programs percent of the fixed annual salary. 75 percent of the variable pay is Any equity and share-based incentive programs shall be adopted by linked to the Company's achievement of defined financial targets. The the Annual General Meeting. Allotment shall be in accordance with the remaining 25 percent is based on defined goals relating to personal decision of the AGM. performance. The pension provision may amount to up to 30 percent of the fixed annual salary. Any new members of Previously decided remuneration Company management can expect the same remuneration conditions. There is no previously decided remuneration that is not yet due for payment. A description of previous incentive programs can be found Variable pay and performance requirements on page 48 of the 2014 annual report. The Board is entitled to decide on the criteria for variable pay. Remuneration in 2017 Discretionary bonuses For information on remuneration of senior executives in 2017, see note The Board may decide to award a discretionary payment to members 1 on pages 51-54 of the 2017 annual report. of Company management, including the CEO. Such a discretionary payment may only be made in exceptional circumstances. note 2 Income statement classified by nature of expense If Biotage had presented its income statements classified by nature of expense, the composition would have been as follows: Income statement classified by nature of expense Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Operating income Net sales 910,896 748,147 2,537 2,304 Operating expenses Purchased finished products, inputs, semi-finished products and production -226,675 -190,028 – – services Personnel expenses -325,050 -269,346 -8,294 -8,440 Other external costs -156,451 -116,211 -15,071 -11,572 Depreciation, amortization and impairment of assets -38,853 -32,768 -1,100 -873 Other operating items 8,612 -6,164 17 14 Total operating expenses -738,418 -614,517 -24,448 -20,871 Operating profit 172,478 133,630 -21,911 -18,567 | 58 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements note 3 Composition of income Composition of net sales: Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Net sales distribution between products and services: Products, systems 823,870 670,206 – – Service contracts and other services 79,645 71,838 2,537 2,304 Other sales revenue 7,381 6,103 – – Total sales revenue 910,896 748,147 2,537 2,304 Revenue by geographical market and product area 2017 Organic Analytical Industrial Chemistry Chemistry Products Total North and South America 151,631 129,862 37,014 318,507 Europe 130,355 64,687 26,253 221,295 Japan 71,630 12,334 8,814 92,778 China 48,912 12,884 2,508 64,304 EMEA and APAC 10,216 11,903 2,750 24,869 South Korea 15,729 3,778 1,603 21,110 India 3,801 663 820 5,284 Total sales revenue 432,274 236,111 79,762 748,147 Sweden’s share of sales in Europe 12,258 Revenue by geographical market and product area 2018 Organic Analytical Industrial Chemistry Chemistry Products Total North and South America 159,173 187,853 39,161 386,186 Europe 128,837 89,681 26,741 245,259 Japan 75,580 12,298 15,912 103,790 China 70,856 17,125 1,010 88,991 EMEA and APAC 15,357 23,325 1,950 40,632 South Korea 22,661 10,359 2,931 35,951 India 8,474 1,017 596 10,087 Total sales revenue 480,938 341,658 88,301 910,896 Sweden’s share of sales in Europe 6,335 The distribution above relates to sales per product area to customers located in the above geographical areas. As the product structure has changed in 2018, the distribution of comparatives for the previous year differs from the presentation in the 2017 annual report. Revenue by sales channel Contractual balances 2018 2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Direct sales through own sales Contract assets: channels 870,264 717,994 Accrued income Sales through distributors 40,632 30,153 contract research 265 166 Total sales revenue 910,896 748,147 Contract liabilities: Prepaid income service contracts 46,623 31,699 Point in time of transfer of goods and services Contractual balances, net -46,358 -31,533 2018 2017 Goods transferred at a point in time 831,251 676,309 SEK 30,369 thousand of the contract liabilities that existed on DecemServices transferred at a point in ber 31, 2017 were recognized as revenue in 2018. 20,381 23,200 time Service contracts and other services transferred over a period of time 59,264 48,638 Total sales revenue 910,896 748,147 Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 59 | Notes Note 3 cont'd Prepaid service contracts are expected to be recognized as revenue in the following years note 5 Leases and rental agreements 2019 40,669 For accounting purposes, all leases in the Group are classified as 2020 4,478 operating leases, with lease payments recognized over the term of 2021 583 the lease. 2022 274 2023 117 2024 120 Group Parent Company 2025 124 2018 2017 2018 2017 2026 127 Lease and rental agreements during the year 17,497 14,613 146 113 2027 131 Remaining rental and Total 46,623 lease payments Within one year 18,671 15,175 157 252 Service contracts can be signed by customers purchasing the ComBetween one and five pany’s systems. They normally extend over twelve months, and are years 26,847 22,851 263 – recognized on a straight-line basis over the term of the contract. Costs After five years – 117 – – for obtaining a contract and for services rendered are recognized in Total 45,518 38,143 420 252 the period in which they are incurred. A small proportion of the revenue relates to contract research. This is distributed over the duration The year's rental and of the contract by reference to the project’s stage of completion. The lease payments relating contractual balances for these types of revenue are presented above. to rent for premises 15,090 12,397 Remaining rental and Intra-group sales and purchases of products and services lease payments relating to rent for premises 37,831 33,651 Parent Company 2018 2017 Leases in the acquired subsidiary Horizon Technology Inc. were added Parent to subsidiary, products – – during the year and several leases for premises were extended. A Parent to subsidiary, services 2,537 2,304 number of new car leases have been signed. Subsidiary to parent – – The Group’s leases include leases for premises and vehicles. Subsidiary to subsidiary – – Low-value leases for assets such as office machines have not been Total intra-group sales 2,537 2,304 included. The new IFRS 16 will be applied to leases with effect from 2019. Biotage intends to apply the simplified transition method and will note 4 Administrative expenses not restate comparatives. The Group intends to apply the standard’s practical expedient for short-term leases and leases of low-value Administrative expenses include the following fees paid to assets. This means that leases with a maximum term of 12 months auditors. Audit services include examination of the annual financial and leases for office machinery will be recognized as an expense on a statements, interim reports, accounting records, internal control straight-line basis over the lease term. and administration of the business by the CEO and Board. They As allowed by the practical expedient, no assessment has been also include examination of the financial statements of subsidmade of lease components in contracts that were not previously iaries, advice and other assistance relating to observations made classified as leases under IAS 17. Right-of-use assets under leases during the audit. Other advice and assistance comes under other will initially be measured at an amount corresponding to the lease fees. liability at January 1, 2019. The liability has been calculated as the present value of future lease payments, discounted using the Group's incremental borrowing rate on January 1, 2019, which is estimated Group Parent Company to be 1.3%. The value of this non-current asset and corresponding 2018 2017 2018 2017 liability was SEK 65 million on December 31, 2018. Fees to the auditors The rental and lease payments above include the cost for the Deloitte periods in which the Company is bound by the lease in question. Audit services 1,233 1,012 746 779 The transition to IFRS 16 also includes periods where it is reasonably Other assistance arising from audit 294 18 293 18 certain that options to extend the leases will be exercised. If a lease Tax advisory services 67 119 – – renewal is imminent (within one year), an extension of the lease is Total 1,594 1,149 1,039 797 assumed unless known circumstances indicate otherwise. If there are a number of leases for premises for the same establishment in a country, it is assumed that they are extended until the year of the | 6 0 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements lease with the longest maturity. As the business is growing, it is not note 6 Depreciation, amortization and impairment of assets reasonable to make assumptions about leases beyond five years. Five years is therefore the longest lease term included in the calculations. Estimated indexation of lease payments is included in the calculaDepreciation, amortization and impairment by class of assets tions, unless they are expected to be insignificant. For most subsidiarGroup Parent Company ies, future rental payments are defined in the existing lease contract. The interest rate used to calculate the present value of future lease 2018 2017 2018 2017 payments has been set at 1.3%. As it is difficult to determine the Capitalized research & development expeninterest rate implicit in the lease, the incremental borrowing rate has diture 17,310 17,184 – – been estimated. The incremental borrowing rate has been calculated Patents and licenses 9,511 5,265 669 669 by reference to the five-year municipal bond rate on December 31, Land and buildings 398 378 – – 2018, as the longest existing lease term is 5 years. The interest rate is adjusted to reflect the company’s credit rating, based on loan Improvement of third-party property 1,201 880 – – negotiations that have been experienced, and the underlying risk in Plant and machinery 9,775 8,857 – – the leased assets. The Group’s financing is primarily arranged through borrowing in Total depreciation/ amortization 38,195 32,564 669 669 Sweden. Leases in Sweden account for almost half of the present Impairment arising value of existing leases, while leases in the US account for about 23 from disposals 658 1,582 431 204 percent. Simulation using an estimated US interest rate for these Total depreciation/ contracts has an insignificant effect. The Swedish interest rate has amortization and imtherefore been applied to all leases, with no adjustment having been pairment 38,853 34,146 1,100 873 made for the economic environment. As the calculated incremental borrowing rate is less than what the Company actually pays as miniDepreciation, amortization and impairment by function of expense mum interest on existing loans, the actual interest rate on December 31, 2018 is applied, with adjustment for the difference between the Group Parent Company five-year municipal bond rate and the minimum interest on existing 2018 2017 2018 2017 loans. Cost of sales 4,821 3,905 – – Distribution costs 8,799 5,670 – – Group Administrative expenses 2,409 2,166 – 22 Operating lease obligations, December 31, 2018 46,548 Research and develDiscounted using the Group’s opment 22,824 22,405 1,100 851 incremental borrowing rate of 1.3% -1,176 Total depreciation/ Less: low-value leases -1,030 amortization 38,853 34,146 1,100 873 Adjustments as a result of expected indexation 116 Adjustments as a result of a different treatment of Amortization and impairment of capitalized research and devel20,498 extension options opment expenditure is reported under research & development Obligations under expenses. 64,956 IFRS 16, January 1, 2019 note 7 Other operating income Other operating income Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Exchange differences 14,681 8,309 17 14 EU funding 215 191 – – Other operating income 1,500 463 – – Total other operating income 16,396 8,963 17 14 Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 61 | Notes note 8 Finance income, finance costs and borrowing Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Finance income: Interest income on financial assets 630 410 – – Interest income, receivables from Group companies – – 216 150 Exchange gains from financing measures, net 5,496 2,800 3,335 4,608 Group contributions received – – 90,645 86,334 Total 6,126 3,210 94,196 91,093 Finance costs: Interest expense and similar payments to banks 1,737 2 1,613 – Profit/loss from investments in associates 578 578 – – Interest expense on liabilities to Group companies – – – 2,550 Exchange gains from financing measures, net – – – – Total 2,315 580 1,613 2,550 Net finance income/expense 3,811 2,631 92,584 88,543 note 9 Taxes Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 Current tax -10,719 -5,906 – – Deferred tax 2,056 8,392 -14,872 8,649 Total -8,662 2,487 -14,872 8,649 Group Parent Company 2018 2017 2018 2017 SEK SEK thouSEK thouSEK thouTax reported in profit/loss for the year % thousands % sands % sands % sands Profit before tax 176,289 136,260 70,673 69,976 Tax using parent’s applicable tax rate -21.6 -38,148 -22.0 -29,977 -22.0 -15,548 -22.0 -15,395 Effect of different tax rates for foreign -0.3 -445 3.3 4,458 0.0 – 0.0 – ­subsidiaries Correction, prior years 0.0 -81 -0.4 -509 0.0 – 0.0 – Non-taxable income 0.1 190 0.0 – 0.0 – 0.0 – Non-deductible expenses -0.4 -676 -1.1 -1,440 -0.2 -119 -0.2 -117 Other taxable income statement items not included in profit for the year -1.5 -2,562 -0.2 -309 0.0 – 0.0 – Other deductible income statement items 0.9 1,561 1.5 2,084 0.0 – 0.0 – not included in profit for the year Utilization of loss carryforwards 16.8 29,553 14.5 19,788 22.2 15,667 22.2 15,512 Other -0.1 -110 0.0 – 0.0 – 0.0 – Current tax expense -6.1 -10,719 -4.3 -5,906 0.0 -0 0.0 – Reversal of previously recognized loss -16.8 -29,553 0.0 – -22.2 -15,667 0.0 – carryforwards Recognition of previously unrecognized loss 16.3 28,771 6.2 8,392 1.1 794 12.4 8,649 carryforwards Tax effect of accrual and reversal of tempo1.6 2,838 0.0 – 0.0 – 0.0 – rary differences Effect of changed tax rate 0.0 24 0.0 – 0.0 – 0.0 – Other 0.0 -24 0.0 – 0.0 – 0.0 – Deferred tax expense 1.2 2,056 6.2 8,392 -21.0 -14,872 12.4 8,649 Total tax reported in consolidated and -4.9 -8,662 2,487 -14,872 8,649 parent income statements Items in other comprehensive income 16,542 -12,481 – – Tax effects of these items -320 – – – | 6 2 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements Summary of carrying amount: note 10 Property, plant and equipment Group Land and buildings 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Group Land and buildings 10,072 10,252 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Improvement of third-party property 4,019 4,547 Cost Plant and machinery 34,538 30,504 Opening balance, January 1 15,160 15,258 Total in consolidated balance sheet 48,630 45,303 Acquisitions during the year – – Sub-total 15,160 15,258 Translation differences for the year 318 -98 note 11 Goodwill Closing balance, December 31 15,478 15,160 Accumulated depreciation and Group ­impairment: Cost: 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Opening balance, January 1 -4,908 -4,556 Opening balance, January 1 558,242 558,242 Depreciation for the year -398 -378 Acquisitions during the year 73,329 – Sub-total -5,306 -4,934 Sub-total 631,571 558,242 Translation differences for the year -100 26 Translation differences for the year 8,703 – Closing balance, December 31 -5,406 -4,908 Closing balance, December 31 640,274 558,242 Carrying amount 10,072 10,252 Opening impairment -454,219 -454,219 Total amortization and impairment -454,219 -454,219 Improvement of third-party property Closing accumulated impairment -454,219 -454,219 Group 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Carrying amount 186,055 104,023 Cost Goodwill impairment testing Opening balance, January 1 9,973 8,121 Preparation of the 2018 annual financial statements included goodwill Acquisitions during the year 458 2,104 impairment testing. Management monitors goodwill for the Group as a Disposals/impairment during the year -139 whole. The Group consists of a single operating segment. The increase Sub-total 10,292 10,225 in goodwill for the year is related to the acquisition of Horizon TechTranslation differences for the year 450 -252 nology, Inc. During the year, these operations have been integrated Closing balance, December 31 10,742 9,973 into the Group’s other operations to such an extent that cash flows Accumulated depreciation and imfrom the originally acquired asset can no longer be identified as of pairment: December 31. The recoverable amount for the cash-generating unit Opening balance, January 1 -5,426 -4,708 has been assessed on the basis of the estimated value in use. which Depreciation for the year -1,201 -880 also involved calculation of projected cash flows from the Group's Disposals/impairment during the year 139 operations. The cash flows are based on the Group's budget for 2019 Sub-total -6,488 -5,588 and business forecasts for 2020-2023. The budget and forecasts are Translation differences for the year -235 162 based on management's past experience and as far as possible on Closing balance, December 31 -6,723 -5,426 external sources of information. Key parameters in the calculation of the recoverable amount are estimated sales growth and operating Carrying amount 4,019 4,547 profit. Assumptions about the gross margin and the development of other operating expenses have greatest impact on the assessment of Plant and machinery operating profit and sales growth. Group An assumption of annual sales growth of 4.0 (4.0) percent has been 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 used in the impairment testing until the end of the forecast period Cost in 2023. After this period, the assumed growth rate will be 2 percent, Opening balance, January 1 103,350 96,828 which Biotage believes to be a reasonable estimate of the market's Acquisitions during the year 11,507 9,140 long-term growth rate. A sensitivity analysis shows that neither an Reclassifications 6,478 -321 adjustment of 2 percent in the discount rate, nor a change of 2 perDisposals/impairment during the year -20,139 -146 cent in sales growth, nor an adjustment of 2 percent in the operating Sub-total 101,196 105,501 margin would give rise to impairment. See also page 54. Translation differences for the year 3,093 -2,151 Closing balance, December 31 104,289 103,350 2018 2017 Equity financing 9.35% 9.27% Accumulated depreciation and ­impairment: Debt financing 2.32% 2.33% Opening balance, January 1 -72,847 -65,496 Average based on Group's capital Depreciation for the year -9,775 -8,857 structure 8.65% 8.58% Reclassifications -4,906 -117 Disposals/impairment during the year 20,012 66 The pre-tax discount rate has been Sub-total -67,516 -74,404 calculated as: 11.70% 12.70% Translation differences for the year -2,235 1,557 Closing balance, December 31 -69,751 -72,847 Carrying amount 34,538 30,504 Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 63 | Notes note 12 Other intangible assets Capitalized development expenditure Group Parent Company Cost: 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Opening balance, January 1 207,797 189,902 – – Acquisitions during the year 24,010 22,799 – – Disposals during the year -3,353 -4,904 – – Closing balance, December 31 228,454 207,797 – – Accumulated amortization and impairment: Opening balance, January 1 -112,759 -99,102 – – Amortization for the year -17,310 -17,184 – – Disposals during the year 2,822 3,526 – – Closing balance, December 31 -127,247 -112,759 – – Carrying amount 101,207 95,038 – – Patents, licenses, trademarks, etc. Group Parent Company Cost: 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Opening balance, January 1 72,317 71,347 12,885 12,993 Acquisitions during the year 74,097 3,863 2,029 1,683 Reclassifications 6,662 – – – Disposals during the year – -2,893 -1,197 -1,791 Sub-total 153,076 72,317 13,717 12,885 Translation differences for the year 2,461 – – – Closing balance, December 31 155,537 72,317 13,717 12,885 Accumulated amortization and impairment: Opening balance, January 1 -48,708 -46,132 -2,832 -3,750 Amortization for the year -9,511 -5,265 -669 -669 Reclassifications -5,375 – – – Disposals during the year – 2,689 766 1,587 Sub-total -63,594 -48,708 -2,734 -2,832 Translation differences for the year -497 – – – Closing balance, December 31 -64,091 -48,708 -2,734 -2,832 Carrying amount 91,446 23,608 10,983 10,053 Group Parent Company Total property, plant & equipment and intangible assets reported: 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Land and buildings 10,072 10,252 – – Improvement of third-party property 4,019 4,547 – – Plant and machinery 34,538 30,504 – – Sub-total property, plant & equipment 48,630 45,303 – – Goodwill 186,055 104,023 – – Capitalized development expenditure 101,207 95,038 – – Patents, licenses, trademarks, etc. 91,446 23,608 10,983 10,053 Sub-total intangible assets 192,654 118,646 10,983 10,053 Total carrying amount of property, plant & equipment and intangible assets 427,339 267,972 10,983 10,053 | 6 4 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements Group Parent Company Distribution by country: 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Sweden 244,416 231,522 10,983 10,053 USA 148,202 3,083 – – UK 28,693 27,501 – – Japan 4,433 4,229 – – Other countries 1,595 1,637 – – Total 427,339 267,972 10,983 10,053 note 13 Investments in associates Group Parent Company 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Opening cost 17,838 18,645 19,284 19,284 Acquisitions during the year – – – – Share of profit/loss -1,690 -1,151 – – Translation differences 1,220 344 – – Closing accumulated cost 17,368 17,838 19,284 19,284 Closing accumulated carrying amount 17,368 17,838 19,284 19,284 Companies owned directly by the Parent Reg. Reg'd Number Share of Share of Group Parent Company Company name no. office of shares capital votes 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Værløse, Chreto ApS 33382170 Denmark 50,000 22.70% 22.70% 17,368 17,838 19,284 19,284 Total carrying amount 17,368 17,838 19,284 19,284 note 14 Financial assets Group Parent Company 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Miscellaneous non-current receivables 3 – – – Miscellaneous long-term deposits 1,850 1,404 – – Total financial assets 1,853 1,404 – – note 15 Inventories Group 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Raw materials and consumables 29,039 21,261 Products in progress 12,726 9,551 Finished products 90,573 64,982 Total inventories 132,338 95,794 Inventory items recognized as an expense in 2018 amounted to SEK 249,187 (211,015) thousand. Obsolescence of SEK 3,574 (2,207) thousand was recognized during the year. The obsolescence reserve on December 31 was SEK 16,193 (14,090) thousand. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 65 | Notes note 16 Trade and other receivables Group Parent Company 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Trade receivables (a) 155,777 118,025 – – Prepayments and accrued income (b) 11,617 10,422 2,389 3,410 Other current receivables (c) 17,686 10,748 2,616 307 Total trade and other receivables 185,080 139,195 5,005 3,718 Management believes that the carrying amount of trade receivables, net of the allowance for expected credit losses, corresponds to their fair value. The entire allowance for expected credit losses relates to trade receivables. Group Parent Company (a) Change in allowance for expected credit losses on trade receivables 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Allowance for expected credit losses at beginning of year -1,697 -2,393 – – Trade receivables written off during the year 1,525 279 – – Allowance for expected credit losses for the year -2,883 -1,316 – – Reversal of unused amounts 172 1,733 – – Total expected credit losses -2,883 -1,697 – – Group 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Expected Trade Provision for Trade Aging of trade receivables Gross credit losses receivables Gross doubtful debts receivables Not due 119,402 1,162 118,240 92,862 – 92,862 Past due, 1-30 days 22,965 -223 22,742 16,279 – 16,279 Past due, 31-60 days 5,794 -56 5,738 3,863 – 3,863 Past due, > 61 days 10,499 -1,442 9,057 6,718 -1,697 5,021 Total 158,660 -2,883 155,777 119,722 -1,697 118,025 Implementation of IFRS 9 Financial instruments requires assessment also takes into account forward-looking factors such as the general of expected credit losses to be made immediately on billing. From economic development expected in the customers’ industries. The 2018, expected credit losses on trade receivables are calculated calculation is made alongside an individual assessment. This considaccording to the simplified matrix model. This model is based on eration of relevant current circumstances and knowledge of customers previous experience of actual losses in each billing currency, but may lead to a change in the credit loss allowance. Group Parent Company (b) Prepayments and accrued income 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Accrued income 265 166 – 2,500 Prepaid rents 3,183 2,674 – – Prepaid insurance 1,214 891 362 518 Other items 6,955 6,691 2,027 392 Total 11,617 10,422 2,389 3,410 (c) Other current receivables VAT 8,774 5,772 219 250 Income tax 539 173 155 – Other current receivables 8,373 4,803 2,242 58 Total 17,686 10,748 2,616 307 | 6 6 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements note 17 Appropriation of profit Proposed appropriation of profit for the fiscal year, SEK Amounts at the disposal of the annual general meeting: Board and CEO’s proposed appropriation: Retained earnings 380,532,355 Dividend payment of SEK 1.50 per share to shareProfit for the year 55,800,590 holders 97,802,676 Total 436,332,945 Carried forward 338,530,269 Total 436,332,945 note 18 Liabilities to credit institutions Group Parent Company 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Current portion – – – – Non-current portion Credit facilities: Credit granted 149,182 – 150,000 – Unused portion of revolving credit facility -39,782 – -40,000 – Total 109,400 – 110,000 – Collateral has not been provided for the credit. All of the long-term liabilities mature between one and five years from the reporting date. note 19 Financial assets and liabilities Classification Classification of the Group's financial instruments, which is described on pages 47–49, is as follows: Carrying amount Carrying amount Assets Classification 12/31/2018 Classification 12/31/2017 Non-current receivables 1) 1,853 7) 1,404 Trade receivables 1) 155,777 7) 118,025 Other current receivables 1) 17,686 7) 10,094 Other current receivables 2) – 4) 578 Derivatives 2) – 4) 76 Accrued income 1) 265 7) 166 Cash and cash equivalents 1) 177,020 7) 174,263 Total 352,601 304,606 Carrying amount Carrying amount Liabilities Classification 12/31/2018 Classification 12/31/2017 Non-current liabilities to credit institutions 1) 109,400 9) – Trade payables 1) 54,764 9) 47,457 Derivatives 2) 5 4) – Other current liabilities 1) 4,842 9) 4,715 Accrued expenses 1) 60,411 9) 50,561 Total 229,422 102,733 Classification, December 31, 2018: Classification, December 31, 2017: Classification according to IFRS 9: Classification according to IAS 39: 1) Financial assets and liabilities at amortized cost 4) Derivatives 2) F inancial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss 5) Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through OCI 3) Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through OCI 6) Held-to-maturity investments 7) Loans and receivables 8) Available-for-sale financial assets 9) Other liabilities Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 67 | Notes note 20 Fair value Group Financial assets at amortized cost Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Non-current receivables 1,404 1,404 – – Current receivables 128,285 128,285 – – Cash and cash equivalents 174,263 174,263 – – Closing balance, 12/31/2017 303,952 303,952 – – Non-current receivables 1,853 1,853 – – Current receivables 173,728 173,728 – – Cash and cash equivalents 177,020 177,020 – – Closing balance, 12/31/2018 352,601 352,601 – – Financial liabilities at amortized cost Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Non-current liabilities – – – – Current liabilities 102,733 102,733 – – Closing balance, 12/31/2017 102,733 102,733 – – Non-current liabilities 109,400 109,400 – – Current liabilities 120,017 120,017 – – Closing balance, 12/31/2018 229,417 229,417 – – Estimated fair values based on discounted future cash flows, with a for financial instruments measured at fair value in the statement of discount rate that reflects the counterparty's credit risk being the financial position. Fair value is determined on the basis of inputs in most significant input, are not expected to differ significantly from one of the following three levels: the carrying amount of financial assets and current financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. Consequently, the carrying amounts of Level 1: inputs that are quoted prices in active markets for identical these financial assets and liabilities are considered to represent a instruments good approximation of the fair values. Level 2: inputs other than quoted market prices in Level 1 that are There were no transfers between the levels during the periods. directly or indirectly observable market data The tables below provide information on how fair value is determined Level 3: inputs that are not observable in the market Financial assets at fair value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Derivatives used for hedging 76 – 76 – Other derivative assets 578 – – 578 Closing balance, 12/31/2017 654 – 76 578 Closing balance, 12/31/2018 – – – – Financial liabilities at fair value Total Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Closing balance, 12/31/2017 – – – – Derivatives used for hedging 5 – 5 – Closing balance, 12/31/2018 5 – 5 – There were no transfers between the levels during the periods. | 6 8 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements The tables below present a reconciliation of opening and closing Biotage hedges currency risks in accordance with the Board’s estabbalances for instruments measured at fair value in the statement of lished financial policies. Currency hedging is based on the expected financial position and which are included in level 3. difference between the cash flow in SEK and other currencies. Group Other derivative assets Liabilities Changes in financial instruments in Level 3 2018 2017 2018 2017 At beginning of year 578 1,156 – – Total gains and losses recognized in profit or loss -578 -578 – – Closing balance, December 31 – 578 – – The fair value disclosures provided for the Group in respect of derivatives also apply to the Parent Company. Measurement of derivatives (level 2) The option for Biotage to acquire all outstanding shares in Chreto Aps The fair value of derivatives used for hedging is determined by was measured at fair value. The fair value calculations were based discounting future cash flows using a discount rate that reflects the on level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, which means that the value was counterparty's credit risk. Future cash flows are estimated based on determined based on a valuation model using significant inputs that the Swedish Central Bank's quoted exchange rates. are unobservable. The option expired on December 31, 2018, and has not been exercised. note 21 Other financial liabilities Group Parent Company Changes during the year 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Opening balance, January 1 810 970 – – New financial liabilities during the year 996 – – – Amounts used during the year -236 -160 – – Closing balance, December 31 1,570 810 – – Group Parent Company The liability consists of: 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Non-current portion 1,201 656 – – Current portion 369 154 – – Total 1,570 810 – – Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 69 | Notes note 22 Provisions Group 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Provision for warranties 3,159 2,785 Other personnel-related provisions 2,245 1,936 Total provisions 5,404 4,721 The provisions consist of: Non-current portion 2,245 1,936 Current portion 3,159 2,785 Total 5,404 4,721 Changes during the year, Group Warranties Other provisions Total Opening balance 01/01/2018 2,785 1,936 4,721 New provisions during the year 3,159 309 3,468 Amounts used during the year -2,785 – -2,785 Closing balance, 12/31/2018 3,159 2,245 5,404 Provision for warranties: warranty costs during the fiscal year. The provision for warranties is Biotage normally provides a one-year warranty on its products. The classified as a short-term obligation as it is considered likely that the recognized provision for warranties corresponds to a percentage of warranty obligations will be settled within 12 months of the reporting the year's sales. The percentage is calculated on the basis of actual date. note 23 Deferred tax Group Parent Company 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Deferred tax assets Tax loss carryforwards 59,953 60,735 33,623 48,495 Other deferred tax assets 2,252 – – – Total deferred tax assets 62,205 60,735 33,623 48,495 Deferred tax liabilities Intangible assets -12,928 – – – Other deferred tax liabilities -1,852 -1,621 – – Total deferred tax liabilities -14,780 -1,621 – – Total deferred tax assets and liabilities 47,425 59,114 33,623 48,495 Group Change in deferred tax Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Net January 1, 2017 52,344 -1,759 50,585 Recognized in income statement 8,391 137 8,528 December 31, 2017 60,735 -1,621 59,113 January 1, 2018 60,735 -1,622 59,113 Acquisitions – -13,424 -13,424 Change in OCI 312 -632 -320 Recognized in income statement 1,158 898 2,056 December 31, 2018 62,205 -14,780 47,425 Parent Change in deferred tax Deferred tax assets Deferred tax liabilities Net January 1, 2017 39,846 – 39,846 Recognized in income statement 8,649 – 8,649 December 31, 2017 48,495 – 48,495 January 1, 2018 48,495 – 48,495 Recognized in income statement -14,872 – -14,872 December 31, 2018 33,623 – 33,623 | 70 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements Recognition of loss carryforwards 28.8 million were recognized. The net effect of SEK 0.8 million has The Group has tax losses of about SEK 157 million in Swedish legal affected tax expense reported for the year. The carrying amount of entities prior to the 2019 tax year. These tax loss carryforwards the Group’s deferred tax assets on December 31, 2018 is SEK 60.0 (60.7) continue indefinitely. Tax losses in US subsidiaries amount to approx. million, while the corresponding figure for the Parent Company is SEK SEK 147 million and expire in the period 2021-2031. Tax losses in 33.6 (48.5) million. On the basis of the assessment concerning future German subsidiaries amount to approx. SEK 8 million. In 2018, the taxable income, the remaining loss carryforwards have not been Group utilized tax losses against taxable profits, corresponding to recognized. Further information on significant accounting estimates a tax effect of SEK 29.6 million, and new loss carryforwards of SEK can be found on page 54. note 24 Trade and other payables Group Parent Company 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Liabilities to suppliers 54,764 47,457 1,717 876 Other current liabilities 5,216 4,869 71 47 Accruals and deferred income (a) 107,126 87,367 8,041 8,014 Total trade and other payables 167,106 139,693 9,829 8,937 (a) Accruals and deferred income Personnel-related expenses 43,678 38,446 6,942 6,852 Deferred income 46,715 36,806 – – Other accruals 16,733 12,115 1,099 1,162 Total 107,126 87,367 8,041 8,014 note 25 Statement of cash flows Group Parent Company Other adjustments for non-cash items 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Exchange differences -13,868 591 – – Share of income of associates 1,690 1,151 – – Other 451 249 – – Total -11,727 1,991 – – Changes in liabilities attributable to financing activities during the year consist of the Parent Company’s borrowings and dividends paid. These items do not represent non-cash movements. All cash and cash equivalents consist of bank balances. note 26 Shares and participating interests 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Parent Company Opening cost 938,332 937,204 Investments during year 1,523 1,128 Closing accumulated cost 939,855 938,332 Opening impairment -467,934 -467,934 Closing accumulated impairment -467,934 -467,934 Closing accumulated carrying amount 471,922 470,399 Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 71 | Notes Note 26 cont'd Companies owned directly by the Parent Opening Investcarrying ments ImpairClosing ment carrying Number of Share of Share of amount during during amount Company name Reg. no. Reg'd office shares capital votes 2018 year year 2018 Uppsala, Biotage Sweden AB 556487-4922 Sweden 19,336,284 100% 100% 276,224 – – 276,224 Uppsala, CEMU Bioteknik AB 556011-2384 Sweden 100 100% 100% 120 – – 120 Stockholm, Pyrosequencing AB 556554-3476 Sweden 100 100% 100% 100 – – 100 MIP Technologies AB 556578-4674 Lund, Sweden 96,940 100% 100% 35,295 – – 35,295 Pyrosequencing, Inc. 04-3484142 Boston, USA 100 100% 100% 77,695 – – 77,695 Düsseldorf, Biotage GmbH HRB 39374 Germany 1 100% 100% 0 – – 0 Biotage SARL 434715785 Paris, France 500 100% 100% 68 – – 68 Biotage Italy S.r.l IT03617450964 Milan, Italy 1 90% 90% 0 – – 0 Biotage Ltd. 0126-01-004032 Tokyo, Japan 200 100% 100% 0 – – 0 Biotage GB Ltd. 1033865 Cardiff, Wales 100 100% 100% 76,744 – – 76,744 Biotage Trading Shanghai, (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 91310115580622067B China 1 100% 100% 994 – – 994 Biotage Korea Co., Ltd. 110111-6105476 Seoul, Korea 27,000 100% 100% 2,030 – – 2,030 Biotage India Pvt Ltd. 27AAHCB4849G1ZH Mumbai, India 2,045,000 100% 100% 1,128 1,523 – 2,651 Total carrying amount 470,399 1,523 – 471,922 Companies owned by other subsidiaries Opening carrying Closing carrying Number of Share of Share of amount amount Company name Owner Reg. no. Reg'd office shares capital votes 2018 2018 Biotage LLC Pyrosequencing, Inc. 04-3535072 Charlotte, USA 100% 100% 204,432 222,778 Horizon Salem, Pyrosequencing, Inc. 02-0457387 209,346 100% 100% – 159,464 Technology, Inc. USA ESyTech AB Biotage Sweden AB 556588-8350 Uppsala, Sweden 100,000 100% 100% 260 260 Biotage Italy S.r.l Biotage GmbH IT03617450964 Milan, Italy 1 10% 10% 10 10 Total 204,702 382,512 Horizon Technology Inc. was acquired during the year. Changes to the carrying value of other subsidiaries’ shareholdings are due to translation differences during conversion to Swedish kronor. Business combinations Acquisition Acquisition of Horizon Technology, Inc. The acquired company’s net assets on the analysis, SEK On January 16, 2018, Biotage AB acquired 100 percent of the private­acquisition date millions ly-owned company Horizon Technology, Inc., based in New Hampshire, Property, plant and equipment 0.6 United States. Horizon is a supplier of automated systems and Intangible assets Customer relationships 26.4 consumables for separation in water purification, food testing and the Intangible assets Trademarks 13.0 petrochemical and pharmaceutical industries. Horizon’s product range Intangible assets Patents/technology 19.5 is complementary to the Biotage product portfolio and strengthens Other intangible assets 2.1 the Company’s position, particularly in food safety and environmental Inventories 8.2 applications. Marketing of Horizon’s products is also expected to Trade and other receivables 9.0 benefit from the Biotage global direct sales organization. Biotage Cash and cash equivalents 12.7 acquired all of the shares in Horizon by paying the entire considerTrade and other payables -10.0 ation of SEK 142.5 million on the acquisition date. Deferred tax liability -12.4 The acquired business's sales and effect on the Group’s cash flow Net identifiable assets and liabilities 69.2 are difficult to assess, as it has been integrated into the Group’s other Goodwill on consolidation 73.3 operations. Consideration transferred 142.5 In this acquisition analysis, no differences between carrying amounts and fair values have been identified for other receivables. Goodwill amounts to SEK 73 million in the acquisition analysis. The Inventories are measured at their carrying amounts. Deferred tax goodwill included in the acquisition corresponds to the expected is attributable to surplus values relating to trademarks, customer scope for expanding sales of Horizon’s products to a larger market relationships and patents/technologies. The useful lives of tradewith the Biotage global sales organization, the synergies that arise marks have been assessed as indefinite. The useful lives of customer from broadening the Biotage product range, and the environmental relationships are 10 years and of patents/technologies 15 years. and water purification expertise that the acquired company brings. This goodwill is not considered tax-deductible. | 72 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements Acquisition-related costs amount to SEK 2.5 million and relate to representing about 60 percent of the shares and votes in PhyNexus). fees to external legal representatives and consultants in connection Additional shares may be issued in connection with the post-closing with the preparation of agreements and due diligence analyses. The price adjustments and future additional consideration payments. costs are reported under administrative expenses in the consolidated The acquisition analysis has not identified any differences between statement of comprehensive income. carrying amounts and fair values of other receivables. Inventories are measured at their carrying amounts. Acquisition of PhyNexus Inc. Acquisition On January 15, 2019, Biotage AB acquired 100 percent of the privateanalysis, ly-owned company PhyNexus, Inc., based in California, US. The acquiThe acquired company’s net assets on SEK millions the acquisition date (preliminary) sition has strengthened Biotage’s position as a chemical separation company within the growing biomolecular segment. With PhyNexus’s Property, plant and equipment 0.0 innovative technology platform and its patented pipette-based conIntangible assets Customer relationships 49.2 sumables, Biotage will be able to offer global customers automated Intangible assets Trademarks 10.3 solutions for efficient purification of biomolecules such as proteins, Intangible assets Patents/technology 13.4 plasmids and antibodies at laboratory scale. Biotage predicts that Inventories 8.3 this platform has the potential to eventually target a growing market Trade and other receivables 5.3 worth several billion US dollars. The acquired technology platform Cash and cash equivalents 3.7 will enable the development of new workflow approaches for clinical, forensic, food and environmental testing through dispersive solid Trade and other payables -3.1 phase extraction in combination with high throughput pipetting Deferred tax liability -15.3 robotics and the new media development program. Net identifiable assets and liabilities 71.8 The total purchase consideration is approx. USD 21.4 million, corGoodwill on consolidation 119.4 responding to SEK 191.3 million, translated at the SEK/USD exchange Consideration transferred 191.3 rate of 8.93 on the acquisition closing date, based on a debt-free and cash-free basis. Approx. USD 10.0 million (SEK 89.3 million) of the total The analysis shows goodwill of SEK 119 million. The goodwill purchase consideration consists of expected future additional conincluded in the acquisition corresponds to the expected scope for sideration payments for the years 2019 to 2023, which will be based expanding sales of PhyNexus products to a larger market with the on future results. The remaining consideration of approx. USD 11.4 Biotage global sales organization, the synergies that arise from million (SEK 102.0 million) was paid on the closing date and comprised broadening the Biotage product range, and the biomolecule expertise approx. USD 6.6 million (SEK 58.6 million) in 487,337 newly issued that the acquired company brings. This goodwill is not considered Biotage shares and approx. USD 4.8 million (SEK 43.3 million) in cash. tax-deductible. Consideration shares issued in connection with the acquisition Acquisition-related costs amounted to SEK 3.2 million, with a cashhave increased the number of Biotage shares from 64,714,447 to flow effect of SEK -3.1 million, and are related to fees paid to external 65,201,784, resulting in dilution of 0.7 percent for existing shareholdlegal representatives and consultants in connection with due diligence ers. The newly issued shares have been subscribed by the principal and similar services. The costs are reported under administrative owners of PhyNexus (including the largest shareholder Doug Gjerde, expenses in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. note 27 Pledged assets and contingent liabilities Group Parent Company 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Contingent liabilities Guarantees, subsidiaries – – 28,077 26,623 Total – – 28,077 26,623 Pledged assets – – – – The Parent Company has provided sureties for the following subsidiaries’ obligations with the Group’s main creditor, Handelsbanken: Biotage LLC 04-3535072 Charlotte, USA Biotage GB Ltd 1033865 Cardiff, Wales Biotage Sweden AB 556487-4922 Uppsala, Sweden The Parent Company guarantees all liabilities of Biotage GB Ltd. (see above) at the reporting date. This exempts the Company from the requirement for audited accounts in accordance with section 479A of the Companies Act 2006. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 73 | Notes note 28 Related-party disclosures Subsidiary Biotage AB does not engage in any operations described in its business concept; its subsidiaries develop, produce and market the Group’s products and services. For this reason, there are considerable transactions between the Parent Company and its subsidiaries, and between subsidiaries themselves. A list of the subsidiaries can be found in note 26. Summary of transactions with subsidiaries: Receivables Liabilities Services sales (+) Interest received (+) SEK thousands from subsidiaries to subsidiaries ­purchases (-) paid (-) Subsidiary Country 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 Biotage Sweden AB SE 72,352 54,728 – 1,047 668 757 – – Biotage Sweden AB SE – – – – -3,348 -3,316 – – Cemu Bioteknik AB SE – – 129 129 – – – – Pyrosequencing AB SE – – 100 100 – – – – MIP Technologies AB SE – – – – 63 101 – – Biotage LLC US – 177 139,744 49,393 686 732 – -2,550 Biotage SARL FR 20 – – – 20 – – – Biotage GmbH DE 31,722 30,205 – – 54 – 158 150 Biotage Ltd. JP 8,045 10,597 – – 233 235 58 – Biotage GB Ltd. GB – – – – 345 424 – – Biotage China CH – – – – – – – – Biotage Korea Co., Ltd. KO 12 – – – 47 55 – – Biotage India Pvt Ltd. IN 27 142 – – 30 – – – Pyrosequencing, Inc. US 160,377 – – – – – – – Horizon Technology, Inc. US 404 – – – 392 – – – Impairment reserve -29,798 -28,564 – – – – – – 243,161 67,285 139,974 50,669 -810 -1,012 216 -2,400 Key management personnel in the company or its parent Payments to the Board and senior executives are described on pages 55-58. No other transactions have been conducted with Board members, senior executives or individuals or legal entities that are related parties thereof. note 29 Significant events after the reporting date On January 2, the Board announced that a recruitment process had been initiated to appoint a new CEO. The current CEO Torben Jørgensen has announced that he intends to continue as CEO until a replacement has been engaged. The acquisition of PhyNexus was finalized on January 15. The purchase consideration was approx. USD 21.4 million, which corresponds to about SEK 191.3 million based on an SEK/USD exchange rate of 8.93 on the transaction date. USD 4.8 million (SEK 43.3 million) was paid in cash and approx. USD 6.6 million (SEK 58.6 million) was settled in newly issued Biotage shares on the closing date. The remaining USD 10.0 million (SEK 89.3 million) consists of contingent consideration based on future results. On January 15, the Board decided to issue consideration shares in connection with the acquisition of PhyNexus. The issue increased the number of Biotage shares from 64,714,447 to 65,201,784, resulting in dilution of 0.7 percent for existing shareholders. | 74 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements note 30 Definitions of key figures Proportion of risk-bearing capital Earnings per share * The total of equity and deferred tax liabilities in untaxed reserves Net profit for the period divided by the average number of shares divided by total assets. As the Group has no untaxed reserves, the during the period. proportion of risk-bearing capital is the same as the equity/assets ratio. Operating margin Operating profit/loss divided by sales. Return on equity Net profit for the year divided by average equity. Operating profit Profit before net financial items and taxes. Consists of gross profit Return on capital employed minus total operating expenses (sales expenses, administrative Profit after financial items plus finance costs divided by average expenses, research and development costs, other operating income capital employed. and other operating expenses). Return on total assets Equity/assets ratio Profit after financial items plus finance costs divided by average total Equity divided by total assets. assets. Capital employed Gross margin, % Total assets minus non-interest-bearing liabilities and provisions. Gross profit divided by net sales. Average capital employed is the sum of capital employed at the beginning and end of the fiscal year divided by two. Gross profit Net sales less cost of sales. Total capital Total assets. Average total assets is the sum of total assets at the Equity per share beginning and end of the fiscal year divided by two. Equity divided by the number of shares outstanding at the end of the period. Profit margin Operating profit/loss plus finance income divided by sales. Cash flow from operations per share Cash flow from operating activities divided by the number of shares Investments outstanding at the end of the period. Acquisition of property, plant and equipment, intangible assets and financial assets during the period. P/E ratio Share price divided by earnings per share. *) Key figure defined under IFRS. P/S ratio Stock market price divided by sales per share outstanding at the end of the period. Key figures and performance measures Alternative performance measures To enable stakeholders and management to analyze sales trends The Company presents certain performance measures that are not adjusted for currency effects, the Company reports sales trends defined under IFRS. The Company believes that these measures compared with the comparative period at constant exchange rates. provide useful additional information to investors and Company The current period’s sales in each currency are translated at the management as they allow evaluation and benchmarking of its perforexchange rates that were used in the reported financial statements mance. As not all companies calculate performance measures in the for the comparative period. same way, the measures are not always comparable with those used by other companies. These performance measures should therefore 12 months not be considered a substitute for measures defined under IFRS. The 01/01/2018 01/01/2017 reported performance measures are not defined under IFRS unless -12/31/2018 -12/31/2017 otherwise stated. SEK SEK ESMA’s guidelines on alternative performance measures are applied thouthouChange in net sales, % sands % sands % with effect from July 3, 2016, which means enhanced disclosure requirements for performance measures not defined under IFRS. Net sales recognized in the comparative period 748,147 667,912 Below is an appraisal of the financial measures that Biotage considers Net sales recognized in the relevant under the new guidelines. period 840,177 748,147 Recognized change 92,031 12.3 80,235 12.0 Net sales at comparable exchange rates Net sales for the period at the As most of the Group’s net sales are settled in currencies other than comparative period’s exchange the reporting currency, SEK, the amount recognized is affected by rates 808,108 752,422 exchange rate changes between periods to a relatively large extent. Change using comparative period’s exchange rates 59,961 8.0 84,510 12.7 Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 75 | Notes Net cash To enable stakeholders and management to monitor and analyze the Group’s financial strength, information on the Group's net cash position is reported, defined as cash less liabilities to credit institutions. Net cash (SEK thousands) 12/31/2018 12/31/2017 Cash 177.0 174.3 Liabilities to credit institutions -109.4 0.0 Net cash 67.6 174.3 Net sales and operating profit, rolling 12 months Biotage has chosen to report net sales and operating profit on a rolling 12-month basis as the Company’s management also follows performance over time for the total of the last 12 months’ results and considers that this provides additional information to the calendar-based interim data otherwise presented in the report. 01/01/2018 01/01/2017 Rolling 12 months -12/31/2018 -12/31/2017 Net sales 910.9 748.1 Operating profit 172.5 133.6 Sales growth, % 21.8 12.0 EBIT In its reports, Biotage uses the performance measure EBIT (Earnings Before Interest and Taxes) as an alternative term for operating profit. | 76 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements STATEMENT BY THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS The Board and CEO confirm that the consolidated annual financial in Sweden and provide a true and fair view of the Parent Company’s statements have been prepared in accordance with international financial performance and position. The Board of Directors’ report for financial reporting standards (IFRS) as adopted by the EU and provide the Group and Parent Company provides a true and fair overview of a true and fair view of the Group’s financial performance and position. the development of their operations, financial position and perforThe Parent Company’s annual financial statements have been mance, and describes material risks and uncertainties to which the prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles Parent Company and its subsidiaries are exposed. The consolidated statement of comprehensive income and statement of financial position and the Parent Company's income statement and balance sheet will be presented for adoption at the annual general meeting on April 24, 2019. Uppsala, March 25, 2019 Thomas Eklund Chairman of the Board Nils Olof Björk Peter Ehrenheim Karolina Lawitz Yvonne Mårtensson Board Member Board Member Board Member Board Member Love Amcoff Annika Gärdlund Dan Ohlsson Employee Representative Employee Representative Employee Representative (Deputy) Torben Jørgensen President and CEO Our Audit Report was submitted on March 25, 2019 Deloitte AB Jonas Ståhlberg Authorized Public Accountant Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 77 | Auditor’s report AUDITOR’S REPORT To the general meeting of the shareholders of Biotage AB (publ) Capitalized development expenditure corporate identity number 556539-3138 The Group’s recognized capitalized development costs on December 31, 2018 were SEK 101 million. The item is material from a financial reporting perspective. The purpose of the projects is to develop new Report on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts products and improve existing ones. Expenditure on development Opinions projects is recognized as an asset in the consolidated financial We have audited the annual accounts and consolidated accounts of statements when it is probable that the projects will generate future Biotage AB (publ) for the fiscal year 2018-01-01 2018-12-31 except for economic benefits. Decisions to recognize these costs as an asset are the statutory sustainability report on pages 22-27. The annual accounts based on an assessment made by management. and consolidated accounts of the company are included on pages 22-27 Management’s estimates regarding capitalized development costs and and 30-77 in this document. their subsequent measurement may affect the group’s earnings and In our opinion, the annual accounts have been prepared in accorfinancial position and are therefore of particular importance to our dance with the Annual Accounts Act and present fairly, in all material audit. respects, the financial position of the parent company as of December Further information can be found in the Summary of Significant 31, 2018 and its financial performance and cash flow for the year then Accounting and Measurement Policies for the group and parent ended in accordance with the Annual Accounts Act. The consolidated company on page 54 and in note 12 of the annual report. accounts have been prepared in accordance with the Annual Accounts Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to, the Act and present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of following procedures: the group as of December 31, 2018 and their financial performance and cash flow for the year then ended in accordance with International • We have obtained an understanding of the Company’s processes for Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS), as adopted by the EU, and capitalizing development costs and subsequent valuation. We have the Annual Accounts Act. Our opinions do not cover the statutory also tested important relevant controls. sustainability report on pages 22-27. The statutory administration • We have examined a sample of the year’s capitalized costs to report is consistent with the other parts of the annual accounts and obtain assurance that they qualify for capitalization. consolidated accounts. • We have examined whether required disclosures have been We therefore recommend that the general meeting of shareholders provided in relevant notes to the financial statements. adopts the income statement and balance sheet for the parent company and the group. Revenue from the sale of products Our opinions in this report on the the annual accounts and conThe Group develops and sells systems, re-agents, accessories, spare solidated accounts are consistent with the content of the additional parts and services on a global basis directly to end users and through report that has been submitted to the parent company's audit comdistributors. The Group’s revenue for 2018 amounted to SEK 911 milmittee in accordance with the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 11. lion and consisted of sales of goods, SEK 824 million, sales of services, SEK 80 million, and other income, SEK 7 million. Basis for Opinions Revenue from the sale of goods is recognized when control of the We conducted our audit in accordance with International Standards products has been transferred from the seller to the buyer, which on Auditing (ISA) and generally accepted auditing standards in Swenormally occurs on delivery. Revenue from the sale of products is den. Our responsibilities under those standards are further described material from a financial reporting perspective. in the Auditor’s Responsibilities section. We are independent of the There is a risk of incorrectly accrued revenue in connection with parent company and the group in accordance with professional ethics delivery of goods and is therefore of particular importance to our for accountants in Sweden and have otherwise fulfilled our ethical audit. responsibilities in accordance with these requirements. This includes Further information can be found in the Summary of Significant that, based on the best of our knowledge and belief, no prohibited Accounting and Measurement Policies for the group and parent services referred to in the Audit Regulation (537/2014) Article 5.1 have company on page 49-50 and in note 3 of the annual report. been provided to the audited company or, where applicable, its parent Our audit procedures included, but were not limited to, the company or its controlled companies within the EU. following procedures: We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. • We have obtained an understanding of the Company’s processes for revenue recognition according to the criteria contained in IFRS 15. Key Audit Matters • We have examined a sample of product deliveries to obtain assurKey audit matters of the audit are those matters that, in our profesance of correct accrual. sional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the annual • We have examined whether required disclosures have been accounts and consolidated accounts of the current period. These provided in relevant notes to the financial statements. matters were addressed in the context of our audit of, and in forming our opinion thereon, the annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole, but we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. | 78 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements Measurement of goodwill concern basis of accounting is, however, not applied if the Board of The Group’s recognized goodwill on December 31, 2018 was SEK 186 Directors and the Managing Director intend to liquidate the company, million. The account is material from a financial reporting perspective to cease operations, or have no realistic alternative but to do so. and exceeds our materiality level. Goodwill is tested for impairment The Audit Committee shall, without prejudice to the Board of annually when the annual financial statements are prepared, or as Director’s responsibilities and tasks in general, among other things soon as any changes indicate impairment. Goodwill testing involves oversee the company’s financial reporting process. calculating the value in use for the cash-generating unit to which the carrying amount of goodwill is allocated. Auditor’s responsibility As the total value of the balance sheet item represents a signifOur objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the icant proportion of the company’s total assets and is sensitive to annual accounts and consolidated accounts as a whole are free from assumption changes such as growth and discount rate, this area is an material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an important part of our audit. auditor’s report that includes our opinions. Reasonable assurance Further information can be found in the Summary of Significant is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit Accounting and Measurement Policies for the group and parent conducted in accordance with ISAs and generally accepted auditing company on page 54 and in note 11 of the annual report. standards in Sweden will always detect a material misstatement when Our audit procedures included, but was not limited to, the following it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considprocedures: ered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users made • We have examined and assessed the Company’s procedures for on the basis of these annual accounts and consolidated accounts. goodwill impairment testing to obtain assurance that the assumpA further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the tions are reasonable, the procedures are applied consistently and annual accounts and consolidated accounts is located at the Swedish the calculations are conducted with integrity. Inspectorate of Auditors website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/revi• We have examined whether appropriate accounting policies have sornsansvar This description forms part of the auditor´s report. been applied and whether required disclosures have been provided From the matters communicated with the Board of Directors, we in relevant notes to the financial statements. determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, including the most Other information than the annual accounts and important assessed risks for material misstatement, and are therefore consolidated accounts the key audit matters. We describe these matters in the auditor’s This document also contains other information than the annual report unless law or regulation precludes disclosure of the matter. accounts and consolidated accounts and is found on pages 1-21, 28-29 and 81-85. The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are Report on other legal and regulatory requirements responsible for this other information. Our opinion on the annual accounts and consolidated accounts Opinions does not cover this other information and we do not express any form In addition to our audit of the annual accounts and consolidated of assurance conclusion regarding this other information. accounts, we have also audited the administration of the Board of In connection with our audit of the annual accounts and conDirectors and the Managing Director of Biotage AB (publ) for the fiscal solidated accounts, our responsibility is to read the information year 2018-01-01 2018-12-31 and the proposed appropriations of the identified above and consider whether the information is materially company’s profit or loss. inconsistent with the annual accounts and consolidated accounts. In We recommend to the general meeting of shareholders that this procedure we also take into account our knowledge otherwise the profit be appropriated in accordance with the proposal in the obtained in the audit and assess whether the information otherwise statutory administration report and that the members of the Board of appears to be materially misstated. Directors and the Managing Director be discharged from liability for If, based on the work performed concerning this information, we the fiscal year. conclude that there is a material misstatement of this other information, we are required to report that fact. We have nothing to report in Basis for Opinions this regard. We conducted the audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. Our responsibilities under those Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and standards are further described in the Auditor’s Responsibilities the Managing Director section. We are independent of the parent company and the group in The Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for accordance with professional ethics for accountants in Sweden and the preparation of the annual accounts and consolidated accounts have otherwise fulfilled our ethical responsibilities in accordance with and that they give a fair presentation in accordance with the Annual these requirements. Accounts Act and, concerning the consolidated accounts, in accorWe believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient dance with IFRS as adopted by the EU. The Board of Directors and and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinions. the Managing Director are also responsible for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of annual Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and accounts and consolidated accounts that are free from material the Managing Director misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. The Board of Directors is responsible for the proposal for appropriaIn preparing the annual accounts and consolidated accounts, The tions of the company’s profit or loss. At the proposal of a dividend, Board of Directors and the Managing Director are responsible for the this includes an assessment of whether the dividend is justifiable conassessment of the company’s and the group’s ability to continue as a sidering the requirements which the company's and the group’s type going concern. They disclose, as applicable, matters related to going of operations, size and risks place on the size of the parent company's concern and using the going concern basis of accounting. The going and the group’s equity, consolidation requirements, liquidity and position in general. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 79 | Auditor’s Report The Board of Directors is responsible for the company’s organizaA further description of our responsibilities for the audit of the tion and the administration of the company’s affairs. This includes management’s administration is located at the Swedish Inspectorate among other things continuous assessment of the company’s and of Auditors website: www.revisorsinspektionen.se/rn/showdocument/ the group’s financial situation and ensuring that the company's documents/rev_dok/revisors_ansvar.pdf. This description forms part organization is designed so that the accounting, management of of the auditor´s report. assets and the company’s financial affairs otherwise are controlled in a reassuring manner. The Managing Director shall manage the The auditor´s opinion regarding the statutory sustainability report ongoing administration according to the Board of Directors’ guidelines The Board of Directors is responsible for the statutory sustainability and instructions and among other matters take measures that are report on pages 22-27, and that it is prepared in accordance with the necessary to fulfill the company’s accounting in accordance with law Annual Accounts Act. and handle the management of assets in a reassuring manner. Our examination has been conducted in accordance with FAR’s auditing standard RevR 12 The auditor´s opinion on the statutory susAuditor’s responsibility tainability report. This means that our examination of the statutory Our objective concerning the audit of the administration, and sustainability report is different and substantially less in scope than therefore our opinion about discharge from liability, is to obtain audit an audit conducted in accordance with International Standards on evidence to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether Auditing and generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden. We any member of the Board of Directors or the Managing Director in any believe that the examination has provided us with sufficient basis for material respect: our opinion. • has undertaken any action or been guilty of any omission which can A statutory sustainability report has been prepared. give rise to liability to the company, or • in any other way has acted in contravention of the Companies Act, the Annual Accounts Act or the Articles of Association. Deloitte AB, was appointed auditor of Biotage AB by the general meeting of the shareholders on the 2018-04-27 and has been the Our objective concerning the audit of the proposed appropriations ­company’s auditor since 2000-04-26. of the company’s profit or loss, and therefore our opinion about this, is to assess with a reasonable degree of assurance whether the proposal is in accordance with the Companies Act. Stockholm, March 25, 2019 Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a Deloitte AB guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards in Sweden will always detect actions or omissions that can give rise to liability to the company, or that the Jonas Ståhlberg proposed appropriations of the company’s profit or loss are not in Authorized Public Accountant accordance with the Companies Act. | 80 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements » Biotage offers systems, consumables and services across the three product areas Organic Chemistry, Analytical Chemistry and Industrial Products. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 81 | Board of Directors BOARD Thomas Eklund (1967) Peter Ehrenheim (1955) Yvonne Mårtensson (1953) Chairman of the Board Board Member Board Member Education: MBA, Stockholm School of Education: M.Sc., Mechanical EngiEducation: M.Sc. (Industrial and ManEconomics. neering, agement Engineering) Occupation: Independent adviser, conKTH Stockholm. Occupation: Business advisor and Board sultant and director. Occupation: Entrepreneur. member Other assignments: Chairman of Moberg Other assignments: Chairman of Boule Other assignments: Chair of Elos MedPharma AB, Calliditas Teraputics AB and Diagnostics AB, Sophion A/S, Grönsöö tech AB, Director of SyntheticMR AB, Sedana Medical AB. Director of Boule DiSäteri AB and Färjsundet Industri AB. Xvivo AB and 3Brain AG. agnostics AB, Memira AB, Rodebjer Form Director of Nanologica AB. Board service (years): 2. AB and Surgical Science AB. Board service (years): 6. Shares: 2,000. Board service (years): 13. Shares: 0. Yvonne Mårtensson attended all board Shares: 111,538, including shares owned Peter Ehrenheim attended all board meetings during the year. via endowment and pension insurance meetings during the year. Thomas Eklund attended all board meetings during the year.. Annika Gärdlund (1966) Employee Representative Education: Uppsala University. Occupation: Senior Accountant. Other assignments: – Board service (years): 3. Shares: – Annika Gärdlund attended 8 out of 9 board meetings during the year. Dan Ohlsson (1980) Employee Representative (deputy) Education: M.Sc. (Engineering), Space Electronics, Luleå Technical University. Occupation: Electronic Engineer. Nils-Olof Björk (1947) Karolina Lawitz (1956) Love Amcoff (1974) Other assignments: – Board Member Board Member Employee Representative Board service (years): 1. Education: Engineer, Ph.D. Ph.D., inorganic Education: M.Sc., Uppsala University. Education: M.Sc. (Engineering) Uppsala Shares: 400. chemistry Occupation: Director, Red Glead DisInstitute of Technology. Dan Ohlsson attended all board meetOccupation: Management Consultant. covery. Occupation: Project Manager. ings during the year. Other assignments: Chairman of Other assignments: Director, Red Glead Other assignments: – Österlens Kraft AB, Österlens Kraft e.f., Discovery AB. Board service (years): 7. Björk Consulting AB and Nippon Sake Board service (years): 7. Shares: 2,200. Sweden AB. Shares: 19,500. Love Amcoff attended all board meetJonas Ståhlberg (1975) Board service (years): 8. Karolina Lawitz attended all board ings during the year. Chief auditor Shares: 17,230. meetings during the year. Authorized Public Accountant, Deloitte Nils-Olof Björk attended all board meetAB. ings during the year. Information on shareholdings and other assignments is based on data that applied on submission of this annual report. | 82 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements GROUP MANAGEMENT Left to right: Anders Wikström, Erika Söderberg Johnson, Torben Jørgensen, Rikke Rytter, Steve Jordan, Cecilia Hållner and Lars Bäckman. Torben Jørgensen * (1952) Lars Bäckman * (1961) Rikke Rytter (1967) Steve Jordan (1953) Position: President and CEO. Position: VP Corporate Development. Position: VP Global Marketing. Position: CSO. Education: B.Sc. (Econ.) Education: LL.B. Education: Bachelor of Biomedical Education: Fellow, Royal Society of Employment in the Group (years): 13. Employment in the Group (years): 12. Laboratory Science Chemistry. Shares: 520,200. Shares: 20,000. Employment in the Group (years): 1. Employment in the Group: 14. Other assignments: Chairman of MicropOther assignments: Director of Chreto Shares: 0 Shares: – os Medical AB and Atlas Antibodies AB. ApS. Other assignments: – Other assignments: – Director of Intervacc. Cecilia Hållner (1972) Anders Wikström (1973) Erika Söderberg Johnson * (1970) Position: Global Human Resources Position: VP Operations. Position: CFO. Director Education: B.Sc., CS Education: MBA, Stockholm School of Education: Uppsala University, Human Employment in the Group (years): 16. Economics Resource Management. Shares: 3,150. Employment in the Group (years): 7. Employment in the Group (years): 1. Other assignments: – Shares: 7,700. Shares: 322 Other assignments: Director of Saab AB Other assignments: – and Qliro Group AB. Information on shareholdings and other * Group Management assignments is based on data that applied on submission of this annual report. Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 83 | Product register PRODUCT REGISTER ORGANIC CHEMISTRY ANALYTICAL CHEMISTRY MICROWAVE-ASSISTED ORGANIC SYNTHESIS SAMPLE PREPARATION Systems Consumables Systems Consumables Biotage® Initiator+ Reaction vials Biotage® Extrahera™ AFFINILUTE™ Biotage® Initiator+ Robot Resins Biotage® Horizon 5000 EVOLUTE® Eight/Robot Sixty Biotage® Horizon 3100 ISOLUTE® Biotage® Horizon SmartPrep ISOLUTE® SLE+ Biotage® PRESSURE+ Resins PURIFICATION (FLASH CHROMATOGRAPHY) Biotage® Lysera DryDisk® Systems Consumables RapidTrace®+ Atlantic® SPE Disks Biotage® Dalton 2000 Biotage® Sfär Pacific® SPE Disks Biotage® Selekt Biotage® SNAP Bio Isolera™ Dalton Biotage® SNAP Ultra EVAPORATION OF SAMPLES Isolera™ Spektra One/Four Biotage® SNAP Isolera™ One/Four Biotage ZIP® Sphere Systems Isolera™ Prime Biotage ZIP® Biotage® SPE Dry Isolera™ LS Resins TurboVap® II TurboVap® LV The offering also includes the Biotage system for evaporation, Biotage® V-10, and consumables from the Analytical Chemistry product TurboVap® 96 range, such as scavengers and filtering columns. TurboVap® EH XcelVap® PEPTIDE SYNTHESIS DryVap® Systems Consumables SpeedVap® IV Biotage® Initiator+ Alstra™ Biotage® SNAP Bio Biotage® Initiator+ SP Wave ChemMatrix® Syro I/II INDUSTRIAL PRODUCTS PURIFICATION (FLASH CHROMATOGRAPHY) Systems Biotage® Flash 75/150 Biotage® Flash 400 The offering also includes consumables for Biotage flash systems. RESINS IN BULK Systems Development and production of silicate-based and polymer-based materials. CUSTOMIZED DEVELOPMENT PROJECTS Research services. | 84 | Biotage 2018 Annual Report Introduction Business operations Sustainability Financial overview Financial Financial statements statements GLOSSARY CMO Microwave synthesis SLE (Supported Liquid Extraction) Contract manufacturing organization. A synthesis where microwave energy is A product and method representing an used to speed up the reaction. efficient alternative to traditional LLE CRO that has higher recovery rates and lends Contract research organization. MIP itself well to automation. The extraction Molecularly imprinted polymers. of a substance is performed by the Evaporation sample first being absorbed onto a solid Accelerated evaporation of a liquid. Re-agent support and then eluted off using an A substance that is added during synorganic solvent. Flash chromatography thesis to restructure the starting mateA method of separating the substances rial into the desired product. SPE (Solid Phase Extraction) included in a reaction mixture. DependA method for separating substances ing on their physical characteristics, the Purification according to how much they prefer a substances move at different speeds Involves the synthesized compound solid phase to a liquid phase. The same through a solid phase with the help of a being isolated from impurities. principle applies as for flash chromatogflow of solvents. raphy, although on a smaller scale. Purification column LLE (Liquid Liquid Extraction) The physical unit where the medium Synthesis A method of separating compounds needed to carry out flash chromatograInvolves creating a new substance by based on their relative solubility in two phy is packaged. The sample that is to combining (synthesizing) several differdifferent immiscible liquids, usually be purified in the column is then applied ent substances. water and an organic solvent. This is an and purification is carried out as the solextraction of a substance from one liqvent flows through the column. Work-up uid phase into another liquid phase. A process that removes various substances that may have been added to speed up or create reactions. Production: Biotage and Narva. Photos: Q image and Biotage. Printing: Elanders Sverige AB, 2019 Biotage 2018 Annual Report | 85 | NARVA Head Office China Sweden Biotage Trading (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. Biotage AB 7F-B, Building C5 Box 8 No. 2555 Xiu Pu Road 751 03 Uppsala Pu Dong Shanghai Visiting address: Vimpelgatan 5 China Tel: +46-18-565900 Tel: +86 21 68162810 Fax: +46-18-591922 Fax: +86 21 68162829 Subsidiary UK Sweden Biotage GB Ltd. Biotage Sweden AB Distribution Way Box 8 Dyffryn Industrial Estate 751 03 Uppsala Ystrad Mynach Visiting address: Vimpelgatan 5 Hengoed CF82 7TS Tel: +46-18-565900 United Kingdom Fax: +46-18-591922 Tel: +44 (0) 1443 811 811 Fax: +44 (0) 1443 816 552 MIP Technologies AB Box 737 South Korea 220 07 Lund Biotage Korea Co., Ltd. Visiting address: Scheelevägen 22 Korea Design Center Rm#803 Tel: +46-46-102600 322 Yanghyeon-ro, Bundang-gu Fax: +46-46-102602 Seongnam-si, Kyeonggi-do South Korea, 13496 India Tel: + 82 (0)31 706 8500 Biotage India Private Limited Fax: + 82 (0)31 706 8510 B-405, Dynasty Business Park Andheri Kurla Road, Andheri (East) USA Mumbai – 400 059, Maharashtra Biotage LLC India 10430 Harris Oaks Blvd Suite C Charlotte, NC 28269 Japan USA Biotage Japan, Ltd. Tel: +1-704-654-4900 Mantomi Building 2, 6th floor Fax: +1-704-654-4917 1-14-4 Kameido, Koto-ku, Tokyo JAPAN 136-0071 Horizon Technology, Inc. Tel: +81-3-5627-3123 16 Northwestern Drive Fax: +81-3-5627-3121 Salem, NH 03079 USA (OSAKA Office) Tel: +1 603 893 3663 Shin Osaka Yachiyo BLDG Annex 4F Fax: +1 603 893 4994 5-1-28, Miyahara Yodogawaku, Osaka JAPAN 532-0003 PhyNexus, Inc. Tel: +81-6-6397-8180 3670, Charter Park Drive Suite A Fax: +81-6-6397-8170 San Jose, CA 95136 USA Tel: +1 408 267 7214 Fax: +1 408 267 7346
