COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 UN Global Compact G-FC-19-33-A SUMMARY 1. Message from the CEO p.3 2. The methodology ………………………………………………. p.4 3. ESI – The Product Performance Lifecycle™ Company……. p.5 4. ESI – A committed group……………………………………… p.7 4.1. ESI Group Values………………………………………… p.7 4.2. Our CSR approach………………………………………. p.7 4.3. CSR distinctions……………………………………………p.10 5. Risks and issues of ESI……………………………………… p.11 5.1. Being a committed employer……………………………. p.11 5.2. Being an outstanding partner p.19 5.3. Being an environmentally friendly player p.21 5.4. Serving civil society p.25 6. Report of the inspecting organization p.31 ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 2 1. Message from the CEO Dear Mr. Secretary-General, ESI Group’s ambition is to become a strategic asset for industrialists in their quest of innovation, productivity and performance. We provide Smart Virtual Prototyping, through a responsible innovation approach that aims for zero real tests, zero real prototypes and zero unexpected production downtime. Our CSR strategy, divided into four axes, aims at ensuring harmonious work conditions for our employees, providing our customers innovative solutions that allow them to become long-term partners, and limiting the Group’s and our customers’ environmental footprint while acting ethically and responsibly within civil society. Aware of our responsibility, in each of the three pillars of sustainable development, we have gradually developed, for more than five years, a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy that contributes to shared economic and social development and the preservation of human balance. Member since 2018, I am pleased to express, with this first Communication on Progress, that ESI Group renew its engagement within the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. We are committed to making the UN Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. Sincerely yours, CRISTEL DE ROUVRAY Chief Executive Officer of ESI Group 3 2. The methodology Data collection and consolidation The data available are sorted into three geographic areas corresponding to the Company’s business The Company has implemented a differentiated data divisions: collection and consolidation process according to the themes. Social reporting is covered by an HR officer • Americas = the United States and Brazil; who works with local HR representatives. The • Asia-Pacific = China, India, Japan, Malaysia, corporate communication team is responsible for South Korea, Thailand and Vietnam; environmental and societal reporting through local • Europe, Middle East and Africa = Czech professional representatives. The Group plans to Republic, France, Germany, Italy, Netherlands, gradually broaden the scope until it covers every Russia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, Tunisia subsidiary in a reliable manner. and the United Kingdom. Scope The Group’s ambition is to gradually extend the scope to reach a full and reliable coverage of its subsidiaries. In 2018, in keeping with its commitments, ESI Group continued its actions to expand the collection and analysis of indicators internationally. 100% Scope of societal reporting Societal information is provided at a global level, with the reporting scope covering 100% of our headcount since 2016. 99.8% Scope of social reporting Since 2012, most indicators analyzed for the entire workforce have been managed on a single source using the employment data management software (called HR-IS, or Human Resources Information System). Along with this analysis is the annual worldwide survey initiated in 2014 on the operations, legislation, practices and norms of the different countries. This gives the Group a reliable, international picture of all employment indicators. Exceptions remain concerning the absenteeism rate and the professional training for which not all subsidiaries are able to report in a sufficiently reliable way, due partly to terminology and partly to local practices. These indicators are provided for 99.8% of the total workforce in 2018 (Netherlands are not included). 99% Scope of environmental reporting In 2018, the Company included Italy and Brazil to expand the scope of reporting for environmental data. As a result, environmental data are now provided for France, Germany, the Czech Republic, Japan, the United States, Tunisia, India, Switzerland, China, Spain, United Kingdom, South Korea, Italy and Spain representing 99% of the total workforce. ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 4 3. ESI – The Product Performance Lifecycle™ Company ESI Group has developed a suite of coherent accounting for flaws, wear and tear, maintenance industry-oriented applications to realistically simulate procedures, and running in of assisted operation. a product’s behavior, fine-tune fabrication and The virtual prototype can now become agile and assembly processes in view of desired product intelligent to support industrial manufacturers in the performance, and evaluate the impact of the age of smart factories and smart digital products. The environment on the use of these products. Group has two main activities: the edition These applications enable the gradual elimination of (development) and distribution of software, and tests and physical components and subassembly consulting services related to its software products. prototypes during the product conception and The highly-specialized nature of ESI Group’s manufacturing phases. The virtual prototype of the operations and its unique role in the field of Virtual industrial product thus designed will accelerate its Prototyping make it difficult to delineate ESI’s market certification and then allow the monitoring and control with any precision. The Group thus has little of its operational performance, helping industry information that would shed light on the specific players to achieve their performance and productivity characteristics or short-term outlook of this market, objectives. especially since the very definition of the market varies greatly among the players in the industry. Innovative visualization technologies such as ESI IC.IDO and the availability of the Virtual Prototyping Nonetheless, US market research firm CIMData chain in Cloud/SaaS mode considerably enhance the published a study on PLM (estimated at $48.1 billion) collaborative potential of ESI Group solutions while in April 2019, which included Virtual Prototyping drastically reducing acquisition and ownership costs under the category of “Simulation & Analysis for companies. Suppliers” (activity estimated at $6.5 billion in 2018). Most of the companies listed in this category are Most importantly, the use of technologies such as big active in the field of analysis, however, within this data, System Modeling, Machine Learning, and the panel, few companies reach the physical realism of Internet of Things (IoT) adds to ESI Group’s solutions the Virtual Prototyping solutions offered by ESI an interactive space and enables real-time decisionGroup. ESI Group's offer is cross-industry. Its top four making in an immersive virtual environment. sectors are ground transportation, heavy industry, This enhanced offer provides complete control over aeronautic/aerospace and energy. Refer to section the lifecycle of an industrial product, from product 1.1.3 Main markets of the 2018 Registration commissioning to its operational withdrawal including Document for more details about the market in which modeling of potential evolutions during its useful life: ESI Group operates. ENGINEERING MANUFACTURING IN-SERVICE As a player committed to the world’s leading and eventual industrialization. In 2015, the United manufacturers, ESI has adapted its organization to Nations defined a list of 17 sustainable development accelerate innovation and facilitate knowledge goals ( SDGs ), meeting global challenges such as sharing between all its employees. poverty, inequality, education and environmental degradation. The organization is structured to enable maturation of technology from conception through proof of value ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 5 Throughout its value chain, ESI Group addresses many of these SDGs: • Research: ‒ 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure; 12 Responsible Consumption and Production; 13 Climate Action. • Innovation: ‒ 9 Industry, Innovation and Infrastructure; 12 Responsible Consumption and Production; 13 Climate Action. • Sales & Marketing: ‒ 12 Responsible Consumption and Production; 13 Climate Action; 16 Peace and Justice Strong Institutions. • Employees: ‒ 3 Good Health and Well-being; 4 Quality Education; 8 Decent Work and Economic Growth; 5 – Gender Equality; 10 – Reduced Inequality. • Suppliers: ‒ 12 Responsible Consumption and Production; 13 Climate Action. All the SDGs will be further developed in Section 4 of this statement. ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 6 3. ESI – A committed group 4.1. ESI Group Values The values of ESI Group infuse this recognized organization with a culture and an ambition that have produced innovation for the benefit of the Group’s customers and employees for more than 40 years. These values – Passion, Global, Change, Trust, Social Responsibility and Energy – anchor the Group’s identity and fit logically together, as can be seen in the Corporate Social Responsibility actions defined below: 4.2. Our CSR approach Aware of its responsibility in each of the three pillars of sustainable development, ESI Group has gradually developed a Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) policy that contributes to shared economic and social development and the preservation of human balance. ESI Group’s ambition is to become the leader in Smart Virtual Prototyping, through a responsible innovation approach that aims for zero real tests, zero real prototypes and zero unexpected production shutdowns. The Group thus intends to be its customers’ preferred development partner, capable of understanding and supporting them in their efforts to bring innovative, quality, sustainable, ethical and highly resource-efficient products to market. The Group has carried out a review of major risks and opportunities, including the main CSR issues, that could have a significant impact on its business, financial position or results. For further details, refer to section 1.6 Risk factors and opportunities of the 2018 Registration Document. Divided into four axes and expressed as eight commitments, the CSR strategy aims at ensuring harmonious work conditions for its employees, providing its customers with innovative solutions that allow them to become long-term partners, and limiting the Group’s and its customers’ environmental footprint while acting ethically and responsibly within civil society. Through its activities, ESI Group has a limited impact on the fight against food waste, food insecurity, respect of animal welfare, as well as the promotion of responsible, fair and sustainable food consumption. ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 7 4.2.1. Employees – Being a committed employer ESI Group aims to be a leading employer among all Today, talents are retained thanks to the proposed software and service providers on the market. technological challenge. The Human Resources and Communication Departments work together on a. Develop talents and encourage leadership concrete actions to strengthen the feeling of and collaborative management belonging within the Group, the “OneESI” culture. Human resources are ESI’s main source of value. b. Promote diversity and multicultural The development of talent is essential to ensure the exchanges Group’s sustainability. To answer the ever more complex challenges of industrial companies and As an international company, ESI Group is proud to remain at the forefront of technological innovation, have a diverse, multicultural workforce. The Group the Group must develop its employees’ sense of has always valued difference and encouraged its belonging and constantly improve their expertise. employees to share their ideas beyond borders to create a modern and efficient work environment to For this purpose, ESI strives to: better serve its international customers. • build a stimulating ecosystem with academic, Internally, the teams’ diversity is a strength. Various scientific and industrial partners; initiatives have been taken to bring people together and share their culture and way of working. The • maintain a continued search for excellence with Group is also committed to improve the gender cutting-edge technologies; balance within the Company. • strengthen scientific management with global experts. The expertise of ESI’s employees is enhanced by their contact with the ecosystem and the implementation of personal development and professional training programs through an ESI Campus platform. 4.2.2. Customers – Being an outstanding partner a. Provide innovative and sustainable highESI’s solutions help its customers dealing with digital quality solutions that meet our customers’ transformation challenges and meet the everrequirements changing regulations that govern their activities. Manufacturers are facing new challenges: These solutions provide customers with the following benefits: A strong competitivity in a global environment • reduce time-to-market; • avoid product recalls; Higher quality lever at lower price • reduce waste associated with prototyping and manufacturing; Digital transformation • optimize energy consumption; • reduce gas emissions; Increased regulation • improve useful life of products; • reduce total product weight. Reduce CO2 emissions Growing consumer interest in environmental aspects ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 8 In addition to the innovative and sustainable benefits b. Building long term, trusting relationships of these solutions, they also reflect the excellence that the Group brings to its customers: ESI Group has adopted an Ethics Charter that sets out the behavior to be adopted in relations with the • creation of smart products; Group’s other employees, customers, suppliers and other partners. All decisions must be taken based on • a unique expertise; objective and transparent criteria. • a range of solutions that take into account the operational performance of the product throughout As a French company, ESI Group has adapted its its lifecycle; Ethics Charter to the “Sapin II” law concerning the fight against corruption. The Group strictly prohibits • a high level of requirement with ISO 9001 any form of corruption in its relations with its certification; commercial and institutional partners and with the • significant R&D investments; administration. No financial or in-kind gratuity may be granted for the purpose of obtaining a benefit, and • innovative co-creation projects. such a gratuity may not be received for the benefit of a company or person. 4.2.3. Environment – Being an environmentally friendly player Considering the nature of its activity – distribution of All in all, ESI’s solutions enable manufacturers to software and sales of consulting services – the Group reduce the costs and time to market of their new believes its impact on the environment to be very products, making them more competitive. limited. All of its activities are carried out in offices. However, the Group has still pledged to work towards b. Reduce the environmental impact of our limiting its environmental footprint. facilities a. Develop solutions that contribute to reduce Like any company, ESI has an impact on the the environmental footprint of manufacturers environment, although limited as a software and respectful with regulatory requirements company. The Group is committed to encouraging the implementation of best practices in areas where it ESI’s solutions enable its customers to reduce the has the most significant expertise. use of expensive physical prototypes that consume energy, raw materials and time. As a reminder, ESI’s solutions bring to its customers the following environmental benefits: • reduction of waste associated with prototyping and manufacturing; • optimization of energy consumption; • reduction of gas emissions; • improvement of the useful life of products; • reduction of the total product weight. It also answers to gas emissions regulations and recycling requirements, as well as the challenge of rising fuel prices. ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 9 4.2.4. Civil society – Serving civil society a. Contribute to innovation and establish b. Act ethically and responsibly partnerships with the academic and scientific communities, as well as with industry leaders ESI Group aims to be the leader in Smart Virtual Prototyping through a responsible innovation Partnerships are an integral part of the Group’s approach. This can only be achieved by acting strategy to facilitate and promote virtual prototyping ethically and responsibly towards all its stakeholders. while acting in a sustainable way. ESI Group is particularly attentive to the following items: In 2016, the Group published an Ethics Charter to promote the respect of its values and confirm its • innovate through partnerships with academic and commitment to the main rules of conduct it wishes to scientific communities and industry leaders; see applied internally. This Charter, which exists in six languages, was revised in 2018. • be transparent with all its stakeholders; • support regional development by encouraging At the same time, an Ethics Committee was set up to local recruitment and partnerships; ensure the proper application of the Ethics Charter. • support innovation through co-creation projects. The Ethics Committee is responsible for creating an ESI Group considers that innovation, which is a key environment in which employees can adhere to the component of its business, constantly improves Ethics Charter and ensure that its principles are production processes and shortens the conception respected by all on a daily basis. period and the time required to develop new, more efficient and reliable products. This contributes to Through this ethical and responsible approach, ESI more sustainable and responsible consumption and Group also has to be compliant with the European production methods. Union regulation concerning the data protection (GDPR). 4.3. CSR distinctions Gaïa-Index Global Compact ESI Group is awarded first prize of the Gaia Since 2018, ESI Group signed the Global Compact campaign 2018 for the third year in a row in the (United Nations Global Compact) and thus category of mid-cap companies with revenue of less undertakes to align its CSR strategy on the 10 United than €150 million and keeps its place in the index Nations principles, relating to human rights, which singles out the 70 top-rated companies in the international labor standards, the environment and CSR domain. the fight against corruption. The Group also undertakes to yearly communicate its progress to its The Gaia Index (www.gaia-index.com) was created in stakeholders through the release of a Communication 2009 and is now the benchmark sustainability index on Progress (COP). for medium-sized listed French companies. Developed by EthiFinance (www.ethifinance.com), For more information, visit the Gaia Index selects small and medium-sized www.unglobalcompact.org. companies based on their non-financial performance. ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 10 5. Risks and issues of ESI 5.1. Being a committed employer ESI Group aims to be a leading employer among all ‒ develop talents and encourage leadership and software and service providers on the market and collaborative management; plans to stay that way. ‒ ensure health and safety in the workplace and ESI Group’s employees consist primarily of highlyensure the provision of social benefits to trained engineers and Ph.Ds from prestigious employees. universities and institutes worldwide. This policy draws on various tools, including the In addition to the close relationship that the Group Human Resources Information System (HR-IS) to has always had with these schools, there are a consolidate the HR reporting process worldwide, and number of other factors that exemplify ESI’s lends greater flexibility to the organization. It also commitment to value employees’ experience and promotes better use of resources by focusing on foster highly qualified recruitment and internal skills, to encourage a more involved, multidevelopment. These factors include ESI’s positioning disciplinary managerial culture. The platform provides in the field of virtual simulation that takes into account an ongoing view of changes in employment indicators the physics of materials, the Group’s prominence as and makes it possible to drive our resource needs a publicly listed company on the Paris stock more easily. exchange, the Group’s continuing education A selection of employment indicators is provided programs, and its focus on internal promotion at an monthly to the Group Executive Committee in order international level. to measure the effectiveness of HR policies. ESI Group’s policy is based on the following axes: The data from HR-IS are provided on a worldwide ‒ assurer un emploi décent à l’ensemble de ses scope. ensure a decent work to all its employees; ‒ promote diversity and multicultural exchanges; Ensure a decent work Every company has the • measure the impact of days of absence on the responsibility to provide decent employment of the staff so as to make the working conditions for all its necessary corrections to our procedures, working employees. Promoting decent work, conditions and internal safety procedures ; with a decent wage and ensuring the • improve conditions at work for a direct impact on well-being of employees are major the well-being, effectiveness and motivation of global challengesglobal challenges in which ESI Group is committed. employees ; This challenge contributes to sustainable development goal 8 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable • establish a positive employer-employee dialogue. economic growth, full and productive employment and Outcomes : decent work for all . Les données relatives aux effectifs sont calculées sur Policies : la base du nombre de salariés présents au 31 janvier 2019. As an employer, ESI Group strives to : Data related to headcount is calculated on the number of employees as of January 31, 2019. • manage its staff in connection with business growth ; The Group’s total headcount includes permanent and fixed-term employees as well as those on student • offer its employees the benefit of flexible schedule contracts such as work/study programs and management ; internships. It does not include temporary workers, consultants and external distribution networks. ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 11 At January 31, 2019, the ESI Group workforce contracts such as internships, apprenticeships and consisted of 1,232 employees, compared to 1,238 at short-term contracts accounted for 8% of the total January 31, 2018, and included eight employees from workforce compared to 7% in 2017. In 2018, ESI acquisitions over the period. The average headcount pursued its ambition to control its workforce in line in 2018 was 1,222 employees, very slight increase with activity growth. compared to 2017 (1,201) The percentage of the Group’s workforce on permanent contracts was 92%. Limited employment In 2018, ESI Group hired 97 employees on countries, particularly Japan, schedules are set to permanent contracts, or 54.8% of recruitments. meet the requirements of the job but are limited to eight hours per day. The departure rate of permanent employees in 2018 was 10% [(number of permanent contract In France, work hours are organized based on departures/total headcount in permanent contract) x working days or according to a fixed schedule. An 100] compared to 9.4% in 2017. employee who is under a working days basis works a defined number of days during the year, while an The 2018 turnover rate in permanent contracts was employee who works on a schedule basis works the 9.6% [(Number of permanent contract departures number of hours stipulated under the employment throughout the year N + number of permanent agreements : contract recruitments throughout the year N)/2]/total headcount in permanent contracts of the year N] and • employees who work on a full-time and on a remains stable compared to 2017. working days basis work 217 days per year, plus one extra day for France’s “national solidarity day” Work schedules ; The length of the work week is set in compliance with • for some other employees they work an average local legislation. of 37-hours per week with 10 days of RTT (day In the great majority of its subsidiaries, ESI Group off) per year for a full-time employee. offers its employees flexible work schedules. In some ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 12 In 2018, 5.4% of the total workforce was part-time ; The employee representative bodies are appointed in additionally, most part-time jobs are created to meet accordance with the applicable laws in their the needs of employees who request them to plan respective countries. We have six employee around their parental leave or retirement, or to go representative bodies in France one in Vietnam and back to school. one in Brazil. Absenteeism These employee representatives involved 26 employees who actively participated to meetings in Absenteeism is monitored locally in accordance with 2018. the regulations in force in the various countries where ESI Group is present. The Group does not have a Summary of agreements : standardized system in place to manage absences • summary of collective agreements : the French across all of its subsidiaries. subsidiary signed a variety of agreements with its However, while taking into account the variety of laws employee representatives, such as the reduced and the numerous particular factors considered by workload agreement, the profit-sharing agreement countries in terms of absenteeism as well as local and the Company savings plan agreement ; management of this information, ESI Group has • summary of agreements relating to health and chosen to extend the definition of absenteeism to the safety : no company signed an agreement in this following circumstances : regard. • short-term absence of an employee due to illness Well-being at work (less than 20 business days) ; Various initiatives have been launched in different • long term absence due to illness (more than 20 countries in recent years to enhance employee wellbusiness days) ; being, under the responsibility of the local Human • leave granted to parents following the birth or Resources Departments and working with employee adoption of a child in their household (maternity representative bodies such as the Health, Safety and and paternity leave) ; Working Conditions Committee (CHSCT) in France. • parental leave granted to parents so that they can At the end of 2017, the Group’s employees raise their young children (the legal duration of this implemented relaxation sessions on the French site leave varies according to local laws) ; of Rungis. Among the benefits, there are a better stress management, an improvement in productivity • an accident that befalls an employee while or the development of positive thinking. 10% of the performing his or her job or during job-related total employees in Rungis has already attended to a travel (workplace and travel accidents). session. South Korea, for example, also offers training on the theme of happiness and work-life balance. One of our German subsidiaries supports its employees in parenthood by offering them aids for the children’s nursery. The majority of projects carried out for our customers are completed in-house, meaning that engineers do not necessarily need to be at the customer’s site to The absenteeism rate is stable in France at 2.39% in develop or apply the software. This limits lengthy 2018 compared to 2.37% in 2017. travel for employees and so improves their work-life balance. Employer-employee dialogue Moreover, ESI enables its employees to work The quality of the employer-employee relationship is remotely in numerous countries. For example, France a key factor in determining the quality of life in the is currently working on a home office charter and the workplace and company productivity. In addition to right to disconnect. complying with regulatory requirements, healthy employer-employee dialogue improves the Company’s performance in both of these areas. A strong relationship between employer and employees is guaranteed through frequent exchanges between the Group’s management and the employees plus their representatives. ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 13 Promote diversity and multicultural exchanges Through the “Global” Policies: value of the Group, In order to promote diversity and reduce inequalities diversity is within the Group, ESI applies to : emphasized as it allows to enrich the • promote diversity and multicultural exchanges ; organization of a • increase the rate of feminization of permanent society. society.d’enrichir contracts ; The power of ESI Group’s highly innovative solutions • be compliant with laws promoting hiring and has made it possible to develop successfully retaining people regardless of age ; worldwide. As an international company, ESI Group is • be compliant with laws and regulations banning any proud to have a diverse, multicultural workforce. The form of discrimination based on age, race, gender, Group has always valued difference and encouraged ethnicity, nationality, religion, health, disability, its employees to share their ideas beyond borders to marital status, sexual orientation, political or create a modern and efficient work environment to philosophical opinions, trade union affiliation or any better serve its international customers. ESI Group other aspect protected by local legislation ; endeavors to boost its expertise all the time by bringing in top talent from around the world. These • not tolerate any form of sexual, physical or moral challenges are in line with United Nations goals 5 and harassment, coercion or bullying. 10 : « Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls » and « Reduce inequality within and among countries ». Outcomes: The tables below present a breakdown of employees by region and by country : ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 14 The percentage of women among permanent In addition, 36.7% of Group employees are under 35, employees was 19.8%, which is relatively low and which contributes to youth employment overall. In unchanged from previous years. This low 2019, 78.2% of employees hired were under 35. representation is due to the small number of women in engineering schools, which are our main source for recruiting, as well as socio-geographical disparities that can sometimes conduct to a lower rate of women activity. Nevertheless, our professional HRs are aware of the need to improve women ratio and carefully consider female candidates whenever the Group is hiring. In 2018, 47 women joined the Group, which represents 33% of total new recruits, higher compared to 2017 (27%). The average length of service in the Group is 8.2 years. This is relatively high for the dynamic sector of technologies and computing (source : Society for Human Resource Management study, 2015). The average length of service for employees over the age of 35 is 11.2 years. Principles of non-discrimination To provide more detailed information, particularly with respect to gender equality and non-discrimination, the Group completed its social HR database by introducing the status of manager for individuals who supervise one or more employees, and 15.54% are women, a slight increase compared to 2016 (14.2%). The average age of employees is 39.3 (female employees : 37.4 and male employees : 39.9). ESI Group is compliant with laws promoting hiring and retaining people regardless of age. As such, 17.69% of employees are aged 50 or more, i.e. 218 people worldwide (184 men and 34 women). Of those aged 50 and older, 67% are located in Europe, compared to 18.8% in Americas and 14.2% in Asia. ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 15 The Ethics Committee (composed of two women and Inclusion of employees with a disability one man) also ensures that none of the above Since the beginning of 2016 the Group works with discrimination is made within the Group (see 4.4). Elise at its Lyon site in France and since 2017 with In addition, in 2018, the Group raised awareness of Cèdre at its Rungis site, for the selective sorting. intercultural issues among 87 people. These These two companies aim to create permanent jobs awareness sessions were held in small groups in for people with disabilities. virtual classroom format. Employees from different countries of the Group were able to discuss about cultural differences and intercultural communication. Ensure the development of collaborators’ competencies Human resources are • implement training programs to allow employees to ESI’s greatest source learn more about the portfolio of solutions available of value and are in and to boost their managerial and professional line with the two skills (techniques, sales, etc.) ; following sustainable development goals : • develop partnership agreements with universities « Ensure inclusive and equitable «quality Ensure inclusiveand education and engineering schools to play an active role in promote lifelong learning opportunities for all » and « the training of young people ; Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and • promote the spread of information to all the Group decent work for all ». Developing talent is key to employees. ensuring the Group’s long term sustainability. To meet the ever more complex issues manufacturers face, Outcomes: and to remain on the cutting edge of technological innovation, the Group must build employee loyalty and Recruiting and retaining talent continuously enhance employees’ expertise. The Group pays special attention to the onboarding of new hires through an induction program managed Furthermore, the Group’s sheer size and its locally. In order to standardize and globalize the distribution in numerous countries mean that many induction process for new employees, a welcome projects involving various entities and cultures must be portal was designed on the internal website to guide managed on a Group-wide scale. Leadership, new hires through the steps of onboarding and expertise and collaborative management are essential guarantee individual access to a unique level of qualities that will make ESI Group successful at what it information to support them in their first days, weeks does. and months at ESI Group. Finally, the transformation of the Group and its new In 2018, a corporate induction program was launched : solutions focused on Hybrid TwinTM, in connection with The Welcome Days. Two sessions were held in 2018, ESI’s core business, provide an opportunity to develop one for newcomers from France and Germany and the and expand the trades and skills of the existing teams, other for newcomers from all EMEA offices. For 2019, and to recruit new talents directly related to these new the deployment of the “Welcome Days” is planned for concepts. Asia and the United States. The objective of this program is to give to all Group newcomers a more inPolicies: depth knowledge about ESI organization, values, and challenges. In this way, ESI Group applies to : • ensure the onboarding of new hires ; • enhance annual feedback by promoting data exchange to collect information as training needs and development plans and to facilitate the construction of appropriate local and/or global training plans that meet the needs of a changing business ; ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 16 It also provides an opportunity to meet with top develop competences on a common basis. management in person and to interact with In 2018, 549 employees, or 44.6% of the workforce, colleagues from different countries. received trainings, at a cost to the Company of The Group has also defined an internal mobility €505,000. program, integrated in the performance assessment In total for 2018, 10,377 training hours were provided, tool, enabling each employee to express their or an average of 18.9 hours of training per employee motivations and thereby highlight their skills and trained. expertise by applying for positions available within the Group, linked with needs and projects of the A key priority on the leadership skill has been customers. identified by the top management in 2017 and was pursued in 2018. During 2018, five sessions were Professional development and career held, 31 people were trained in total. management In terms of technical skills, the Group has set up a The Group has an individual performance and partnership with the e-learning platform Pluralsight development review process that calls for at least one where 190 employees can be trained all year round performance assessment per year between an on several hundred different subjects. employee and his or her supervisor. The objective is to evaluate the past year objectives, set new ones for Actions towards apprenticeship the coming year and also to build a personal Numerous partnership agreements have been signed development plan. with universities and engineering schools that allow The computerization of annual reviews was ESI Group to play an active role in the training of implemented for the entire Group in 2018. In 2018, young people. In EMEA, we can highlight the École 93% of employees achieved a performance review on Centrale de Paris (France), the Technical University the new online tool. of Dresden (Germany), the University of West Bohemia (Czech Republic), ENIT of Tunisia, with This new phase in the performance evaluation which ESI Group has special arrangements. The process aims to enhance annual feedback by universities of Alabama, Shanghai and Beijing, along promoting data exchange, monitoring and archiving, with the Indian Institute of Sciences among others, especially for remote teams. It also provides better work closely with ESI in the Americas and in Asiaaccess to performance data, employee satisfaction, Pacific. and professional training objectives to foster a more proactive career management. Following the successful partnership set up between ESI, EC Nantes and a Japan partner in 2017, these These performance reviews are the means for international student exchanges are being prosecuted collecting information as training needs and which strengthen the links between the academic development plans, and they make it easier to ecosystem and ESI projects. This kind of partnership, construct appropriate local and/or global training supported by its Scientific Department, is still plans that meet the needs of a changing business. illustrated by the implementation since September These performance reviews also represent the 2018, the ESI Chair in the ENSAM, and by a new opportunity to identify the Company’s high potentials contract signed with the University of Zaragoza for and put in place individual development plans. five years on Augmented Reality and Model Additionally, this system provides support for certain Reduction. On these themes, a post-doctoral student employees via a Performance Improvement Plan. from Zaragoza is currently on a mission in Seattle, at Professional training the University of Washington. Training programs have also been implemented within the Group’s various subsidiaries. Training plans are in line with ESI Group’s strategy and market trends. They allow employees to learn more about the portfolio of solutions available and to boost their managerial and professional skills (techniques, sales, etc.). In November 2017, a Virtual ESI Campus has been implemented in the corporate intranet : it enables all ESI employees to have access to various trainings. The objective is to democratize the access to training and to support employees to acquire new skills and to ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 17 Always supported by our Scientific Department, in newsletters, Flash Corporate News, Flash Quality February 2018, the Group announced the launch of a News, Flash HR News and corporate or product 5-year joint research program with the CEU Cardenal webinars. Herrera University (CEU-UCH) in Valencia, Spain. Q&A (Questions & Answers) sessions were also Additionally, the Group is very involved in working initiated in 2018 to enable a more fluid and with young graduated and integrated 44 students in transparent exchange between management and 2018 (42 interns and two apprentices). employees. Internal communication The Skype for Business tool is implemented in all subsidiaries and enables employees to easily share ESI Group has introduced several communication information and organize meetings. tools so that its employees stay well-informed while working across over 20 countries. Corporate events are also organized to allow the management from different entities to meet and A welcome portal was integrated into the Group’s exchange on the Group’s strategy. Management intranet to teach new employees about the Group meetings are organized twice a year, as well as a and its structure and values, and also to provide Kick Off Meeting dedicated for sales and marketing. access to the information they need to help their The team of Product Development and Engineering integration go smoothly. organizes once a year an Engineering Management Chatter, an internal social network, allows all Meeting, a one-week seminar where key managers employees to share ideas and inform each other and experts can meet. about a wide range of topics. In 2019, a new discussion group will be implemented during the first semester, around environmental issues. Each employee is invited to share the eco-responsible actions carried out in their professional and/or personal environment. Multiple communication initiatives are available to strengthen information sharing and cohesion within the Group, such as global presentations, monthly Ensure health and safety in the workplace and guarantee the provision of social benefits to employees The Group’s • provide high-quality welfare coverage for all its approach is also employees throughout the world ; implementing benefits package for • offer an attractive compensation and benefits our employees package. around the world, in Outcomes: particular particular by ensuring the employees’ health on a daily basis. This contributes to the following two objectives : Health and safety « Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all ESI Group has set an objective to provide high-quality at all ages » and « Promote sustained, inclusive and welfare coverage for all its employees throughout the sustainable economic growth, full and productive world with regard to healthcare, aging, disability and employment and decent work for all ». death. 13 countries out of 19 offer their employees to finance Policies: a local healthcare insurance in compliance with regulations and employee’s well-being. Some Since health and safety of employees in the countries, such as India, now offer a medical check-up workplace and employee benefits are necessary for once a year to their employees and, Tunisia has the smooth running of activities, ESI has set itself offered five sick leave days since February 2017. the objective of : ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 18 Since October 2018, one of our subsidiaries in All the countries in the employment reporting scope Germany has also been offering access to a offer their employees indirect compensation. company restaurant to enable its employees to eat in In Europe and the Americas, six subsidiaries have a balanced way. created an employee savings program. Compensation policy A corporate mutual fund (called FCPE) for employee To attract and retain the best talents on the market, shareholders was set up in France in 2013 to collect ESI Group offers an attractive compensation and future profit-sharing amounts and voluntary benefits package. This policy aims to recognize contributions within the Company savings plan. This employee talents by rewarding both individual and FCPE allows employees to buy Company shares, collective performance. with the employer matching contributions of 100% for up to €400 per year. Over this amount, ESI matches The compensation of employees comprises both 20% of employee contributions in an amount ranging direct and indirect elements. The latter includes from €401 to a maximum of €2,000. At January 31, deferred cash or in-kind additions to their monthly 2019, the FCPE owned 29,500 Company shares, compensation (bonuses, commissions, savings plan, 0.49% of the capital. benefits, etc.). 5.2. Being an outstanding partner The Group solutions help its customers cope with the • provide innovative, sustainable, high-quality challenges of their digital transformation. These solutions that meet our clients’ requirements ; solutions meet the continuously changing regulations • build long term, trusting relationships. that govern the Group’s businesses, in order to : Develop innovative and high-quality solutions How can an organization bring • engage itself in a process of zero physical test, innovative products to market while zero physical prototype, zero interruption of keeping costs and deadlines production ; reasonable ? How can an • guarantee the quality of its products and services organization integrate new materials and ensure client satisfaction ; and processes safely ? How can an organization reduce the impact organization reduce of these new • acquire a full global certification by 2021. materials, such as composites, on product performance and integrity ? What are the best Outcomes: practices for optimizing the product lifecycle and Innovative solutions to the zero-physical test, zero maintenance costs ? What processes will ensure that physical prototype, zero interruption of recycling requirements are met ? production The products developed by ESI Group are used to To meet its customers’ demand for ever more bring to market innovative products at a lower cost innovative products, the Group offers Virtual and with greater reliability and contributes through this Prototyping solutions that save manufacturers and section to the sustainable development goal 9 of the their subcontractors significant amounts of time and United Nations : »Build resilient infrastructure, money, and therefore support their efforts to innovate. promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and These are all key advantages that help customers foster innovation ». keep up with international competition. ESI Group gives its customers the capacity to perform Policies: virtual simulations as of the preliminary design phase, In its approach, ESI strives to : during detailed design phases, and throughout the product lifecycle, and also to approve the performance • meet its customers’ demand for ever more of their complete digital model step by step before innovative products ; producing a physical prototype. This approach makes it easier to make key decisions very early in the process. ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 19 Innovation is made possible through reliable virtual Since 2010, ESI Group has extended the scope of its prototypes and helps customers get their product certification using a global system common to all its right the first time. subsidiaries. Since risk management and quality management are closely linked, this worldwide Virtual Prototyping makes it possible to prepare certification is a sign of confidence in the quality of physical tests under the best conditions, going as far the solutions that the Group offers its customers and as pre-certification or eliminating the need to carry guarantees that particular attention is paid to out physical tests until final validation. excellence and to the alignment of all the Group’s Following the acquisitions of innovative companies in processes. ESI Group’s objective is to have full global the last years, in new technologies such as Artificial certification by 2021. The roadmap is updated every Intelligence, big data, or Internet of Things, ESI year to identify new entities to bring under the Group, Group is now able to represent the connected taking account of their impact on business, new product as used in its operational environment, acquisitions and the associated risks and meaning after its launch on the market. This Hybrid opportunities. TwinTM targets product predictive performance and In 2018, the global certification applied to 95% of the maintenance, to optimize repairs, facilitate workforce. certification update, and minimize recalls. Once the brand-new product is “right the first time” thanks to its Global certification is now successfully applied in pre-certified Virtual Prototype, it must be kept right Europe, Asia and the United States, within the ESI when in-Service, and perform right in real life, Group parent company and most of its subsidiaries : connected and operationally assisted in its digital ESI US R&D, ESI France, ESI Japan, Calcom ESI version. SA in Switzerland, ESI SW India (which includes the Pune and Bangalore sites), ESI SW Germany, ESI The Group’s success also stems from an approach NA in the United States, ESI Mecas in Czech based on close collaboration with world leaders in Republic, ESI Service Tunisia, ESI GmbH, ESI each sector where the Group is active, including Korea, ESI China, ESI Italia, ESI Hispania, ESI ITI in Renault-Nissan, Fiat Chrysler and Volkswagen in the Germany and ESI UK. automotive industry, or Boeing and Airbus in the aeronautic industry or EDF and Framatome in the 2018 also proved to be very successful with the energy industry. By building strong relations with integration of two new entities : ESI Open CFD (in large industrial firms, the Group can perfectly match United-Kingdom) and ESI Nordics AB (in Sweden), their Virtual Prototyping needs. These strategic and for the implementation of the new ISO 9001 partnerships help the Group’s customers assess their :2015 standard, and the rollout of the risk-based innovation requirements and implement them jointly approach in the different entities of the Group. with ESI Group. In addition, since their creation in 2018, the For example, using Virtual Prototyping to design “Welcome Days” have included a session on Quality airbags or carrying out an in-depth study of advanced in the agenda in order to understand the meaning of driver assistance systems (ADAS) increases the evolving under a Quality Management System and safety of vehicles for consumers. ESI Group solutions the approach to process improvement. give consumers greater safety and comfort. ESI Group has also undertaken an ISO 27001 A comprehensive approach to quality certification project, and is implementing an information security management system, which In 2000, ESI Group obtained its first ISO 9001 through appropriate risk management will ensure the certification, followed by the independent certification confidentiality, integrity and availability of information. of its subsidiaries, so as to guarantee the quality of its products and services and ensure client satisfaction. The benefits of ISO 9001 certification accrue to external as well as in-company stakeholders. Outside the Company, certification guarantees that ESI Group provides products and services that meet the needs of its clients, while it continues to evaluate and improve its processes. Within the Company, certification calls on employees to actively engage in an overall consistent management system. ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 20 Select and maintain trusting relationships with committed partners By developing the partnership subject to the same rules and verifications as any ecosystem that respects the Group's other employee of the Group. values its commitments, ESI contributes to the sustainable To provide its customers with quality products, ESI development goal 12 Ensure Group monitors and regularly evaluates all suppliers sustainable consumption and influencing quality through a questionnaire completed production production patterns . patterns . ESI Group has a wide range of in-house to assess the supplier based on the service internal skills that cover its software Edition activity on provided. A list of approved suppliers is made the one hand and its services activities on the other. available for this purpose on the intranet and updated However, when it is necessary to mobilize resources periodically. outside its usual scope of business, or when specific expertise is recommended, ESI Group may The Company now includes an environmental criterion occasionally call on external suppliers. (energy consumption for operation, local purchasing, possibility of recycling the product, etc.) in the Policies: purchasing procedure of its suppliers and subcontractors. Training on responsible purchasing Develop a partnership ecosystem that respects the have been planned for the most important buyers. To Group’s values and commitments. date, one person has completed this training. Outcomes: ESI Group also takes care not to create a situation of dependence on suppliers and subcontractors. ESI Group remains fully responsible for all outside subcontractors. In this regard, the subcontractors are subject 5.3. Being an environmentally friendly player Considering the nature of its activity – distribution of • to limit emissions of greenhouse gases associated software and sales of consulting services – the Group with travel by Group employees; believes its impact on the environment to be very • to limit the impact related to waste electrical and limited. All of its activities are carried out in offices. electronic equipment (WEEE). However, the Group has still pledged to work towards limiting its environmental footprint. Scope adopted: France, Germany, Czech Republic, Japan, United States, Tunisia, India, Switzerland, The main environmental challenges identified by the China, Spain, United-Kingdom, South Korea, Italy Group are: and Brazil. • to reduce energy consumption in its buildings and data centers; Ensure a more sustainable consumption and production ESI Group believes that • limiting energy consumption; environmental responsibility should • limiting paper consumption and transitioning to the be a priority for all companies, and use of recycled paper; strives to reduce its environmental impact and to manage its resources • limiting water consumption; in a more sustainable way and • develop a waste recycling process all over the contributes to thecontributes sustainable development goal 12 sites; Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns . • constantly raise its employees’ awareness of measures taken to avoid wasting energy, and Policies: thereby to reduce its environmental impact. The main environmental issues in which ESI is involved are: ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 21 Outcomes: for heat. The Swiss office is located in a Minergiecertified building. Minergie is a Swiss association Energy consumption whose objective is to reduce energy consumption in In 2018, electricity consumption on the Rungis site buildings by proposing rational energy consumption totaled 463,561 kWh, an average of 3,287.7 kWh per and the use of renewable energies. employee, a decrease of 27%, partly due to the move To minimize energy consumption, the Group has in the new HQE certified building during summer 18. installed LED lights at its Rungis, Paris and Ter@tec Thus, a better energy consumption management can offices in France and at its offices in India. In addition, be possible. On the Ter@tec campus where ESI has during upgrades of certain workspaces in France, the been involved since 2012, the installation of the PoD Group has given preference to lighting with low power in 2016 (Point of Delivery – a high-density mobile consumption, removed hot water tanks from data center that can house up to 3,500 server nodes) restrooms, and refurbished air conditioning systems. increased the energy consumption (+24.24% in 2017 Motion sensors have been installed for lighting and +10.45% in 2018). These successive increases systems in Tunisia, in San Jose in the USA, and also are due to the increasing use of the servers. The in ESI Software in Germany. In Japan, the lights energy consumption in the Group’s headquarters, automatically turn off after a while. located in Paris, has slightly increased by 1.73% (due to technical issues and heat inside the building). Furthermore, an energy audit has been realized in Electricity consumption data is not available for the 2017 on the three German sites of the Group, in Neuother French sites, as it is either included in rental Isenburg, Stuttgart and Dresden. The result shows charges or collective. that the sites are good energy quality. Average electricity consumption per employee came It should be also noted that the Spanish office in to 2,161.2 kWh for the sites in Germany, the Czech Madrid is part of a LEED (Leadership in Energy and Republic, India, Tunisia, Spain, Japan and China, Environmental Design) certification project, led by the representing a slight decrease of 16.20% compared owner. to 2017. It should be noted that data on electricity Paper consumption consumption is not available for one of the three German sites. Everyday use by employees is the main source of paper consumption. Moreover, energy consumption in the United States is not measurable as the facilities are leased. Energy usage is included in the utility fees, which include factors other than electricity, and is re-evaluated annually. Within the 2018 reporting scope, ESI Group uses renewable energy production at its Swiss site, where hydropower is used for electricity and thermic energy For all data studied (with the exception of Japan and higher in France but reduced by 35.1% in 2018. South Korea), average paper consumption in 2018 Nearly 67% of the countries included in the scope was a little higher and stable with about 2.0 reams of have automatically set up black and white and singlepaper used per employee. The paper consumption is sided printing. ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 22 Japan made 100% of its prints with recycled paper, Treatment and recycling of waste followed by Spain on 50% of its prints and China on Due to its activity, ESI Group mainly produces non30%. hazardous waste, as well as paper, cardboard and ESI Group also continues its electronic documents plastic. To the best of its knowledge, the Group does program by implementing IT tools and processes to not generate any hazardous waste, except waste reduce the use of paper and energy consumption electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE). related to printing. Dematerialization has been In 2014, recycling bins were introduced on the Lyon established for many documents, including travel site, the second biggest site in France, as it was done orders, leave requests and offer reviews. The in 2013 on the Rungis site. Thus almost 100% of the invoices and purchase order processing is done via a French workforce is aware of this action in their daily tool called Yooz. In addition, SharePoint, a Cloudlives. Since early 2017, the Rungis site has been based service for electronic document archiving and testing a more elaborate waste sorting system that storage, was installed in 2016. better meets environmental standards in partnership In early 2017, employee representatives were elected with Cèdre, a company that collects and manually in a fully electronic voting process, preventing the sorts office paper into five categories to optimize need to print ballots for the nine offices in France. recycling. In 2018, 126 kg of waste were recovered Annual evaluations were also performed by Cèdre in the French site of Rungis, in which 90 kg electronically in 2018 using the Loopline Systems of paper, against 696 kg in 2017, 81.9% less waste. tool. At the Lyon site, ESI collaborates with Elise, a waste ESI also offers its employees in France the possibility collection and recycling company that provides stable to create a safe on Digiposte to dematerialize HR employment for people with integration difficulties, documents such as pay slips. particularly those with disabilities. In 2018, Elise recovered 1,029 kg of waste, including 931 kg of Finally, the use of a new local printing and delivery paper. Recycling this waste saved 21,600 litres of tool, called Gelato, allows subsidiaries to locally order water, 5,934 kWh of energy and 18 trees. the necessary quantity of documents they need. Ultimately, this tool saves paper by printing on The Aix-en-Provence site, 60 kg of paper was demand, which allows ordering only what is needed recycled by Recy’go, generating a saving of 17 kg of and on a local basis. CO2. Water consumption All the German, American, Czech, Japanese, Spanish, Italian and Swiss sites are also equipped The Company’s business is not very water-intensive with bins for sorting waste. It is planned to extend this as it does not require water for production. ESI measure to all European sites in the future. Group’s water is therefore solely for sanitary use and is drawn from urban networks. With regard to other specific waste, notably waste electrical and electronic equipment (WEEE), ESI It is difficult to perform an accurate assessment of Group attaches great importance to the water consumption. The Group is the lessee of all of environmental management of its IT equipment, in its offices, and the water consumption of each site is terms of both its use and its recycling. included in rental charges and can therefore not be broken down in detail. However, as for the sites for The Group’s IT equipment mainly comprises desktop which we have information, for the Rungis site in and laptop computers, servers, copiers and printers. France, ESI Mecas in the Czech Republic, the two The Group cannibalizes computer hardware (uses sites in India, the UK site, the Spanish site, the parts of one machine to repair another) whenever Chinese site and South Korea, the average water possible to give a second life to some faulty consumption was of 4.0 cubic meters per employee. equipment. In 2017, the average consumption was of 5.3 cubic meters per employee (on a smaller scope: Rungis, Czech Republic, ESI GmbH in Germany, India and China). ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 23 In France and the United States, end-of-life or suppliers. Containers are available to staff for this obsolete hardware is collected by an authorized purpose in offices. provider that manages the processing of electronic Raising employee awareness waste. In Germany, the Cleaning and Facilities Management Department, in coordination with the IT During summer 2018, ESI produced a short video clip Departments, is tasked with collecting used electronic for all employees on simple ecofriendly actions to equipment. Waste management is then passed on to adopt at work the local authority of each city. In Spain, an (https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nUIdRRLDgRk). instruction explains where obsolete electronic In 2019, a new discussion group will be implemented equipment must be taken in order to be recycled. during the first semester, around environmental Furthermore, on request to our supplier in France, issues. Each employee is invited to share the ecoprinter cartridges are collected and recycled via a responsible actions carried out in their professional completely ecological chain. and/or personal environment. Lastly, in the entire environmental scope, except Tunisia, ink cartridges, batteries, defective light bulbs and fluorescent tubes are recovered by our various Reduce its greenhouse emission As ESI Group operates both in employee expenses throughout the Group. This tool France and internationally, and as its will facilitate administrative procedures and, above all, activity is within the tertiary sector, will allow a better monitoring of travel across the whole transport is the main source of its ESI Group. greenhouse gas emissions. ESI In 2018, emissions resulting from business travel by Group’s actions meet the sustainable French, American and German employees by train 13 “Take urgent action to combat development goaldevelopment and by air totaled 1,975.8 kg per employee, an climate change and its impacts”. increase of 17% compared 2017. In 2017, the Group engaged a restructuration and an alignment of its Policies: teams, which led to an increase of travels in order to optimize this transformation. It should be noted that In order to reduce its carbon footprint, ESI Group is four members out of eight of the Group Executive committed to a process of: Committee are based out of France. The Group also intensified its participation to international events, • limit emissions resulting from business travel by which led to an increase of travels. It is worth noting train and by plane; that this data is provided by travel agencies that • limit CO2 emissions from company car travel; manage the Group’s travel reservations. Any reservations made by employees themselves are not • develop the use of web conferencing tools. included. Outcomes: In 2018, 42 employees in France had a company car, To limit travels, the Group updated its travel policy. 55 in Germany, 33 in the Czech Republic, five in This policy is global in scope and adapts to local Spain, five in Italy and two in Switzerland. In Japan, specificities. Employees are encouraged to travel by India and China, only one person had a company car. train rather than by plane for trips of less than three There were no company cars in the United States, in hours. In France, a car policy also applies to people Tunisia or Brazil in 2018. The granting rate with a company car (as the French vehicle fleet is d’att mainly comprised of vehicles under three years old). A car policy is also defined in the German site of NeuIsenberg. In 2015, ESI Group began to redraft its “Good Driver Charter” to incorporate limitations on, among other things, engine power and CO2 emissions. This policy is initially applicable to French employees, but should be extended to all ESI sites. During the first quarter of 2019, a new tool was implemented to centralize travel requests and employee ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 24 of company cars is higher in Germany due in Among the measures implemented over the past few particular to the higher proportion of salespeople and years, the adoption of Gelato in the beginning of 2018 to German culture which encourages this type of helps to avoid 925,712 km, a diminution of 65% of the compensation. past shipping distance for the delivery of our documents. The estimate of annual CO2 emissions from company car travel in France was 155,021 kg or To limit the use of transport, the Group also provides 3,691 kg per company car, a 10.6% decrease employees with web conferencing tools to facilitate compared to last year. cooperation between employees working in different locations without requiring them to travel. Some Overall, business travel by French employees meeting rooms are also equipped with audio and/or generated 493.7 tons of CO2 in 2018, a decrease of video conferencing systems to facilitate remote 14.3% per employee. meetings. Also, all workstations are equipped with the As for company cars in the Czech Republic, the Skype for Business software allowing online audio estimated emissions in 2018 were 105 tons of CO2, and video meetings up to 250 persons. an average of 3,182 kg per car, a slightly increase of In 2018, an average of 144 audio meetings, lasting 5% compared to 2017. about 41.6 minutes on average (24% more than in Lastly, for Germany, estimated emissions related to 2017), were organized within the Group per day using train and plane are amounted to 188 tons of CO2 Skype for Business. (two entities out of three), a decrease of 21% compared to 2017. Consumption related to cars is amounted to 1,857 kg of CO2 per car, an increase of 27% linked to an increase of vehicles. In total, the German employees consumption, which is amounted to 446 tons, has been stable compared to 2017. 5.4. Serving civil society Partnerships are an integral part of the Group’s Group invested 26.4% of its revenues in R&D in strategy to facilitate and promote Virtual Prototyping 2018. while acting sustainably (see 3.2.4). Innovation makes it possible to resolve the multiple The Group considers its main stakeholders to be its constraints and pressures that weigh on all employees, customers, suppliers, and industry and manufacturers – to develop a safer, more efficient academic partners, but also its investors and and more environmentally friendly product, faster and shareholders. at a lower cost. The innovative Virtual Prototyping solutions offered by ESI Group allow us to approach Innovation, which is at the core of ESI Group’s these ever-present economic goals. business, is also a key issue of CSR. Innovation continually improves production processes and ESI Group strongly believes that its ability to innovate shortens the design period and the time it takes to and research is a key factor in its differentiation and develop more efficient and more reliable new hence its competitiveness, two essential levers for products. sustainable growth. To remain at the leading edge of innovation, the Develop solutions that contributes to reducing the environmental footprint From the outset, by developing bringing more environmentally friendly production to innovative Virtual Prototyping the market. ESI Group contributes to through this products, ESI Group has sought to challenge to the sustainable development goal 9 of the measure the impact of its solutions United Nations “Build resilient infrastructure, promote on society. Indeed, ESI’s solutions inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster enable reductions in the number of innovation”. physical physical prototypes, which are costly and require large amounts of energy, raw materials and time, and bringing ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 25 Policies: present today with the acceleration towards the electric vehicle, whose weight, and particularly the ESI is committed through its solutions to helping its weight of the battery, becomes a central issue; customers to: • Reduced waste associated with prototyping • reduce time-to-market; and manufacturing: Students from the Czech • reduce total product weight; Technical University in Prague (ČVUT), Czech Republic, were able to avoid physical crash tests • reduce waste associated with prototyping and of their race car thanks to ESI Virtual Performance manufacturing; Solution (VPS), using only virtual tests of the • improve useful life of products; material to validate the model. This enabled them to move swiftly to the design optimization of the • reduce the environmental footprint of products; crash absorber structure. The capability of VPS to • improve the safety of the products. complete multiple simulations on a single core model allowed the team to thoroughly examine Outcomes: various measurements. The End to End solution supported the project goals, which were met Tighter regulations on greenhouse gas emissions and entirely within the allotted time and budget; recycling requirements, higher fuel prices and consumers’ growing environmental concerns are all • Improved useful life of products: the creation of boosting demand for more environmentally friendly a Hybrid TwinTM based on the virtual prototype to products. Reducing one’s environmental footprint recreate the behavior of a windmill in operation now drives industry innovation. All the sectors where and in its environment helps to ensure the ESI Group operates are working to improve their maintenance and to reduce its cost (-47%). The environmental performance by manufacturing more predictive maintenance and the repairs environmentally friendly products, developing more optimization allow an increased reliability of ecological manufacturing processes, and reducing or windmills; eliminating physical prototypes. • Reduced gas emissions: Thanks to ESI PAMBy successfully combining advanced manufacturing STAMP solution, Kirchhoff Automotive was able to processes with the most innovative materials, such integrate ultra-high strength steel, which caused a as composites, ESI’s solutions bring customers the springback issue, into the conception and forming following advantages: process of its components more quickly. This new material offers a lightweight option to traditional • Reduced time-to-market: with ESI ProCAST, steels and can thereby contribute to reduced CO2 Nissin Kogyo, who develops, manufactures, and emissions. sells brake equipment for twoand four-wheeled, could successfully cast complex shapes after an As such, ESI Group’s digital prototypes can analysis using precise finite element technology. significantly reduce consumption of raw materials and All possible defects were predicted with the energy and help achieve compliance with highest accuracy. By introducing ESI ProCAST on environmental standards for new products as shown a full-scale basis, Nissin Kogyo reduced their in these examples. Furthermore, the new Hybrid development time and trial production, allowing TwinTM concept of the Group targets product them to reach the market faster; predictive performance and maintenance, to optimize repairs, facilitate certification update, and minimize • Reduced total product weight: using ESI’s recalls. Virtual Seat Solution, the company Expliseat has developed the lightest seat ever certified by the European Aviation Safety Agency (EASA). This titanium seat is 50% lighter than the lightest models currently available on the market (8 kg to 10 kg). This significant weight reduction could result in an estimated 3% to 5% reduction in fuel usage, saving $300,000 to $500,000 per aircraft per year. • Likewise, the use of Virtual Performance Solution by ESI experts helps to design lighter vehicles to help vehicle manufacturers in their weight reduction challenge. This challenge is even more ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 26 Act ethically and responsibly The Ethics Charter applied across procedures inherent in the following business conduct: the Group is in line with the ‒ Relations with our business partners: principles of sustainable development objective 16 “Promote • establish transparent and loyal business peaceful and inclusive societies for dealings with clients, sustainable development, provide • deal honestly and fairly with all clients no matter access to justice accessfor all and build effective, the size of their company, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels”. • provide quality products and services that meet A three-member Ethics Committee is responsible for the needs of its customers; creating an environment where employees can adhere to the Ethics Charter and ensure that its principles are ‒ Actions taken to prevent corruption: upheld by everyone, every day. The Committee listens • prohibition of any form of corruption in its to and assists employees so that they can discuss any relations with its business and institutional issue involving the implementation of and compliance partners and with the administration, with the Ethics Charter. It also works to make sure that all Group subsidiaries apply the principles set out in • no financial or in-kind gratuities may be given the Charter. This Committee meets regularly, at least with a view to obtaining an advantage, nor may once a year, to discuss ethics issues and come up such gratification be received to benefit a with corrective measures, if necessary. company or person, In 2016, the Group issued its Ethics Charter to • if an employee makes facilitation payments or promote observance of its values and confirm its influence-peddling in the course of their commitment to the main rules of conduct that the professional activities, he is likely to be subject Group wants to see applied internally. This Ethics to criminal penalties and its contract of Charter reaffirms the legal, regulatory and internal employment will be terminated, provisions relating to the respect of fundamental rights • prohibition to receive, give, promise or solicitate at work, professional integrity, the elimination of facilitation payments or influence-peddling discrimination, and the prohibition of child labor and undue benefits with a view to granting, obtaining forced labor. It is based on the observance of the or maintaining a contract or any other ethical rules promoted by the conventions of the advantage; International Labor Organization. The Ethics Charter was disseminated to all employees and is available in ‒ Fraud and money laundering: six languages on the Group’s internal and external • comply with laws on fraud and money websites. laundering, A new version of the Charter has been communicated • conduct business only with reputable partners, to all employees in the course of the first 2018 semester. This version strengthens the Group’s • be vigilant regarding any payments made, in position on corruption, facilitation payment and other order to detect any irregularities, especially frauds, in the context of the French law “Sapin II”. concerning partners whose business conduct may raise suspicion, Regarding the European Union data protection regulations, which are supervised in France by the • ensure that the accounting and tax declarations CNIL (Commission nationale Informatique et Libertés), sent to the authorities are complete and reflect ESI Group, as a French company, must comply with the reality of each subsidiary; them. ‒ Compliance with antitrust laws: Within ESI, we launched the GDPR project in 2016 • prohibition of any exchange of confidential with a raising awareness approach at Company level information and any arrangement – formal or in France and at local level in Germany. A specific informal – or attempt to enter into arrangements working group has been created to manage the entire with competitors which seek to fix prices or project and coordinate local initiatives. Several conditions of sale, to share a market or to working groups have been created for functions that boycott a particular market actor, are particularly affected by these regulations, either because of their use of our employees’ personal data • prohibition of abusing a dominant position or a or because of the customers, suppliers, investors and monopoly and also from acquiring or partners’ data of ESI Group. maintaining a dominant power other than by recognized legitimate means such as patents, The Ethics Charter contains the policies and skills, superior procedures ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 27 know-how or geographical location. functions that are particularly affected by these regulations, either because of their use of our Regarding the European Union data protection employees’ personal data or because of our regulations, which are supervised in France by the customers, suppliers, investors and partners’ CNIL (Commission nationale Informatique et data; Libertés), ESI Group, as a French company, must comply with them. • the implementation of a dedicated section on the Group's intranet to share all relevant Within ESI, we launched the GDPR project in information. The information on current 2016 with a raising awareness approach at regulations, past webinars and the strategy Company level in France and at local level in applied to each function (Marketing and Sales, Germany. These measures include: Human Resources, IT, Legal, etc.) are • the creation of a specific working group to available in this section. manage the entire project and coordinate local initiatives; • the creation of several working groups for the Develop partnerships with the academic and scientific communities By developing Outcomes: partnerships with the various digital ESI Group participates in several competitiveness players, ESI Group is clusters, principally in France. These clusters provide once again the proximity needed for collaborative work with major contributing to the industrial players and research and development following sustainable development objectives following “Build sustainable organizations in order to bring highly innovative resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and products to market. Located all over France, these sustainable industrialization and foster innovation” and organizations are as follows: Aerospace Valley “Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and (Toulouse), ASTech Paris Région (Île-de-France), promote lifelong learning opportunities for all”. Nuclear Valley (Burgundy), Mov’eo (Normandy and Île-de-France), I-Trans (Nord-Pas-de-Calais and ESI Group is convinced that it is by investing with Picardy), iD4CAR (Brittany and Pays-de-la-Loire), various players in the digital community that the Group Systematic (Île-de-France), Minalogic (Grenoble and will strengthen its position as a leading player in digital Rhône-Alpes), Pôle Pégase (Provence-Alpes-Côte transformation and leader in virtual engineering. d’Azur) and Pôle ViaMeca (Auvergne-Rhône-Alpes). The Company is an active member of TECH IN Since 2013, ESI Group has had a presence on the France (formerly AFDEL, the French association of campus and the Board of Directors of Ter@tec, software publishers), which helps promote the Europe’s largest intensive computing center, based 20 software publishing industry and develop digital km outside Paris at the Saclay platform in Île-desimulation, and which currently represents over 400 France, alongside the CEA (the atomic and alternative members. In so doing, ESI Group is strengthening its energy commission), a major player in research, position in France as a leading player in digital development and innovation. Today, ESI Group is transformation and is bringing in its vision for virtual involved in several collaborative projects under the engineering as well as its economic and social values. leadership of the System X IRT. Policies: ESI Group is also a member of the Executive In order to facilitate collaboration and encourage Committee of the Systematic Paris Region industrial innovation, the Group makes sure to create Competitiveness Cluster and of AS Tech Paris and maintain quality relationships with various players Region, two local competitiveness clusters with a in the digital community, at the industrial, academic global influence, which anime the collaborative and associative levels. research in the Île-de-France ecosystem, respectively in the digital sector and the aerospace industry. ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 28 As a pioneer in innovation in the automotive sector, Future) platform as an associate member. This major the ID4CAR cluster has appointed Vincent Chaillou, initiative was launched to transform production Chief Operating Officer of ESI Group, as the new facilities in the fast-moving aeronautics industry, President of ID4CAR in February 2018, after a which must deal with an unprecedented increase in regular attendance to its Board of Directors since requirements. As a result, ESI participated in the 2012. The aim of this cluster is to increase the development of a plan and is already contributing to competitiveness of the sustainable vehicles and four major projects that aim to spread the use of transportation sector in western France through Virtual Prototyping and increase development of innovation. manufacturing processes for the future, such as additive manufacturing or manufacturing of large Through this presidency, ESI Group contributed to composite materials. the development of the strategic plan for the automotive industry. These plans are developed at ESI also participates in other CORAC plans, like the initiative of the CNI so that each CSF (strategic those for the DEPACE platforms for the Composite committee of the sector) develops its own Aircraft of the Future, the SEFA platform to develop transformation plan towards the industry of the future the Cockpit of the Future, and the plans for the in general and particularly digitalization, by involving Helicopter of the Future, in order to strengthen the entire value chain contributing to the sector. French excellence in these fields. In this way, ESI helps to make commercial aircraft cockpits safer and ESI is also one of the founding members of Excelcar. more comfortable, and thus keep cost margins under Created in 2014, the aim of this association is to control for manufacturing important parts in helicopter revitalize and create jobs around a technical platform transmissions boxes. for R&D excellence in Brittany, devoted to automotive applications and supported by PSA. This initiative is ESI Group is also an active member of the Nuclear supported by the Union des industries et des métiers Valley cluster. Nuclear Valley helps to restore the la métallurgie of Ille-et-Vilaine and Morbihan (UIMM competitiveness of the nuclear industry on the 35-56), for the purpose of stimulating the automotive international market by providing its expertise in industry in Brittany around PSA Rennes, which has virtual reality to facilitate the replacement of existing announced its strategic plan for the coming years. equipment or its maintenance. ESI participates in the 3DMat innovation platform Since 2013, several initiatives have emerged to specifically for developing a digital simulation and design the Usine de Demain (Factory of the Future) Virtual Prototyping channel for new multi-material and and to use it to drive competitiveness and composite architectures, with priority given to the attractiveness for the region. ESI Group participates automotive industry. in the Nouvelle France Industrielle, a national Again, in the transportation sector, ESI is an active initiative, and contributes, on this basis, to the work of member of IRT Railenium whose main mission is to the Alliance pour l’Industrie du Futur. Vincent Chaillou lengthen the lifecycle of railways infrastructure and is the representative of the TECH IN professional capitalize on the rapid international development of association of software publishers on the Board of its new products. Involving a broad consortium of Directors of the Alliance Industrie du Futur since manufacturers and research organizations, in 2011, August 2015. ESI Group was selected by the Investissements Thereby, ESI contributes to several working groups d’Avenir (Grand Emprunt) Program. that focus, in particular, on developing and promoting ESI also assists the mechanical engineering field and key technologies of the Industry 4.0. promotes its activities. The Company is a member of ESI Group has coordinated the “Promotion of Existing the Board of Directors of the Association Française Technological Supply” group since its creation. In this de Mécanique (AFM), a body for information, regard, the Group is working with its peers to dialogue and discussion for the mechanical structure and circulate the French supply, in engineering community (industry professionals and particular by jointly creating with the French Chamber technology transfer organizations, teachers and of Commerce and Industry the first national directory researchers) and representing French mechanical of Suppliers of Solutions for the Industry of the Future engineering to its foreign counterparts. In the field of (Offreurs de Solutions Industrie du Futur – OIF). This aeronautics, ESI actively participates in initiatives tool will boost the technological supply and its from the Council for Civil Aeronautics Research deployment within the industry both in France and (CORAC) undertaken as part of the Plan internationally. Through its action in this working d’Investissement d’Avenir. In 2014, ESI was invited group, ESI Group has also contributed to launching by the seven top French aeronautics companies, the Créative Industrie trademark in partnership with which are members of GIFAS, to join the Usine Business France. ESI’s IC.IDO virtual reality solution Aéronautique du Futur (Aeronautics Factory of the was selected to illustrate the Value Chain ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 29 Digitalization Technologies trademark when it was simulation community within the Digital Aquitaine launched by the current President of the Republic of cluster. This group brings together a number of France, Emmanuel Macron, at the Hannover Messe industrial, academic and institutional players from the in April 2016. region. It has led to the creation of the first interdisciplinary digital community dedicated to ESI is also a player of the Alliance for the industry of simulation, HPC, virtual prototyping and immersive the future for the development of key technologies for experience to support industries and future the industrial transformation. Thus, ESI is the top-tier applications. partner of the SOFIA program aiming to develop the additive manufacturing sector in France (Solutions At the international level, ESI Group is involved in pour la fabrication industrielle additive métallique). promoting French know-how in the technological field The additive manufacturing, a numerical process, of the Industry of the Future. In 2018, its actions took gives an essential role to Virtual Prototyping, which place in the Russian industrial ecosystem with the positions naturally ESI as a key player of this sector. setting up of bilateral meetings. It is also as part of this commitment that ESI Group participated to the Regionally, ESI Group is part of the Aerocampus SPIEF 2018 (Saint-Petersburg International Aquitaine Cluster which is the first European expert’s Economic Forum) where France and President network that answers the training needs of Macron were Honorary Guests. ESI took part in the companies in the aeronautic and aerospace sectors. official round table on the Industry of the Future, The Aerocampus training center uses ESI IC.IDO, being the only French mid-cap company present at ESI’s virtual reality solution, together with the Institute this debate. of Aeronautic Maintenance (IMA). ESI Group has worked with the Nouvelle-Aquitaine Regional Council to create the “SMART 4D” ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 30 5. Report of the inspecting organization Year ending January 31, 2018 This is a free translation into English of the original report issued in the French language and it is provided solely for the convenience of English speaking users. This report should be read in conjunction with, and construed in accordance with, French law and professional standards applicable in France. To the shareholders, Following the request received from ESI Group (referred to hereinafter as “the entity”) and in our capacity as an independent third-party body with an accreditation granted by the COFRAC under registration n° 3-1081 (available on www.cofrac.fr), we hereby present our report on the consolidated statement on non-financial performance for the year ending January 31, 2018 (referred to hereinafter as the “Statement”), presented in the Group’s management report in accordance with the statutory and regulatory provisions of Articles L. 225-102-1, R. 225-105 and R. 225-105-1 of the French Code of Commerce. Entity’s duty The Board of Directors has a duty to draw up a Statement that complies with statutory and regulatory provisions, including a presentation of the business model, a description of the main non-financial risks, a presentation of the policies applied in view of these risks together with the results of those policies, including key performance indicators. The Statement has been drawn up according to the authoritative accounting pronouncements used, (referred to hereinafter as the “Pronouncements”) by the entity whose significant elements available upon request from the Company’s head office. Independence and quality control Our independence is defined in the provisions of L. 822-11-3 of the French Code of Commerce and the profession’s Code of Conduct. Moreover, we have set up a quality control system that includes documented policies and procedures aiming to ensure that rules of conduct, professional ethics and the applicable statutory and regulatory provisions are complied with. Duty of the independent third-party body We have a duty, on the basis of our work, to formulate a reasoned opinion expressing a conclusion of a moderate level of assurance as to: • the Statement’s compliance with the provisions set out in Article R. 225-105 of the French Code of Commerce; • the sincerity of the information furnished in application of 3° of I and of II of Article R. 225-105 of the French Code of Commerce, namely the results of the policies, including key performance indicators and actions relating to the main risks, referred to hereinafter as the “Information”. However, we have no duty to give an opinion on: • whether the entity has complied with other applicable statutory and regulatory provisions, including, matters relating to the vigilance plan and the fight against corruption and tax evasion; • compliance of products and services with applicable regulations. Nature and scope of the work We carried out the work in accordance with standards that apply in France and that determine the ways in which the independent third-party body carries out its mission, and with international standard ISAE 3000. We carried out our work between May 2, 2019 May 21, 2019 for a period of approximately eight days/person. We held two interviews with people in charge of the Statement. We carried out the work enabling us to evaluate the extent to which the Statement complies with the regulatory provisions and the sincerity of the Information: ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 31 • we informed ourselves of the activity of all of the companies falling within the scope of the consolidation, of the exposure to the main corporate and environmental risks linked to this activity, and of its effects on human rights and the fight against corruption and tax evasion together with the policies that ensue and their results; • we looked into the appropriateness of the Pronouncements with a view to their relevance, exhaustiveness, reliability, neutrality and comprehensive nature, taking into account, where necessary, the sector’s good practices; • we checked that the Statement covered each category of information provided under III of Article L. 225-1021 on corporate and environmental matters and whether human rights were being complied with and the fight against corruption and tax evasion; • we checked that the Statement presents the business model and the main risks linked to the activity of all of the companies falling within the scope of the consolidation, including, where relevant and proportionate, the risks created by business relations, products or services as well as policies, actions and results along with key performance indicators; • we checked, where relevant in view of the main risks or policies presented, that the Statement presents information set out in II of Article R. 225-105; • we looked into the selection and validation process of the main risks; • we enquired about the existence of internal verification and risk management procedures set up by the entity; • we looked into the coherence of results and of key performance indicators used in view of the main risks and policies presented; • we checked that the Statement covers the consolidated scope, namely all of the companies falling within the scope of consolidation in accordance with Article L. 233-16 with the limits set out in the paragraph 3.1 ‘The methodology’ and 3.4.3 ‘Being an environmentally friendly player’; • we studied the information-gathering process set up by the entity aiming to obtain information that is exhaustive and sincere; • with regard to key performance indicators and other quantitative results that we consider to be the most important, we implemented: • analytical procedures consisting of checks to ensure that the data collected was consolidated correctly and that its evolution was coherent; • detailed tests on the basis of surveys, consisting of checks to ensure definition and procedures were applied correctly and of checks linking data to supporting documentation. This work was carried out with a selection of contributing entities(1) and covered between 10% and 100% of the consolidated data of the key performance indicators and results selected for these tests(2) ; • we consulted documentary sources and held interviews to corroborate what we considered to be the most important qualitative information (actions and results); • we looked into the overall coherence of the Statement with reference to our knowledge of the companies as a whole falling within in the scope of the consolidation. We consider that the work carried out and, exercising our professional judgment, enables us to formulate a conclusion of a moderate level of assurance; a higher level of assurance would have required more extensive verification work. In view of the fact that sampling techniques were used and that there are other limits inherent to the functioning of any system of information and internal control, we cannot rule out totally the risk that a significative anomaly in the Statement has not been detected. (1) Social indicators: ESI Group. Environmental indicators: ESI site in Rungis, Lyon, Tunisia and United-Kingdom. (2) Ensure a decent work, Promote diversity and multicultural exchanges, Actions towards apprenticeship, Internal communication, Ensure a more sustainable consumption and production, Reduce its greenhouse emissions. ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 32 Conclusion On the basis of our work, we did not note any significant anomaly of such a nature as to cast any doubt on the fact that the statement of non-financial performance complies with the applicable regulatory provisions and that that Information, as a whole, has been presented with sincerity, in accordance with the Pronouncements. Lyon, on May 22, 2019 FINEXFI Isabelle Lhoste Partner ESI GROUP STATEMENT ON EXTRA-FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE 2018 33 French limited company with a share capital of €18,053,676 Registered office: 100/102, avenue de Suffren, 75015 Paris Paris Trade and Company Register (RCS) number: 381 080 225 Tel. : +33 (0)1 49 78 28 28 www.esi-group.com G-FC-19-33-A
