2018 Sustainability Report CONTENT 03. Message from the President 05. Message from the CEO 07. Highlights 2018 09. TMG Group and TMG Automotive 11. Our Market 12. TMG Automotive’s Strategic Vision 13. How much do we sell? 14. Stakeholders Interaction & Communication Channels 15. Materiality 17. TMG Automotive & the Sustainable Development Goals 18. Challenge 1: Innovation as a driver for Sustainable Development 21. Challenge 2: Reduce environmental impact through sustainable products 23. Challenge 3: Efficient Use of Resources in Value Creation 27. Challenge 4: Ensuring Corporate Ethics and Legal Compliance 29. Challenge 5: Enhance Workplace Wellbeing 30. Challenge 6: Boost Sustainable Sourcing 32. Challenge 7: Life after Waste 33. Challenge 8: Tackling Global Warming through Climate Protection 34. GRI Table 41. Contacts Message from the President Founded in 1937 with just 6 manual weaving started with SAAB and the Swedish market looms, Fábrica de Fiação e Tecidos do Vale but rapidly has grown to other OEMs, being de Manuel Gonçalves, soon became the nowadays the second biggest supplier in the largest textile company in Portugal. In the European market. 60s was renamed to Têxtil Manuel Gonçalves S.A. a private, family owned textile group, still This pursuit comes from the long defined distinguished by the philosophy of its pillars instituted of the founder Manuel founder: “Technology and Quality go hand in Gonçalves and deeply rooted in the hand”. company’s DNA: This strategic vision has been the key factor in the evolution of the company that, through Focus on quality through Sustainable the continuous investment in state of the Innovation and Development; art technological equipment, has effectively talented its industrial platforms, thus sustaining growth and competitiveness, a Boost employee well-being; determining factor in the current context. State of the art infrastructure Initially focused on the industrial textile investment. business, the company soon began a process of diversification into other business areas. TMG Automotive, a manufacturer of interiors for the automotive industry is supplying major OEMs (Original Equipment Manufacturers) since 1971. The company 03 A client diversification and an investment Expansion strategy to North America in R&D activities both at process and at and China; product level were two of the most relevant levers for the success of such strategy. TMG Automotive’s enthusiastic involvement Secure profitability, taking into account with national and international scientific our global competition, specifically and technological entities, in order to Asian competitors with increasing stimulate creativity and growth, the presence in European markets; establishment of surveillance routines and membership of open innovation circles are part of vanguard strategy rooted in CO2 footprint reduction, waste Portugal’s competences. management and overall sustainable operations; Promoting Portugal as a modern and versatile country is also one of TMG Automotive’s goals in its sustainable Human capital valorization and development agenda. In order to achieve innovation culture dissemination this, TMG Automotive is fully committed throughout all group levels. and involved, in a pro-active manner, to share our international expertise, as well as our technological and industrial knowhow with our fellow Portuguese peers and With great expectations that this report will incorporating, more and more, national be a privileged mean for communication scientific and technological content in our and transparency of our policy and strategic R&D activities. vision to our stakeholders and to work as a reinforcement to our sustainability The heightened growth is one of the commitment, major challenges in the near future as our connection with strongly internationalized António Gonçalves OEMs and their non-European market growth sets us with a new set of priorities: 04 Message from the CEO TMG Automotive is a well-established R&D activities treated with strategic leading company in its sector, born in a privilege; country typically unknown for this type of business and situated in a peripheral location to an industry highly concentrated Increased awareness related to in central Europe. What could be a ecologic footprint. threatening drawback, made us focus on the constant pursue for Excellence to outcome any barriers. Throughout the years TMG Automotive has Highly determinant to this successful path, foreseen some major impacts which will were the investments in new productive continue to be challenging in the near future: technologies and innovative solutions, only possible due to the strategic and efficient New clients and market share increase allocation of resources and management. in premium markets, allowing TMG Therefore it is necessary a profound and Automotive to materialize strategic balanced attention to TMG Automotive’s business in medium-long term; global presence, acting on the social, environmental and economic elements, as a Increased international recognition; way of anticipating and minimizing the risks and uncertainties inherent to the market’s complexity. Increased flexibility and production efficiency, in terms of solutions, quality and time to market; 05 The path defined for the next years Resource allocation and creation of integrates the three pillars of sustainability strong corporate culture to face the through the following guidelines: difficult talent retention in the actual highly globalized market; Progressive increase in premium markets as a way of materializing Continually upgrading employee strategic business goals; wellbeing and social responsibility strategy. Non-European markets presence consolidation; The growth that we have achieved and the activities that we plan to carry out, are the result of the dedicated and committed will Sustainable production aligned with of all TMG Automotive stakeholders, who national and international demands and have always supported and challenged targets, implementing the best available us to do more and better for our company, techniques in waste management with a strong sense of responsibility and determined to deliver TMG Automotive to the and reducing, increasingly more, next generations. the environmental impact of our products through continuous life cycle Isabel Furtado assessments; Differentiation of TMG Automotive products by including and promoting innovative content, allowing thus a safe distance from low-cost competitors; 06 Highlights 2018 First Life Cycle Assessment Study Subscription of Global Compact In line with TMG Automotive’s strategy of increasing sustainability of and its 10 Principles its products, there is the need to establish a methodology to quantify Global Compact is the world’s biggest initiative encouraging and their environmental impacts. Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) was the helping businesses around the world to improve their sustainability tool chosen to determine the environmental impacts of our materials. and social agenda making a better world for all. TMG Automotive Since product use and end of life phases are especially difficult to already had in its core policies all of the Global Compact’s ten cover as a great amount of reliable data is needed, most of it not principles so joining Global Compact appeared to be the obvious available to TMG Automotive, it was decided to use the company’s path to follow. exit gate as a system boundary (cradle to gate). It is expected that LCA will evolve to become an ubiquitous tool in the product design phase to ensure environmental impacts are taken into account when developing new products. Sustainable Products New Plant Auto II The growing demand for leather replacement has driven the R&D A new plant initiated production in Vila Nova de Famalicão. This plant department to study more sustainable options within its product was installed in an existent unoccupied infrastructure previously used families, therefore hiring and allocating new staff to initiatives such as for industrial purposes by the TMG Group, preventing their eventual phthalate-free PVC backed with recycled fabrics; ADCA-free foamed degradation. products and an enlarged polyurethane product range. The following When planning and building the infrastructures needed for this new years will see a continued effort to provide more options aligned with site, environmental impacts and environmental protection were some our product sustainability policy. of the major players to have the most environmental friendly site possible. 07 First Sustainability Report Life after Waste Published Industrial symbiosis is often an overlooked concept that has the potential to become a relevant player towards circular economy. As a way to increase transparency with stakeholders the company TMG Automotive is now incorporating waste residues – ranging from decided to publish, for the first time, its sustainability report. It was an cork dust to coconut fibers from several industries in its finished opportunity to summarize all that is already being done and create products. Incorporating waste residues that would normally be leverage to future improvements. TMG Automotive purpose is that eliminated, allowing them to be useful in a new life cycle is one of the this yearly reports becomes a novel way for communication with all ways TMG Automotive is approaching – and continually evolving – its TMG Automotive’s stakeholders, serving as a base for enlightenment, industrial symbiosis. discussion and improvement. Decarbonization – Investing in Cleaner Energy Low carbon economy is a goal that all sectors should have and contribute to as climate change is among the world’s major challenges today. In order to reduce CO2 emissions, TMG Automotive is now investing in cleaner energy sources. A photovoltaic park is set to begin installation in TMG Automotive grounds in 2019 with an installed peak capacity of about 1 MW, accounting for 8% of TMG Automotive annual electricity consumption. 08 TMG Group and TMG Automotive TMG – Têxtil Manuel Gonçalves is a family owned industrial group with its headquarters in Vila Nova de Famalicão specialized in textiles, including knitting, weaving, dyeing and finishing, garment manufacturing and distribution. All began in 1937 with TMG Group foundation under the name Fábrica de Fiação e Tecidos do Vale de Manuel Gonçalves, evolving to a S.A. fully owned by the Group. In the late 50s production of PVC coated fabrics was launched as the first step to a later established TMG Automotive. In the beginning, the market was more disperse in terms of end use and clients, but nowadays TMG Automotive solely supplies the automotive industry. In 1985, TMG diversified its business, extending to other activities not enlisted until then in its core business. TMG Before taking this challenge, TMG Automotive re-qualification of unoccupied facilities, thus Automotive was formally established in 1996 studied a wide number of factors with preventing their eventual degradation. resulting from an organizational restructuring different environmental, economic and dividing TMG Group in different business social impacts, ranging from increased For environmental reasons, it was decided areas strategically independent. traffic, gas emissions, waste management to install a Regenerative Thermal Oxidizer and regional unemployment, to name (RTO), a noteworthy investment, to bring VOC In 2018, TMG Automotive expanded its a few. Auto II was installed in an existent emissions to 75% lower than the established capacity with a new operating site, Auto II, in infrastructure previously used for industrial emission limit value. Vila Nova de Famalicão. purposes (an old spinning mill), and owned by TMG Group, which allowed a reuse and 09 A pollution incident response plan and TMG Automotive supplies mostly adequate employee training were also international markets with the majority of implemented in order to reduce – or even its production being shipped to European eliminate – possible negative impacts markets. To the remaining markets, TMG resulting from emergency scenarios that Automotive developed specific strategies may occur in the course of TMG Automotive to broaden its product range and contact activities. network through specialized technical service and continuous innovation. In an area where unemployment is still an issue, Auto II is viewed as of great socioTMG Automotive is now the second biggest economic importance to the region creating, supplier in Europe, supplying the main in less than 2 years, 160 new jobs that premium original equipment manufacturers will lead to an increased life quality and like BMW, Daimler, Toyota, Volvo etc. also contribute to the direct and indirect economical chain involving its activities. This importance however is not limited to a regional level, but also national, as TMG Automotive exports 99% of its production, in a county (Vila Nova de Famalicão) that comes third in national exports volume. TMG Automotive’s mission can be divided in three fundamental pillars: 1) sustainable growth, 2) market-orientation and 3) cost consciousness. The product range relies on three main materials, distinguished by its base polymeric matrix: polyvinyl chloride (PVC), polyurethane (PUR) and thermoplastic elastomers (TPE). These three types of polymers, alongside with plasticizers, textiles and flexible foams account for TMG Automotive main supply chain. 10 Our Market NORTH AMERICA 8,0% SOUTH AMERICA 0,2% EUROPE 77,0% AFRICA 2,2% ASIA 12,6% 11 TMG Automotive’s Strategic Vision The strategic vision has been a preeminent key factor in the company evolution that, through continuous state of the art equipment acquisition, has effectively endowed its industry platforms, guaranteeing their competitive capability, a determining factor for TMG Automotive’s success in its business areas. In any of its businesses, TMG Automotive energy consumption, CO2 emissions and reinforces its legacy with a long term solvent consumption, where reside TMG vision: human capital valuation, innovate Automotive’s biggest environmental impacts. in technologies and processes, promote sustainable development respecting the 2018 was the year chosen by TMG environment and promote excellence Automotive to publish its first Sustainability assuming an intervening role in social Report and, through this way, report all responsibility. that is being done regarding sustainable development. TMG Automotive’s ambition is to develop, produce and supply high quality products, TMG Automotive commits itself to always respecting the environment. Thus, publish, annually, a sustainability report the company has been implementing so its stakeholders may be aware of its an Environmental Management System, performance both socially, environmentally being a registered company according to and economically aiming to enhance ISO 14001 since 2006. Through this system, transparency and disseminating good TMG Automotive has been continuously practices. improving its performance, with regard to 12 How much do we sell? Sales in x1000€ 2018 2017 2016 2015 87 560 126 558 102 956 91 262 13 Stakeholders Interaction & Communication Partners Fairs and conferences, development and Channels follow-up meetings, cooperation protocols TMG Automotive considers its relationship General meetings, Intranet, performance with stakeholders of extreme importance council meetings, evaluation, periodic Shareholder financial report, activity Employees employee meetings to success. There are several groups that reports, executive boards interact with TMG Automotive through operational meetings, different communication channels. Is one sustainability report of TMG Automotive’s goals to intensify and optimize its communication channels, both externally and internally, making TMG Customer Satisfation Supplier qualification, Automotive a more active and voiceful surveys, audits, supplier evaluation, Customers complaints, open days, Suppliers supplier visits, open days company in its market. fairs and conferences, development and followup meetings Fairs and conferences, Environmental licensing factory visits, (RAA), inspections and Official Community cooperation protocols audits Entities 14 Materiality The stakeholders were selected so that every department and what they represent was embodied: Purchasing Department; Research, Development and Innovation Materiality can be used as a tool for gathering information Department; from an extensive list of stakeholders and aggregate it Sales & Marketing Department; as key topics that a company should address. Reporting on Financial Department; how the materiality matrix was made and the respective results denotes transparency Human Resources Department; and builds a path for discussion both internally and Logistics Department; externally. For this year’s report, only department managers and the CEO were interviewed Quality, Environment, Safety and Health due to time constraints Department; and the general difficulty of elaborating the company first sustainability report. Production Department; Investment & Maintenance Department. 15 The stakeholders interviewed were asked square were selected for reporting. These about a variety of topics related to social, topics were then converted into Challenges environmental and economic context and and the report was built on how to tackle TMG Automotive’s Sustainability topics were these and cover topics from all three the results of these interviews and thus are sustainability pillars, although mostly considered the key topics in the company focused on the environmental issues. current situation and the ones addressed in the present report. The goal for the following years is to extend these interviews to a greater and Although all topics presented in the more diverse number of employees and materiality matrix are of extreme importance stakeholders. A survey will also be sent to all to TMG Automotive, the topics in the black the employees not interviewed personally. Materiality Matrix 1.0 Sustainable Climate protection Products Attractiveness as 0.9 as employer and air Compliance Bechmark Analysis 0.8 Effecient use of resources Employee Sustainable in value creation 0.7 Diversity and equal development and Sourcing opportunities training Innovation 0.6 Ethic and human Occupational rights health and safety Waste 0.5 Management 0.4 Communities 0.3 0.5 0.6 0.7 0.8 0.9 1.0 TMG Automative Stakeholders 16 TMG Automotive & the Sustainable Development Goals TMG Automotive fully endorses the UN Build resilient infrastructure, promote Development, TMG Automotive continues Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) sustainable industrialization and foster to invest in highly trained and specialized and, as a way to contribute for these goals innovation, Sustainable Development employees to develop increasingly better fulfilment, aligned its own Challenges with Goal number 9, relates directly with TMG products, backing its human force with the Global Challenges, specifying the targets Automotive culture and how it approaches state-of-the-art equipment and resilient where it feels it can act. Furthermore, TMG business. As our number 1 challenge, infrastructure thus promoting sustainable Automotive Challenges, as the Sustainable Innovation as a driver for Sustainable industrialization. Development Goals, are fully aligned with Global Compact Principles and the result can be a powerful tool for improvement. Challenge 1 9,2 17.6 Innovation as a driver for 4.7 8.1 9.4 12.2 17.16 sustainable development 9.5 17.17 Challenge 2 6.3 Reduce enviromental impact 3.9 6.4 thought sustainable products Challenge 3 7.2 12.2 Efficient use os resources in value 6.4 7.3 8.3 9.4 12.5 reaction Challenge 4 5.1 8.7 Ensuring corporate ethics and legal 5.5 8.8 13.2 15.1 16.5 compliance 4.2 Challenge 5 3.4 4.3 5.1 8.3 Enhance workplace wellbeing 3.8 4.4 5.5 8.8 4.6 Challenge 6 8.7 12.6 13.2 16.5 Boost sustainable sourcing Challenge 7 3.9 6.3 11.6 12.4 Life after waste 12.5 Challenge 8 Tacking global warming through 1.5 3.9 11.6 12.4 13.1 climate protection 17 Challenge 1: Innovation as a driver for Sustainable Development TMG Automotive business is focused in certification, R&D contribution on sales is environmental and social benefits. Eco-design the car interior, ever more considered as a determined as the products sold resulting starts with raw materials selection, with all living space. TMG Automotive materials are, directly from R&D within the last 5 years. The the process development being made in a by excellence, noble and comfortable and R&D investment represents 4 8% of annual close collaboration with clients and suppliers, demand a deep know-how in formulation revenue and has a contribution on sales of ca. so all expectations can be balanced. In order definition with environmental-friendly 23%. to achieve a wide knowledge base, the R&D products with an appellative design. department is composed by multidisciplinary Sustainability and the SDGs are a key driver teams working together. R&D workforce Automotive industry is known as one of the for innovation that demands a mindset increased around 50% since 2015 and the most dynamic and demanding sectors in change for creating new and/or improved purpose is to invest increasingly more in the definition of new standards and work products, processes or methods that knowledge-based capital which is crucial to methodologies in areas such as Quality produce not only economic value but also fulfil TMG Automotive strategy for innovation. Management System and Development Male Employee Education Breakdown Female Employee Education Breakdown & Approval of new products. As a 50 50 consequence the innovation and product 45 45 development processes are the most crucial 40 40 35 35 areas throughout the supply chain of this 30 30 industry. In order to improve the innovation 25 25 and product development processes, TMG 20 20 Automotive was a Portuguese pioneer in the 15 15 innovation management system certification 10 10 5 5 by NP4457:2007. The certification is a holistic 0 0 approach for a company to improve its 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 resources management through a more systematic process. In the context of this Basic Education High School Bachelor Degree Master Degree PhD Degree 18 Being TMG Automotive a company roughly 20 partnerships with the scientific TMG Automotive considers participation that centers its activity in quality and and technological community and organizes in fairs, symposiums, seminars, workshops technology, it is of extreme relevance its Student Internships Programs every year. and related events of vital importance to involvement with the community where These programs have many benefits such keep abreast of the latest innovations in the it acts, namely through partnerships with as attracting to the organization highly automotive sector and also to enhance the the scientific community and technology motivated pre-professionals with fresh company’s principal innovating products. centers. The company seeks to strengthen ideas and new perspectives. It also provides Identifying new technological challenges its relationship with the community a community service element by giving is an important factor to create innovation and promote dialogue through student students the opportunity to acquire valuable and as so TMG Automotive actively makes internship programs, student visits, fairs working experience and expertise that are technology scouting and patent scanning as and workshops participation, client and also beneficial for the scientific community. an integral part of new product development supplier open-days. TMG Automotive has process. 20 18 Student Internship Programs 16 14 Master Thesis 12 University Internship 10 8 Summer Internship 6 High School Internship 4 2 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 19 Patent scanning process is one of the TMG Academy is an initiative where TMG dimensions of the intellectual property clients and suppliers have the opportunity to management, a major challenge for TMG visit our facilities, learn about our products Automotive and a source of competitive and production processes. Academy to advantage, being a crucial part of the Business sessions, organized by University corporate strategy in order to ensure the of Porto, was dedicated to the discussion protection of our products and technologies of innovation needs, ideas and business in core competence areas. TMG Automotive development projects seeking for R&D growth has been underpinned by an competences and new technological increasing patent portfolio. solutions. 30 25 Number of Patents 20 15 Patent Doc Applications 10 Patent Family 5 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 20 Challenge 2: Reduce environmental impact through sustainable products TMG Automotive ambition is to provide Enlarged product range – all butanonLightweight materials with included high quality products that help reducing oxyme free – from coated high-solids to aesthetic features such as polymer/textile the global-scale environmental impact by extruded TPU with minimized smell and surface hybrids and optional features such developing innovative materials focusing emissions and superior performance and as digital printing. on light weight, use of renewable sources haptic perception. Also available are full and design for performance. Although plant-based materials in this range; renewable sources may seem like an obvious path towards a better environmental performance, that is not always the case. As so, TMG Automotive is implementing Life Cycle Assessment to its product range Lacquer Continous Phase Types to better decide what a more sustainable product truly is. There are currently several initiatives taking place: 74% 73% 66% 60% Environmental friendly PVC materials which are not using phthalate-based plasticizers 26% 27% 34% 40% and laminated with recycled polyester textiles for coated fabric versions; 2015 2016 2017 2018 ADCA-free foamed products in PVC, TPE Solvent-based Water-based and PUR; 21 TMG Automotive maintains a careful production consumes organic solvent both a liquid ring pump to a drum where are surveillance related to potential harmful in product formulation and as a cleaning collected for future use. substances and is constantly trying to agent. TMG Automotive is tackling this issue design new and safer products. Despite not through the use of cleaner alternatives, such TMG Automotive is covered by the Special having our own restricted substance list, TMG as water-based lacquers. Provisions for installations and activities Automotive follows some official and much using organic solvents, included in IED – entrusted lists such as REACH and GADSL. Between 2015 and 2016, not much has Industrial Emissions Directive and elaborates Design for dismantling can also be an changed in water-based lacquer usage. yearly a Solvent Management Plan that important means to achieve a reduced However, starting from 2017, water-based demonstrates the compliance with limit environmental impact regarding end of lacquers increased significantly due to values for residual gas emissions, diffuse life and disposal. However, this product tighter emission laws and automotive emission values and total emissions limit. phase is quite distant from TMG Automotive industry’s green initiatives. Nonetheless, a occupation area, being mostly managed by significant volume of organic solvents are Moreover, TMG Automotive has a surveillance end-of-life vehicles directives. Nonetheless, still being used till this day. To reduce its team responsible for its raw-materials this can unveil as suitable and executable adverse environmental impacts, cleaning harmfulness so the VOC emissions can be path on the long run. solvent residues are vacuum loaded to 200 diminished or eliminated. To accomplish this, Solvent-based lacquers are one of the liter distiller where it is then heated, also there is a list of prohibited substances and main sources of VOC emissions associated under vacuum, to evaporate. Vapors are substitutes to potential harmful substances with TMG Automotive’s activities as TMG then condensed and transferred through are constantly being investigated. 22 Challenge 3: Efficient Use of Resources in Value Creation As previously stated, TMG Automotive is Inside TMG Automotive grounds, and since fronts, from small initiatives as becoming deeply committed in a more efficient use a small quantity of water is used in our a paperless company to huge savings as of resources in value creation. Producing process, our main focus areas are energy installing your own (renewable) energy high-quality products while protecting efficiency and waste reduction. One may say production facility. the environment and focusing in resource that if a business produces waste, then most depletion prevention can be achieved by likely is wasting money. As mentioned, TMG Automotive is lighter products, energy and water efficiency, continuously undertaking several initiatives waste reduction and through a thorough Carbon emissions are one – or the and projects to improve energy and water selection of raw-materials suppliers, ubiquitous topic while discussing sustainable efficiency as well as waste reduction and maintaining (or, better yet, improving) development and can be tackled on various waste management. product functionality. A methodological selection of raw material suppliers is also of crucial importance due to several factors, including used production technologies and raw-material delivery. Transportation can be of high significance when carbon footprint is concerned, considering on where the raw material is coming from and how – and how often – this raw-material is delivered. As so, TMG Automotive chooses, whenever possible, national suppliers for a reduced transportation carbon footprint. 23 1. Addressing resource and energy Electricity consumption is distributed by issues 3 major consumers: Process equipment, utility units and climatization. The biggest 1% 27% 4% TMG Automotive is an energy intensive consumers of natural gas are the boilers 4% consumer, being continuously upgrading to produce thermal energy and the 4% its facilities and technology in order to Regenerative Thermal Oxidation (RTO) unit achieve a high efficient use of resources used for treatment of the air emissions from 8% and consequently reduce its environmental the plant. The boilers will be equipped with impacts. In 2012 an energy audit was a heat recovery system that uses the heat performed that resulted in a 5 years’ plan from the combustion gases for the inlet air 10% 25% with several initiatives to reduce energy preheating. Both electricity and natural gas consumption: intensity ratio increased due to the start-up optimizations on the new plant. 17% Implementation of an energy management system allowing online monitoring of the The energy sources for the electricity Coal Nuclear energy consumption; production are outside TMG Automotive’s Wind Renewable Cogeneration control and are represented in the following Rationalization of the air treatment unit figure: Natural Gas Others Renewable (Regenerative Thermal Oxidation); Hydro Urban Solid Waste The renewable sources of electricity Fossil Cogeneration Increase of lightning efficiency in the accounts for 39% of total electricity production facilities, a contribution to the consumed. goals of Sustainable Energy for All (SE4ALL) initiative; Increase of energy efficiency of several 0.5 Energy Intensity Ratio equipments by the installation of electronic 0.4 frequency variators. (kgep/m2) 0.3 Electricity Consumption All these initiatives led to a reduction in energy 0.2 intensity ratio of 8.4% between 2014 and 2017. 0.1 Natural Gas Consumption In its activity, TMG Automotive consumes 0.0 essentially electricity and natural gas. 2014 2015 2016 2017 24 2. Managing water resources As a result of continuously monitoring and open loop system by a closed loop system initiatives for managing water resources of chilled water. Water in TMG Automotive comes from at TMG Automotive facilities, specific water TMG Automotive target is to continuously three different sources: municipal water, consumption has been decreasing in the monitor water consumption in order to keep surface and ground water. Municipal water last years. In 2016, TMG Automotive specific our specific water consumption as low as it is consumed for human usage and in consumption decreased by 69%. The biggest is today. the laboratory. Surface and ground water impact resulted from the replacement of an are mainly associated with cooling water, representing over 95% of water consumption. 14 Surface water is withdrawn from the river and used in TMG Automotive’s main plant, 12 Water Intensity Ratio while ground water is used at Auto II. 10 (m3/1000m2) Both surface and ground water are fairly 8 Municipal Water abundant in this region and as so, no risks of water shortage are foreseen. 6 4 Surface and Ground Water The cooling systems consist of cold water 2 and a circuit of chilled water dedicated to the more demanding processes (with higher 0 requirements in terms of temperature). 2015 2016 2017 2018 The surface water is also used in the equipment’s’ washing. 25 3. Initiatives for waste reduction by adsorbents, filters, cleaning cloths, an increase in foamed laminated products protective clothing contaminated by resulting in an increase in PUR foam Waste streams are one of the outputs from hazardous substances and solvent and residues. the industrial activity of TMG Automotive water based liquors. The hazardous waste The goal of TMG Automotive is to minimize and are managed accordingly, ensuring is predominantly treated and recycled. The the waste generated and specifically environmental and human health protection. hazardous waste increase is due to water the waste that goes to landfill. The main based liquors originated from the equipment initiatives to improve waste and water TMG Automotive generated residues cleaning process. management are the following: are selectively collected by type and harmfulness (hazardous and nonThe non-hazardous waste is the most critical Reduce water usage for water-based hazardous), stored in eco-points and then due to their significant intensity ratio and lacquering systems cleaning; forwarded to the respective licensed waste is mainly composed of composite plastic disposal operators. All the qualitative and residues, constituted mainly by plasticized Improve waste collection by polymeric quantitative information about waste is PVC, textile and foam. The complexity of matrix type (e.g. PVC, PUR and TPO), with or reported to the Portuguese Environmental dealing with these residues is due to the without textile/ foam etc; Agency through the integrated map of waste general difficulty to separate the composite registration. in its forming layers. The increase of nonIdentify partnerships to reuse our most hazardous intensity ratio is explained by a critical waste materials through waste The hazardous waste is mainly constituted change in the type of products as there was valorization (upcycling). 70 60 Intensity Ratio (kg/1000 m2) 250 Hazards WasteIntensity 50 Non-hazards Waste 200 (kg/1000 m2) 40 150 30 100 20 10 50 0 0 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Other Recycling Landfill Recycling 26 Challenge 4: Ensuring Corporate Ethics and Legal Compliance TMG Automotive is a subscriber of the 10 are taken to prevent accidents and personal Global Compact Principles that are reflected injury that may arise during work, minimizing, in the company’s code of conduct. It defines as far as possible, danger causes inherent to the ethical values which govern the group the work environment, taking into account the in its compromise with Portuguese and country’s prevailling laws. TMG Automotive European Union labor laws compliance, in has appointed a management representative a way that promotes health, safety and the responsible for aspects of the company. best work condition for all its employees. Employees receive regular training on essential issues and this training is given to all new The code of conduct addresses the employees and those who change their following themes: function on workplace. Child Labor: Child labor is not permitted. Access to sanitary facilities with adequate hygiene conditions are available to all Forced Labor: Forced labor is not employees. Access to drinking water and, permitted, whether in the form of forced where appropriate, adequate food storage is labor imposed by physical force or in the ensured. form of threats, intimidation and/or any other means of coercion. Production sites are maintained in accordance with applicable laws and regulations and Health and Safety: TMG Automotive procedures are in place ensuring protection considers the industry’s prevailing for all employees against risk of fire, accidents knowledge and all associated risks in order and contact with toxic substances. Lighting, to ensure that the working environment is ventilation and heating/cooling systems must safe, healthy and that adequate measures be adequate. 27 Discrimination: Discrimination in hiring, Freedom of association and right remuneration, access to training, promotion, to collective bargaining: Employees termination or retirement based on criteria have the right to join or form trade unions by of race, social class, origin, religion, disability, their own choice and to conduct collective gender, sexual orientation, trade union bargaining without any form of penalty as a membership or political affiliation is not result. allowed. The points referred in this code of conduct Harassment and abuse: The use of constitute minimum standards and are corporal punishment, threat of physical, understood by TMG Automotive as a step sexual, verbal abuse or other types of forward in continuous improvement in harassment are not tolerated. working conditions and protection of its employees. Working Hours: Working hours must be in accordance with national laws and specific to the industrial activity or with that which offers greater protection. In all cases, employees are not required to work regularly for more than 48 hours per week and are entitled to at least one rest day for each 7-day period. Overtime will be voluntary, and may not exceed 12 hours per week and will not be required on a regular basis. Overtime will be compensated according to the applicable legislation or better. Remuneration: Wages are paid directly to employees in full compliance with all applicable laws. 28 Challenge 5: Enhance Workplace Wellbeing TMG Automotive obtained the OHSAS 18001 life insurance and childcare cost coverage to health and safety, TMG Automotive monitors certification in 2013. This was yet another all female employees till a defined threshold. key performance indicators such as injury rate milestone in order to assure good health and and lost day rate. safety for all employees. Also, TMG Automotive believes that by assuring a strong and fruitful health and 2016 was a turning point regarding employee Several health and safety tools are safety program, other companies, both number, with a great number of new employed in TMG Automotive’s facilities to clients and suppliers, by peer pressure, will unexperienced employees starting work at continuously improve performance in this improve their health and safety agenda. TMG Automotive. Although inexperience should area, such as: As mentioned, a good health and safety not be an excuse for higher injury rates and plan will lead to a higher productivity due consequently days lost, there is in fact a higher 1. Risk Assessment; to several factors, ranging from higher work accident probability with new employees, employee commitment and cooperation, especially regarding minor injuries as knife 2. Occupational healthcare; more productive employees allied to more cuts and pinched fingers. Although TMG 3. Health and Safety Training; effective work techniques and also a higher Automotive believes in a preventive approach, 4. Health Promotion Campaigns. talent retention and recruitment. every accident was used as a learning lesson In order to continuously improve employee’s and adequate measures were taken. Employees’ health and safety is of vital importance for TMG Automotive as we 25 800 700 believe that healthy, accomplished and 20 Lost Day Rate 600 motivated employees are the base ground Injury Rate Lost Day Rate 500 for a successful and thriving company. 15 400 Having an effective Health and Safety 10 300 Injury Rate Department has innumerous advantages 200 ranging from employee commitment 5 100 to higher productivity. There are several 0 0 benefits for TMG Automotive employees as 2015 2016 2017 2018 29 Challenge 6: Boost Sustainable Sourcing TMG Automotive, in the last couple years, Ethical Principles: has been integrating sustainability practices in its supply chain, emphasizing the alignment between suppliers’ practices with In contact with suppliers, each element TMG Automotive’s sustainability agenda of the the Purchasing Department is and compliance with UN Global Compact representing all TMG Group and should act principles is expected. accordingly, using standards of conduct and ethical principles that assure a long-term There is a Purchasing Policy, transversal professional relation based on the search for to all TMG Group that contains, inter alia, better and more affordable solutions, based the following: Ethical Principles, Conflict of on the grounds that TMG Automotive is a Interests and Supplier Evaluation. responsible and fair company. Conflict of Interests: Any form of acquisition that can benefit directly any collaborator is forbidden, unless that the purchasing process is completely transparent and obtains full approval from three elements of the Purchasing Group – being the Purchasing Department Director necessarily one of the intervenients. 30 Supplier Evaluation: Supplier evaluation and selection are done Day to day performance (logistic differently according the service/product performance regarding deadline and quality type offered. deviations); There are two critical moments involved: Technical Information (raw material composition and approval standards 1. Initial Supplier Evaluation (Qualification) compliance); – determines the inclusion – or exclusion – from TMG Automotive’s supplier list. Management System (quality and It is based on a questionnaire sent to the environmental certifications); potential supplier that covers quality, social and environment issues. According to the Organizational Performance (claims, questionnaire answers, the supplier is then competitiveness, delivery quality and placed in one of the following groups: technical support). approved, provisional/under surveillance and disapproved. Along with what has been described, TMG Automotive performs audits where 2. Continuous Supplier Assessment – environmental and social criteria are used to evaluation done to the approved suppliers evaluate suppliers. over time. Evaluates suppliers’ performance and their maintenance in the supplier list. An analysis to the suppliers’ quality, National supplier Preference: deadlines and supplied quantities, organizational level, quality management, environment, social, documentation and Whenever possible, TMG Automotive opts competitiveness. This evaluation is done for national suppliers, seeking to boost and by three different departments: Research develop the Portuguese economy. Also, & Development, Logistics and Purchasing since TMG Automotive is located in Portugal, Departments, being the last responsible for Portuguese suppliers will be characterized by all the evaluation process and with 4 criteria a lower carbon footprint regarding product in mind: transportation. 31 Challenge 7: Life after Waste Addressing waste is becoming ever more more efficient solutions and accelerate The VinylPlus initiative has its core in 4 key a prominent topic inside TMG Automotive. future developments. goals for the PVC Industry: When dealing with waste upcycling, knowing the quantity and waste types produced is Besides contributing for environmental 1. Controlled-loop management of essential importance. This information performance, waste reduction programs and can be used to find and negotiate waste projects can have several benefits inside an 2. Organochlorine emissions recycling services that fit our sustainability organization such as cut disposal costs and 3. Sustainable use of additives agenda. Also, appropriate reuse and improve a company’s bottom line. 4. Sustainable Energy & Climate Stability recycling techniques will reduce the need of new raw materials extraction, contributing There are several working initiatives in Together with its partners, TMG Automotive then to halt resource depletion and reduce which TMG Automotive is involved, e.g in is continuously scouting for waste upcycling greenhouse gas emissions. the scope of EATS – European Automotive initiatives and partners in order to upgrade Trim Suppliers, TMG Automotive joined its waste disposal methods and create life As TMG Automotive’s waste is mostly VinylPlus in 2013. This project aims to after waste. composed of highly complex polymeric establish together with European PVC matrices, coupled with textiles and foams, producers a 10 year long commitment to there is often the need of a deep know-how the sustainable development. Proposes to in composite recycling. So TMG Automotive face environmental challenges regarding can meet its goals teams up with several PVC and institute a long term board to the initiatives and institutions to continuously continuously sustainable development in the improve its waste impact. It is also of vital PVC supply chain. importance to scrutinize waste production and TMG Automotive is tackling this issue by better characterize its residues (e.g. by polymeric matrix) so it can have a better control of its own waste in order to promote 32 Challenge 8: Tackling Global Warming through Climate Protection Climate Protection and Global Warming energy sources should be preferred. Since 2006 gas effluents are treated in are one or the major topic when an equipment developed to treat gas environment protection is mentioned as TMG Automotive, as by now, does not emissions by thermal regenerative oxidation it is a multidecade global challenge. As produce its own energy and is fully (Regenerative Thermal Oxidizer – RTO). climate change is a global issue, and to dependent on energy suppliers for its This system uses a high-temperature limit global warming to only 2ºC above electricity needs. Although not an energy ceramic material bed to eliminate organic pre-industrial days, industries should serve producer, TMG Automotive can still choose compounds. as examples of how to act. The industry its supplier based on its environmental global warming share comes mainly from performance and energy source and thus energy and raw material consumption and influence its Scope 2 carbon emissions. production processes. There is a lot industry can do to mitigate climate change, ranging from reforestation to energy efficiency. One possible way to fight global warming is dematerialization – achieving a product with the same quality and functionality but using 0.60 Scope 2 Emissions Intensity increasingly less energy and raw materials. Ratio (tCO2 / 1000m2) 0.50 This action line is completely congruent with TMG Automotive’s line of thinking. 0.40 0.30 Despite energy reduction and increasingly 0.20 energy efficiency, some energy is going 0.10 to be used anyhow. In order to minimize energy consumption environmental impacts 0 including global warming, clean renewable 2015 2016 2017 2018 33 GRI Table Disclose Number Disclose Title Disclose Description Information Page TMG Automotive Tecidos Plastificados e Outros 102-1 Name of the organization a. name of the organization Revestimentos para a Indústria Automóvel, S.A a. a description of the organization’s activities 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and b. primary brands, products, and services, including an expla09, 10 services nation of any products or services that are banned in certain markets 102-3 Location of headquarters a. location of the organization’s headquarters Rua Comendador Manuel Gonçalves, nº 25, São Cosme Do Vale, 4770-590 Vila Nova de Famalicão, Portugal a. number of countries where the organizations operates, and The production facilities are all located in norther 102-4 Location of operations the names of countries where it has significant operations Portugal. and/or that are relevant to the topics covered in the report 102-5 Ownership and legal form a. nature of ownership and legal form 09 a. markets served, including: i. geographic locations where products and services are Automotive Industry. 77% European, 2.2% African, 12.6% 102-6 Markets served offered; Asian, 8.0% North America and 0.2% South America. ii. Sectors served; iii. Types of costumers and beneficiaries a. scale of the organization, including: i. total number of employees; ii. Total number of operations; As of 31.12.2018: 605 employees, 2 production sites. Net 102-7 Scale of the organization iii. Net sales (for private sector organizations) or net revenues Sales 2017: € 126.6 Million with a Compound Annual (for public sector organizations) Growth Rate (CAGR) of 8.4%. iv. Total capitalization (for private sector organizations) broken down in terms of debt and equity; v. quantity of products or services provided. a. total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by gender. b. total number of employees by employment contract (permanent and temporary), by region. c. total number of employees by employment type (full-time Information on employees and other As of 31.12.2018: 605 employees, 21% female, and 41% 102-8 and part-time), by gender. workers temporary. All employees reside in northern Portugal. d. whether a significant portion of the organization’s activities are performed by workers who are not employees. If applicable, a description of the nature and scale of work performed by workers who are not employees. e. Any significant variations in the number reported in 102-8-a, 102-8-b and 102-8-c. f. an explanation of how data have been compiled, including any assumptions made. 34 Disclose Number Disclose Title Disclose Description Information Page a. a description of the organization’s supply chain, including its 102-9 Supply chain main elements as they relate to the organization’s activities, 10 primary brands, products and services. a. significant changes to the organization’s size, structure, ownership, or supply chain, including: i. changes in the location of, or charges in, operation, including 102-10 Significant changes to the facility openings, closing, and expansions; organization and its supply chain ii. Changes in the share capital structure and other capital formation, maintenance, and alteration operations (for private 09, 10 sector organizations); iii. changes in the location of suppliers, the structure of the supply chain, or relationship with suppliers, including selection and termination. a. whether and how the organization applies the Precautionary 102-11 Precautionary Principle of approach Planned for 2019 Principle or approach. a. A list of externally-developed economic, environmental and 102-12 External Initiatives United Nations Global Compact and the United Nations social charters, principles, and or other initiatives to which the 17 Sustainable Development Goals organization subscribes, or which it endorses. a. a list of the main memberships of industry or other 102-13 Membership of associations associations, and national or international advocacy Planned for 2019 organizations. a. a statement from the most senior decision-maker of the 102-14 Statement from senior decisionorganization about the relevance of sustainability to the 03, 04 maker organization and its strategy for addressing sustainability. 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and a. a description of the organization’s values, principles, norms of behavior standards, and norms of behavior. Meeting Table Of Shareholders: D. Maria Helena Ferreira da Costa Gonçalves Folhadela de Oliveira President, Dr. Horácio da Costa Azevedo Secretary. Administration Council: Dr. António Manuel Ferreira da Costa Gonçalves President, Dr. Isabel Maria Gonçalves Folhadela de Oliveira Mendes Furtado Vice-President, a. Governance structure of the organization, including Significant changes to the DR. Manuel António Carvalho Gonçalves Vowel, 102-18 committees of the highest governance body. organization and its supply chain Price Waterhouse Coopers & Associados, SROC, Lda. b. Committees responsible for decision-making on economic, Represented by Sr. Dr. António Joaquim Brochado Correia environmental, and social topics. or by Dr. José Pereira Alves, Dr. Hermínio António Paulos Afonso substitute. The management teams consists of the CEO, Marketing and Business Manager, R&D Manager, Quality, Environment, Safety and Health Manager, Maintenance Manager, Production Manager, Financial Manager, Procurement Manager, Logistics Manager and IT Manager. 35 Disclose Number Disclose Title Disclose Description Information Page 102-40 List of stakeholders groups a. a list of stakeholders groups engaged by the organization Owners/shareholders, directors, employees. a. percentage of total employees covered by collective 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements ca. 1%. bargaining agreements. Identifying and selecting a. the basis for identifying and selecting stakeholders with Owners/shareholders, directors, employees. 102-42 stakeholders whom to engage a. the organization’s approach to stakeholders, including Approach to stakeholder frequency of engagement by type and stakeholder group, 102-43 and an indication of whether any of the engagement was 14 engagement undertaken specifically as part of the report preparation process. a. key topics and concerns that have been raised through stakeholder engagement, including: i. how the organization has responded to those topics and 15 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised concerns, including through its reporting, ii. The stakeholders groups that raised each of the key topics and concerns a. a list of all entities included in the organization’s TMG Automotive Tecidos Plastificados e Outros consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents. Revestimentos para a Indústria Automóvel, S.A.; TMG Tecidos Entities included in the consolidated para Vestuário e Decoração, S.A.; Lightningbolt Europe, 102-45 b. whether any entity included in the organization’s financial statements S.A.; TMG Acabamentos Têxteis, S.A.; SPE Sociedade de consolidated financial statements or equivalent documents is Produção de Electricidade e Calor, S.A.; GPSA Têxteis, S.A.; not covered by the report. ARCO JMRG, Lda. a. an explanation of the process for defining the report content 102-46 Defining report content and topic and the topic boundaries. 15, 16 Boundaries b. an explanation of how the organization has implemented the Reporting Principles for defining report content. Efficient Use of Resources in Value Creation; Innovation; Sustainable Products; Compliance; Occupational Health and a. a list of the material topics identified in the process for Safety; Climate Protection and Air; Sustainable Sourcing; 102-47 List of material topics defining report content. Waste Management; Employee Developing and Training; Ethic and Human Rights; Attractiveness as an employer, Diversity and Equal Opportunities; Communities. a. the effect of any restatements of information given in n/a 102-48 Restatements of information previous reports, and the reasons for such restatements. a. significant changes from previous reporting periods in the 102-49 Changes in reporting n/a list of material topics and topic boundaries. 102-50 Reporting period a. reporting period for the information provided. 2017 36 3 Disclose Number Disclose Title Disclose Description Information Page 102-51 Date of most recent report a. If applicable, the date of the most recent previous report. n/a 102-52 Reporting cycle a. reporting cycle. Annual Contact point for questions a. The contact point for questions regarding the report or its 102-53 regarding the report contents. a. The claim made by the organization, if it has prepared a report in accordance with the GRI Standards, either: Claims of reporting in accordance i. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI This report has been prepared in accordance with the 102-54 with the GRI Standards Standards: Core option’; GRI Standards: Core option. ii. ‘This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Comprehensive option’. a. The GRI content index, which specifies each of the GRI Standards used and lists all disclosures included in the report; b. For each disclosure, the content index shall include: i. the number of the disclosure (for disclosure covered by the 102-55 GRI content index GRI Standards); 34-40 ii. the page number(s) or URL(s) where the information can be found, either, within the report or in the other published materials; iii. if applicable, and where permitted, the reason(s) for omission a. a description of the organization’s policy and current practice with regard to seeking external assurance for the report. b. if the report has been externally assured: a. a reference to the external assurance report, statements, or opinions. If not included in the assurance report accompanying the sustainability report, a description of 102-56 External assurance what has and what has not been assured and on what Planned for 2019. basis, including the assurance standards used, the level of assurance obtained, and any limitations of the assurance process; ii. the relationship between the organization and the assurance provider; iii. whether and how the highest governance body or senior executives are involved in seeking external assurance for the a. Energy intensity ratio for the organization; b. Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio; 302-3 Energy Only fuel and electricity were considered as TMG c. Types of energy included in the intensity ratio; whether fuel, Automotive does not use heating, cooling or steam electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all; d. Whether the ratio uses energy consumption within the organization, outside of it, or both 37 3 Disclose Number Disclose Title Disclose Description Information Page a. amount of reductions in energy consumption achieved as a direct result of conservation and efficiency initiatives, in joules or multiples; b. types of energy included in the reductions; whether fuel, electricity, heating, cooling, steam, or all; 302-4 Energy c. basis for calculating reductions in energy consumption, Information present in Relatório Auditoria Energética. such as base year or baseline, including the rationale for choosing it; d. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used; d. Standards, methodologies, assumptions, and/or calculation tools used. a. Total volume of water withdrawn, with a breakdown by the following sources; i. Surface water, including water from wetlands, rivers, lakes, and oceans; ii. Ground water; iii. Rainwater collected directly and stored by the organization; 303-1 Water and Effluents iv. Waste water from another organization; 25 v. Municipal water supplies or other public or private water utilities; b. Standards, methodologies, and assumptions used; c. Specific consumption of surface water; d. Specific consumption of municipal water; e. Surface Water Percentage. a. GHG emissions intensity ratio for the organization; b. Organization-specific metric (the denominator) chosen to calculate the ratio; Only Scope 2 emissions were considered. Scope 2 c. Types of GHG emissions included in the intensity ratio; 305-4 Emissions emissions were calculated with the energy mix provided whether direct (Scope 1), energy indirect (Scope 2), and/or by the electricity provider. other indirect (Scope 3); d. Gases included in the calculation; whether CO2, CH4, N20, HFCs, PFCs, SF6, NF3, or all. 38 3 Disclose Number Disclose Title Disclose Description Information Page a. total weight of hazardous waste, with a breakdown by the following disposal method where applicable: i. reuse; ii. Recycling; iii. Composting; iv. Recovery, including energy recovery; v. Incineration (mass burn); vi. Deep well injection; vii. Landfill; viii. On-site storage; ix. Other (to be specified by the organization); b. Total weight of non-hazardous waste, with a breakdown by the following disposal method where applicable: i. reuse; Waste disposal methods were provided by the waste 306-2 Effluents and Waste ii. Recycling; disposal contractors. iii. Composting; iv. Recovery, including energy recovery; v. Incineration (mass burn); vi. Deep well injection; vii. Landfill; viii. On-site storage; ix. Other (to be specified by the organization); c. How the waste disposal method has been determined: i. Disposed directly by the organization, or otherwise directly confirmed; ii. Information provided by the waste disposal contractor; iii. Organizational defaults of the waste disposal contractor; a. Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and/or regulations in terms of: There were no significant fines; only two noni. total monetary value of significant fines; compliance situations were identified and both 307-1 Environmental Compliance ii. total number of non-monetary sanctions; were related with miscommunication and not with iii. cases brought through dispute resolution mechanisms; environmental legal targets. b. if the organization has not identified any non-compliance with environmental laws and/or regulations, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. a. Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using All potential suppliers are screened using environmental 308-1 Supplier Environmental Assessment environmental criteria criteria prior to becoming actual suppliers. a. types of injury, injury rate (IR), occupational disease rate (ODR), lost day rate (LDR), absentee rate (AR), and work-related fatalities, for all employees, with a breakdown by: i. region; ii. Gender; 403 Occupational Health and Safety b. types of injury, injury rate (IR), and work-related fatalities, for 29 all workers (excluding employees) whose work, or workplace, is controlled by the organization, with a breakdown by: i. region; ii. gender; c. the system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics. 39 3 Disclose Number Disclose Title Disclose Description Information Page a. Percentage of new suppliers that were screened using social All potential suppliers are screened using social criteria 414-1 Supplier Social Assessment criteria. prior to becoming actual suppliers. The reporting organization shall report the following information: a. Total number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes concerning the health and safety impacts of products and services within the reporting period, by: i. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a TMG Automotive did not identified any non-compliance 416-2 Customer Health and Safety fine or penalty; with regulations and/or voluntary codes. ii. incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in a warning; iii. incidents of non-compliance with voluntary codes. b. If the organization has not identified any non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes, a brief statement of this fact is sufficient. 40 3 Contacts Cautionary Statement: The present sustainability report took a lot of time and effort to write, especially because it was the first from TMG Automotive and so many fronts were tackled in just one year. Although accuracy was one of the main purposes when gathering all the data necessary, error cannot be fully excluded and could be present in various forms throughout the report. This report was built to enhance transparency with TMG Automotive stakeholders and to disseminate what we think are good practices; it is therefore not meant to be used as a base Catarina Dias André Pereira for any third party decisions and TMG catarina.dias@tmgautomotive.pt andre.pereira@tmgautomotive.pt Automotive does not assume responsibility regarding these decisions. 41 3
