Croatia Look, listen and improve We work continuously to Supporting improve our safety standards; we’ve gone more than two Croatian farmers and a half years without an and the economy accident and 89% of our employees think management For the fourth consecutive year, cares about their health and Brewing beer we used 100% locally grown barley to make our Karlovačko. We are honored that our safety. When it was noticed that some employees at the filling line were not wearing with the help of commitment to the Croatian agriculture and successful cooperation with local farmers protective glasses because they usually wear regular eyesight glasses, our management the sun participated in the growth in national barley production. Since 2014 the quantity of team asked the Behaviour Based Safety team to come up with a solution. Protective, Our ambition is to use renewable energy to power our brewery. purchased barley increased custom made eyesight 66%, the area of barley fields glasses were made and, In May 2018, we took a step closer when we installed 1,380 solar in Croatia increased 16% and and safety standards in our panels on the roof of our green warehouse. It will produce some the number of family farms filling department are now 395,000 kWh of electricity annually and reduce CO2 emissions by growing barley for beer significantly improved. some 118.5 tonnes. Surplus energy will also be rose 6%. redirected to the public electricity grid. ‘Brewing a Better World’ is our global sustainability strategy that unites all HEINEKEN operating companies to be a sustainable force for change. Focusing on the areas where we aim to make the greatest difference, it inspires our brands to align their purpose with tackling environmental and social issues. We are determined to contribute to six of the UN Sustainable Development Goals through this strategy. Croatia in 2018 Underage drinking 2.5 years tackled through our partnership with without an accident at our brewery site, the police and Tesa psychological centre. but one accident in sales – we will refresh We helped 400 parents to communicate Advocating responsible Promoting health trainings about slips, trips and falls in better with their teenagers, and consumption and safety 2019. we informed 850 teenagers on the dangers of underage drinking. People 100% locally 43% less water sourced malted barley for our Sourcing Every Drop used to produce each litre of beer Karlovačko brand. sustainably – protecting water resources since 2008, and a 5% reduction Pr o s p since last year, mainly due to more 10,000 hours et la n efficient filling line and process of volunteering through Kakvart, er ity P improvements. launched with the City of Karlovac to develop the quality of life through social action. Growing with Drop the C communities – reducing CO2 emissions €145,000 invested CO2 down 25% in the community where our brewery is in production since last year and an overall situated, including donations to social and 67% since 2008 thanks to continuous environmental projects and local events. technological improvements and switch to electrical energy from renewable sources For more on our sustainability journey: since 2016. www.theheinekencompany.com/Sustainability
