30th of December 2019 United Nations Global Compact United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA To whom it may concern, 9 years ago ADDIT Sp. z o.o. decided to support the principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption. ADDIT Sp. z o.o. commit to the Global Compact is in line with our business principles and sustainability policy framework. We are committed to integrate sustainability in our business approach and consider these principles as basis for responsible contract manufacturers. In this eighth annual Communication on Progress (COP) Addit Sp. z o.o. communicates its actual initiatives and progress. We also commit to share this information with our business partners using our primary channels of communication, primarily the Addit Sp. z o.o. website: www.addit.pl. Sincerely yours, Marian Klimek Managing Director Human Rights Principle 1. ADDIT Sp. z o.o. respects human rights. Our Human Rights declaration is communicated to all employees and associates of ADDIT Sp. z o.o. Principle 2. In our strategy, Code of Conduct and work regulation as well as human rights are both respected and guaranteed. Labour Principle 3. Our employees enjoy freedom of association through the establishment of trade unions and employee councils. Freedom of association is legally guaranteed in Poland. The staff representative guarantees respecting of human rights at ADDIT Sp. z o.o. and is elected in free, secret and direct elections. Our management and the staff representative consult all the issues relating to the rights, duties and privileges of employees. Government control and the staff representative functions in ADDIT Sp. z o.o. confirm the guarantee of respecting the human rights. Principle 4. Both Poland and ADDIT prohibit the use of forced labour. All employees of ADDIT Sp. z o.o. work in the company at their own volition and on the basis of bilateral contracts, where either party can terminate the relationship in accordance with the provisions of the Labour Code. Principle 5. ADDIT Sp. z o.o. does not benefit from child labour nor does it cooperate with companies where there is a risk that child labour may be used. Principle 6. Both the company's management and its employees are guided by the principle of counteracting discrimination based on race, age, sex, color, sexual orientation, disability or national origin with respect to workers, managers, customers, suppliers or visitors to Addit Sp. z o.o. Environment Principle 7. ADDIT Sp. z o.o. is concerned for the natural environment and strives to minimize the impact of its activities on the environment. ISO 14001 certification improves our company environmental Management System. ADDIT Sp. z o.o. limits emissions to the air, ground and water by means of appropriate waste management and monitoring of waste generated and strives to minimize consumption of electricity, water and natural gas. In 2015 company started implementing of Zero Waste Emission program. The program target is elimination of waste at any part of our production process. Every year company prepare environmental objective to achieve at the end of current year. Principle 8. Through numerous training courses and promotion of environmental awareness ADDIT Sp. z o.o. is helping to promote and develop a pro-environmental attitude among its employees. In working with our suppliers we strive to promote environmentally friendly activities by monitoring legal requirements and motivating suppliers to implement an Environmental Management System. Environment responsibly employees participate in environment conferences. Principle 9. ADDIT Sp. z o.o. optimizes manufacturing processes to ensure they exert the least possible impact on the environment. We are supported by a professional external company, which advises on sustainable use of natural resource, energy use and (new) production technologies e.g. reducing energy consumption by new system for lighting, renewable energy for heating. When purchasing new technologies we are guided in our choice by their impact on the environment, e.g. the selection of a modern, environmental safe technology for wet painting, or buying energy-efficient machines for machining. Every year company invests in energy efficient machines. Anti-corruption Principle 10. ADDIT Sp. z o.o. adheres strictly to the principle of a total ban on corruption. Ethic is communicated to employees and contractors. Departures of the rule are not accepted. From the beginning the company Addit Sp. z o.o. in Poland (until this publication) there were no reported incidents of corruption.
