Topdanmark A/S CSR report 2018 Introduction 3 Contents Introduction Introduction Business management Preface 3 Preface 30 Responsible management is good management tion. We interpret the principles so that they create 4 Topdanmark in brief 30 Climate and environment value for our business and the world around us. We 6 How we work with CSR 32 Advice on climate adaptation are also working to contribute towards the UN’s sus­ tainable development goals (SDGs). 10 Key figures 32 Climate report 33 Increased recycling and less waste The year has seen many activities and good results, including: 34 Human rights Customer relations 34 Diversity and women in management • We have commenced a number of customer-orien­ ted initiatives to ensure that it is easy and simple 36 Diversity on the Board of Directors 12 We ensure security with a customer focus to be a customer with us. For the second year in a 37 We protect our customers’ personal data row, we have been chosen as “insurance company 16 What does the insurance of the future look like? 38 Artificial intelligence with responsibility of the year”, and our home contents insurance was 16 Complaints cases are used constructively named “Best in test” by Forbrugerrådet Tænk (the Photo: Frederikke Heiberg 39 Anti-corruption and Bribery Danish Consumer Council). • Within prevention, we have ensured a positive Prevention generates security development of our efforts for all customer types, Employee conditions e.g. a digital solution for health work with corpora­ te customers, in particular for customers who have 19 Everyone can receive good advice on prevention suffered concussions, and prevention of damage to 20 Help for avoiding water mayhem 40 Competent and motivated employees are Welcome to Topdanmark’s CSR report a critical factor tanks that, for example, are used for storing liquid 2018, where you can read about the inifertilizer. 21 Far too many accidents in agriculture 41 Comprehensive programme for employee tiatives and results for the year. Our aim 22 Cooperation on prevention for farmers development with this report is to present an open and • Within the investment area, we have not carried 23 Help for returning to work 42 Involvement and motivation transparent description of Topdanmark out investments that conflict with the principles of the UN Global Compact. 24 Leading the way with stress treatment 42 Health in everyday life and our work with social responsibility. 25 Better health through digitalisation 44 Automation and employee conditions • We have introduced new dialogue tools for our For Topdanmark, social responsibility goes hand in work with employee well-being. 26 Better support for customers with concussions hand with our core business. Our products and ser­ vices provide the customers with financial and social • Together with the employees and corporate custo­ Dialogue and society security – before, during and after damage/injury has occurred and in relation to securing their pension. mers, we have participated in the Knæk Cancer Responsible investment We guide the customer throughout the entire custo­ (cancer fundraising) campaign. 46 Business and society are strengthened mer process, and we help with service and advice • We have implemented the EU's General Data Pro­ 46 through cooperation when needed. A central part of our business model is 28 The UN Global Compact provides the overall tection Regulation and established a set of ethical the work on prevention and limitation of damage. It framework 47 CSR programme for suppliers principles for the use of artificial intelligence. benefits the customers, Topdanmark and our society. 29 Policy for active ownership 48 Co-operation with humanitarian organisations Therefore, prevention is also an important part of our • Within the climate area, we have reduced our CO CSR initiative. 50 Tax contributions are also social contributions emission by 11%, and we have contributed tow­ ards the UN’s sustainability goal 12 on responsible In 2018, we have formulated a new customer ambi­ consumption. tion in order to specifically increase the focus on the customer aspect of our business. I hope you enjoy reading the CSR report! To further contribute to a sustainable development of society, Topdanmark has been associated with the Yours sincerely, UN Global Compact since 2010. We support the 10 principles of the Compact concerning human rights, Photo on front cover: A team of Topdanmark specialists is awarded “The Audience Prize” at SingularityU Peter Hermann, CEO Nordic for inventing an innovative model on burglary prevention. The prize was given upon termination of a workers’ rights, the environment and fighting corrup­ Talent Programme in 2018. 4 Introduction Introduction 5 Topdanmark is a limited non-life and life Topdanmark in brief insurance company listed on Nasdaq 2018 key ratios Copenhagen A/S focusing on the Danish When you are a customer with us, you do not need to worry about insurances and penmarket. sion. We do that for you. Based on your own specific situation, we ensure your securiDKK 19,247 DKK 1,331 ty and we make sure that being a customer is easy and simple. We are on the cutting million in premiums million profit edge, and we will help you when you need us. Objectives earned • To carry out nation-wide, Danish non-life and life We are both an insurance and a pension company. Our insurance and pension fund business. products and advice help personal customers when • To be attractive to customers by being a competitive 83.6 % in 78 billion in • The house is damaged by fire or the car is stolen independent and pre-eminent insurance group. combined ratio investment • Accidents occur in the customer’s spare time or • To ensure that our shareholders achieve a long-term, activities when travelling competitive and stable return. • Health fails • Work life ends We help businesses and farms for example, in the Abstract of goals and strategy following situations Value creation model • Employees have an accident • To attract and keep profitable customers by delivering • Storehouses are flooded a high level of customer service. • IT systems are attacked by hackers • To develop and improve the level of customer service. Distribution power • Buildings are damaged by heavy storm • To be able to attract and keep qualified employees. • The harvest is destroyed by hail, bad weather or fire. • To be a dynamic organisation encouraging personal and career development. • To ensure that Topdanmark's shares are both attractive and liquid. Important distribution partners • To achieve primarily organic growth, supplemented by close co-operation with alliance partners and Photo: Topdanmark acquisitions if good opportunities present themselves. Main stakeholders Customer Topdanmark has three mutually dependent main stake­ satisfaction Denmark’s fifth largest commercial holders: customers, employees and shareholders. Our starting point is that satisfied customers and qualified life insurance company employees are key to ensuring satisfied shareholders by Pricing Efficiency achieving a long-term, competitive and stable return. Denmark’s second largest Market share 9% insurance company Organisational changes in 2018 Private customers 49,000 Market share 17 % In February 2018, Peter Hermann was appointed new In February 2018, Marianne Weir resumed the role of CEO of Topdanmark. He previously worked as CEO of Group Managing Director. She was responsible for te­ Topdanmark Livsforsikring (Topdanmark Life Insurance) chnology and innovation. In October 2018, she replaced Corporate customers 94,800 Private customers 514,000 and replaced Lars Thykier (CFO), who had temporarily Thomas Erichsen as the new Group Managing Director assumed the role when the former CEO, Christian Sagild, with responsibility for the same area. stepped down as CEO at the end of 2017. Business and agricultural People with group life insurance 88,300 108,000 customers >>Read more about Topdanmark, e.g. about management organisation, Board of Directors and financial reports 6 Introduction Introduction 7 How we work with CSR CSR strategy We have defined six focus areas and a number of KPIs, all For Topdanmark, responsibility is a core value, and social responsibility goes hand in of which are critical to our core business. They have been hand with the core business. We assume responsibility for customers, and as an insuranselected based on a number of criteria and analyses, including a risk analysis, inspiration from the UN Global ce and pension company, our products, services and advice offer customers financial and Compact and the sustainable development goals, compli­ social security when a damage or injury occurs or when their work life ends. ance requirements and dialogue with stakeholders. • Customer relations: We assume responsibility for hel­ For Topdanmark, responsibility is a core value, and International principles for sustainability ping our customers – and this is what we want to best social responsibility goes hand in hand with the core at. We support welfare in Denmark with our products business. We assume responsibility for customers, and Since 2010, Topdanmark has taken part in the Global and services. The UN’s sustainable Compact, the UN initiative for private businesses and as an insurance and pension company, our products, services and advice offer customers financial and so­ organisations. It is the world’s largest initiative for so­ • Prevention: We prevent and limit consequences of the development goals cial responsibility in companies, and it consists of ten cial security when a damage or injury occurs or when injuries and accidents that happen. This benefits custo­ principles for the sustainable development of society. In 2018, we analysed the UN’s 17 sustainable development their work life ends. mers as well as society. We support the ten principles as one of several soluti­ goals, including the 169 subsidiary goals and 232 indica­ ons to the challenges that the world community faces. tors formulated by the UN. We looked at how they fit into Topdanmark contributes to loss prevention and limi­ • Investments: We invest responsibly based on the UN our core business. Our assessment, as with the assessment tation of the consequence of injuries and accidents Global Compact and we generate the greatest possible By supporting the UN Global Compact, we commit from 2017, is that we can contribute in particular in the suffered by customers. We run a good and stable return for our customers. to integrating the ten principles in our business. For following areas: business, which benefits our customers, employees, example, we do this by analysing the risk of non-com­ shareholders and society. • Employee conditions: We ensure day-to-day health pliance with the ten principles, for instance in con­ Goal 3 and well-being for employees, with room for diversity. nection with investments. We also incorporate these Good health and well-being. We contribute towards impro­ Therefore, a business-oriented approach to CSR is into our operations, products and services, so that ving our customer’s health through a long list of preventive quite natural. Our ambition is that our efforts should • Business management: We act responsibly and have these efforts generate business value and contribute efforts. The same applies to our employees. support our business goals and strategies as well as to policies and initiatives associated with the UN Glo­ towards sustainable social development. contribute positively to the sustainable development bal Compact principles on climate, human rights and Goal 12 of our society. anti-corruption, as well as the UN’s sustainable devel­ As co-signer of the UN Global Compact, we are in Responsible consumption and production. Here, we can opment goals. compliance with the UN’s 17 sustainable develop­ specifically contribute to the subsidiary goal of reducing From a business perspective, CSR can, for example, ment goals. The UN Global Compact and the 17 waste and increasing recycling and reuse, for which we contribute towards ensuring that customers, emplo­ • Dialogue and society: Together with our employees, sustainable development goals act as inspiration for established a number of KPIs in 2018. yees and shareholders see us as a responsible and we want to contribute towards resolving challenges in our CSR work and are an integrated part of our focus trustworthy insurance and pension company, and it society. areas. In 2019, we will continue to work with the 17 sustainable can support our business development. development goals and see how the other goals may inspire In this CSR report, you can read about goals, KPIs and other efforts. the year’s efforts and results. Organisation of CSR Topdanmark’s executive management is ultimately responsible for our CSR work. The Board of Directors Executive management CSR steering group CSR responsible: Executive management has anchored the CSR work in a steering group, consisting of Approves CSR policies, policies Approves annual CSR reporting, The steering group meets at least three Ensures implementation of the CSR division and service area directors, which for active ownership and selected policies and projects times per year and is responsible for the strategy, prepares CSR reporting and other reports directly to the executive manage­ diversity policies CSR strategy and evaluation of results. communication. Engages in dialogue with ment. At the end of 2018, the CSR steering The steering group is responsible for NGOs and other stakeholders. group was reorganised and in 2019 the the annual CSR report. new steering group will assess whether another CSR-strategy is needed 8 Introduction Risk analysis Topdanmark is associated with the UN Global Compact. We therefore have an obligation to integrate the ten principles on hu­ man rights, employment rights, environment and anti-corruption in our business. We do this, among other things, by carrying out an ongoing assessment to establish the areas that are at risk of non-compliance with the UN Global Compact principles and the consequences this may have to our business. Below is an overview of the most critical risks. CSR report: status on the year’s efforts What For Topdanmark The UN Global Compact How we work with and society this risk We prepare an annual mandatory CSR report, which ges in the industry, expectations from the UN Global Customer relations Inappropriate customer The customer does not attain >>Read on page 12-15 is also a progress report for the UN Global Compact. Compact and our most important stakeholders. advice and product sales, lack the financial and thus social It thus constitutes our mandatory report on Corpora­ of clarity on conditions and security and improvement te Social Responsibility (see section 132a and 132b The individual sections also describe how we work with errors in claims handling in health status that our pro­ of Danish Executive Order on Financial Reports for preventing the CSR and business risks that we have ducts and advice offer. There Insurance Companies and Lateral Pension Funds). identified see risk analysis to the right. is, therefore, also no positive contribution to society. It describes the most important activities and results Through the report, we would like to present our three Negative influence on the for the year, including goals and indications under most important stakeholders – customers, employees customer’s right to social the six focus areas that constitute the CSR strategy. and shareholders – with an open and transparent Dissatisfied customers, security and the right to The contents of the individual points are decided by description of Topdanmark and our work with social health adverse impact on reputation the CSR steering group, based on an assessment of, responsibility. Incorrect handing of and thus risk of financial loss Negative influence on the >>Read on page 17 among other things, statutory requirements, challen­ customer complaints customer’s right to a fair complaints procedure Limitations and evaluation ESG data on the Nasdaq Irresponsible use of IoT, Negative effect on the >>Read on page 38 artificial intelligence and customer’s right to data of data portal big data security and privacy The report covers the financial year 2018. The report Topdanmark is listed on Nasdaq. In 2018, Nasdaq Errors in monitoring Negative effect on the >>Read on page 34 applies to all subsidiaries of Topdanmark. In appen­ implemented an ESG portal for investors who wanted customers when fraud customer’s right to data dixes to the report, the method for the calculation of to include non-financial data in the assessment of a is suspected security and privacy the individual data is thoroughly explained. company. The portal collects 33 social, environmental and managerial data and information elements. We Incorrect handing of Risk of fines from the Danish Negative effect on the >>Read on page 37 personal data Data Protection Agency customer’s right to data >>See the method of calculation have contributed towards the development of the security and privacy portal, and we have reported data and information for Dissatisfied customers, the investors. adverse impact on reputation and thus risk of financial loss Investments Investment of pension funds Adverse impact on reputation Indirect negative influence >>Read on page 28 The Global Compact principles and reserves from the in­ and thus risk of financial loss on all UN Global Compact surance business in compa­ principles A business supporting UN Global Compact should: nies that are in compliance 1) support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights with the UN Global Compact 2) make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses principles 3) uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective Business activities Operation of buildings, IT, Expenses CO2 emissions and adverse >>Read on page 30-31 Human rights bargaining business-related driving effect on climate change 4) support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 5) support effective abolition of child labour Bribery in connection with Adverse impact on reputation Adverse effect on principle >>Read on page 39 6) eliminate the discrimination in respect of employment and occupation sales and procurement and thus risk of financial loss 10 on fighting corruption 7) support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Environment 8) undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Employee conditions Job dissatisfaction, bullying, High rate of staff turnover Negative influence on the >>Read on page 40-45 9) encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies discrimination, stress among and absence due to illness employees’ right to physical employees and mental health Anticorruption 10) work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery Lack of attraction and retention of qualified employees This is the number of times our CSR report was read Dissatisfactory job performance 3,086 This is the number of times our CSR report 2017 was opened and read until the completion of this Cooperation partners Violation of the UN Global Compact principles among Adverse impact on reputation and thus risk of financial loss Indirect negative influence on all UN Global Compact >>Read on page 47 displays CSR report. On average, 9 minutes were spent reading the report. suppliers principles 10 Introduction Introdution 11 Key figures Customer relations Women in management 46.8% 40% ambassador customers women on average – all levels of management 32,400 people who have had a personal claim have been helped Employee conditions 314,500 Photo: Claus Boesen/ Media Press people with claims have been helped 2,341 full-time employees Prevention and 3.0% work retention absence due to illness 53 14.0% people received help after a concussion employee turnover 70% of people returned to work after completing 377 an individually tailored programme employees participating in massage schemes Environment Society 92,000 times has our advice on 296 prevention been displayed on the website employees participated in Vi Cykler til 11% DKK 10,133 Arbejde (We Bike to Work) 1,250 CO2 reduction million paid to insurance customers people have been helped with regard to prevention through a TopSund process DKK 27.0 53% DKK 371 waste for recycling million in corporation tax million for competence development 1,531 MWh DKK 613,400 power production from own solar cells total donation to humanitarian organisations 12 Customer relations Customer relations 13 Customer relations We ensure security with a customer focus When you are a customer with us, you do not need to worry about insurances and pension. We do that for you. Based on your own specific situation, we ensure your security and we make sure that being a customer is easy and simple. We are on the cutting edge, and we will help you when you need us. This is Topdanmark’s ambition for how our customers Quality requirements are monitored Photo: Topdanmark should see us. We have a central as well as several local complian­ ce departments, which ensure that our salespersons With our products and services, we want to help custo­ adhere to our business processes and quality require­ mers regardless of the situation. We want to address ments. We have a reporting system that means that our customers’ concerns in everyday life and help we evaluate inappropriate situations so as to improve them along in life. We will do this by offering targeted customer service and avoid mistakes. services when these are relevant to the customer. Overview The power of attorney solution is set up so that it is Mit Topdanmark (My Topdanmark), the individual in compliance with the EU’s General Data Protection In 2018, Topdanmark implemented IDD (Insurance Regulation (GDPR). In order to back our ambition with actions even customer profile, helps establish an overview of the Distribution Directive). This is a European directive on further, “customer service” was established in 2018 customer’s insurance situation – particularly in case correct insurance communication, which has now been Desire to recommend us to others as a new cross-organisational service unit. This means of a claim. The solutions are developed on an ongoing applied to Danish national rules. Our goal is for the customers to be so satisfied with that we are constantly working on improving our ser­ basis, so they contain personalised and relevant infor­ vice in all situations, for example by: mation for the individual customer. our products and services that they would like to Transparency for products and processes recommend us to others. Consequently, we regularly • Securing a coverage suited to the customer’s needs We service and provide advice on subjects and situa­ Power of attorney solution makes it easier evaluate our customers’ perception of us. For example, and requests. tions that may be complicated for our customers. For this takes place through more than 30,000 phoneto be a customer • Providing the customer with good service before, example, this applies when purchasing our products based customer replies a year, as well as systematic – particularly online and without direct contact to an In 2018, a power of attorney solution was implemen­ online surveys. during and after a claim or illness. employee. The claims process may also be complex. ted, which means that you can give another person • Providing the customer with access to self service access to your own insurances and to your own digital The EPSI and Aalund surveys are external, indepen­ via digital solutions. Therefore, we continually work on preparing informa­ customer profile. dent analyses of customer satisfaction with • Ensuring that the customer has easy and fair claims handling. tion on products, price and coverage so that it is as Topdanmark and Topdanmark Life Insurance, respec­ easy to comprehend and find as possible. Current and For a household with several types of insurances, this tively. We monitor the results closely in order to learn • Giving the customer easy access to a fair complaints potential customers are thus better able to form an means that one person in the household can have a far from them and improve our service. process. overview. better overview of how the household is covered overall, and if damage does occur, it is far easier to Coverage suited to the customer’s needs get an overview of the situation. For older customers, and requests Fair and easy claims processing being able to get help with their insurance situation Digital solutions contribute towards increased infor­ can be a big advantage. We want the customer to have coverage that specifi­ mation and transparency for the conditions and, in cally matches their needs and requests. This way, they particular, the process concerning a claim. will enjoy the financial and social security that they need. It is easy and straightforward for customers to report Cooperation agreement with Coop In 2018, Coop and Topdanmark entered into a coopera­ claims directly on our website. The reporting is focused We are aware that this requires that customers receive tion agreement where Coop would offer its 1.7 million on the customer’s perspective. For example, the custo­ good and accurate customer advice from competent members a wide range of insurance products. The in­ mer must describe what has happened, rather than try employees. One way we ensure this is by hiring trained surances are sold under Coop’s brand, while the advice, to figure out which insurance policy is relevant and employees. All salespersons are trained at Forsikrings­ service and claims processing is handled by Topdanmark. everything takes place without the policy number. akademiet (the Insurance Academy), and new emplo­ yees are thoroughly trained in Topdanmark’s business Initially, it was possible to buy car insurance, and in 2019, procedures for what we consider to be an expedient the insurance package will be expanded to include home and responsible sales process. We also ensure ongoing contents, travel insurance, etc. Topdanmark’s aim is that improvement of the skills and personal competences of Coop members find it easy to be a customer with us and the employees. that they receive help easily, simply and quickly in case of a claim. 14 Customer relations Customer relations 15 Customer surveys: goals and results Comments on the year’s results Goal 2015 2016 2017 2018 Our own internal surveys of customer service primarily over the telephone revealed a somewhat Internal survey declining trend in 2018. We have to also acknowledge that we have faced some challenges over the te­ Increase in number of ambassador 45.6% 46.2% 48.0% 46.8% lephone in 2018. Here, customers experienced that it was more difficult to reach us, more so than what we customers 1) and the customers consider satisfactory. EPSI survey for personal customers 75.9 74.5 76.8 77.5 Therefore, we are working intensively to ensure that customers have an easier time helping themselves via Increase (0-100 points) digital solutions. At the same time, we also want to focus on improving our availability over the phone for EPSI survey for SME customers those customers who prefer this method. 72.3 73.5 73.5 Increase (0-100 points) 2) Aalund survey On the other hand, the external customer surveys have been much more positive. We are naturally very Maintain a ranking as the company with 1st place 2nd place 1st place 1st place happy to have received KPMG’s prize for good customer service. the most satisfied customers 3) Jens Green, marketing director 1) Ambassador customers are customers who are so satisfied with Topdanmark that they want to recommend us to others. 2) EPSI did not carry out a survey of business customers in 2018. 3) From the three parameters included in the survey satisfaction, image and loyalty we report on “satisfaction”. Note: The data also comes from the Aalund survey, which dealt with companies with 10-49 employees, as this is Topdanmark Liv’s primary segment. Note: Data in the CSR report for the years 2015 to 2017 is different than in this report since we reported the general result, i.e. the overall result for all segments (100-499 employees). Denmark’s best customer Awards received in 2018 experience Denmark’s best customer experience in Customer score on Trustpilot: overview In a large survey carried out by KPMG, Topdanmark KMPG’s survey with 2,500 interviews came in first place in 2018 as the brand in across 10 different sectors 2015 2016 2017 2018 Denmark that provided the best customer experi­ ence – ahead of brands like MobilePay and LEGO. Overall customer score on Trustpilot 9.1 8.9 8.8 8.6 KPMG describes Topdanmark as follows: Topdanmark (0 to 10) Insurance company of the year at the conference “The customers largely indicate that they are Årets Finansvirksomhed (Finance Company of the listened to and that they are understood when they Year) organised by FinansWatch. In my opinion, my notification of claim My claims notification was dealt contact the company and its employees. is considered an attempt to make a with professionally by Topdanmark makes great efforts to ensure that its profit. As if you forget that my house Topdanmark. Everything was online and offline channels reflect the company’s was robbed and I had heavy expenses. handled promptly and professio­ empathic approach to customer relations. nally – I am very pleased. Topdanmark has recently redesigned its website for the purpose of streamlining the online custo­ mer experience. In connection with this, a digital Insurance company of the platform was established to allow for easy and year at the car industry’s seamless communication between employees, Auto Awards Help with claims customers and third-party partners when working In 2018, our home with complex customer needs. 314,500 contents insurance was named “Best in test” by Similarly, Topdanmark has focused extensively on The Danish Consumer improving the quality of calls to/from customer people Council. service, as the company is aware that many customers continue to prefer to talk to an emplo­ yee in connection with the purchase of an insuran­ The number of people reporting claims that ce product.” we have helped in 2018. 16 Customer relations Customer relations 17 What does the insurance of the future look like? Our society is changing in many ways, and this will policies or our decisions. We therefore use customer affect our business. For example, what will happen to Robots contribute towards good complaints to assess how we can improve our com­ Decisions by the Insurance Complaints insurance when cars are driverless and many kinds of customer service munication and advice. Board claims can be prevented with IoT solutions? How can we responsibly combine the use of artificial intelli­ gence/machine learning and the large quantities of data that we have in order to improve our customer 49 robots Correct decisions are the goal If, in private insurance cases, the customer disagrees If the customer’s complaint is upheld, then as a general rule, Topdanmark abides by the decision. with our decision on a claim, the customer is entitled Only in exceptional cases where we disagree in service? This is the number of robots we put into production in to appeal to the Insurance Complaints Board (Anke­ principle with the Board’s decision will we assess 2018. They handled 695,339 processes in connection nævnet for Forsikring). whether or not to accept the decision. In 2018, We are ready to meet the customer needs of the fu­ with customer cases, such as retrieving documents and ture, with respect to insurance products, prevention booking meetings. 83% of all cases were completed we have abided by every decision made by the The number of customer complaints that are passed Board. and self-service solutions. We have: entirely automatically. on to the Insurance Complaints Board is under one • Innovation Lab, which focuses on establishing an per thousand claims we receive. innovation culture in the organisation and collec­ If we do not accept the Board’s decision, the cust­ ting knowledge externally. omer can bring the case before a court of law. • Talent programme: In 2018, three teams com­ Think 10 years into the future ec Lorem ipsum dolor cons sit amet, Our goal is to succeed in as many appeal cases as possible brought before the Insurance Complaints pleted the talent programme. Of these, nine Board so as to demonstrate that our decisions are employees completed an education at Singulari­ What do you want to insure? correct. Regardless of the outcome of appeal cases, tyU, where among other things, they worked with we always analyse how we can improve communicati­ preventing theft. Do you even need an on with our customers. • IoT solutions for prevention of things like water insurance? damage – read more on page 20 • Machine learning for improving customer service. Which technologies have • Product development for meeting new types of changed the industry? business models, e.g. sharing economy companies. Number of decisions at the Insurance Complaints Board What will the insurance In 2018, we established a set of ethical principles for industry be like? 2015 2016 2017 2018 the use of artificial intelligence – read more on page Innova t ion Lab 38. Topdanmark general insurance 190 122 131 129 Topdanmark life insurance 34 24 11 21 Source: www.ankeforsikring.dk. Here, customers and other stakeholders can also compare the number of cases brought before the Insurance Complaints Board by different companies. Complaints cases are used constructively Topdanmark handles around 300,000 claims annually. It is therefore inevitable that we receive complaints from customers about the compensation or service they have Insurance Complaints Board decisions: activities and results received. We use complaints cases to improve our communication and advice. Goal Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 To be successful in as many Percentage of decisions in Insurance and pension products can be difficult to We emphasise the importance of clearly informing custo­ cases brought before the Topdanmark general insuran­ 79 78 77 78 understand, and in certain cases the compensation or mers of their complaint options as well as ensuring a fair Insurance Complaints Board ce’s favour* the help offered in a claim do not met the customer’s and transparent complaint process. expectations. This can be due to, for example, restric­ Percentage of decisions in tions in the terms and conditions which the customer Topdanmark Life Insurance's 75 88 82 100 Customer complaints are used constructively has been unaware of or the customer’s inability to favour* Customer complaints can also be an expression of our document the loss which we should compensate. inability to communicate the terms and conditions of our * In other decisions, it has been ruled against or partially ruled against Topdanmark 18 Prevention Prevention 19 Prevention generates security Prevention is part of our CSR and business strategies. We integrate prevention both in our Everyone can receive good advice on prevention advice and in the specific products, and we want to be on the cutting edge of development, for example, when it comes to the use of digitalisation and IoTsolutions. Customers as well as other stakeholders can receive types of damage/injury for private individuals and good advice on how to prevent many kinds of da­ those working with agriculture and in businesses. The Customers are financially secured in many different si­ Topdanmark and society as a whole. For this reason, mages/injuries on our website. For example, it could interest in our information increased by 55% between tuations with Topdanmark’s life and non-life products, Topdanmark works with loss prevention and limitation. involve prevention of water damage, prevention of 2017 and 2018. such as in the event of fire, theft, accident, illness and We use the newest relevant technologies, such as the personal injury during a skiing holiday and many other old age. However, loss often has greater impact and IoT, to create the best solutions for the customers. consequences than just financial for the customer, 55% increase in comparison to 2017 100,000 92,035 90,000 80,000 70,000 Customers: 59,273 everyday help, e.g. 60,000 ●●Personal injury and illness ●●Torrential rain storm damage 50,000 ●●Fire and storm damage ●●Theft and IT crime 40,000 ●●Help for limiting damage when it occurs and staying connected with the labour market 30,000 20,000 Society: Topdanmark: 10,000 contribution to the stable business welfare state 0 ●●Reduction of sick day costs ●●Loyal customers 2018 2017 and transfer income costs ●●Fewer claims and lower ●●Support for local authority settlements Number of displays adaptation to climate change ●●Fewer claims and lower settlements The dilemma concerning prevention Even though no one wants to experience injuries/damage, customers are not always ready to implement preventive solutions. There may be many reasons for this, such as financial ones. This dilemma is taken into consideration when we prepare preventive initiatives. We also carefully consider when and how we can best communicate the opportunities for prevention so that it makes sense to the customer. For example, we might offer some advice in connection with a visit or through information on our website, which can be accessed as needed. For more information on this, see the next sections. 20 Prevention Prevention 21 Help for avoiding water mayhem In 2018, Topdanmark tested the use of an intelligent water alarm with approx. 1,000 customers. The water alarm keeps track of the customer’s water usage and sends a notification when a leak is detected. It can prevent extensive water damage and thus saves the customer a great deal of inconvenience. The water alarm also benefits Topdanmark through fewer and lower settlements. No one wants burst water pipes and a ruined home, and that kind of unpleasant experience is something Facts that Topdanmark wants to help customers avoid in the future. In 2017, Danes experienced a total of 72,000 cases of water damage originating from leaks in As a test project, in 2018 we offered selected custo­ pipes and branch pipes. The total damage cost mers small water alarms that indicate if there is a leak nearly DKK 1.6 billion in 2017, according to num­ in a water pipe. This means that leakage is discovered bers from Forsikring & Pension. Numbers from 2018 were not available when this report was Photo: Topdanmark quickly and that the damage is therefore limited. completed. This is how the water alarm works also via the app – call an authorised water and sanita­ The water alarm is called LeakBot, and it can easily tion company, which can come and repair the leak. be installed on a water pipe close to the water meter. From here, it keeps track of all the water pipes in the The water alarm means fewer worries house. If a leak occurs, it warns the owner via the included app. The results of our test with LeakBot were promising. Far too many accidents in agriculture In 30% of the homes where the water alarm was The app helps the customer resolve the most already installed, it found leaks that the owner could Agriculture is one of the most dangerous sectors to common problems –such as a dripping tap or a toilet either repair or where a water and sanitation com­ work in. Every second fatal occupational accident Advice on prevention that runs. For bigger problems, the customer can – pany checked the pipes and repaired the damage. in Denmark occurs in the agricultural sector. On top 175 of this, hundreds of other serious accidents happen which result in month-long periods of sick leave. Topdanmark receives as many as 250 occupational injury claims from the agricultural sector every year. To reduce the all-too-high number of occupational customers in the injuries in Danish agriculture, in 2017 Topdanmark agricultural sector together with SEGES, a professional knowledge and innovation centre under Landbrug & Fødevarer The number of customers in the agricultural (Danish Agriculture & Food Council), produced a ser­ sector who have received advice on prevention vice concept known as Arbejdsliv (Working Life). after a work-related accident in 2017-2018. This new service gives customers with occupational injury insurance the opportunity to receive impartial help handling the practical elements in connection Fewer extensive cases of water damage would mean less incon­ advice from a working environment consultant if the with the accident – e.g. when the Danish Working venience and stress for the customers. Experiencing water damage is customer or a co-worker has suffered an injury at Environment Authority and perhaps the police pay a hard on families – particularly if they have to be rehoused. We would visit. work. Consulting is provided by SEGES. like to help customers avoid such unpleasant situations. At the same time, the solution contributes towards avoiding water waste. This is important in a time when water may become a scarce resource. Satisfied with the concept Since the launch of Working Life in 2017, 175 custo­ Photo: leakbot.io mers have taken advantage of the consulting service. Topdanmark pays for the advice and provides it at Thomas Enna, Business Development Director at Topdanmark On the whole, there is general satisfaction with the the site of the accident. A plan is formulated for how concept and the motivation for preventing new acci­ to implement relevant initiatives to prevent similar dents is strong. accidents in the future. The customer can also get 22 Prevention Prevention 23 Help for returning to work The consequence of succumbing to illness or suffering a serious injury can be that you lose touch with the labour market and may even end up on disability pension. With an effective and individually-customised programme, Topdanmark helps the customer stay on the labour market – for the benefit of the customer, society at large, and Topdanmark. The core of Topdanmark’s efforts is a flexible and indi­ vidually-customised programme, which is based on the Back in work Photo: Colourbox individual customer’s life and challenges. The efforts 70% may, for example, consist of collecting and coordinating the threads between the numerous parties involved and helping to plan the optimal course of treatment. Cooperation on prevention for farmers We emphasise that the process should commence as early as possible. This will help maintain the customer’s This figure shows the percentage of customers who have returned to work after completing an connection to the labour market. A lot of farmers use the digital platform Landmand. slurry in the tank reaches a critically low level. Until individually tailored programme on the loss of dk, which is run by SEGES. Here, the farmer has easy now, there has been no focus on monitoring – and earnings capacity insurance. This is an average Individually tailored help figure for programmes between 2013 and 2016. access to his cooperation partners. The site also thus not on systematic prevention either. collects relevant data, for example from dairies and Individually tailored help is available to customers who Numbers for 2017 and 2018 are not yet avai­ suppliers, as well as prognoses and news – all through On this basis and in collaboration with SEGES and are covered by one of the following insurance policies: lable. one login. others, we developed and tested a digital solution in 2018 that monitors the slurry level. The solution is • Loss of earnings capacity In 2018, Topdanmark entered into a collaboration developed as a combination between a sensor on the • Workers’ compensation with SEGES concerning Landmand.dk, and in the futu­ actual slurry tank, an IoT platform that collects and • Third-party liability processes data as well as a display on Landmand.dk. In practice, this An individually tailored programme is only implemen­ means that farmers can monitor ted if Topdanmark assesses that it is relevant from all We strive to make it easy for our customers and to offer rele­ perspectives. The individually tailored programme is vant knowledge and advice on prevention where the customers are the level of the slurry at Landmand. dk. The farmer also receives a text primarily for people with serious or long-term illnesses. located. Therefore, we are happy that our good cooperation with SEGES now also provides us access to Landmand.dk, which many farmers use message if the level is critical. in their everyday lives. With this monitoring of the remai­ Anders Vraa, VP at Topdanmark ning capacity of the slurry tank, the farmer has far better options for Individually tailored programme planning the slurry management Percentage of individually tailored re, the users will find useful advice from Topdanmark and for optimal utilisation of the fields. The farmer Total number of individually tailored customer programmes in relation to on the platform concerning prevention. Furthermore, also receives a reliable indication of when to no lon­ programmes (number of completed total number of customer cases for programmes) many of Topdanmark’s customers are able to find ger fill more slurry into a specific tank. This prevents the mentioned insurances their insurance agent’s contact information, a link to damage and slurry leakage. If damage does occur, it claim notification and the digital customer profile and will be detected quickly and efforts can be implemen­ 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 to receive personal notifications via the portal. Below ted to limit the extent of the damage and the slurry is an example of the preventive initiatives at Land­ leakage into fields, water courses or lakes. Loss of earnings 196 260 149 35 37 31 mand.dk. capacity Workers compensation Prevention of damage to slurry tanks Plans for 2019 and third-party liability 151 265 264 1,4 2,7 2,5 At the end of 2018, the solution was launched with One of the types of damage that is very inconvenient two customers. In 2019, it is expected that the so­ As indicated in the table above, individually tailored programmes are used more often in cases concerning loss of earnings for farmers, expensive for Topdanmark and which can lution will be implemented with a greater number capacity insurance than for the other two insurance types. This is because there are far more cases under this insurance have extensive negative consequences to the water of customers, whereupon a thorough evaluation type for which it makes sense to make an extra effort. environment due to oxygen depletion is damage to will take place. slurry tanks. The damage generally occurs when the 24 Prevention Prevention 25 Leading the way with stress treatment Better health through digitalisation Long-term stress has a negative effect on health at all levels, and it has broad consequences for your private and professional life as well as socio-economically. Topdanmark would like to contribute towards preventing and curing stress – and we would like to be This is how TopSund works at the forefront of treatment. • The individual employee completes an online health screening. It is the first step in a comprehensive prevention initiative aimed at the employee and the At the end of 2017, Topdanmark, as the first private therapy with a psychologist. Open and Calm is group company as a whole. company, entered into a collaboration aimed at re­ therapy which takes in physical, mental and social • Each employee receives a health score and an medying stress with the Center for Psykisk Sundheds­ parameters, based on the most well-validated model individual report with advice and guidance for Photo: Topdanmark fremme (Centre for the Promotion of Mental Health), for promotion of health. improving their health. It is possible to contact the a part of the University of Copenhagen. The program­ relevant health staff for further guidance. me, Åben og Rolig (Open and Calm), is a scientifically The development of Open and Calm began in 2009, • If an employee’s test results show signs of a serious developed and documented programme for stress and since 2014, the programme has been implemen­ health condition, such as long-term stress or de­ reduction. ted by a number of Denmark’s largest local authoriti­ pression, a team of health experts will step in and, es. The method has had positive effects on stress and Topdanmark makes an active contribution to the preven­ following agreement with the person in question, In 2018, the programme was offered – as a pilot depression levels, sleep quality and mental health in tion of illness and work-related injuries affecting compa­ will contact him/her to provide further advice. project – to a selection of our customers. About 70 general. nies which, for example, have taken out health insurance • The company also receives an overall report of the people participated. with us for their employees. general health status in the company – based on Positive experience anonymised data from the screening. Innovative thinking Experience with the use of Open and Calm for cust­ We have a range of prevention concepts which can be tai­ • In cooperation with Topdanmark, it is possible to Open and Calm is an evidence-based alternative to omers suffering from stress has been positive thus lored to the challenges of the individual company, so that plan relevant health initiatives so that they reflect traditional stress treatments involving individual talk far. The participants expressed satisfaction with the the preventive effort is as relevant as possible. We can the actual health-related challenges faced by the programme and with the tools they received. The offer, for example, health checks and health screenings company. majority of the 70 participants were back at work as via personal consultations with a medical professional. • The company will have the opportunity to measure Leading the way with stress treatment of the completion of this report. the effect of the initiative via a follow-up screening. New possibilities with digital solutions • The actual digital screening questionnaire is scien­ 70 In 2017, we implemented new digital initiatives in conne­ tific and evidence-based, and it has questions Plans for 2019 ction with health screening and prevention at work. pertaining to well-being, working conditions, social Topdanmark Life Insurance was the first pension com­ well-being, mental health, sleep and KRAM factors, In 2019, two Open and Calm teams will be set pany to offer a new prevention concept to selected custo­ a Danish acronym that stands for diet, smoking, up, whereupon the project will be evaluated in alcohol and exercise. people cooperation with researchers from the University of Copenhagen. Then, it will be decided whether mers, based on online health screening and targeted pre­ ventive efforts. We call the concept TopSund (TopHelath). This is the number of people with stress who Topdanmark will continue to use this approach. underwent the research-based programme Evaluation and results Examples of companies that Open and Calm in 2018. The majority of participants returned to work. In 2018, 1,250 employees completed a TopSund pro­ gramme. The employees were all hired in companies with experienced better health a pension agreement with Topdanmark Life Insurance. • A company realised that 65% of its employees The evaluation of the programmes shows that the Top­ took painkillers every day. After a two-hour wellSund concept contributed positively towards prevention being presentation, which also included exercises, and health in the respective companies and with their A year ago, I switched from a position as a scientific specialist to a management position in a young, this figure dropped to 5%. employees. dynamic international company. I reached a point where I had practically fallen apart. I was seriously in doubt • Another company realised that a large number whether I would ever be able to handle the labour market. of employees had trouble sleeping. Following an The anonymised screening reports have, for example, after-work meeting and a sleep programme, most provided the companies with the opportunity to discover Topdanmark offered me the option to participate in an Open and Calm programme, and this meant employees improved their sleeping patterns. challenges faced by their employees of which they were everything to me. Now, I have fully recovered mentally, and I avoided being away with long-term illness and unaware and which were relatively easy to change. possibly losing my job. I can handle my job and my life now, I am happy, and I know when and how to say “no”, both at work and in my personal life. I can only thank Topdanmark. Our experience with TopSund is so positive that the Description from a participant in an Open and Calm programme method now constitutes a fixed element of the preventive programme that we offer customers. 26 Prevention Prevention 27 Back in work Better support for customers with concussions 47% A significant increase in the number of head and neck injuries, for example caused by This is the percentage of customers who traffic accidents, was the starting point of a collaboration with neuro-psychologists returned to full time work after completing a programme at HKI, while 15% returned to from Hans Knudsen Instituttet (the Hans Knudsen Institute). The solution has been work part time. fruitful – many customers have benefited greatly from the help. If you have suffered a concussion, the list of pro­ Positive experience blems can be long and can often result in physical The collaboration with HKI was initiated in December impairment and absence from work due to illness. 2017, and we have thus far referred 53 customers. Therefore, it is important to get the right help at the The programme consists of five counselling sessions right time. with a neuro-psychologist over a period of ten weeks. Each programme is individually customised and, In later years, we have experienced a two-digit per­ among other things, is aimed at providing the custo­ cent increase in concussions. Therefore, we saw the mer with better insight into their own situation and need to test new methods to help our customers. This their own resources. led to a collaboration with Hans Knudsen Instituttet (HKI) concerning the possibility of offering counsel­ After about one year, our evaluation shows that a ling sessions with customers who suffered concus­ programme with HKI has a positive effect on injuries sions, e.g. due to traffic accidents; more specifically, and the ability to work. The customers have provided customers who are fully or partially absent from work very positive feedback, which is indicated in a user due to illness or are in imminent risk thereof. survey carried out by HKI. Our own evaluation of the overall programme shows that 47% of customers are Solution with leading specialists back working full time, while 15% are partially back HKI is a private institution, and it has hired leading at work. specialists within the area. Several of their neuro-psy­ chologists have attended special courses in the US, Based on the positive experience with the collabora­ while others have extensive experience working with tion, we would like to continue to offer customers a head traumas. HKI works according to the mission programme with HKI when relevant. that all people have resources they can develop or restore, and which can generate value to the labour market and to society. Statement from HKI’s user survey What was good about the programme? • Serious, skilled and competent guidance. I learned a lot in the programme that I am grateful for. A big thank you from me! I would not have gotten this far without guidance from HKI. • Everything. Through the programme, I received tools, strategies and advice and knowledge concerning my si­ tuation, which were invaluable. I am certain that my sparring with the neuro-psychologist allowed me to return to work faster and with more confidence! • Extremely involved and skilled neuro-psychologist, who was knowledgeable, professional and based his work Photo: Topdanmark on evidence during the entire programme. 28 Responsible investment Responsible investment 29 Responsible investment As part of Topdanmark’s business, we invest the insurance reserves and pension customers’ savings and not in violation of the internationally recognised standards and principles or conventions adopted by Policy for active ownership until the funds are paid in the form of compensation, Denmark. pension payments and the like. Topdanmark has its own asset management which In 2017, a specific policy was prepared for active more than 2% of the votes or the share capital and if Topdanmark wishes to attain the biggest possible invests actively. That means that we select for oursel­ ownership based upon “Recommendations on Active Topdanmark is not represented on the Board of Direc­ return on investments in relation to risk, but we also ves which shares, bonds, property types, etc. to invest Ownership” as launched by the Corporate Governan­ tors. We report: wish to ensure that value creation is responsible in and for how long. ce Committee. In this context, active ownership is about how an investor uses the company’s general • The extent to which Topdanmark has participated meeting as a tool to exert influence and how to report in the company’s general meeting voting. • The extent to which Topdanmark voted The UN Global Compact provides the overall Topdanmark has determined that we report voting on active ownership in Danish companies if we control framework Activities and results for 2018 As a means to ensuring the above, Topdanmark has Topdanmark and our pension customers. We carry Ownership Important Participated Voted on Meeting with Investor joined the UN’s Global Compact, which consists of 10 out investments ourselves, with consideration for share end outstanding in GF GF management meeting principles concerning human rights, workers’ rights, our policy for responsible investment. of 2018 accounts environment and fighting corruption. These principles Yes/The form the framework of our policies. • An exclusion list shows what a pension company board of has not invested in. By contrast, it does not show H+H International 4.63% No directors’ No Yes No In practice this means that respecting the 10 prin­ what said company has actually invested in. power of ciples is an integral part of our investment policy. In attorney 2018, we have thus carried out ongoing screening Topdanmark Kapitalforvaltning (Asset Management) and assessment of existing share portfolios for positi­ invests primarily in listed shares. Scalepoint ons with consideration given to the UN Global Com­ Technologies 3.36% No No Yes No No pact. New investments are generally not carried out if Holding the investments are in violation of the ten principles. >>See the current list of share investments of pension contributions Result for 2018 Guidelines for investment in government bonds No investments in shares have been made which may Based on the guidelines for investment in government bonds drawn up by The Council for Corporate Social be seen as in conflict with the UN Global Compact. Responsibility, a part of The Danish Business Authority, Topdanmark has established its own set of guidelines for this area. They are as follows: New guidelines from the Danish Business Authority In 2018, the Danish Business Authority published Topdanmark Asset Management must not deal in securities which are issued directly or indirectly by a state, a new guideline for responsible investment. It is head of state or similar in a state that is not a member of OECD or has not ratified the ICC Statute* – unless our perception that we already employ the policies, written permission has been given beforehand by Topdanmark’s Executive Board. processes and reporting that is expected in the new guideline. Therefore, the guideline has not necessita­ *Statute of the International Criminal Court. ted any changes. Organisation We do not have exclusion lists Topdanmark has no so-called exclusion list, meaning The Board of Topdanmark Asset Management has the chief responsibility for the policy on responsible invest­ a list of companies that we have not invested in nor ment, while Topdanmark Asset Management is responsible for implementing the policy and continually moni­ intend to invest in. There are two reasons for this: toring and ensuring that investments continue to fulfil the principles of our policy. • With active investments in our own asset manage­ ment, we have no need to instruct external mana­ >>Read the policy for active ownership gers where they may not invest resources from >>Read Topdanmark’s overall policy and procedures for responsible investment 30 Business Management Business Management 31 Business management Responsible manageClimate and CO2 emissions: goals and results Goal Unit 2017 2018 ment is good manageenvironment 5% reduced CO2 emission in 2021. Ton CO2 4,752 4,213 ment Topdanmark wishes to contribute to a Baseline is 2017. sustainable development of society in Carbon emission accounts 2015-2018 Topdanmark is a listed company. a way that contributes to our business. Therefore, our goal is to create financial This is why we integrate climate and enUnit 2015 2016 2017 2018 value for our shareholders. In this value vironment considerations into our busicreation, we are responsible for complyness objectives. Heating – natural gas Thousand m3 353 394 392 378 ing with national legislation, meeting the recommendations for corporate governanTopdanmark influences climate and the environment Use of cars leased by Topdanmark directly through our day-to-day operations and indi­ 1,000 litres petrol 29 35 32 35 ce and meeting the expectations of the UN for business purposes 1) rectly through our business activities. We prioritise Global Compact. This is good and responsihandling climate and environment issues in our own Use of cars leased by Topdanmark ble management. operations, as it is here that we can best define goals for business purposes 1) 1,000 litres petrol 223 266 244 228 and implement initiatives that reduce our expenses In CSR terms, we are primarily focused on our work and positively affect our climate and environmental with the Global Compact. In practice, this means that footprint. Heating – district heating MWh 481 446 468 458 a number of policies have been developed and special initiatives implemented where there is a need or whe­ Climate re it makes business sense. Electricity consumption 2) MWh 6,160 5,965 5,441 5,573 We deem that the greatest risk for negative impact on climate is CO2 emissions from our business opera­ Use of non-company cars for The key areas are tions. Therefore, we have set a goal for the reduction business purposes Mill. km 10.3 10.2 9.1 8.4 of our CO2 emission – read more on page 33. • Climate and the environment: Primary focus Environment Outsourced activities 3) on CO2 emissions and sustainability goal no. 12 It is our assessment that, as a financial company, • Human rights: Primary focus on diversity and we do not have a significant negative impact on the Total absolute CO2 emission Tonne 5,492 5,081 4,752 4,213 women in management, and protection of environment. Despite this, we have set environmental privacy in relation to personal data and goals intended to contribute towards the UN’s sustai­ surveillance nability goal no. 12 on responsible consumption and 1) The cars are used by our insurance agents and insurance appraisers, and they are used for both personal and business production – read more on page 31. purposes. The consumption figures include use of the vehicles for personal purposes, as it is not possible to register this • Corruption and bribery: Primary focus on gifts separately. The split between driving for private purposes and business purposes is assessed to be approximately 50-50. and hospitality The work with the climate and environment is rooted 2) The figure includes electricity produced by our own solar power system. In 2018, this came out to 1,531 MWh. 3) Topdanmark has outsourced different activities, e.g. our mainframe and claims processing tasks. Outsourced activities in our CSR steering group, which defines goals on an are not included in the carbon emission accounts. annual basis and evaluates the results for the year. Production of environment CO2 reduction activities in 2018 friendly energy Plans for 2019 The most important activity in 2018 for the reducti­ Reduction of absolute CO2 emission 1,531 MWh on of CO2 emissions was the operation of two solar Reduction of CO2 emissions will take place in 11% power systems. The largest solar power system was conjunction with the acquisition of new IT equip­ set up at the head office in Ballerup it was expanded ment and other equipment with reduced power to double its size in 2017. The second system was set consumption than the current equipment. Further­ This the amount of energy up in 2017 at our office in Viby. more, we will focus more on the use of online me­ our 2 solar power systems etings for customer interviews. We expect that this produced in total in 2018 In comparison to 2017, we reduced absolute will reduce the CO2 emission from car usage. In 2018, electricity production from these two sy­ (2017: 1,093 MWh). CO2 emissions by 11%. This is due to increased stems increased significantly in relation to previous production of CO2-neutral energy from our own years. Furthermore, we continuously implement ener­ >>Read Topdanmark’s overall climate and gy optimisation of our business operations, including solar power system. environmental policy how we run our offices and our IT solutions. 32 Virksomhedsledelse Virksomhedsledelse 33 Increased recycling and less waste As co-signer of the UN Global Compact, Among other things, the goal is about we strive to contribute towards the promoting recycling and reducing the UN’s 17 sustainable development goals. amount of waste. This is an area that is We have analysed the 17 goals and related in many ways with our business. determined that, among other things, On this basis, we have defined the ambi­ we can contribute towards goal 12 on tion to contribute towards this specific responsible consumption and produc­ goal with initiatives that also support tion. our business. Subsidiary goal 12.5: Before 2030, the amount of waste generated must be significantly Photo: Colourbox reduced through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse. Following damage to buildings Following damage to electronics Advice on climate adaptation • Repair buildings instead of opting for new acqui­ sitions when possible • Repair instead of making a new purchase when possible • Sale of building materials for recycling As an insurance company, we are prepared for the • We have an extensive reinsurance programme, • Donation of furniture and items for recycling KPI for 2021 potential consequences of climate change, for examp­ which means that costs incurred in connection with Increase in the percentage of telephones, compu­ le, more frequent and more powerful torrential rain major weather phenomena are for the most part KPI for 2021 ters and tablets that are repaired. storms, storms and flooding: refunded Increase in the quantity of furniture and items for (Baseline 2017: 57%. Result for 2018: 66 %). recycling. • Our customers receive help and guidance for the In Topdanmark’s CDP report 2017 (see below), we (Baseline 2018: 15 items of furniture and items prevention of climate-related damage describe in detail how we handle the business risks were donated to DanChurchAid). • Customers who are especially exposed to the risk and opportunities in relation to any consequences Operations at Topdanmark of, for example, torrential rain, are required to im­ related to climate change. Risks could, for example, • Comprehensive waste sorting, including sorting plement specific preventive measures to minimise include an increase in the number of torrential rain Following damage to cars food waste at the main office in Ballerup the extent of damage storms and the opportunities could be in developing • Repair car windows rather than purchasing new • Minimisation of food waste in the canteen • We have special emergency measures, which we special products and services. ones • Reduction of single-use plastic materials put into place in critical situations in order to give • Use second hand parts when possible • Reduction in paper usage through digitalisation our customers optimal assistance and to minimise • Wrecked cars sold for recycling when possible • Sale or donation of used office furniture for damage recycling KPI for 2021 • Sale of used IT equipment for recycling Increase in the percentage of car windows that are Climate report repaired. (Baseline 2018: 38%). KPI for 2021 Drop in the use of single-use plastic materials, e.g. plastic plates. Topdanmark reports to the CDP (Carbon Disclosure A report is awarded a score on the following scale: A, (Baseline 2018: 404.000 units). Project), an international environment reporting A-, B, B-, C, C-, D, D-. initiative, which works for transparency and dialogue around CO2 emissions and climate strategies in busi­ In 2018, we were awarded a C. The average for all nesses. The purpose is to make this knowledge avai­ savings for CDP was also a C. lable to investors and other stakeholders. Clothes donated to Plans for 2019 Waste for In 2019, campaigns will be >>Read our latest CDP report the ‘Smid Tøjet’ recycling campaign ('Leave your initiated to promote recycling and reduce waste among the clothes') 53% employees, for example, by 2016 2017 2018 using water bottles instead of Topdanmark’s score C C C 1.4 tonnes single-use glasses. 34 Business Management Business Management 35 Human rights Women in management: overview of activities and results Goal Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Topdanmark respects internationally recognised hu­ • Customer relations and the right to privacy, where man rights, and our aim is never to infringe them. there are clear guidelines for how claims are inve­ Min. 40% of both genders at all levels % 42 41 42 40 stigated if insurance fraud is suspected of management Topdanmark follows and complies with Danish legi­ • Policy for the protection of personal data – read At least one female candidate at job slation, which incorporates internationally recognised more on page 37 interviews for advertised managerial % 81 71 76 xx human rights. In addition, we generally do not come • Ethical guidelines for the use of artificial intelligen­ positions* across any challenges from a legal perspective in this ce – read more on page 38 *The number indicates the percentage of the total number of interviews for vacant positions where female candidates have area in terms of Group operations. • Employee relations, where a wide range of HR po­ been interviewed. When the goal has not been met, the reason was either that there were no female applicants or that the licies and a management system have been esta­ female applicants have not matched the competences of the male applicants. Inspired by the UN Guiding Principles on Business and blished which meet the challenges of stress, lack of Human Rights, we keep a close eye on what human employee satisfaction, equality, etc. – read more on rights Topdanmark may be challenged by in connec­ page 40-45 Data on participation in development activities in 2018 tion with our various business activities – aside from • Non-discrimination with special focus on equal ac­ what is expected of us in purely legal terms. cess to management positions – read more below Training Unit 2018 Basic management training of new managers Percentage of female participation 44 The process has shown that we have policies, initia­ In the following sections, we further describe the tives and management systems in place in relation year’s activities and results for the respective areas. Course for experienced managers Percentage of female participation 50 to the human rights which may be at risk of being undermined. For example: Talent programme for specialists Percentage of female participation 17 >>In 2018, we established a formal policy • Investment of insurance reserves and pension cust­ for human rights omers’ savings, where procedures and policies are Have we reached our goals? Concerning participation in development activities, in place – read more on page 28-29 the numbers for 2018 show that within general ma­ • Supplier chain, where a CSR programme is establis­ Since 2012, Topdanmark has had between 40% and nagerial development we are well on the way with an hed – read more on page 47 42% female managers at all levels – on average. equal gender distribution among participants, while The result for 2018 is 40%. Consequently, our goal our talent programme for specialists had a significant of 40% women managers has been met and it has male majority among participants. Participants in the been so for many years. This is positive and satisfac­ programme in 2018 were selected on the basis of tory, and we expect the number to remain stable. candidates recommended by managers – and here Diversity and women in management In 2018, there was also a small increase in the per­ centage share of women in management level 1, from there were just 17% female candidates. When the talent programme is carried out again, we will the­ refore focus on ensuring that there are more female 19% to 23%, and similarly an increase in manage­ participants. Topdanmark works on maintaining and developing Focus on gender distribution openness in its business culture, preventing any kind ment level 2, from 33% to 38%, which is positive. Over the years, we have had a long list of initiati­ of discrimination as regards gender, skin colour, natio­ ves, e.g. mentor schemes for women and inspiration nality, social and ethnic origin, religion, political view, groups. Our experience is, however, that women handicaps, age and sexual orientation. managers do not want special programmes just for Women in executive management Women in women. On this basis, we have, for now, decided not Goal for women in management to initiate any gender-specific programmes. In 2018, management Since 2011, we have defined a number of goals and implemented activities with the purpose of advan­ there were thus no specific activities for female ma­ nagers. 23% cing women in management. It is our goal that both genders should be represented by at least 40% on average in management (at all levels). We also have However, we are still conscious of gender distribution in the general development activities that we carry 40% the ambition that there should always be at least one out. Here, we would like an equal distribution between Level 1 includes our Executive Board (4 people) female candidate for executive positions. men and women. We also want to motivate women and top management team (18 persons). to apply for positions at a higher management level, (Share of women in 2017: 19%). It is our goal that both genders where the inequality is greatest. should be represented by at least The number of women at level 2 and 3 was 40% at all management levels on 38% and 44%, respectively. average. (2017: 42%). (2017: 33% and 48%). 36 Business Management Virksomhedsledelse 37 Diversity on the Board of Directors We protect our customers’ personal data At Topdanmark, we want our customers to trust us, way that the customers’ private life is never compro­ Topdanmark wants a Board of Directors consisting of the best-qualified candidates. always. It is our responsibility to protect their perso­ mised. The Board comprises six AGM-elected members and three employee-elected members. nal data. It is our data security that generates custo­ mer trust. Therefore, we have processes and systems We have IT systems which ensure that: that comply with the General Data Protection Regula­ tion and the Danish Data Protection Act. • Customer information is updated Women on the Board of Directors: goals and results • Customer information is never misrepresented As an insurance company, we gather a large volu­ • Customer information is deleted when it is no lon­ Goal Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 me of customer information. This is also the case in ger relevant regard to customers who have a claim on file. We use • Unauthorised persons never gain access to the At least three of each the information exclusively for services and claims information Number of women gender in the Board of 2 3 2 2 handling. Customers can always be informed of the (AGM-elected) Directors (both AGM-elected information we have about them. We have processes which make sure that our emplo­ and employee-elected) yees know how to handle customer information. Number of women 3 3 3 2 Secure storage and processing of (employee-elected) We only pass on information in connection with the information handling of insurances, and this primarily involves our We comply with current personal data legislation and partners and other insurance companies. ensure that all information is stored and handled in a The percentage share of women in Topdanmark’s Board of Directors Topdanmark does not sell customer information. 2015 2016 2017 2018 Organisation and responsibility Who Responsibility 56% 67% 56% 44% The Board of Directors General responsibility to ensure that Topdanmark’s personal data protection is on and Executive Manage­ a satisfactory level and that adequate resources have been allocated. Since 2014, Topdanmark has complied with the le­ among Denmark’s 100 largest companies, according ment gislative definition of an even gender distribution on to a study carried out by Økonomisk Ugebrev (a Danish Responsible for Topdanmark’s data protection strategy, business procedures, its Board of Directors. In 2018, Topdanmark’s Board financial news weekly paper). Group compliance guidelines, monitoring and reporting, including reporting of personal data security of Directors had the highest percentage of women breaches. Ensures focus on the ongoing development and surveys of personal data protecti­ Data protection officer on. Topdanmark’s IT security committee is responsible for information security in close cooperation with the business and with group compliance. The General Data Protection Regulation reporting data breaches set out by the Danish Data requires new processes Protection Agency. Data breaches are evaluated for other processes and IT systems so that we can make In 2018, we implemented the General Data Prote­ sure they do not recur. ction Regulation (GDPR) Among other things, this involved e-learning courses about correct handling of personal data for all of our employees. New emplo­ >>Read more how we process personal data in yees must also undergo e-learning, and all employees our personal data policy (In Danish) must take a brief e-learning programme at regular intervals. To comply with the GDPR requirements, we have Plans for 2019 also evaluated and updated a number of processes In 2019, we will continue to ensure compliance concerning our data processing. Group compliance with applicable legislation on the processing of regularly checks compliance with the processes and personal data. A particular focus area will be the that the employees know how to detect data brea­ relationship between digital development and ches. An example of a data breach is when we send personal data legislation, including that personal information to the wrong customer. data security is incorporated into the development Photo: Topdanmark phase. Read also our principles on the use of artifi­ Data breaches are reported to the data protection cial intelligence below. Topdanmark AGM 2018 officer. We are also in compliance with the rules on 38 Business Management Business Management 39 Topdanmark’s five principles for artificial intelligence Thoughtfulness Artificial intelligence must be developed and used with care and respect. Professional security Artificial intelligence must be used within a fixed framework and be built on the latest technological knowledge and thorough tests. Reliability Artificial intelligence must be reliable, based on facts and free of biases. Transparency We must understand how artificial intelligence works, so that the models function safely and only for the purposes for which they were created. Data security Artificial intelligence must live up to the requirements of the data protection legislation and be Photo: Colourbox protected against cybercrime. >>Read the specifics of how we understand and work with the five principles Artificial intelligence with responsibility In Topdanmark, we want to make certain that we always give customers the best customer experience. Topdanmark’s five ethical principles Artificial intelligence renders the possibility of using Anti-corruption and Bribery That requires us to keep up with the digital develop­ data in new ways and can be developed for many ment. Therefore, we use artificial intelligence to sup­ purposes. There is no doubt that it will have a large Topdanmark wishes to be a part of a professional, The purpose of the policy is, among other things, to port the work performed by our employees in their impact on our daily lives in the future. Therefore, we orderly and trustworthy business environment. We prevent and avoid business decisions being influenced day-to-day duties. believe it is important to consider ethical issues when therefore do not tolerate corruption and bribery. by personal or non-business-related considerations we develop and use artificial intelligence. and interests. What is artificial intelligence? In 2016, we looked closely at our risk exposure to Artificial intelligence refers to special IT program­ On this basis, at the end of 2018, we defined five corruption and bribery. Our assessment was, and still Activities and results in 2018 mes that can be trained to understand and recognize ethical principles on the use of artificial intelligence is in 2018, that we are most at risk in connection with In 2018, we continued to work with preventing and patterns in data. This way, we can help people to do and how we can use it responsibly. gifts and hospitality involving customers, suppliers avoiding making business decisions that were influ­ things more effectively and intelligently. and other partners. enced by individual interests. In 2018, there have been no situations that have been in conflict with our For example, if you use the automatic parking as­ Plans for 2019 We are confident that our employees use their com­ anti-corruption policy. sistant in your car or unlock your smartphone via face mon sense and good judgment when it comes to gifts In 2019, we will ensure implementation of the recognition, there are no people behind it. Artificial and hospitality in relation to customers, suppliers and principles in the relevant departments. The princip­ intelligence is doing it. other partners. To support this, we have drawn up a les will be revised in line with development in the policy which states when Topdanmark’s employees area, and the intention is to extend these princip­ Models with artificial intelligence are based on stati­ may give and receive gifts and when they are allowed les to all our data use. stics and computer science and are programmed for to hold or participate in events and arrangements. special purposes. At Topdanmark, we use artificial intelligence, for example, to assess risks in connection with effecting home warranty insurance. We also use it to assess if a damaged car is a total loss. 40 Employee conditions Employee conditions 41 Employee conditions Comprehensive programme for employee development Targeted competence development for the individual innovative mindset and culture change. The purpose employee is important so that everyone can contri­ was to introduce new competences into the organi­ bute towards carrying out the tasks in the organisa­ sation and to resolve some strategically important tion in the short and long term. Therefore, we have a tasks. comprehensive training and development programme consisting of internal and external processes within the many occupational groups represented in the The entire course has been mind blowing. organisation. It has opened some doors in our minds. Doors that we did not know existed. We have gained know­ Management and talent development ledge dealing with technology, methods and tools for how to tackle the future and be on the cutting We consider management development to be very im­ edge. And it has also helped all of us with our per­ portant, as good management is crucial for attracting sonal development and pushed a lot of boundaries. and retaining qualified employees. Our management programme comprises both newly appointed and Maria Bøttcher Hindsgaul, project manager and experienced managers – regardless of whether they participant in the talent programme are recruited internally or externally. Managers recruited externally will get a special intro­ For example, a group of four specialists prepared duction to management at Topdanmark. Employees an innovative model for limiting break-ins using new Photo: Tommy Verting who are newly appointed managers will be offered technology. The project won “publikumsprisen” (the a 6-month programme with a specific focus on the public’s award), which represents the best project as new role as manager, including new relationships and chosen by all the attending companies and managers. networks. Important learning for the organisation We offer experienced managers a development pro­ In 2019, we will conclude and evaluate the talent pro­ gramme in co-operation with CBS Executive compri­ gramme, which has thus far been a success. Through Competent and motivated employees are sing customer orientation and personal development. the work of the talents with business-critical projects, important learning has taken place in the organisati­ a critical factor In addition to courses and training, we focus on de­ on, which provides a stronger basis for working with velopment in the job itself, and all managers can get innovation, design for behaviour change and new regular support in handling managerial tasks from solutions for our customers. experienced, internal HR consultants. Topdanmark’s employees are the most through a Cooperation Committee with employee representatives. The committee’s task is to take on important resource for ensuring that our Talent programme with SingularityU and discuss organisational problems and find solutions Plans for 2019-2020 customers get the best service in every to these problems. Furthermore, we have a competen­ Nordic In 2019, Topdanmark will launch a new people situation. As employees, we must know ce committee that specifically considers training and We want an even better understanding of how strategy, which also includes a new management what the good customer experience involdevelopment. Topdanmark, as an insurance and pension company, development programme. We will focus even should navigate in a society experiencing an increa­ ves, and we must feel motivated to conmore on management development to support the We also have a range of HR policies and specific activi­ sing, and in some areas, exponential technological stantly deliver it. development. realisation of our ambitious goals and to make it ties concerning issues such as: easy, simple and competitive to be a Topdanmark We focus our efforts on being a progressive workplace customer. • Competence and talent development In 2018, nine selected Topdanmark managers and for our employees and managers where it is mea­ • Employee commitment and job satisfaction specialists completed a talent programme in coope­ ningful to work. Our employees and the labour mar­ We have formulated a set of competences accor­ • Health and well-being in the working day ration with SingularityU Nordic, which focused on an ket should in general experience Topdanmark as an ding to which all our managers should be trained attractive workplace characterized by a high level of and evaluated. Apart from setting a direction and competences, a high level of motivation and trustful Plans for 2019 focusing on results, our managers must provide co-operation. In 2019, a new people-strategy will be launched Competence development in 2018 employees with the freedom to act, and they must with the aim of establishing a clear direction for establish good relationships with both employees The foundation is close dialogue how our organisation should best develop to sup­ and partners. And they must focus on strengthe­ A close dialogue between the Executive Board and port Topdanmark’s business strategy. DKK 27.0 million ning competences both of the employees and their own. the employees is important to us, among other things 42 Employee conditions Medarbejderforhold 43 Involvement and motivation We have previously tested similar programmes among step for employees or their colleagues who experi­ our employees, and they have provided unique results ence symptoms of stress. In this way, employees can within long-term and sustainable lifestyle changes. get help quickly without having to get a referral from their family doctor first. Topdanmark would like to promote a moIn 2019, 30 employees will once again be offered a My Health programme. In cases of serious and long-term stress, a program­ tivating and inspiring work culture, both me tailor-made for the individual is available as part at the group and department level. New in 2018: massage scheme of the employee health insurance scheme. 2018 was the year when we took an important step This year, we established a massage scheme for all in the development of new tools for surveying wellemployees, in cooperation with Vicuras. We were thus Absence due to illness among employees being and, more generally, for the work related to able to focus even more on prevention of disabilities, As regards absence due to illness, Topdanmark’s goal well-being, motivation and involvement. We shifted such pains in the neck and arms, and on promoting is that it should be below the figure for the entire our focus from figures and statistics to dialogue in mental well-being. insurance industry as calculated by Finanssektorens employee teams. Arbejdsgiverforening (the Danish Employers’ Associa­ The scheme is financed as a gross salary agreement. tion for the Financial Sector). The employee thus saves 45% of the price. The mas­ New method: well-being as dialogue We implemented the new well-being dialogues in May sage can be taken as needed during the course of one In 2018, the percentage for absence due to illness Until 2016, we used a traditional method for mea­ 2018, and by the end of the year, around 80% of year. It can take place during work hours at most of was 3.0% (2017: 3.0%). The industry figure for suring well-being, where the employees would answer all employees and managers had completed the first our locations or at Vicuras’ partner clinics. 2018 was not available at the time when this report 75 questions every second year. Our new tool for our round of dialogue. It is our assessment that the new was completed – the industry figure for 2017 was work with well-being consists of just 15 questions, method for working with well-being and motivation In 2018, 377 employees joined the scheme. The same 2.9%. which all departments must discuss twice a year. The has been received well, among other things because opportunity will be offered in 2019. questions concern the individual’s motivation and employees are far more involved during the dialogue During the period from 2014 to 2017, the absence involvement as well as the cooperation in the depart­ about the results and because the discussion con­ Stress prevention due to illness percentage was either just over or just ment or team. cerns the elements that are currently most important In Denmark, generally speaking, the number of people under the industry level. Generally, this is satisfacto­ for well-being. ry, but we are keeping an eye on the absence due to who take sick leave because of stress is increasing. We can also notice this tendency among our own illness percentage. We would like to bring it below the employees. Therefore, we have initiated efforts to industry average. Health in everyday life prevent incipient stress and take care of employees suffering from stress. See the statistics for absence due to illness from the last five years on page 45. For example, all our employees have the option of Topdanmark wants to give its full support to anonymous stress counselling, provided by experien­ our employees’ good health. We believe that ced psychologists This service can be used as a first this will contribute towards generating wellbeing and job satisfaction for the individual Use of anonymous stress counselling: overview employee. This in turn provides a strong 2015 2016 2017 2018 platform from which we can deliver the best Number of employees who availed service to our customers. themselves of anonymous stress 46 46 48 * counselling In practice, the employees are offered a range of healthrelated initiatives, which can be used when wanted or * Numbers from 2018 were not available upon the conclusion of this report. required – including offers for cycling activities, healthy food in the canteen and a health check. My Health – individual health programme Health check In 2018, employees who were at risk of getting lifestyle Photo: Colourbox diseases were offered an individual health program­ me, My Health. A programme was made available to 30 employees against a small payment – each programme 980 employees lasted 3-4 months. Every second year, all Topdanmark employees are offered a health check during working hours. The last one took place in 2017, and 40% of our employees accepted the offer. 44 Employee conditions Medarbejderforhold 45 Automation and employee conditions In order to be able to offer competitive products and life, in co-operation with our staff association. Mana­ services, over the years Topdanmark has gradually gers of departments impacted by dismissals will get made its business operations more efficient. Among support in how to handle the situation. other things, this was done by automating and making the administrative processes more efficient in order In 2019 and future years, we will also focus on to make processes simpler, easier to use and more streamlining and outsourcing, which may further Photo: Topdanmark efficient for the customers. In 2017 and 2018, we reduce the number of employees. also outsourced some jobs. Employee turnover As a result, some of the employees currently doing a As a consequence of Topdanmark’s focus on stream­ number of manual tasks will no longer be needed, and lining and outsourcing, staff turnover has been above the number of employees will be lowered. the industry average for a number of years. This is HR key ratios also due to a generally higher mobility on the Danish In connection with collective bargaining rounds, we labour market. Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 strive to offer the affected employees alternative work in the organisation. All terminated employees In 2019, we expect the same level as in 2018. Full-time employees Number 2,668 2,650 2,473 2,341 are offered support in moving on with their working Employees in flexible Number 10 14 13 11 jobs 1) Employees on % 1.7 2.3 Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 temporary contracts 2) Employees covered by % 96.9 97.2 Employee turnover % 12.5 13.1 14.3 14.0 collective agreement Absence due to Employee turnover in % 3.0 2.9 3.0 3.0 % 13 12 12 * illness 3) the industry Absence due to illness in * Numbers from 2018 were not available upon the conclusion of this report. % 2.9 3.0 2.9 the finance industry 4) Employee turnover 5) % 12.5 13.1 14.3 14.0 >>Read more about Topdanmark as a workplace, HR policies, employment conditions Employee turnover in % 13.0 12.0 12.0 the finance industry 4) Cases of Number 0 0 0 0 discrimination 6) Competence develop­ Million 36.7 32.4 28.5 27.0 ment of employees 7) The employee numbers do not include hourly-paid employees, such as student assistants. 1) Flexible jobs are offered primarily to internal employees who need other duties than those they have had previously. In 2018, all employees in flexible jobs are internal employees. 2) The numbers cover employees who are bound by a specific resignation date (excl. trainees and maternity cover) 3) This figure indicates that, on average, every employee was sick 3.0% of the total number of working hours in 2018. The figure covers all employees. 4) The industry figure for 2018 was not available when this report was completed. 5) The figure covers employees who left the company voluntarily, were fired, retired or left the company for another reason. The number also includes terminated temps. 6) Cases of discrimination refers to cases which have been reported to HR or brought to an employee organisation. 7) The amount does not include payroll costs, but solely payment of external training activities. 46 Dialogue and society Dialogue and society 47 Dialogue and society Business and society Employee at the office in Vilnius, Lithuania are strengthened through cooperation Every day, Topdanmark is in close dialogue with a long list of other partners and stakeholders, which play an important role in our business. Topdanmark’s business operates, grows and develops because of, among other things, the dialogue we have with these stakeholders. At the same time, we wish to be in dialogue with and contribute to the society we are a part of. Examples of stakeholders we cooperate with: Photo: Cognizant • Suppliers: We work with suppliers in various situati­ ons, such as in connection with claims, loss preven­ tion products, delivery of IT and office equipment and supplies. • Industry associations: We share knowledge and receive inspiration for production development and prevention CSR programme for suppliers • Educational institutions: We cooperate in connec­ We would like to be known as a professional and responsi­ Areas that are monitored more closely In Lithuania, no conditions were identified that were in tion with recruitment through our programme for ble company. Irresponsible conduct in the supply chain, for breach of our CSR policy and the UN Global Compact prin­ However, there are areas that may potentially be proble­ students and trainees, as well as in connection with example non-compliance with the principles of UN Global ciples. In India, we are aware of matters concerning human matic, such as the handling of waste and working condi­ carrying out educational tasks, where we provide Compact, is not only incompatible with our CSR policy, but rights, for example the right to a collective agreement, tions in conjunction with clearing up after damage has data and insight – and receive inspiration for the it can also damage our reputation and consequently our and we are in dialogue with Cognizant on this subject. occurred. We are monitoring these areas. Topdanmark has development of our business. revenue. In order to counter this risk, we have established outsourced some of these tasks to non-Danish suppliers. a CSR programme for suppliers. This is also an area we are monitoring more closely – see • NGOs: We offer financial contributions to selected the following section. Plans for 2019 organisations with humanitarian aims or cooperati­ Due diligence on with NGOs in other ways Implementation of the CSR programme will con­ On an ongoing basis, Topdanmark assesses the suppliers Outsourcing tinue, and we will have dialogues with suppliers we use in relation to CSR. We primarily use Danish sup­ In 2017, we outsourced a number of tasks to Cognizant Quality, trust and trustworthiness form the core of when there is a risk of a violation or an actual pliers, and the general assessment is that they have a in Lithuania, and in 2018, we also transferred tasks to the the cooperation with our suppliers as well as the co­ violation of the UN Global Compact principles. business model and conduct that are not in conflict with same supplier in India. operation with all our other stakeholders. the UN Global Compact principles. In connection with this, a risk analysis was performed, and On this basis, we have implemented a programme that we held a dialogue with the respective supplier concerning involves that all suppliers receive a CSR reference as an working conditions and human rights. The CSR recommen­ annex to the contract. This specifies that Topdanmark is dation concerning the UN Global Compact principles has affiliated with the UN Global Compact. We encourage the also been written in as a legally-binding part of the contra­ respective company to integrate the principles in their ct, which is not the case for our other suppliers. own business, but this is not a legally-binding condition. 48 Dialogue and society Dialogue and society 49 Co-operation with humanitarian organisations One of Topdanmark’s values is ”responsibility”. Our social responsibility is expressed when, for example, together with our employees, we contribute to organisations and campaigns with humanitarian and other purposes benefi­ cial to society. We value employee involvement greatly, and we enter into long-term cooperation that benefits all parties. Relief aid across borders Exercise for the Knæk Cancer Through our preventive and health products, Topdanmark helps many (cancer fundraising) campaign people in Denmark every year. However, we also want to contribute towards saving lives and improving health in areas where relief aid is needed. For the fifth year in a row, Topdanmark participated in the nation-wide Knæk Cancer campaign organised by the Danish Cancer Society in cooperation with We have therefore been cooperating with Doctors Without Borders since TV2. This was organised as a large physical activity event, which involved both our 1996. Employees pay a voluntary contribution, and Topdanmark pays a employees and pension customers. corresponding amount. We have selected Doctors Without Borders because we trust that our contribution will be used responsibly. All of week 43 was buzzing with involvement in relation to the campaign, under the slogan “Kræften gi’r op, når vi motionerer i Top” (cancer gives up when we 2018: DKK 213,560 exercise at Top). 2017: DKK 221,540 The campaign allows us to focus on subjects and relationships that are critical to us as a company: employee health, prevention and customer relations – while at In connection with a Christmas present for the employees in 2018, DKK the same time we contribute towards a project that benefits society. 270,620 were donated to Doctors Without Borders in cooperation with the online shop GoGift. 2018 2017 787 employees 753 employees Photo: Topdanmark 153 employees with 117 employees from corporate customers corporate customers Total amount: DKK 289,118 Total amount: DKK 285,778 Danmarks Indsamling Blood gives new life Topdanmark Fonden (Topdanmark Fund) We took part in Danmarks Indsamling 2018, an annual fundraising Since 2005, the employees at Topdanmark’s main office have been Topdanmark Fonden was established when Topdanmark became a event held on national TV, which also contributes towards our able to donate blood to the blood bank during work hours. limited company in 1985. The fund supports selected projects. cooperation partners, Doctors Without Borders. Employees pay Topdanmark is among the companies that has donated more blood a voluntary contribution, and Topdanmark pays a corresponding per number of visits by the blood bank. It is an activity that our In 2018, the fund gave a total of DKK 125,000 to hostels for the amount. employees are very involved in, and they are happy that their work­ homeless under Hellig Kors Kirke, Ventilen Danmark and Forlaget place is offering this option. Multivers ApS for the book “I Barndom” (In Childhood). 2018: DKK 110,800 2017: DKK 126,090 2018: 390 batches of blood 2017: 439 batches of blood 50 Dialogue and society Tax contributions are also social contributions By operating a profitable business, Topdanmark In 2017, Topdanmark was the 17th biggest contri­ contributes significant annual amounts to the Danish butor in terms of paid corporation tax in Denmark state through direct corporation taxes and indirect (2016: 15th largest). Among insurance companies, taxes. we were the company that contributed the most cor­ poration tax. Numbers from 2018 were not available Basically, Topdanmark only does business in when this report was completed. Denmark. As a consequence, the corporation tax paid by Topdanmark is primarily to the Danish state. Statistic: Topdanmark’s payment of direct tax 2015 2016 2017 2018 Corporation tax 349 407 502 371 (DKK mill.) Income tax 882 904 897 995 (DKK mill.) Topdanmark Group – taxes and duties 2018 (DKKm) Topdanmark pays Topdanmark as tax collector Direct taxes: Income tax 995 Corporation tax 371 Labour-market contribution 353 1,348 Selected indirect taxes: Indirect taxes Pension return -28 Payroll tax 250 Liability duty 319 Property tax 32 Flood 45 Government tax 158 VAT 25 Non-life insurance duty 80 631 Total DKKm 621 Total DKKm 1,979 Contact If you have any questions or comments concerning the report, please contact Pernille Fogh Christensen, who is responsible for CSR. If you want to enter into a dialogue with us about our CSR efforts, you are also welcome to con­ tact us. Photo: Wering Tel: +45 4474 4089 (direct) E-mail: pfi@topdanmark.dk Topdanmark A/S • Borupvang 4 • 2750 Ballerup • Reg.No. 78416114
