Planson International T: +1.207.926.3100 f: +1.207.926.3101 info@plansonintl.com 363 Penny Road New Gloucester, ME 04260 plansonintl.com 11 January 2019 Communication on Progress for Year: 2019 On behalf of Planson International Corporation, I reaffirm the company’s support and commitment to the UN Global Compact initiative and its ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anticorruption. We are acutely aware of the impact our decisions and actions have in the world. We have teams and initiatives to address each area and to continually improve the Global Compact and incorporate its principles into our business mission, culture and operations. We share these principles with our stakeholders using our primary communication channels. Human Rights Actions We are committed to informed, proactive and unflagging support of human rights and freedoms, and equal treatment of all, regardless of race, color, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, physical or mental disability, familial status, sexual orientation, age, national or social origin, property, birth or other status.  We hold regular employee training to ensure understanding and implementation of all laws governing protection of human rights, prevention of sexual harassment, and guarantees of nondiscrimination.  We observe all laws and regulations protecting the privacy of employees, vendors, customers and partners.  We support human rights organizations through financial, material and time contributions.  As a woman-owned business, we strongly support women’s advancement in education, employment, business, health, and family.  We do not do business with individuals, companies, governments or organizations identified as violators of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Outcomes All Planson staff, customers, business partners and suppliers are informed that Planson supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights, and that we are not complicit in human rights abuses. We make financial and time contributions to nonprofit organizations promoting human rights, civil rights, education, the health and wellbeing of girls and women, physical fitness, sports, the arts, mine action, poverty reduction, refugee support, and environmental protection. Labor Actions Planson is an Equal Opportunity Employer. We comply with all laws, including labor laws, which prohibit:  Unfair treatment because of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), national origin, age, disability or genetic information.  Harassment by managers, co-workers, or others in the workplace, because of race, color, religion, sex (including pregnancy), national origin, age (40 or older), disability or genetic information.  Denial of reasonable workplace accommodations the employee needs due to religious beliefs or disability.  Retaliation because the employee complained about job discrimination, or assisted with a job discrimination investigation or lawsuit. Our policy of equal employment opportunity encompasses all aspects of the employment relationship including hiring, promotion and transfer, selection for training opportunities, wage and salary administration and the application of benefit plans and Company policies. Planson surveys employees for feedback, holds human resource training and development sessions, and submits official reports bi-annually on the office working environment, including training, ergonomics, mental health, conflicts, indoor climate, and sexual harassment. We believe in the power of information technology for capacity building to achieve development objectives. We partner locally with in-country ICT companies, who provide high level technical support, hardware and software installation, end user training, education, and warranty repairs. We are committed to delivering services through this global network of local partners who respect all the ten principles of the Global Compact. Our local partners gain access to large opportunities thanks to our cooperation, financial strength and experience, and as they prosper, local economies are also strengthened. We maintain a safe, positive, respectful work environment. Outcomes Planson consistently upholds the Four Principles regarding Labor both internally and externally. Gender Equality 1. Achieving and maintaining gender equality in senior management and board positions. Planson is recognized as a Certified Women’s Business Enterprise. We provide equal employment opportunities for everyone regardless of gender, including in hiring, compensation, promotions and leadership. Our Executive Team consists of three women and three men. 2. Achieving and maintaining gender equality in middle management positions. We provide equal employment opportunities for everyone regardless of gender, including in hiring, compensation, promotions and leadership opportunities. Our middle management consists of 13 women and 11 men. 3. Equal pay for work of equal value. Planson ensures that we offer equal and competitive pay to all employees by conducting regular compensation analysis meetings. As part of these meetings, wage bands are defined for all positions and include guiding principles and parameters in to ensure compensation, including base pay, increases, and incentive pay are awarded based on performance. 4. Flexible work options. Planson currently offers the ability for all workers to telework on either an occasional, part-time, or permanent basis, with supervisory approval. We have five staff who telework on a permanent basis (three of whom are women). Among our employees who have a set schedule for teleworking (i.e., working specific days from home each week), five are women, and two are men. In the past year, we two employees teleworked from another country for an extended period in order to be with family (one female, one male). 5. Access to child and dependent care. Planson provides a dependent care option as part of our health insurance offerings. In addition, we offer our employees flexibility in their schedules to help them manage childcare issues that may arise such as school closings, appointments, holidays, and illnesses. 6. Support for pregnant women and those returning from maternity leave. Planson provides Maine Family Medical Leave (MFLA), and private space and breaks for nursing mothers in the workplace. Planson allows flexible “return-to-work” schedules for mothers, including a mix of partand full-time telework from home. Employees cite this flexibility as a significant benefit to working at Planson. 7. Recruitment and retention, including training and development, of female employees. Planson encourages all female employees to participate in the hiring of new colleagues. Interested employees receive training for successful interviews and candidates evaluations. Upon hire, new employees complete an extensive onboarding and training process, which includes working closely with several female members of our Management and Leadership teams. 8. Gender-specific health and safety issues. Free hygiene and safety products for men and women are available onsite. CPR and First Aid training is offered, and certified responders are on staff. 9. Gender-based violence and harassment. Planson maintains strict anti-harassment and workplace conduct policies which address violence, bullying, and all forms of harassment whether of sexual nature or otherwise. These policies and associated periodic training apply to all employees regardless of gender, and all employees adhere to the same standards of expected behavior. Employees know how to report any issues, and have options allowing them to report issues to members of Management they are most comfortable bringing their concerns to. All employees receive anti-harassment training on an annual basis. 10. Education and training opportunities for women workers. Planson provides extensive training and educational opportunities. Clear career path guidelines are available to all employees to ensure that everyone understands what steps are necessary to advance. Planson offers tuition reimbursement to all staff. In many cases, we provide additional support for education for key roles and for career advancement. Planson also encourages interested female staff to attend the 2018 Maine Women’s Conference in Rockland, Maine. Participants attend during business hours without using Paid Time Off (PTO). Planson also provides Volunteer Time Off (VTO) to staff, which they may use to assist any non-profit organization of their choosing. In 2018, staff used this benefit for a variety of purposes, including helping high school students prepare for entering the job market by conducting interviews, resume and cover letter assistance. Additionally Planson provided summer internships to local high school students, two female and two male. 11. Creating and maintaining workplace awareness of gender equality and, inclusion and nondiscrimination for all workers. Planson is as a Certified Women’s Business Enterprise. We provide equal employment opportunities for everyone regardless of gender, including in hiring, compensation, promotions and leadership opportunities. As part of our onboarding process, our HR Manager reviews every policy in our employee handbook with new hires. These policies include topics such as non-discrimination, equal employment opportunity, sexual and other discriminatory harassment, business ethics and conduct, and others. Planson recognizes and embraces the improved performance and employee morale that diversity in the workplace produces. As such, we emphasize the importance of gender, racial, national, and cultural diversity through various trainings and encourage all employees to volunteer for special projects and committees. 12. Mentoring and sponsorship opportunities for women workers. Female leaders in the company mentor, and sponsor educational and professional events for, female staff, interns and family members. Environment Actions Planson, as an IT Global Solutions Provider, has an eco-friendly impact by: 1) Promoting manufacturers and distributors who are committed to environmentally friendly technologies, including:  Optimized packaging process to minimize packaging materials and waste  Guaranteed high content of recycled content, post-consumer and post-industrial  Energy Star rating  EPEAT power supply efficiency  Asset Recovery Services  E-Waste recycling  ISO 14001:2004 certification for Environmental Management System (EMS) 2) Implementing environmentally sound policies in our own facilities:  40kW photovoltaic system provides 100% needs for electricity, hot water, cooling & heating through solar power generation  High-efficiency electric water heater  High-efficiency air source heat pump for heating and cooling  Reduce, Reuse, Recycle Program for paper, toners, ink, e-Waste, plastics, glass, metal  Biodegradable packaging materials  Standard duplex draft printing and default no-print policy  Hybrid company vehicle  Staff carpooling  Weatherization, super-insulation, remotely managed environmental monitoring of building  Low energy appliances, electronics and all-LED lighting  Fulltime telecommuting for a number of staff, flexible part-time telecommuting for all  250 acres of green space conservation under professional forest management plan 3) Assisting our customers to be protective of the environment:  TCO assessment  Recycling program for expended consumables and e-Waste  Certified Destruction and Recycling Recovery service for commodity grade metals and non-metals, destruction of all data, no portion of such material deposited in a landfill Outcomes Packaging: Our packaging is 100% biodegradable Non-recycled waste: 35% reduction in waste, remainder fuels local green waste-to-energy plant Paper: 95% is recycled Toner/Ink: 99% is recycled Electric use: 100% reduction in commercial usage – excess solar power provided to grid Fossil fuel use: 80% reduction in usage Green space: Member of Maine Small Woodlands Owners of Maine (SWOAM), 250 acres of forest preserved and managed sustainably under a Certified Forest Management Plan Anti-Corruption: Planson upholds Principle 10 by working against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Actions We maintain a strict code of ethics in all our business transactions. We reject all questionable advances, promptly report incidents of impropriety, and file protests against corrupt actions. We do not engage in corrupt activity or sanction corrupt activity by any business associates or outside partners. In the past five years, we have received training from US officials implementing anti-corruption initiatives. We access a direct line to report any instances of improper sales, extortion or bribery. We continually encourage our manufacturers/vendors to ensure that there is a level playing field for all partners to protect the interest of our customers and ensure open, fair and transparent competition. Outcomes We maintain a zero tolerance policy toward corruption. Our business operations are free of all corrupt practices. Sincerely yours, Connie Justice Founder and CEO e-mail: connie@plansonintl.com tel: + 1 207 926 3100
