Corporate Social Responsability Report | 2017-2018 IN THIS REPORT 1 2 About ITG & Our UNGC COP Our Focus Areas and Priorities a. About ITG .................................................. 6 a. People ..................................................... 10 b. Our CSR Journey ...................................... 6 – Motivating, Developing, and Encouraging Great Talent c. Our CEO Message ..................................... 7 – Growing Our Employee Community b. Society .................................................... 16 – Human Rights – Equal Opportunity – Gender Equality – Ethical & Protected Work Environment – Anti-Corruption Responsibility c. Planet ...................................................... 19 – Environmental Sustainability – Green Building Efficiency – Recycling 2| |3 1 About ITG & Our UNGC COP 4| |5 A. About ITG B. Our CSR C. Our CEO Information Technology Group (ITG) is a Journey Message Lebanese holding company. We combine an array of autonomous affiliates dedicated to We at ITG recognize that our activities and This year marks the fourth year of our providing a large portfolio of solutions and those of the private sector have an impact journey towards embedding our CSR and services in the MENA region, in the area of on society: On employees, customers, sustainability at the core of our business hardware, system software, and application community, environment, business partners, and sustaining our positive impact and software, in addition to building automation shareholders and the public sector. We know commitment with the United Nations Global and office solutions. that our decisions can contribute to the Compact Lebanon (UNGC). For more info: www.itgholding.com social good, to our wealth, and also to the overall society wealth. We understand that good private initiatives can contribute to a better tomorrow. We are conscious of our Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR), and use this report to With positive steps taken, we express our share how we are managing and measuring intent to advance and influence our people, progress against our CSR goals with our our community, and encourage others to join stakeholders. this initiative. We are also aware of the importance of Sincerely, the UN Sustainability Development Goals (SDGs) in achieving greater resilience in the Claude J. Bahsali world. Since our holding is diversified, our Chairman & CEO CSR programs align with several SDGs. 6| |7 2 Our Focus Areas and Priorities Through this third Communication on Progress report, our aim is to demonstrate parts of our strategies, dayto-day operations, culture, and the efforts made to engage in the UNGC ten principles. We developed this list of priorities based on our impact with our people, the society, and the planet. 8| |9 Training programs are offered throughout the year by ITG’s Academy to ensure the career development of our employees, as well as advancing their education with fruitful collaborations with major universities that grant our employees with special discounts. In addition, our employees have shown to university students multiple presentations explaining their day to day work and what they should expect once they are employed. A. People MOTIVATING, DEVELOPING, AND ENCOURAGING GREAT TALENT Aiming towards facilitating the exchange One of ITG’s main objectives is to keep our people motivated, give them the chance of expertise among professors and to grow and enhance their skills, create a sense of ownership in their work and students, we have several Memorandums encourage them to excel in what they do. We strive to offer them a flexible working of Understanding with local universities environment and a positive and pleasant atmosphere. and institutions to promote academic cooperation, allowing undergraduates to explore the professional world and gain practical experience in their field of study prior to their graduation through internships programs. ITG has hosted several universities from different faculties in an aim to build bridges between our professionals and students to motivate, recruit talents and boost entrepreneurship. 10 | | 11 Similarly, our social media accounts inspire our community with fun & motivational posts. GROWING OUR EMPLOYEE COMMUNITY In an effort to have opportunities for all, ITG continuously seeks to contribute to local communities in positive ways. Including our workforce as much as possible in collective initiatives, while progressing our corporate social responsibility. a. Our Gatherings After a long wait, we successfully gathered all our workforce in a memorable gathering at Bkerzay. The all-day event was planned at this eco-friendly conservation project sculpted into the natural landscape. The activities proposed were centered on the wellbeing of our employees, with hiking trails, yoga sessions, and healthy cooking sessions. https://bit.ly/2tjeY9C We also celebrate our teams’ achievements and success. 12 | | 13 b. ITG Community d. Our CSR Activities Throughout the year, we initiated a series of posts that put our employees’ hobbies in the forefront, As previously mentioned, we try our best to encouraging their leisure pursuit and passion. enhance awareness on social responsibility by continuously organizing activities that benefit the society. c. Employees Sports Activities In a week, we were able to collect 132.2 kg of clothes from our employees who were donating ITG employees participated in the 2018 Beirut unwanted items. FabricAid, a Lebanese Marathon 8KM fun run, in collaboration with organization that collects used clothes from Teach A Child. This NGO acts to ensure access businesses, has aggregated the items we to education for the children of Lebanon’s gathered and sorted them into categories to underprivileged families regardless of their be later sold at extremely affordable prices to gender, performance, or religion by providing marginalized communities through pop-up financial support to the family. markets. Noting that the over consumed clothes are recycled to be turned into raw material used by clothes manufacturers in order to reach zero fabric waste in Lebanon. For every kilogram of collected clothes, FabricAid and ITG donate a small amount to a cause. We had chosen Include Lebanon, an NGO that promotes the social welfare of children We encourage our employees to form teams, with disabilities to have equal opportunities in and participate in yearly tournaments. the society. ITG’s basketball team was qualified for the quarter finals tournament, and our football team for the semi-finals. The Lebanese Red Cross never ceases to help others! As a gesture of goodwill, ITG has donated an Epson projector to the Beit Mery sector for their trainings to the new first-aiders. With all those initiatives, we were able to help our society at different levels, hoping that others will follow this pattern. 14 | | 15 B. Society GENDER EQUALITY We are living in a society where women consistently trail men in labor force participation, income levels, entrepreneurship rates etc… HUMAN RIGHTS Compliance and transparency are key elements when dealing with public institutions. ITG complies with applicable laws and regulations and expects its ITG encourages gender equality, and makes no directors, executives, and employees to conduct business in accordance with the discrimination when hiring as it offers equal letter, spirit, and intent of all relevant laws, and to refrain from any illegal, dishonest, opportunities to women, by giving them access or unethical conduct. to positions, that were traditionally perceived for men, based on their merit. Our current workforce includes 32% of women, and 22% of managerial positions within our We aim to apply our commitments for a positive influence on society at every level of the enterprise, group are held by women. In spite of that, we from strategy to day-to-day operational practice. And that is a big challenge, noting that we try to believe that we still have a long way to go as raise awareness through our social media platforms by posting several ‘Human Rights’ posts. our target is to further increase those ratios. Our engagement with the Lebanese League for Women in Business (LLWB) is a great step in further contributing to promote gender equality and women empowerment, as we should recognize that motivating women is a main objective for sustainable development. We are strongly committed to fair treatment EQUAL OPPORTUNITY of employees based on merit, and ensure that the required human capital meets its ITG gives equal chances when hiring operational and strategic goals. We adopt a strategic approach for the recruitment and people, which is clearly stated in ITG’s selection process, whereby the right person is Employee Handbook, as our primary matched to the right job based purely on his/ objective is cultivating our human her inherent qualifications, and disregarding capital and talent. any form of discrimination whilst recognizing We are an equal opportunity employer, equal opportunities for all. As part of our CSR 2019 goal we will be further focusing on SDG #5 Gender where religion, age, gender, national Equality, as our Human Resources department is studying new programs that origin, sexual orientation, race, or color would help empower women in business, and revising our Rules & Regulations does not affect hiring, promotion, to ensure that all our affiliates share this common vision to support women. development opportunities, pay, or benefits. 16 | | 17 C. Planet ETHICAL & PROTECTED WORK ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL SUSTAINABILITY ‘ITG is committed to providing a work environment that is free from all forms Climate change is impacting our environment. Water and land resources are We strive to have a good of discrimination and conduct that can working environment where becoming scarce in Lebanon due to the growing urbanization placing additional be considered harassing, intimidating, respect, courtesy, and positive pressure on power production, and supply systems due to higher cooling demand. or disruptive. Harassment in the work attitudes prevail. We encourage our employees to keep an place is a form of discrimination. It is open mind, noting that our HR To overcome the problems faced by global warming and the Lebanese energy sector, our affiliunwelcomed and unwanted. It affects department has an open-door ate, ECOsys provides renewable energy solutions, thus helping promote the green initiative culture the individual’s ability to learn and policy in which any employee among our clients, and fellow citizens, as Lebanon has abundant solar resources with high solar work. It can also be an expression of can address their concerns and irradiance levels. abuse of power, authority, or control complaints. in coercive nature’ as stated in our Employee Handbook. ANTI-CORRUPTION RESPONSIBILITY Our company works on maintaining a high level of transparency and takes disciplinary action if any breach in misconduct takes place. Our Code of Ethics and Conduct clearly upholds the principle of non-discrimination and of maintaining a nonviolent and harassment-free workplace. Values such as integrity, respect and trust, as well as adherence to high moral standards and business ethics, far from any discrimination, are part of ITG culture. The continued success of ITG is dependent upon our customers’ trust and we are dedicated to preserving that trust, and confidence of the public. 18 | | 19 GREEN BUILDING EFFICIENCY Holcom building (ITG mother holding) is designed with the latest technologies in mind to ensure energy saving with our Smart Building and Management Solution provided by one of our affiliates, Syspro. A target has been set by the Ministry of Energy and Water, The Lebanese Center The building is eco-friendly and sustainable as it was conceived to save energy and provide the for Energy Conservation and the UNDP, best work conditions, with: aiming to reach 12% of our energy coming a. Solar Photovoltaic (PV) system, yielding c. Lighting Management, optimizing energy from renewable sources in Lebanon by a total power of 114 kWp for a yearly energy usage based on 4 elements: Scheduling/ 2020. ECOsys had a very strong year, production of 159 MWh, providing 25% of time clock, occupancy sensing, high-end implementing 6 Solar Photovoltaic the building energy demands. tuning, and daylight harvesting. The lighting projects with a total capacity of 2,770KW, Savings per year are: level is automatically set according to the producing 3,236,517 kWh and saving natural daylight level, and shadings are 2,265,562 Kgs of CO2. automatically adjusted based on solar position. The solutions save 47.6% of the ECOsys and ITG aim to further their 25 planted TREES lighting energy consumption of the building, projects in order to let Lebanon rely which represents 506,808 kWh/year. on renewable energy to decrease the Co2 emission: 145,000 kg emission of greenhouse gases thus taking d. Greenery plantations, they allow more action towards a greener Lebanon, and a shading and less heat: 80m² of green wall sustainable future, focusing on SDG #13 at the main entrance, in addition to many for Climate Action. bamboo & trees. 40,000 litres of OIL 200,000 kWh b. Building architecture, comprising of metal panels on all the façades for shading solution, allowing to manage the sun light, while reducing its heat impact, also external blinds protect the glass façade from the heat. 20 | | 21 RECYCLING We are aware of the necessity to and contribute in protecting the environment while saving our country’s natural resources. We try to identify responsible ways to act in our offices to fight against waste and massive consumption, through green initiative programs. a. Paper Collection b. Other Green Initiatives In collaboration with ‘Terre Liban’, we have a. We have participated in the Earth Hour initiative, by turning off Holcom & ITG headquarters for 1 collected in 7 years: hour, in parallel with public and private institutions. b. ECOsys sponsored ‘Earth Hour Lebanon 2018’ and installed solar PV panels that compensated the electricity consumption of the event. 56,223 Kgs of PAPER c. ITG retail and distribution affiliates have opted for environmental-friendly biodegradable plastic bags. d.Throughout 2018, multiple environmental posts have been shared on our social media platforms Equivalent to: 956 TREES saved 98,558.919 litres of OIL 129 m³ of LANDFILL 1,489,797 litres space of WATER 224,892 kWh 22 | | 23 www.itgholding.com 24 |
