CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2018 TORM’S FOCUSED COMMITMENT TO THE UNITED NATIONS’ SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS TORM regards responsible behavior as a central part of the we see TORM can make a focused and concentrated impact to Company, how we do business and of the mindset of our people. Quality Education and Climate Action. TORM is committed to the UN Global Compact and Sustainable Development Goals, which are linked to our current CSR activities We believe TORM can provide concentrated support to these two and company values. SDGs and how they are rooted in our CSR activities and are material to the Company and its stakeholders. As such, TORM sees In addition, as preparation for the IMO 2020 Sulfur Directive, its commitment to and reporting on the SDGs as a natural TORM has joined the Clean Shipping Alliance 2020. progression of its commitment to the UN Global Compact. While reviewing how our company’s business is interlinked with the different elements of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals, Jacob Meldgaard, Executive Director TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2018 3 ENVIRONMENT Chapter Within the shipping industry, marine pollution constitutes the largest environmental risk. Thus, it is a key priority for TORM to avoid pollution of the seas, the marine environment and the atmosphere. TORM supports SDG no. 13 Climate Action, as marine pollution airborne sources, which is at the heart of the IMO 2020 sulfur constitutes the largest environmental risk within the shipping regulation. industry. It is therefore a key priority for TORM to avoid pollution of the seas and the atmosphere. In 2018, TORM continued and further expanded an initiative introduced in 2017 to engage the vessels on a daily basis to INSPECTIONS AND AUDITS encourage best practice behavior with regard to power and fuel In order to maintain Company standards and exceed the targets set consumption. The efforts in this area ensure that corrective actions by its customers, TORM has increased the number of internal can be taken swiftly, when needed. audits on its vessels carried out by Safety Quality and Environment (SQE) officers. On average, each vessel is subject to ten inspections TORM also implemented a new system used for generating per year. Inspections are carried out by customers, terminals, emission data from vessels taking carried cargo into account. This is internal auditors, ports and classification societies. TORM is part of the Company’s continued efforts to improve data quality committed to meeting the ever-increasing standards set both and transparency in order to minimize CO2 emissions. The new internally and by its customers. In 2018, TORM increased its focus reporting scheme is in line with regulatory requirements for EU on on-board training conducted by the SQE officers. Monitoring, Reporting, Verification (MRV) reporting and for IMO Data Collection System (DCS). FUEL CONSUMPTION AND ENERGY EFFICIENCY In addition to the tasks initially in scope, fuel consumption for Throughout 2018, TORM continued to have a strong and dedicated cargo operations has become a focus area that will be further focus on reducing fuel consumption. The efforts made within this developed during 2019. area generated a positive result. In 2018, TORM joined the Clean Shipping Alliance 2020 (CSA 2020) as one of its founding members along with other industry leaders to support the scheduled implementation and enforcement of the IMO requirement for a 0.5% global sulfur limit in fuel oil as of 1 January 2020. The purpose of this alliance is to support information and knowledge sharing about exhaust gas cleaning systems. CSA 2020 members believe that exhaust gas cleaning systems will make a substantial difference to the ports and ocean environments in which they operate. This will also promote global environmental progress, especially the goal of reducing the health impact of TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2018 4 In 2019, TORM will put additional focus on energy-efficient voyage BALLAST WATER To alleviate this threat and preventing the invasion of nonexecution by including weather conditions and timing of arrival in a Ballast Water is taken on by the vessel to stabilize trim and indigenous species in alien waters, TORM complies with the more holistic evaluation. optimizing operational efficiency. The discharge of ballast water stipulations of the IMO Ballast Water Management Convention. may introduce non-native species into the recipient marine Investing in and implementing well-proven technologies will allow ecosystem, whereby disturbing the local maritime ecosystem and TORM to concentrate its efforts on achieving the potential that lies endangering indigenous species. outside the boundaries of behavioral activities, such as frequencycontrolled cooling water pumps and automating energy-heavy equipment. TORM continues to focus on continuously improving the hull condition of its vessels. During 2018, seven vessels were taken out of service between scheduled dry-dockings for short four-to-sixday dockings. During these dockings, the hull coatings were renewed, resulting in significant fuel consumption reductions. TORM maintains a constant focus on fuel efficiency across the fleet. This serves the dual purpose of minimizing environmental impact and making good business sense. By maintaining the strong focus on fuel consumption reductions in 2018, TORM achieved fuel efficiency improvements of 6.9% compared to the 2015 baseline. The target for 2019 is to improve fuel efficiency by another 1.0%. Efforts to reduce the Company’s carbon footprint also cover emissions from air travel by the shore organization. TORM strives to minimize this by using available technologies such as video conferencing to the extent possible, e.g. in connection with meetings across the Company’s eight offices. TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2018 5 GREEN HOUSE GAS EMISSION DATA GREEN HOUSE GAS EMISSIONS DATA 2018 2017 2016 VESSEL EMISSIONS AND INDICATORS* Number of vessels in operation at the end of the year (in technical management) 76 74 76 Number of vessel months (one vessel one year equals 12 vessel months) 931 914 910 Usage of oil and the generated CO2 emissions Used heavy fuel oil (ton) 359,357 236,505 308,467 Used low-sulfur heavy fuel oil (ton) 152 0 0 Used marine gas oil (ton) 58.453 45,470 56,549 Generated CO2 emissions from vessels (ton) 1,306,909 882,253 1,141,862 NOx (ton) 31,091 20,800 26,992 SOx (ton) 17,799 11,728 15,289 Distance sailed (nautical miles) 4,101,929 3,207,147 3,279,977 Average cargo on board (ton) 36,613 34,721 37,433 Cargo transport work (ton-km) 204,801,864,788 207,597,070,516 251,946,149,526 CO2 emissions in grams per ton-km (one ton of cargo transported one km) 6.4 g/ton-km 4.3 g/ton-km 4.5 g/ton-km OFFICE EMISSIONS AND INDICATORS (ELECTRICITY AND HEATING) Electricity used in office locations (kWh) 823,844 849,644 924,951 District heating (Gj) 1,326 1,293 1,619 Generated CO2 emissions from office locations (ton) 525 524 562 Number of office employees at the end of the year 309 296 277 CO2 emissions per employee (ton) 1.7 1.8 2.0 FLIGHT EMISSIONS AND INDICATORS Air mileage (km) 80,192,490 76,832,985 77,284,100 Number of travels 13,401 12,354 13,056 CO2 emissions (ton) 6,486 6,650 6,750 * Vessel emissions data for 2018 reflect that TORM has changed its data collection system to be in line with EU MRV and IMO DCS specifications. TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2018 6 ENVIRONMENT – REPORTING SCOPE REPORTING SCOPE sheet have been collected on board the vessels or at the OTHER PRINCIPLES Environmental data is based on all vessels under TORM’s technical offices. The collection is based on actual usage or disposals. 2018 greenhouse gas emissions are calculated for vessels in management (vessels for which TORM holds the Document of technical management in TORM, amounting to a total of 931 vessel Compliance). Having the technical management of a vessel among • Scope 2 months of operation. other things implies having control over the vessel in terms of Emissions from heating (district heating) in the Copenhagen environmental performance and crew. As of 1 January 2019, TORM and US offices are calculated using Danish and World Cargo transport work (ton-km) is calculated using the actual cargo had 76 vessels under technical management compared to 74 Resources Institute emission factors. multiplied by the distance with actual cargo; thus, a ballast voyage vessels as of 1 January 2018. will give 0 (zero) in ton-km. CO2 emission per ton-km is the full CO2 • Scope 3 emissions on board all vessels divided by the ton-km for all Office emissions are included from TORM’s offices in Copenhagen, Emissions from air travel are provided by TORM's travel agent. voyages; thus, it includes emissions from ballast voyages, electricity Mumbai, New Delhi, Singapore, Manila, Cebu and Houston. production, inerting, cargo operations, etc. Emissions from TORM’s office in London are not included as data is currently unavailable. Emissions from air travel are included for all office staff and crew. Data from vessels is collected according to a specific reporting routine, mainly on a monthly basis but for certain data with less frequency. Other environmental data is collected on an annual basis. Safety data is based on reporting made to TORM’s Safety, Quality and Environmental Department whenever an incident occurs. REPORTING GUIDELINES The 2018 greenhouse gas emissions (GHG) reporting covers scope 1 (direct emissions from own production), scope 2 (emissions from own production but others’ emissions) of the Greenhouse Gas Protocol except for the activities listed below and selected aspects of scope 3 (others' production and emissions services) activities. • Scope 1 Consumption of bunker oil has been calculated to CO2 emissions using IMO’s factors for heavy fuel oil and marine gas oil. SOx and NOx emissions are calculated using the third IMO GHG Study from 2014. Emissions are calculated for each single vessel and then consolidated. Numbers under the scope 1 data TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2018 7 SAFETY Chapter Approximately 90% of TORM’s personnel works at sea, and providing healthy, safe and secure working conditions for them, is an essential part of the business. The Company’s safety policy is rooted in the rules and regulations SECURITY Throughout the year, the security situation and developments in issued by the Danish Maritime Occupational Health Service. TORM’s response to piracy is founded on the Best Management the various risk areas have been monitored closely, and actions Practice, which is the industry guideline for companies and vessels have been taken to safeguard TORM’s seafarers and vessels. The LOST TIME ACCIDENT FREQUENCY (LTAF) AND NEAR-MISS sailing in areas with increased risk. In 2018, TORM experienced four Company will continue to monitor the risk situation and pre-empt Lost Time Accident Frequency (LTAF) is an indicator of serious situations where thieves came on board and two cases of hijacking and robbery attempts by following security procedures work-related personal injuries that result in more than one day off stowaways found on board the Company’s vessels. and industry guidelines. work per million hours of work. The definition of LTAF follows standard practice among shipping companies. During 2018, TORM had an improvement LTAF of 0.47 (2017: 0.67), which is a decrease compared to 2017. Each injury has been investigated and corrective measures have been taken as required. Near-miss reports provide TORM with an opportunity to analyze conditions that might lead to accidents and ultimately prevent potential future accidents. A high number of near-miss reports indicate that the organization is proactively monitoring and responding to risks. Learnings from Near-miss reports are circulated to the fleet for knowledge sharing. In 2018, TORM exceeded the target of 6.0 near-miss reports per month per vessel on average by reaching 7.1 (2017: 6.7) due to continued focus on this area. TORM is participating in the HILO project, where predictive modelling is used to analyze risks and improve safety across the industry. TORM was one of the founding members to HILO when it was initiated. TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2018 8 ONE TORM SAFETY CULTURE PERFORMANCE EVALUATION TORM will continue promoting the One TORM Safety Culture – In line with the Company’s strategic focus on safety performance, In 2018, TORM launched a revised performance development driving resilience program in 2019. Focus will be on supporting and TORM continued the safety culture program One TORM Safety concept for its seafarers. The new concept is TORM’s way of ensuring that TORM’s safety culture is anchored and kept alive Culture – driving resilience in 2018. The purpose of the program is systematically enhancing work behavior and leadership to ensure across the organization, ashore as well as on board the vessels. to continuously strengthen TORM’s safety culture beyond excellent performance. Through the One TORM Safety Culture – compliance. driving resilience program, TORM has defined standards and In 2019, TORM will introduce a new induction framework for its expectations for excellent performance. A key element in seafarers. The purpose is to ensure that new employees at sea are In 2018, TORM continued conducting Safety Leadership courses for leadership is to evaluate employees’ performance with a view to introduced to the safety culture in TORM as soon as possible when Senior Officers on board the Company’s vessels. A total of 14 manage development and motivate employees to develop. TORM joining the Company. courses were conducted, including five in India, five in the believes this will facilitate the best possible means for developing Philippines, two in Denmark and two in Croatia with a total of 274 performance as an individual and as a company. officers attending in 2018. In total, 464 officers have completed the course since it was introduced in 2017. Safety Leadership courses are mandatory, two-and-a-half-day workshops for all Senior Officers and key marine shore staff. The focus of these courses is on how to be a good leader when it comes to safety and how to positively influence and support colleagues on TORM’s journey to be the Reference Company in the product tanker market. SAFETY DELTA In June 2018, TORM launched the Safety Delta, which is a tool used across the fleet to track and monitor the safety culture on board the individual vessels. The Safety Delta concept supports processes and activities and helps to build and maintain a proactive safety culture based on continuous crew evaluation, dialogue, reflection and development. TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2018 9 LABOR Chapter Labor conditions are particularly important for our seafarers because the vessel serves both as their workplace and their home. The employees constitute the true quality of TORM and are the TORM also continued its efforts to strengthen the relations between the Company. In 2018, 93% of all shore-based employees Company’s most valuable assets. TORM continues to grow and seafarers and the shore-based organization. This included seminars responded to the annual survey. thrive due to the efforts and dedication of its staff both at sea and and other opportunities where colleagues can share best practices ashore. regarding the operation of TORM’s vessels. During 2018, an additional short employee engagement survey was launched following each of the first and second quarters with a TORM respects employees’ right to associate freely, to join – or not As part of TORM’s continued focus on the promotion process for its view to identify focus areas on a more frequent basis. join – unions and to bargain collectively. TORM offers equal employees, seafarers completed the so-called ‘promotion opportunities for our employees as stated in TORM’s Business assessment training’ prior to being promoted to the highest ranks The outcome of all 2018 surveys repeated the high-level result of Principles. TORM has an obligation to its customers, shareholders, on board the Company’s vessels in 2018. As part of this training, the 2017 engagement survey with regard to all measured employees and other stakeholders to develop the Company’s officers visit one of TORM’s offices for an introduction and training categories, ranging from employee motivation and loyalty to talent pool irrespective of attributes such as gender, religion, with key stakeholders. satisfaction with immediate superior, welfare, safety and work sexuality, nationality, ethnicity or disabilities. As stated in TORM’s environment. The continued high scores were evenly spread across Business Principles under ‘Respecting People’, the Company does TORM maintains an ongoing focus on seafarer commitment and countries and divisions, which is a testament to the strength of the not accept any kind of discrimination. TORM works towards a engagement. At year-end 2018, the retention rate for Senior unified One TORM approach. By the end of 2018, the retention diverse workplace, in which everyone is included and respected, Officers was above 90%, and TORM demonstrated 100% rate for shore-based employees was above 90%. and in which well-being at work is regarded as a shared compliance with customer requirements when it comes to responsibility. For more information on TORM’s Business ensuring the right level of experience among Senior Officers per TORM aims to attract and retain the best employees by Principles, please visit http://csr.torm.com/torm-s-way-of-doingvessel across the fleet (the so-called officer matrix compliance). exemplifying the four values in the TORM Leadership Philosophy business. and by ensuring that the Company’s leaders motivate their In 2019, TORM will continue its focus on a safe working environment employees. Through the One TORM platform, the Company strives EMPLOYEES AT SEA for its seagoing employees. In recognition that life at sea can be to continuously develop the employees’ abilities to do what they In 2018, TORM continued its strategy to employ seafarers with challenging, TORM has introduced a support line available for do best. For our seafarers we have launched the different nationalities, as the Company believes that diversity on seafarers and their relatives ashore 24 hours a day/365 days a year. board is an important foundation for cooperation, high performance At the end of 2018, the shore-based organization had 309 and a safe working environment. At the end of 2018, TORM employed a total of 3,118 seafarers of employees: 129 in Hellerup, 116 in Mumbai, 3 in New Delhi, 37 in which 138 were permanently employed, with the remaining Manila, 2 in Cebu, 14 in Singapore, 7 in Houston and 1 at the Throughout the year, TORM continued its efforts to relieve seafarers on time-bound contracts. Company’s office in London. seafarers on time and to build strong teams that rotate back to the same vessels whenever possible. This will reinforce vessel-specific EMPLOYEES ASHORE GENDER DIVERSITY knowledge and the foundation for a safe working environment. The TORM employee motivation and satisfaction survey is TORM has an obligation to its customers, shareholders, employees conducted after the third quarter every year and is important to and other stakeholders to develop the Company’s talent pool irrespective of attributes such as gender, religion, sexuality, TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2018 10 nationality, ethnicity or disabilities. As stated in TORM’s Business Principles under Respecting People , the Company does not accept discrimination with respect to any of the above. TORM works towards a diverse workplace, in which everyone is included and respected, and in which well-being at work is regarded as a shared responsibility. For further information on TORM’s Business Principles, please visit: http://www.torm.com/uploads/media_items/torm-businesspriciples.original.pdf. TORM aims at a gender diverse workforce and an inclusive environment that respects and supports all of our people and helps improve our business performance. TORM’s gender diversity approach focuses on talent attraction, promotion and retention. The Company’s leaders aim at assuming accountability for continuous progress. TORM believes that gender diverse teams, led by gender diverse leaders, deliver better business performance. The Company provides equal opportunity in recruitment, career development, promotion, training and rewards for all employees. TORM actively monitors the representation of women in the workforce and in leadership positions. At the end of 2018, the proportion of women in the shore-based workforce was 32%, while females in leadership positions, defined as having one or more direct reports, constituted 19%. By 2020, the Company aims at having 35% women in the shorebased workforce in line with industry average, and with 25% women in leadership positions. At the end of 2018, the Board of Directors consisted of five male members elected at the Annual General Meeting. In 2020, the Board of Directors has set a target of 20% female board members elected at the Annual General Meeting (1 out of 5) or 17% provided that the Board of Directors is extended with one additional member (1 out of 6). TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2018 11 ANTI-CORRUPTION AND ANTI-BRIBERY Chapter TORM does not accept corrupt business practices. The Company has co-founded the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network (MACN) to take a joint stand in the industry towards the request for facilitation payments, which exist in many parts of the world. Corruption and bribery impede global trade and can restrict nonIn 2011, TORM co-founded the Maritime Anti-Corruption Network In addition to its efforts within MACN, TORM continued to corrupt companies’ access to international markets. In this way, (MACN) to take a joint stand within the industry towards the strengthen its companywide anti-corruption policies corruption and bribery have a negative impact on economic and request for facilitation payments that exists in many parts of the in 2018 to mitigate the risk of bribery and corruption. TORM has social development. For TORM, the risk of corruption does not world where TORM conducts business. Best practices are shared continued its anti-corruption training program, which includes mean increased costs alone. Corruption also exposes TORM’s between members of the network, and members align their mandatory anti-corruption courses for all shore-based staff and all seafarers to safety and security risks and poses a potential risk to approach to minimizing facilitation payments. officers on board TORM’s vessels. The training targets new hires as the Company’s legal standing and reputation. well as existing employees and must be repeated annually. TORM The MACN seeks support from government bodies and will continue these efforts in 2019. TORM does not accept corrupt business practices and as part of its international organizations to eliminate the root causes of compliance program, TORM has a policy on anti-bribery and anticorruption. TORM is committed to addressing corrupt business Since 2006, TORM’s Board of Directors has provided a corruption, which supports the Company’s Business Principles. practices among stakeholders by supporting this cross-sector whistleblower facility with an independent lawyer as part of the approach. internal control system. In 2018, the whistleblower facility received It is TORM’s policy to conduct all business in an honest and ethical three notifications, which were investigated and closed without manner. TORM has a “zero tolerance” approach to bribery and any critique or requirements for new measures. corruption, and the Company is committed to acting professionally, fairly and with integrity in all business dealings and relationships, wherever the Company operates. TORM will uphold all laws relevant to countering bribery and corruption in all the jurisdictions in which the Company operates. To continue a high level of transparency and accountability, due diligence, monitoring and control as well as training of TORM’s staff are central parts of implementing the anti-corruption and anti-bribery policy. TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2018 12 Chapter HUMAN RIGHTS Chapter TORM revised our Business Principles to better reflect TORM’s Leadership Philosophy and our commitment to the UN Global Compact, particularly regarding human rights. HUMAN RIGHTS This section constitutes TORM’s CSR reporting according to the As part of the Company’s commitment to the UN Global Compact, With the TORM Leadership Philosophy, TORM’s Business Principles requirements of UK law. Read more about TORM and the CSR TORM submits its communication on progress every year. Please and commitment to the UN Global Compact, TORM is committed efforts at http://www.torm.com/csr-at-torm. visit www.unglobalcompact.org to see the reports. to respecting internationally recognized human rights as outlined in the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. TORM recognizes that implementing the necessary policies and respective processes to be in line with the requirements of the UN Global Principles is part of an ongoing effort. Going forward, TORM will continue to promote its human rights-related policies and processes. TORM complies with the International Labor Organization’s Maritime Labor Convention, an international set of standards on labor conditions at sea, which was ratified by 30 countries in 2012. All vessels under TORM’s technical management were audited and certified as required under the Maritime Labor Convention of 2006 when it took effect in August 2013. No claims or offenses have been reported regarding human rights in 2018. TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2018 13 SUPPORTING QUALITY EDUCATION Chapter TORM is a long-standing supporter of education in India and the Philippines. TORM is dedicated to supporting SDG no. 4 Quality Education and developing the pipeline of competences in the industry and in infrastructure and encourage more girls to attend school. In cooperates with several educational institutions and universities terms of higher employee retention and a positive brand addition, TORM supported the 'V Promote Education' project with internationally. Efforts include offering trainee positions and recognition. the distribution of 100,000 notebooks to nearly 350 schools in internships in TORM’s offices to students from e.g. Copenhagen 2018. Business School, the Copenhagen School of Marine Engineering & The majority of TORM’s seafaring staff are of Indian or Filippino Technology Management, the Nanyang Technological University nationality, and the Company’s activities in this area are thus Singapore and the University of Petroleum and Energy Studies, supporting potential future TORM employees and strengthening India. the overall competence level among seafarers in these regions. As such, TORM is a long-standing supporter of education. This In 2018, 21 students supported by the TORM Philippines Education commitment reflects the Company’s ties to local communities and Foundation graduated. For the school year 2018/2019, the has a positive effect on the needs of the societies in which TORM Foundation supports 51 scholars across the Philippines. Apart from operates. In addition, TORM believes that supporting education maritime and general education, the program includes training has positive effects on its core business in terms of courses for teachers and a four-year training program for scholars. In addition, the program encompasses the distribution of IT equipment and school kits for students in rural schools. TORM has supported the building of the ZP Prathmik School in Zadgewadi near Kurkumbh, Pune, in India. The school was constructed, and the facilities furnished with donations from the Company. In 2018, TORM continued its support for the school and is currently sponsoring 36 students attending the school. In 2018, TORM joined hands with the 'Akshaya Shakti Welfare Association', a non-governmental organization, working to promote education across 350 schools in the Wada district in India. As part of TORM’s support to the Wada district, the Company funded the construction of an additional toilet and bathing block for the female students of 'Swami Vivekananda School Girls' hostel'. The school has a total of about 1,200 students and only one toilet block. The addition of eight extra toilets will greatly improve the TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2018 14 MANAGEMENT SIGNATORIES TORM’s management is committed to responsible behavior and continues its support of the principles of the UNCG. Our CSR performance is important to our stakeholders and our company. We confirm the performance illustrated by the above-stated material key performance indicators. Jacob Meldgaard Jesper S. Jensen Executive Director Head of Technical Division TORM CSR HIGHLIGHTS 2018 15
