CSR REPORT 2017 CSR REPORT 2017 SUMMARY EDITORIAL 3 THE GROUP 4 GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS 5 Our ethics committee 5 CSR VISION AND PROJECT 6 PUTTING EMPLOYEES AT THE HEART OF OUR CORPORATE PROJECT 7 Attracting and retaining talent 10 Developing expertise and skills 12 Maintaining an active social dialogue 14 Implementing a culture of prevention regarding health and safety at work 16 Promoting diversity at all levels within the company 18 CREATING THE CONDITIONS FOR RESPONSIBLE GROWTH 22 Promoting Sustainable Innovation 25 Using quality management to boost global performance 28 Progressing with our stakeholders 29 Securing our processes to keep our customers’ trust 32 CONTROLLING OUR IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT 34 Limiting our carbon footprint 37 Reducing our waste 40 REPORTING SCOPE This document presents the main principles of the CSR policy of the Assystem Technologies Group. This edition puts particular focus on France, which accounted for 53% of our business activities in 2017. One of our objectives for 2018 is to prioritise the deployment of these best practices group-wide and to pursue the implementation of our cross-functional CSR approach in all of our operating regions. 2 CSR REPORT 2017 A SUSTAINABLEGROWTH PROJECT SUPPORTING TECHNOLOGICAL AND HUMAN PROGRESS Olivier Aldrin Chief Executive Officer We work hand-in-hand with our customers to design and create the products and services that will shape the world of the future. This approach reflects the very essence of our social responsibility and •• 2017 marked a new ambition for the company. sustainable development commitments. We have The outsourced R&D division of Assystem SA, Global chosen to maintain a continuous approach by Product Solutions (GPS), broke away from the parent pursuing initiatives launched some years ago within company to become the independent entity, Assystem our business areas. In this way, we can ensure the Technologies, opening interesting growth opportunities. skills development and the diversity of our employees, As such, at the beginning of 2018, the Group finalised as well as the satisfaction of our customers by the acquisition of SQS, a leading independent player providing innovative and eco-friendly solutions. in corporate quality assurance and digital solutions. Assystem Technologies’ first CSR Report sets out our The group generates revenue of €1 billion, and has commitments in terms of social and environment 14,000 employees operating in 25 countries responsibility commitments.•• worldwide. SQS’ expertise in quality and consulting combined with Assystem Technologies’ recognised engineering solutions has, more than ever, reinforced our position as a partner of trust with our industryleader customers. 3 CSR REPORT 2017 THE GROUP W ith operations in 15 countries in 2017, Assystem Technologies holds key positions in Europe, particularly in France, the UK and Germany. Our organisation OUR EXPERTISE: CRITICAL AND COMPLEX is underpinned by the complementary skills offered by our PROJECT MANAGEMENT advanced technological centres located near our customers Our mission is to help our industry-leader customers design (primarily in Europe and North America) and our internaand develop their innovations. In this regard, we are a tional excellence centres, both nearshore (Romania) and long-standing partner of several international groups offshore (India), designed to meet our customers’ needs in including Airbus, Alstom, BMW, Bombardier, PSA, Renault, terms of flexibility and cost management. Safran, Thales and Volkswagen. While we provide a multi-sector offering, we are particularly present and recognized in the aeronautics, automotive, OUR BUSINESSES defence and manufacturing sectors. We also provide major transformation solutions in areas common to all players in Our scope of action covers the entire life-cycle of products the manufacturing sector, such as the factory of the future. used in high-tech sectors. DESIGN & PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT We analyse the feasibility and verify the viability of ideas. CUTTING-EDGE EXPERTISE We assist our customers with regard to designing their AT THE VERY HEART OF THE 4 TH solutions and ensuring the digital transformation of their INDUSTRIAL REVOLUTION product development processes. • Cyber-security MANUFACTURING & SUPPLY CHAIN • Data science We draw on our expertise in production and supplier • E-mobility management activities to optimise our customers’ productivity • Internet of Things (IoT) and to sharpen their competitive edge. We play an active • Nano-satellites role in the 4th industrial revolution by facilitating the • Autonomous systems integration of digital technologies in factories. IN-SERVICE SUPPORT We work alongside our customers to ensure operational maintenance and the evolutionary potential of extremely high value-added products, and use new technologies, such as data science, to optimize their safety and 2017 DATA sustainability. (excluding SQS acquisition) More than 9,000 employees worldwide Operations in 15 countries Revenues of €700 million 4 CSR REPORT 2017 GOVERNANCE AND ETHICS We are convinced that quality of governance contributes to corporate performance, and therefore constantly strive to ensure this is taken into account in our responsibility and risk-control management requirement. The Company is governed by a Management Board overseen by a Supervisory Board comprising 6 members, two of which are women. The Supervisory Board has set up two Special Committees: a Strategic Committee and an Audit Committee. The existence and functioning of these committees contribute towards strengthening our system of checks and balances. OUR ETHICS COMMITTEE The Ethics Committee defines, approves and oversees the implementation of ethical policies within Assystem Technologies. It meets at least once every quarter and in the event of special circumstances. Once a year, the Ethics Committee holds a special session in the presence of the Group’s Chief Executive Officer. The Committee publishes reports on the ethical situation of the Company with contributions from each geographical region. In 2017, the Ethics Committee’s priorities included the group-wide implementation of the requirements laid down in the Sapin 2 law, notably those regarding the fight against corruption. 5 CSR REPORT 2017 CSR VISION AND PROJECT We are in the midst of a technological and social revolution that will transform our life styles with regard to mobility, consumption, production and communication. O ur mission is to help the largest industrial players design the products and services that will shape the world of the future. Our customers are aware of our ability to carry out complex international projects with rigour and integrity, while respecting our time, cost and quality commitments. Social, societal and environmental responsibility is SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT PLAYS therefore essential to our success and performance. A TWO-FOLD OPERATIONAL ROLE IN This is why sustainable development challenges have THAT AS IT: long been integrated into our expertise and corporate culture. Serves to leverage the prevention and control of operational and reputation risks; Offers a competitive advantage. This responsibility is underpinned by values that are meaningful for the company. A driving force for the company, this project also provides a unifying framework for our organisation and our employees. It is supported every day by a set of shared values that guide us in all of our actions: SUSTAINABLE PERFORMANCE This is both an objective and a state of mind. We always endeavour to do our very best. RESPONSIBILITY ENTREPRENEURSHIP We are responsible to our customers In an ever-changing technological and to our colleagues. We celebrate environment, we must be at once our successes and assume responsibility proactive and creative. We are both bold for our failures. and transparent in everything we do. RESILIENCE RESPECT We have the right to fail and a duty We respect our employees, our stakeholders to bounce back. and the environment. This core value is key to our approach and our activity. 6 CSR REPORT 2017 PUTTING EMPLOYEES AT THE HEART OF OUR CORPORATE PROJECT ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TALENT DEVELOPING EXPERTISE AND SKILLS MAINTAINING AN ACTIVE SOCIAL DIALOGUE 7 CSR REPORT 2017 OUR KEY OUR COMMITMENTS RESULTS Attracting and Junior profiles as retaining talent a percentage of new recruits 26% Developing expertise 25 hours and skills training per year per employee Sharing a culture of prevention Rate of work-related with regard to health and safety accidents: at work 4.5% Promoting diversity within Percentage the company of women recruits: 30% 8 CSR REPORT 2017 Gerard Brescon Group Head of HR •• Since intellectual services account for the bulk of our activities, we place human challenges at the forefront of our commitments. Our social policy objectives are three-fold. Our first goal is to become a “creator of skills”. Meeting our customers’ needs in terms of human resources goes hand in hand with our ability to develop the potential of all of our employees. Recruitment, skills management and professional training are central to the company’s Human Resources policy. OUR COMPANY IS In addition, we are aware of the need to create A SOCIAL ECOSYSTEM the conditions for a useful and constructive social dialogue. As such, we strive to ensure optimal THAT ADAPTS IN working conditions with priority given to well-being LINE WITH SOCIAL in the workplace and the prevention of psychosocial TRENDS risks. Thirdly, we are fully committed to ensuring equal opportunity for everybody in the company by promoting gender equality, integration and job security for disabled people, and the fight against all forms of discrimination and exclusion. The focus of our road map in 2018 will be on recruitment and staff retention, with a view to becoming and remaining an employer of choice for talent in our sector.•• 9 CSR REPORT 2017 ATTRACTING AND RETAINING TALENT Our 9,000 employees are our principal asset. Their expertise and capacity to innovate are essential to support and implement industrial transformation and to help address our customers’ new challenges. W e have implemented a clear set of guidelines for recruitment, international mobility and training. It meets a triple objective: to be able to propose attractive RANKED AMONG THE TOP 100 RECRUITING COMPANIES career prospects and opportunities to engineers and In 2017, Assystem Technologies was ranked among the top technicians, to develop the proactiveness of our teams and 100 recruiting companies in France (source: Usine Nouvelle to enhance their technical and digital savoir-faire. rankings at 12/01/17). With 5,000 recruitments announced for 2018 across the Group In this highly competitive sector, we have introduced a (of which 2,000 in France), Assystem Technologies’ goal is to training programme for the entire recruitment division attract the finest profiles on the market and to lend support in (sourcing staff, recruiters and managers, etc.). The purpose shaping their professional career paths. of the programme is to create and professionalise dedicated teams. By maintaining a permanent dialogue and forging multiple •• With our activities becoming more partnerships, Assystem Technologies is also cementing its diversified and international in a strong relationships with professional schools and universities. growth environment, our priorities are to We are in favour of maintaining ties between training institutions and the corporate world by intervening in attract talent and to foster their professional schools and organising student visits to our main sites. development via the acquisition of skills.•• Valérie Magrez, France Head of HR DISTRIBUTION OF JOBS TOTAL PERMANENT FTES: 9,104 ORGANIC JOB GROWTH SINCE 2016 Rest of World 12% Temporary 6% 88% Permanent 7,272 + 135 7,407 53% Rest of 40% France Europe 2016 2017 Group 88% 2% of the group staff have a permanent organic growth of permanent jobs between 2016 contract. and 2017 within the group. 10 CSR REPORT 2017 WELCOMING AND INTEGRATING RECRUITS Assystem Technologies has introduced induction More than 25% of recruits interviews conducted by recruitment managers. New are young graduates recruits are invited for a first interview at the end of their first month and to a second one after 6 months. These interviews enable recruiters, managers and HR managers to rapidly identify recruits’ strong points, as well as their possible needs in terms of support and areas of improvement to be implemented. 70% of managers The procedure is underpinned by a network of inbegan their careers house trainers and coaches who reinforce the sense as junior engineers of belonging for new recruits and facilitate their integration. MOBILITY PATHS DESIGNED TO ENRICH THE EMPLOYEE EXPERIENCE In 2017, more than Assystem Technologies was present in 15 countries in 2017 and operates in 1,000 employees benefited several business sectors. Employees can leverage the Group’s global presence from an international mobility and multi-sector culture to enhance their professional career paths, notably by: experience • discovering new environments; • developing their skills and expertise; • reinforcing their network and adaptability; • benefiting from an international experience. This allows the company to retain its talents by offering them career-development opportunities through a variety of mobility paths: TOOLS AND RESOURCES FOR • Geographic mobility: to support the professional and/or personal development EMPLOYEES TO DEVELOP AND of employees in France and abroad. FINALISE THEIR MOBILITY PROJECTS • Sector mobility: to give employees the opportunity of applying their skills in another sector. In certain cases, mobility can anticipate economic cycles and A monthly mobility newsletter presenting the main trends. professional opportunities within the company. • T echnical mobility: to enable the development of new fields of expertise and skills. A SmartHR Portal advertising all job vacancies. • Mobility through managerial promotion opportunities: to promote hierarchical responsibilities and project management. Managers/HR Managers with whom employees can discuss their mobility projects. For mobility projects initiated by employees, relay interviews are set up to enable candidates to qualify their project, analyse the opportunities and validate the A mobility team which ensures the overall process. A mobility kit available on the company intranet in France lists all the monitoring of the project and lends support on services offered. contractual and operational aspects. For projects initiated by the company, a transfer bonus may be paid, and any travel and/or moving costs may be covered. 11 CSR REPORT 2017 DEVELOPING EXPERTISE AND SKILLS For Assystem Technologies, the professional development and fulfilment of its employees is central to its corporate project. W e constantly strive to adapt our formats and contents so as to anticipate changing market trends and train our teams to meet the challenges of the future. The company’s THE ASSYSTEM TECHNOLOGIES TRAINING ECOSYSTEM technical training offering is supplemented by induction programmes for new recruits, as well as skills-development The Assystem Institute programmes, knowledge acquisition and team/project 4 specialised institutes which offer skills-acquisition management. programmes to ensure a solid base for knowledge that is essential, as well as to strengthen employee expertise and provide continuous training for teams. THREE TOOLS TO DEVELOP Assystem Skills Development Centre EMPLOYABILITY A training centre, specialised initially in the aeronautics sector, which designs specific modules for Assystem Most business training takes place within the Assystem Institute. Technologies’ employees and customers. The purpose of our business training programme is to strengthen our community of experts and offer skills acquisition programmes Assystem Training Lab (specific to a sector or to a business line in particular) via 4 An incubator dedicated to new teaching/learning training institutes: the Assystem Aerospace Institute, the Assystem approaches run by the training department. Automotive Institute, the Assystem Systems Institute and the Assystem Project Management Institute. To address the shortage of technicians in aerospace-production support professions, in 2017 Assystem Technologies opened the «Skills Development Centre», an accredited training centre based in Toulouse. This 750m² centre includes 8 training rooms and a 150m² space dedicated to simulation workshops, equipped with a flight simulator. More than 1,000 training sessions The objective is to adapt the skills of our employees and our per year customers’ teams to meet the operational needs of the sector by using innovative technologies such as virtual reality or 12 trainers augmented reality. The centre also offers training courses to with experience in the field people with remote job profiles in collaboration with the region and local employment centres. 250 experts 12 CSR REPORT 2017 I n addition, via the Assystem Training Lab, the training department conducts research into new learning solutions. Training managers can supplement traditional teaching formats by using the remote learning modules (e-learning), video training programmes and corporate coaching and e-coaching solutions at their disposal and, as such, offer customised training solutions in line with the expectations of the teams. CUSTOMISED TRAINING PROGRAMMES FOR YOUNG GRADUATES In 2012, Assystem Technologies implemented an original traineeinduction support system; the Leo Program. End-of-study interns can participate in a team innovation competition and create an R&D project with the support of an operational advisor. The preselected teams then present their projects to a panel of managers. The winning projects receive support from the innovation and technical departments (and, in some cases, from group customers or partners as well) during their development through to completion. FOR HIGH-POTENTIAL EMPLOYEES Encouraging and supporting the professional development of international managers is one of the Group’s priority training areas to fill key positions and retain high potential. In 2017, a programme dedicated to Business Leaders was designed to develop the strategic skills of future senior executives of the Group. The multicultural curriculum developed in-house includes leadership development sessions, as well as workshops led by members of the Executive Committee, change-management modules, personal coaching and personality tests. The aim here is to offer participants a customised training experience, while exposing them to operational realities and working real-case scenarios. 13 CSR REPORT 2017 MAINTAINING AN ACTIVE SOCIAL DIALOGUE Assystem Technologies’ social responsibility approach is underpinned by several corporate agreements, including: ••The Company’s aim is to maintain and develop a constructive social dialogue based on listening to the needs of, and respecting, others. The quantity (and quality) of the THE AGREEMENT IN FAVOUR OF EMPLOYEES collective agreements concluded WITH DISABILITIES within Assystem Technologies in France testifies to this commitment.•• The aim of which is to raise the awareness of all employees and managers on disability issues in the Company. After concluding several agreements Sylvie Bonnefond Director of Social Affairs with AGEFIPH, a first company agreement on the employment and job security of employees with disabilities was signed in 2013. This was renewed in 2016 for a period of 3 years. THE PROFESSIONAL-GENDER AGREEMENT Women are grossly under-represented in the engineering sector. The Company has set an objective to increase the number of women recruits PROMOTING NEW WAYS and foster their career development. Signed in 2016, this agreement OF WORKING was extended until the end of 2018. In 2017, the Group signed a company agreement with its social partners on teleworking. This mode of working promotes work-life balance, enables employees to manage their time more efficiently and helps to limit business travel, which, in turn, reduces the Company’s carbon footprint. To THE COMPANY AGREEMENT RELATIVE support and deploy this new working approach, TO THE GENERATION CONTRACT 300 managers each received a 2-hour, one-onone web-conferencing training session. The legal The objectives of the generation-contract agreement, which covers the framework, the managerial position and the period from 2016 to 2018, are three-fold: to improve access to relationship of trust with the teams were some of employment for young people, promote job security for older workers the points raised during these sessions. and ensure the transmission of knowledge and skills within the Company. 14 CSR REPORT 2017 ENSURING WORK-LIFE BALANCE Aware of the need to adapt to societal trends, Assystem Technologies has implemented a work-life balance charter. This charter is a continuation of the agreement on professional equality and aims to promote a healthy and respectful work environment that takes into account the family responsibilities of employees. REWARDING EVERYONE FOR Assystem Technologies is also attentive to employee wellTHEIR CONTRIBUTION TO THE being and providing a friendly working environment. The COMPANY’S PERFORMANCE Company has installed relaxation areas for its employees that are equipped with table football facilities, ping-pong The Group’s wage policy values everyone’s individual tables and expression walls in its main branches. Other commitment and enables all employees to benefit from the social bonding initiatives have also been deployed, such fruits of the Group’s performance. For the sake of ensuring as in-house competitions during which employees can transparency, an Individual Social Report (ISR) is sent every participate in key moments of the Group, and the year to employees. implementation of car-pooling and car-sharing schemes for professional and private purposes. Each employee receives individual compensation, as well as collective compensation and a range of social benefits. INDIVIDUAL COMPENSATION: • Fixed contractual salary • Variable compensation for staff members with a certain level of responsibility (Bonus Plan) • Exceptional individual bonuses COLLECTIVE COMPENSATION: In France, Company profits are shared among all employees via two company agreements: • a statutory profit-sharing agreement based on the equal distribution of profits to beneficiaries; • a profit-sharing incentive agreement based on the equal distribution of the amount to beneficiaries. THIS POLICY IS SUPPLEMENTED BY THE FOLLOWING SOCIAL BENEFITS: • social contributions (health, welfare, social works) of around €1,000 per year per employee; • a supplementary pension plan; • a Group savings plan; • access to company cafeteria or luncheon vouchers; • works council subsidies. 15 CSR REPORT 2017 IMPLEMENTING A CULTURE OF PREVENTION REGARDING HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK Preserving health and safety in the workplace is a continuous improvement process since it involves all stakeholders in the company: managers, employees and temporary workers, alike. QUALITY OF LIFE IN THE WORKPLACE Ensure a safe working environment to meet Health, Safety and Environment challenges. RESPONSIBILITY INVOLVEMENT Ensure our regulatory compliance Involve all employees and in terms of Health and Safety based THE SCOPE OF stakeholders in our HSE strategy. on a management system deployed ASSYSTEM TECHNOLOGIES’ at all levels. HEALTH, SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENT (HSE) POLICY IS FIVE-FOLD: CONSTANT VIGILANCE CONTINUOUS Monitor the knowledge and control IMPROVEMENT of our risks. Ensure the sustainability of best practices through feedback and performance measures. This system also includes a mapping of operational risks to assess dangerous situations related to our activities and to define the associated prevention programme. 16 CSR REPORT 2017 PREVENTION CAMPAIGNS TO REDUCE THE RISK OF ROAD ACCIDENTS A PROACTIVE APPROACH TO Work-related road risks are the main cause of accidents at Assystem Technologies (commuting and business trips). PREVENT PSYCHOSOCIAL RISKS To reduce these risks, we organise prevention campaigns every year and provide employees with communication Management is particularly aware of stressful situations tools, such as video-conferencing and audio-conferencing. that can destabilise some and weaken their moral or cause This is supplemented by training sessions, new safety concern. These situations include: equipment for vehicles and alternative transport initiatives. This strategy resulted in a decrease of 13% in the number Complex projects with tight deadlines requiring the support of accidents reported in 2017 and of 20% in hazardous of all teams. behaviour. Transition periods between roles, a phenomenon inherent to Assystem Technologies’ business, that can lead to professional and geographical mobility. Personal circumstances (prolonged illness, loss of a loved one, etc.) or circumstances which affect group (states of emergency or victims of terrorist attacks, etc.) that can temporarily affect the lives of employees. A psychosocial alert network has been set up to identify employees that could be exposed to and affected by situations such as these. Psychological-alert monitoring is carried out on a daily basis by a team of occupational doctors, managers and human resources managers. The system anticipates and listens to the needs of employees in such situations and provides them with customised solutions, within the limits of the operational capacity of Assystem Technologies and compliance with privacy laws. Depending on the situation, an external listening unit can also be set up in association with the agency Eleas, which is specialised in psychosocial stress. A joint committee meets once or twice a year to review a series of monitoring indicators and define the potential vigilance and support actions. 17 CSR REPORT 2017 PROMOTE DIVERSITY AT ALL LEVELS WITHIN THE COMPANY We have implemented a pro-active strategy to promote equal opportunity for all, regardless of gender, age, nationality, social background or state of health. C onvinced that diversity in the workplace is an asset, we have been a signatory of the Equal Opportunities Charter since 2005 and launched several initiatives to deploy a true corporate culture in this domain. ••At Assystem Technologies, we firmly DISABILITY: 10 YEARS believe difference is an asset. This is why OF COMMITMENT! we have been committed for more than 10 years to promoting diversity within the Assystem Technologies launched its disability initiative, company. This has involved making “Mission Handicap”, in 2007 making it one of the pioneers in its sector. far-reaching commitments to promote the integration and employment of handicapped Over the years, the company has stepped up its actions in people and professional gender equality.•• a bid to change the public perception with regard to Cristelle Jacq disability issues. This momentum is set to continue and will Diversity Manager be driven by: • the recruitment and integration of employees with disabilities; • ensuring job security, notably by adapting the workplace environment; • s ubcontracting to sheltered organisations, such as EAs (adapted enterprises) and ESATs (French assistance and service centres that help disabled people find work); • raising awareness and informing employees, customers and third parties on disability issues. SPECIFIC MEASURES PUT IN PLACE IN 2017 WITHIN THE CONTEXT OF THE AGREEMENT Because this has been a long-term commitment for the ON DISABILITY: Group, the number of our employees with disabilities is above the average rate for the engineering sector (1.6%). • Workstation improvements (18 improvements); • Number of additional days of absence granted (74); • Number of employees who benefited from CESU cheques (57). 18 CSR REPORT 2017 Road Tour across France for the 10th anniversary of the Mission Handicap In 2017, our Mission Handicap initiative celebrated its 10th anniversary. Numerous actions, such as sign-language initiation workshops, silent cafés, solidarity markets, etc. were organised to raise staff awareness on disability issues. 4,500 kms This was part of an initiative to meet with employees in our covered offices and at our customers’ sites during a road trip covering the whole of France. Two evening theatre outings rounded off the celebrations (one in December 2017 in Toulouse and the other in February 2018 in Saint-Quentin21 awareness-raising en-Yvelines). actions In March 2017, we also participated in the 3rd edition of the Women-in-adapted-enterprises Awards, organised by Handiréseau. The purpose of these awards is to promote the exceptional career paths of women in adapted 535 employee enterprises as well as the savoir-faire of these structures in participants terms of professional integration of people with disabilities. 19 CSR REPORT 2017 ATTRACTING FEMALE CANDIDATES AND PROMOTING PROFESSIONAL EQUALITY In 2010, Assystem Technologies created a Diversity service to implement its commitment with regard to gender equality, XECO FOR ALL! both in terms of recruitment as well as career management To boost the number of female staff members and and wages. We are convinced that diversity drives promote peer-to-peer exchange, Assystem Technologies performance, in that it creates team balance and enhances implemented a set of targeted actions notably by managerial approach. launching a dedicated «Femmes d’Énergie” (Women of Energy) network. The aim of the network and its 250 The challenge is quite considerable since the percentage members is to feminise teams and dispel the prejudices of women in engineering sectors is relatively small. In that persist in a world that is still dominated by men. France, only 30% of students graduating from engineering schools and 20.5% of professional engineers are women. In 2018, Assystem Technologies took another step forward by changing the name of the network to “XEco” To boost recruitment levels of women and promote mixedand by boosting the focus on gender diversity. XEco has gender teams, we pursued our efforts in 2017 by: relaunched a proactive drive towards sharing experience and promoting diversity as an asset within our teams. Organising a recruitment evening for female candidates in October 2017 which resulted in the hiring of 16 engineers in the Paris region out of a total of 60 candidates; Participating in conferences: the Diversity team regularly intervenes to raise the awareness of students, such as those CAPITALISING ON at the EPF in Sceaux or the Polytech in Nancy, or with the GENERATIONAL DIVERSITY Group’s partners at round tables or during breakfast debates; Assystem Technologies promotes the integration of young graduates. In this regard, young people account for more Implementing a mentoring programme; than 25% of its annual recruitment quota. In all the countries where the Group is present, induction programmes have Sponsoring races such as La Parisienne, La Toulousaine been set up to provide support and guidance to new recruits and the Marseille Cassis. and work-study interns when they join the company. We are also attentive to the need to promote older These action plans, together with our proactive policy, employees. Expertise is indeed precious and we must foster boosted the Group’s female employment and recruitment the transmission of skills and savoir-faire. In France, we rates to 21% and 30%, respectively, in 2017. signed a company agreement covering 2016-2018 to raise the percentage of recruits aged 45 and over to 8% and to maintain their employment rate relative to the total workforce at a minimum of 17%. At the beginning of 2017, employees aged over 45 accounted for 9% of recruits and 18% of the Group’s total headcount. We have also implemented a career-management programme enabling older employees to maintain and build on their skills, and to transmit their knowledge to younger generations. 20 CSR REPORT 2017 2017 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The table below sets out the Group’s key performance indicators and the results of the Enterprise, Social and Governance (ESG) audit carried out by the INDEFI agency. This audit is supplemented by a set of progress plans designed to establish a continuous improvement process. KEY PERFORMANCE AUDIT AREA INDEFI ESG 2017 INDICATOR Number of training 25 hours per year hours per year V AA Employee per employee per employee training Percentage of employees V AAA having received training 61% Absenteeism V A 3.4% Working RESPONSIBLE conditions Accident frequency EMPLOYER V AA 4.5 rate Percentage of female V BBB 21% employees Diversity Percentage of disabled V AA 1.6% employees 21 CSR REPORT 2017 CREATING THE CONDITIONS FOR RESPONSIBLE GROWTH PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION USING QUALITY MANAGEMENT TO BOOST GLOBAL PERFORMANCE PROGRESSING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS SECURING OUR PROCESSES TO KEEP OUR CUSTOMERS’ TRUST 22 CSR REPORT 2017 OUR KEY OUR COMMITMENTS RESULTS Integrating eco-design into 20% our R&D projects of projects dedicated to eco-design Continuing the deployment 94% of our quality management of sites are now system ISO 9001: 2015 Progressing with our 74% stakeholders overall customer satisfaction rate Securing our processes 100% and our IT systems of our sites covered by the requirements of ISO 27001 (managing IT security systems) 23 CSR REPORT 2017 Aurélia Harti, Head of Quality and CSR THE INTEGRATION OF CSR PRINCIPLES INTO OUR BUSINESS MODEL ••Laying down CSR principles would SUPPORTS OUR OVERALL make no sense if our operating model PERFORMANCE was not in line with them. Our quality system plays a major role: our quality procedures and our ethics and compliance measures transpose our CSR commitments into instructions known to all and whose implementation can be verified.•• 24 CSR REPORT 2017 PROMOTING SUSTAINABLE INNOVATION GOVERNANCE 2017 R&D budget (internal and with customers): OF INNOVATION €35 million Our innovation approach stretches from the identification Number of engineers having of market needs, to calls for tenders and the management worked on R&D projects: of projects. An Innovation Committee holds meetings several times a 500 year. It is chaired by the Group’s Innovation Manager, and FTE employees involves the Technical Managers, Business Development representatives and the Chief Technology Officer. Percentage of 2017 projects This Committee selects the most relevant projects and devoted to eco-design: supports their development in order to include them in the 20% Company’s portfolio. A network of regional Innovation Managers is charged of Number of active rolling out this proactive strategy at the local level, partnerships with external stimulating productivity, ensuring the progress of the projects institutions: under way, and developing the ecosystem with external 20 service providers. INNOVATION AND ECO-RESPONSIBILITY Through greener aircraft components, less polluting transport modes, and processes to save natural resources, we contribute, alongside our ••There is no general legal obligation customers, to the emergence of a more planet-friendly model. In order to regarding eco-design, but the dwindling promote a more responsible economy, our teams work on the design of of natural resources, climate change and new processes, the improvement of existing techniques, the creation of new services, and the development of new uses. biodiversity concerns are pushing manufacturers, and businesses in general, The goal of Assystem Technologies’ innovation division is twofold: to take measures concerning those issues. We have placed those major challenges FOR OUR CUSTOMERS at the heart of our R&D approach.•• • Seize digital transformation opportunities and reduce the corporate Ygal Levy, VP Strategy & Innovation footprint of development projects by identifying and managing promising technologies and deploying eco-responsible solutions. WITHIN THE COMPANY • Improve our socio-environmental performance (e.g. by reducing greenhouse gas emissions). •D  evelop collective efficiency, internal cohesion, and a sense of belonging within the Company. 25 CSR REPORT 2017 OUR R&D FOCUSES IN THE FIELD OF ECO-DESIGN While Assystem Technologies’ customers do not always demand specific environmental solutions, good practices are becoming the norm. Assystem Technologies’ teams are making every effort to offer services that support customers’ environmental policies. These services include solutions to: A FEW EXAMPLES OF OUR • reduce their carbon footprint; •e  nsure compliance with regulatory provisions, ACHIEVEMENTS in particular concerning chemicals; • promote the eco-design of their products and services; • reduce management costs through life cycle analyses In 2017, we strengthened our eco-design strategy and our (LCAs). environmental policy through projects such as the following: AERONAUTICS • Development of a propulsion system for an autonomous electric aeroplane. The work focused on the overall architecture, the optimisation of the weight of the motor and inverters, and certification. • Mechanical dimensioning of a turbine for a project involving an innovative turboprop with a very high dilution level. • Study and characterisation of new products complying with the REACH standard applicable to chemicals involving health risks. •O  ur areas of expertise: e-mobility, system architecture for aircraft motors, knowledge of environmental standards. AUTOMOTIVE • P roduction of an electronic power system for an e-motorbike, and optimisation of dimensions, weight and costs. ASSYSTEM TECHNOLOGIES IS PARTICIPATING • Optimisation of internal combustion engine architecture IN A LARGE-CAPACITY AIRSHIP PROJECT in cars to reduce pollutant emissions. • Our areas of expertise: e-mobility, internal combustion Assystem Technologies is participating in the design and manufacturing of engine architecture. a large-capacity airship developed by Flying Whales. This is one of today’s most revolutionary aeronautic projects, in terms of both concept and construction. This over-sized airship is capable of transporting heavy loads to places where there are no roads or which are difficult to access. The project secured private and public funding in 2016 and 2017. Capable of transporting up to 60 tonnes of goods in its holds, this giant hotair balloon is the size of a 12-storey building and is 150 metres long (i.e. the equivalent of two A380 jumbo jets, or one and a half football pitches). One of the project’s major challenges has been to design the simplest possible assembly system and limit the amount of work carried out at great heights in order to comply with the customer’s safety and cost requirements. The stereolithographic approach put forward by Assystem Technologies was one of the chosen solutions. Production will be launched in 2022 through two assembly lines based in France and China. 26 CSR REPORT 2017 A STIMULATING ECOSYSTEM Our innovation approach is backed by an extensive ecosystem of research centres, institutions, universities and technology suppliers, with whom we work closely. OPEN INNOVATION DEVELOPMENT PROCESS ASSYSTEM TECHNOLOGIES PRIVATE/PUBLIC SOLUTION FUNDING FUTURE USER LABORATORY SOLUTION USER KNOWLEDGE AND INNOVATION COMMUNITY TECHNOLOGY UNIVERSITY PROVIDER INTEGRATOR CLUSTERS/STATE ALLIANCE/IRT/ COMPETITIVENESS POLE… MOBILIS: A RESPONSIBLE MOBILITY PROJECT Mobilis is an individual autonomous urban transport project for motorised pedestrians , with a carbon and noise footprint that is practically nil. The vehicle may be used on demand from the user's home, or for commuting from the train station to the workplace. This innovative project, whose design is being finalised, could also appeal to local authorities to enable them to offer a new mode of flexible, eco-friendly transport. 27 CSR REPORT 2017 USING QUALITY MANAGEMENT TO BOOST GLOBAL PERFORMANCE O ur global quality management approach promotes cooperation between countries. It also simplifies international coordination and ensures operational consistency and regulatory compliance, thus improving customer satisfaction. It enhances our standing as a reliable partner. The global system rolled out within the Group guarantees quality of service to all our customers. It creates synergies, transparency, and shared understanding of our processes and their workings, both in-house and with our customers. In this regard, in 2017, we aligned our quality systems in France, Romania and Spain. In 2018, we want to continue the deployment of this system and its convergence between countries. The goal is to achieve the same standard and processes, and ensure ongoing compliance with our customers' requirements and applicable norms. •• The implementation of a QualitySafety-Environment (QSE) management system is an objective shared by all Group entities. Our certification approach implies compliance with our customers' requirements and with applicable regulations, while managing the continuous improvement process.•• Aurélia Harti, Head of Quality and CSR 28 CSR REPORT 2017 PROGRESSING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS WITH OUR CLIENTS: AN ANNUAL SATISFACTION SURVEY Every year, Assystem Technologies conducts an in-depth international satisfaction survey via an external partner. This survey supplements the observations made by our employees and managers in daily •• Ongoing dialogue with contact with our partners in their workplaces. This satisfaction survey external stakeholders is essential enables us to gauge, at a given moment, across all our activities, for the success of the projects and our partners' view of the quality of the services provided and the sustainability of the Company's relationships maintained. This tool also makes it possible to detect activities. •• emerging trends and needs in order to improve our service offering. Patrick Anglard Chief Technology Officer The survey covers six major themes: quality of customer relations, business proposals, project management, quality of the services provided, pro-activity of teams, and flexibility of services. In 2017, 461 responses were collected via the internet or through telephone interviews. TO SUMMARIZE, TOGETHER ALL ASPECTS, WOULD YOU RECOMMEND ASSYSTEM TO A WHAT IS YOUR GLOBAL LEVEL OF SATISFACTION COLLEAGUE OR TO A BUSINESS CONTACT? TOWARDS ASSYSTEM? Very satisfied: 19% Yes certainly: 39% Satisfied: 55% Rather Yes: 37% Partially satisfied: 19% Neutral: 14% Unsatisfied: 6% Rather not: 8% very unsatisfied: 1% Absolutely not: 2% Do not know Do not know In 2017, we obtained an overall satisfaction rate of 74%. The overall recommendation rate, estimated at 76% for 2017, places us 15 points above the Net Promoter Only 7% of customers stated that they were totally Score (NSP), i.e. 10% higher than the sector average. unsatisfied. All of those customers are being individually followed up in order to implement the required improvement measures. 29 CSR REPORT 2017 WITH ENGINEERING SCHOOLS: CONTINUING OUR STRATEGIC PARTNERSHIPS Every year, 25% of Assystem Technologies' new hires consist of young graduates. In this regard, we have longterm partnerships with a number of training institutions. A FEW EXAMPLES: We have signed an educational support agreement with the INSA Toulouse foundation. It consists in offering internship, apprenticeship and employment contracts, and also involves talks by experts at INSA, participation in business forums, and the sponsoring of INSA's sport association. We are also a member of the Polytech network and are one of the very first companies to have signed their charter, which provides concrete guidelines to align the practices of the network's 16 member schools in terms of organisation, education and collaboration. The objective is both to guarantee the quality of the engineering curricula and to promote the successful professional integration of the students. The ties built between Assystem Technologies and the network – through numerous initiatives conducted in the engineering schools of Paris-Sud, Lille, Tours and WITH SUPPLIERS: Grenoble – underpin this partnership. PROMOTING RESPECT FOR The partnership is continuing in 2018 with the set-up of HUMAN RIGHTS ACROSS OUR new agreements and the development of initiatives – such ENTIRE VALUE CHAIN as innovation challenges – with other schools throughout France. Assystem Technologies asks its subcontractors and service providers to contractually commit to fully respecting the Other actions have been initiated to incite young graduates following rules and ensuring their implementation: to join the Company: • internship offers on student recruitment portals; Abstaining from using child labour or any other of forced • participation in student forums, school events and fairs; or compulsory labour, in compliance with International • organising of events for young graduates. Labour Organisation standards; Abstaining from any form of discrimination within the Company or with subcontractors; Ensuring the safety of employees and third parties; •• It is primordial for Assystem Technologies to ensure that our Employing people in compliance with applicable laws and procurement policy and processes regulations; are exemplary in terms of ethics Respecting the environment in the design of products, their and compliance, and that they keep manufacturing, use, disposal or recycling, and minimising pace with constantly changing negative impacts on the environment, in accordance with regulations. •• all applicable national and European environmental Michel Gilbert regulations and public health laws. Head of Intellectual Services Procurement 30 CSR REPORT 2017 ENABLING OUR EMPLOYEES TO ENGAGE IN SOCIETAL PROJECTS In 2017, we renewed our partnership with Clinatec, a cutting-edge research centre which designs innovative biomedical devices for the medicine of the future. We are participating in the co-development of a brain-machine interface project. Its end-goal is to give mobility to persons with severe motor disabilities through an exoskeleton controlled by their brain via an implant. Our support consists in skillbased sponsorship. Some ten Assystem Technologies engineers have joined Clinatec's research team to work on this project. GLOBAL COMPACT Assystem Technologies has been a signatory to the UN Global Compact since 2011. The Company is committed to complying with the Global Compact's ten key principles, which notably concern labour rights, human rights, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption. With over 13,000 signatories across 170 countries, the Global Compact is the most important international initiative for voluntary commitment to sustainable development. It encourages organisations to anticipate the impact of their activities over the long term and incites them to improve their CSR approach by establishing a culture of responsibility, both in their strategy and in their operations, and by setting up action plans. 31 CSR REPORT 2017 SECURING OUR PROCESSES TO KEEP OUR CUSTOMERS' TRUST T he protection of our IT system is crucial to the Company's continued ability to maintain and develop its activities, support its teams in the performance of their tasks, and keep the trust of our partners and customers. •• The projects and services we conduct Data safety and reliability require solid IT management. This for our customers are mainly based on involves: data that belongs to them or requires • security management; • the defining of an IT security policy; access to their IT systems. It is absolutely • the control of security rules and requirements; essential to assure them that this data • business continuity and recovery processes. and their systems are protected from cyber attacks and data theft. We thus use Our management of IT security complies with ISO 27001 the greatest care in defining and putting requirements; the security rules and related directives are laid down in a set of reference documents including a security policy and an in place cyber-security policies and IT charter. The aim of this charter is to define the rules applicable solutions. •• to the use of our IT facilities and to set out the responsibilities of Christophe Cassaz users. Chief Information Officer Our cyber-security system is regularly audited by our customers, in particular in the aeronautics and defence sectors – which require additional measures to those of ISO 27001. COMPLIANCE WITH THE NEW GDPR REGULATION Assystem Technologies sees to the implementation of applicable legal and regulatory provisions regarding confidentiality, the protection of persons and the protection of intellectual and industrial property. The processing of data likely to contain personal information requires prior compliance with legal formalities. The Company has fulfilled all of its obligations under the EU's new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), in force from 25 May 2018. The IT Department, along with the Legal Department and the Company's data protection experts, are all on deck. 32 CSR REPORT 2017 2017 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The table below shows the Group's main Key Performance Indicators, as well as the results of an ESG (Enterprise-Social-Governance) audit conducted by INDEFI. This audit is supplemented with improvement plans to ensure progress under a continuous improvement process. PERFORMANCE AUDIT AREA INDEFI ESG 2017 INDICATOR Percentage of certified sites Certifications V AA 94% (ISO 9001: 2015) Overall customer Customers V A 74% satisfaction rate A Security Percentage of ISO 27001 RESPONSIBLE V AAA 100% of IT Systems requirements covered PLAYER Performance of suppliers Support V BBB 74% assessed Total burden of assessed Suppliers V BBB 77.2% expenses 33 CSR REPORT 2017 CONTROLLING OUR IMPACT ON THE ENVIRONMENT LIMITING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT REDUCING OUR WASTE 34 CSR REPORT 2017 OUR KEY OUR COMMITMENTS RESULTS Limiting our carbon Carbon footprint per employee: footprint 0.83% (down 4.6% year-on-year) Promoting sustainable 30 shared vehicles in France, mobility of which 23% are electric vehicles Reducing our waste Waste-sorting bins in 33% of our surface area 35 CSR REPORT 2017 Patrick Anglard Chief Technology Officer THE MANAGEMENT OF THE ECOLOGICAL •• Assystem Technologies' environFOOTPRINT mental policy is based on prevention OF SERVICES AND and the control of the risks associated ENGINEERING ACTIVITIES with our activities, with the dual objective of reducing the ecological HAS BECOME AN footprint of the Group, and reducing ECONOMIC ISSUE that of the customers we partner. In-house, this policy translates as the measurement of impacts and the optimisation of the Company's ecological and energy footprint, in particular through the reduction of energy and raw material consumption and the control of greenhouse gas emissions. In this regard, we implement an active policy of sustainable mobility and streamlining of employee travel. •• 36 CSR REPORT 2017 LIMITING OUR CARBON FOOTPRINT A ssystem Technologies' environmental impact is relatively low due to the intellectual nature of our services. In 2017, our greenhouse gas emissions amounted to 3,959 tonnes of CO2. Employee travel (car, train and plane) generates 91% of these emissions, while the energy consumption of our offices (electricity and gas) comes far behind. •• Over the past few years, we have The objective set by Assystem Technologies in 2015 – to reduce its GHG emissions by 5% in 4 years – was thus translated into action been implementing an ambitious plans focused on business travel. Between 2015 and 2017, policy to reduce our greenhouse gas greenhouse gas emissions were reduced by 11% per person, per emissions by offering our teams year, in France. alternative mobility solutions and raising their awareness of the Sustainable mobility is therefore one of the major avenues to reduce our carbon footprint. The solutions deployed in France in 2017 importance of eco-driving. This policy include recommending travel by train rather than by plane for also involves taking into account the journeys of less than 3 hours, as well as the gradual set-up of a energy efficiency of infrastructures green fleet, and the development of car sharing. when we select new premises, as well as promoting good practices in our offices. We are very proud of the progress achieved. •• Laetitia Deffains Head of Procurement, Mobility and Real Estate BREAKDOWN OF GLOBAL EMISSIONS IN 2016 Natural gas: 4% Long-term vehicle fleet: 39% Electricity: 6% Short-term car rental & Mileage allowance: 23% Plane travel: 28% Train travel 37 CSR REPORT 2017 PROMOTING CLEAN TRAVEL Assystem Technologies has developed tools and initiatives to promote sustainable mobility and reduce its CO2 emissions. TRAVEL POLICY In France, employee business trips are governed by a travel policy. This document reminds employees that travel alternatives, such as conference calls and videoconferencing, should be the preferred choice. It describes and lays down the conditions under which business trips may take place: • train travel is mandatory for any journey of less than three hours; • domestic flights and medium-haul flights in economy class; REMOTE MEETING SOLUTIONS • choice of hotels near customer sites or branch offices; We are continuing to promote the use of collaborative tools • to get to train stations and airports, preference should and videoconferencing in order to limit employee travel. be given to chauffeur-driven vehicles, preferably hybrid or electric; • for short-term car rental, opting for partners who comply CAR-POOLING AND CAR-SHARING with the Euro 6 standard. For all French sites of a significant size, travel optimisation plans have been defined, often in partnership with local authorities. The objective is to encourage intra-company LOW-CARBON FLEET POLICY and inter-company car-pooling or car-sharing. Employees Assystem Technologies has adopted more stringent who want to use this solution must register beforehand on requirements regarding the characteristics of the vehicles a dedicated platform. Specially reserved parking spaces in its car fleet. The vehicles listed must comply with the and electric-vehicle charging terminals are available. engine specifications of the Euro 6 standards. We have laid down a CO 2 emissions ceiling in order to help The set-up of car-sharing solutions has the following employees choose less polluting vehicles. Electric and benefits: hybrid alternatives are proposed in all company car • it promotes the use of public transport by employees categories. since they have vehicles at their disposal on their work sites for business travel; • it supports the Company's sustainable development policy (reduction of GHG emissions, increased use of hybrid or electric vehicles, etc.). In 2017, 30 vehicles were available on a car-sharing basis at the Saint Quentin and Toulouse premises. Out of these vehicles, 23% were electric. Assystem Technologies also offers a car-pooling solution via the Karos, IDVroom and Speed Meeting apps in Toulouse and Ile de France. 38 CSR REPORT 2017 TRAINING IN ECO-DRIVING AND TRAFFIC RISKS Eco-driving is an effective, easy-to-implement measure which reduces fuel consumption and CO2 emissions by 5 to 15%, while improving passenger comfort and safety. This measure also reduces vehicle wear and maintenance costs. Courses on eco-driving techniques and traffic risks have been provided to high-mileage drivers and to employees having been found responsible for an accident over the past year. The half-day training session comprises 25% theory and 75% practice (driving). In 2017, 21 training sessions were provided across 5 sites in France. OBILITE R O P E E N NEDELAueMntin-en-Yvelines EU SEMAINE19 SEPTEMBRE 2017 – Sa int-Q ME PROGRAM RAISING EMPLOYEE AWARENESS ON SUSTAINABLE MOBILITY Every year, Assystem Technologies takes part in European Mobility Week, organised by the European Commission. This year, our branch at Saint Quentin en Yvelines joined forces with Saipem to hold an awareness-raising day. The objective was to inform employees on traffic risks and new forms of mobility through specific initiatives and workshops, including the following: • sustainable mobility: test-driving of electric and hybrid cars, a carpooling speed-meeting, multimodal calculators and an eco comparator; • road safety and environment: driving simulators (motorbike and car), an interactive quiz, points-based driving licences and a tyre S.A. demonstration. ET SAIPEM ASSYSTEM POUR VOUS T S’ASSOCIEN UVRIR UNE FAIRE DECO RE, PARTAGEE OP MOBILITE PR LLIGENTE! ET INTE REDUCING THE ENERGY FOOTPRINT OF BUILDINGS The Company takes specific measures to improve the energy performance of its infrastructures, thus combining economic, social and environmental criteria. When choosing new office premises, it looks for low-consumption buildings and strives to reduce occupied surface areas for a constant number of employees. For new sites, the policy is to give preference to low-energy buildings that comply with the latest environmental standards and are equipped with more efficient control systems such as CVC smart meters. In 2017, the Group entered into an agreement on a building renovation project, due to be completed in 2019, for the Saint Quentin en Yvelines site. Once renovated, the building will be HQE, Breeam and LEED certified. The project will impact around 1,200 employees. 39 CSR REPORT 2017 REDUCING OUR WASTE I Initiatives are conducted on numerous sites to raise employee awareness on good habits to adopt on a daily basis, including the following: • Printers: secure printing to avoid unnecessary print-outs; • Office waste: waste-sorting measures introduced at certain sites, involving the removal of individual bins in favour of centralised waste-sorting containers; • Plastic cups: employees are encouraged to use their own cups instead of plastic cups; • Ordinary industrial waste: collection and recycling of toner cartridges; • Paper recycling through a partnership; • Waste-sorting bins outside company restaurants. 40 CSR REPORT 2017 2017 KEY PERFORMANCE INDICATORS The table below shows the Group's main Key Performance Indicators, as well as the results of an ESG (Enterprise-Social-Governance) audit conducted by INDEFI. This audit is supplemented with improvement plans to ensure progress under a continuous improvement process. PERFORMANCE AUDIT AREA INDEFI ESG 2017 INDICATOR Electricity consumption V A 3,959,714 Consumption of (in kWh) resources Energy efficiency of buildings V BBB 0.68 (in GJ per m2) MANAGING Carbon footprint per employee V A 0.83 OUR (tonne CO2 per employee) ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Carbon Carbon footprint in relation emissions to revenue V AA 9.40 (tonne CO2 per €million in revenue) Percentage of electric vehicles V A 23% in the car-sharing fleet 41 Design: bearideas | Photo credit: © Getty Images, © Flying Whales, © Clinatec 70, boulevard de Courcelles 75017 Paris Tel.: +33(0)1 55 65 03 00 Fax.: +33(0)1 55 65 40 49 Mail: comtechnologies@assystemtechnologies.com
