2019 UN GLOBAL COMPACT communication on progress. MEMBER SINCE 2012 TABLE OF CONTENTS Letter of Support. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 Vision . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Human Rights. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 Labor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11 Environmental Policy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 13 Anti-Corruption . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 15 Who We Are . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Team Principles. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19 Global Strategies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21 What We Do . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23 Growing Partnerships. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29 Key Strategies. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 Miyamoto Global Disaster Relief. . . . . . . . . . 33 Media. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 3 LETTER OF SUPPORT LETTER OF SUPPORT Human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption are all global issues that need to be addressed—not only on paper, but through action. Reviewing the UN Global Compact Ten Principles, I believe that each of these ideals is lived daily in our firm, where our mission statement is to “make the world a better, safer place.” As an earthquake and structural engineer who has traveled to dozens of natural-disaster-stricken countries around the globe, including to Nepal, Mexico City and Indonesia in recent years, I have seen firsthand the vital importance of upholding these principles—and the dangers of ignoring them. I have witnessed the destruction of human life due to structural failures that could easily have been prevented. With these Ten Principles in mind, Miyamoto International undertakes initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility and encourages the development of environmentally friendly technologies. The quality of human life around the globe can be improved by engineering safe communities and using the best technologies available to improve our built environments. Miyamoto International fully supports the Ten Principles of the Global Compact and would like to join in your efforts to not only increase awareness of these vital global challenges, but implement change through the projects that we pursue and the partnerships that we build. Miyamoto will gladly share the Ten Principles with our sphere of influence, including partners, clients, and professional colleagues. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles part of our strategy, culture, and daily operations, as well as engaging in collaborative partnerships and projects that will advance the broader goals of the United Nations, particularly the Millennium Development Goals in eradicating poverty. We are willing to make a declaration statement to our stakeholders and the general public of our commitment to join forces with the UN to advance and implement these principles and goals. In closing, we are pleased to fully support the Ten Principles, and look forward to partnering with you to make the world a better, safer place. Sincerely, H. Kit Miyamoto, Ph.D.,S.E. President and CEO Miyamoto International Earthquake + Structural Engineers 5 make the world a better, safer place. MISSION MISSION | VISION STATEMENT Make the world a better, safer place. VISION Be the undisputed global leader in earthquake strategies, high-performance engineering and project management. Take bold actions to fortify business, enrich communities and safeguard humanity. Positively impact society as a 1,000-person firm by 2025 with business units strategically positioned around the globe. 7 we work to provide safety and shelter to people when they need it most. 2015 Nepal Earthquake HUMAN RIGHTS HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Miyamoto International is a global earthquake and structural engineering firm that provides critical services to help sustain industries and communities around the world. Our passion to make the world a better, safer place has taken us to the epicenters of some of history’s largest natural disasters. From these disasters, we have gained valuable knowledge, which we bring to all our projects. Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Miyamoto International respects and upholds the protection of international human rights as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. 9 2015 Nepal Earthquake LABOR LABOR Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Miyamoto International recognizes and respects employees right to freely and voluntarily establish and join organizations of their own choice, while recognizing the right of the employer’s freedom of expression that does not unlawfully interfere with that right. Miyamoto supports employers that adopt non-discriminatory policies that support the employee’s right of association and to lawfully elect to be governed by collective bargaining, as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions, and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will strive to make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. Principle 4: Businesses should uphold the elimination of forced or compulsory labor. Miyamoto International respects and supports the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions, and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will strive to make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. Principle 5: Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labor. Miyamoto International respects and supports the effective abolition of child labor as set out in the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization’s Fundamental Conventions and the Global Compact. Miyamoto will strive to make this a criterion in the selection and management of its suppliers and contractors. Principle 6: Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Miyamoto International is an equal opportunity employer and does not discriminate against otherwise qualified applicants on the basis of race, color, creed, religion, ancestry, age, sex, marital status, sexual preference, national origin, disability or handicap, or veteran status. 11 Green Building We will continue to use our LEED® project expertise to design durable and functional buildings using renewable material resources. We will offer sustainable options and specify the resource reuse content for a variety of available structural materials. We will make full use of our extensive experience in evaluating and rehabilitating existing structures, maximizing the reuse of existing building shells. We will further our research and development for green products, LEED® certified and net-zero structures. Communication We will communicate our policy commitments to our sphere of influence. We will measure and review our progress on an annual basis, and continue to seek out opportunities to improve our principles and environmental performance. ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY ENVIRONMENTAL POLICY Miyamoto International is committed to preserving our environment. Our company mission statement to make the world better means that we engineer sustainable built environments around the globe, making this practice an integral part of our daily business operations. In particular, it is our policy to uphold health, safety and environmental integrity in our business methods at all times. We will do so by adhering to the following principles: Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. We will comply with all applicable laws and regulations. We will implement programs and procedures to ensure compliance. Compliance with health, safety and environmental standards will be a key factor in program implementation, training, and reaching our goals to achieve sustainable built environments around the world. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility We will seek opportunities beyond regulatory compliance requirements to reduce risk to human health and the environment. We will employ management systems and procedures, such as disaster mitigation, to mitigate danger from structural failures that poses a threat. We will respond to emergency disasters, and seek out opportunities to rebuild sustainable communities in the event of a disaster. We will look for ways to minimize risk to our own employees and to the communities in which we operate by seeking out and employing the latest sustainable technologies and engineering methods available. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. We will leverage existing and cutting-edge technologies to provide alternative, innovative, solutions to structural challenges. We will partner with building systems experts on research and design to test and develop new innovations. We commit to seeking out seismic technologies and implementing them into our projects, creating safe, more disaster resilient communities, minimizing our global footprint, and maintaining environmental integrity. 13 our vision is to use the best practices in the world to provide effective financial management. ANTI-CORRUPTION ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. Miyamoto International prides itself on its commitment to make the world a better, safer place. This commitment builds on the values of our company and our employees. We pride ourselves on our integrity and we do not permit the misuse of entrusted authority for private gain or any other forms of corruption in any setting or on any level based on foreign jurisdiction laws and regulations or those governed by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. Miyamoto International has a zero-tolerance policy and reserves the right to investigate, document and pursue any necessary legal action for corrupt acts carried out by any of its trustees, officers, staff, associates or stakeholders. Miyamoto International strives to continually improve its financial and administrative systems, policies, and procedures to ensure transparency, accountability and compliance with applicable laws, rules, and regulations. 15 WHO WE ARE For us, an exemplary leader is someone who helps others achieve their personal best by finding common ground between group and individual goals. We believe that a group performs best when its goals bring out the best from each member. Our staff members’ primary responsibility is to serve our clients. Our leaders serve the staff and make everyone’s job easier. Each leader works to position staff members to maximize their strengths. We give our staff the freedom to do their best work and enhance our process as a collaborative organization. Visit us online to view our complete list of leadership profiles Chief Executive Officer H. Kit Miyamoto, PhD, SE, is the CEO and a structural engineer for Miyamoto International, Global Risk Miyamoto and a nonprofit organization, Miyamoto Relief; he also is a California Seismic Safety Commissioner. Under his leadership, more than 15,000 projects have been successfully completed worldwide. Known for innovative engineering, Kit Miyamoto has worked on many challenging projects that received industry recognition, including the Structural Engineers Association of California (SEAOC) Excellence in Structural Engineering Award. View Full Biography leadership matters. People Development As Principal, People Development WHO WE ARE (Human Resources), Lana Anest focuses on Miyamoto International’s biggest asset, its people. Her mission is to attract, develop and retain outstanding talent for Miyamoto, providing them with the knowledge and work environment to perform at their best. With over 20 years of experience in multiple industries both domestically and internationally, Lana leads Miyamoto’s overall human resource strategy. Finance Sam is a leader versed in addressing the challenges of ‘globalizing’ firms. He is a CPA and holds a B.A. in both business accounting and economics from California State, Fullerton. As a member of the California Board of Accountancy and an executive board member of the Association for Corporate Growth, Sam is recognized by his industry peers as a financial visionary. Communications + Marketing As Communications and Marketing Director, Diana Erwin oversees all corporate communications, branding, marketing and messaging. Her background is in journalism, filmmaking, public relations and marketing; numerous awards include a Pulitzer Prize. At Miyamoto, her mission is to create goodwill and understanding of our mission by telling our unique story in engaging, passionate ways. These stories capture the essence of the visionary people working at and with Miyamoto, all of them striving to make the world a better, safer place. 17 TEAM PRINCIPLES TEAM PRINCIPLES Collaborative teamwork at all times. Prompt, honest and direct communication with a passion for the Miyamoto mission is expected from each staff member. We focus on and maximize each staff member’s strengths. We do not have rigid job descriptions or positions because each of us is unique and each of us has something special to contribute to our mission. We work as an integrated team of specialists. No unnecessary management layers or titles. We eliminate any unnecessary bureaucratic paperwork. Leaders exist to serve others. Leaders serve the staff and make everyone’s job easier by removing roadblocks and building an effective team environment. All staff members are expected to enhance what we do. We consider opinions from all levels of staff at any location and rigorous debate is expected. We continually learn and grow as leaders, team members and professionals. Each of us is responsible for his or her own professional growth plan. Corporate is not an executive group, it is a leadership group. Corporate is not an executive group; it’s a leadership group. The Corporate team exists to serve and provide leadership so staff and offices are successful. An open-source communication strategy is used. 19 2015 Metro Manila GLOBAL STRATEGIES GLOBAL STRATEGIES Through a shared mission, vision, processes, projects and staff, we inspire strategic collaboration among all Miyamoto offices and businesses. As a globally renowned earthquake + structural engineering and project management company, we continue to focus on achieving our mission: make the world a better, safer place. Establish a global practice: We provide a standard process and monitor for business functions: High-Performance Engineering, Production, People Development, Communication, Finance and IT. Deliver optimal quality through production standards and QA processes: We establish the quality of the Miyamoto brand, regardless of where projects are executed. Engineering processes and high-performance engineering tools are shared globally through providing standards and working through projects together. We share talent globally to utilize the best available resources, optimize the cost and schedule to deliver projects. People Development is critical: We build a global culture, apply best human resources practices, coordinate recruiting, provide legal protection and foster professional growth opportunities for our staff. Communicate the Miyamoto brand and provide unified and localized communication and marketing tools: The Communications team provides marketing tools and systems and monitors the development for each location to promote our brand. Provide financial system and benchmarks: The Finance team sets up the system and monitors for accrual and cash basis financial statements and projections for all locations, as well as standard financial metrics to use as benchmarks for assessing our performance. Use state-of-the-art IT system: We provide a strategic IT plan to each location to ensure the use of common tools to facilitate multi-office projects and enhance communications. 21 2015 Michelangelo’s Pietà Rondanini PROTECTING HISTORY FOR PROTECTING HISTORY FUTURE GENERATIONS Viewed as his final sculptural masterpiece, Michelangelo was working on the unfinished marble statue when he died in 1564. Miyamoto’s Milan office was charged with the engineering and design for the development of an isolated support for the statue to protect it from earthquakes and vibrations from an underground metro line that runs just below its location at the Ospedale Spagnolo of Castello Sforzesco. We immediately connected with this project, as it directly aligns with our goal of impacting economies. We understand the historic importance of this work-of-art and the need to preserve it for future generations. “It was exciting to work on a challenging project that required innovative solutions to preserve this masterpiece forever,” Devis Sonda said of the Pietà. Miyamoto designed the isolated support to protect the statue from overturning in a major earthquake. This technology essentially provides a roller between the statue and ground movement. The isolation devices are manufactured by THK of Japan. Miyamoto performed complex analyses and supervised laboratory testing of a replica to assess the effects of vibrations and earthquakes on the entire assembly. The isolated base of the statue was tested on a shake table using a copy of the statue before adding the real statue in April, in time for EXPO2015, the Universal Exhibition in Milan. Miyamoto was hired by the City of Milan, which owns the statue; Politecnic University of Milan was the scientific supervisor. The $2.1 million (euro) seismic retrofit of the Pietà was featured on Discovery Channel’s “Daily Planet” show in 2015 and won a “Best Global Project” award from the Engineering News Record in 2016. “I congratulate you for the excellent results rewarding your expertise in this unprecedented implementation of such sensitivity and importance for a museum. This was very complex and highly challenging, even for the level of responsibility that the Michelangelo Pietà project involved. We are proud to have worked with you and we feel rewarded by your international success.” -The City of Milan 23 QUITO, ECUADOR: IMPACTING COMMUNITIES EXCHANGING KNOWLEDGE IN TIMES OF DISASTER On April 16, 2016, a 7.8-magnitude earthquake struck 17 miles from the town of Pedernales in Ecuador. Days later we were on the ground helping in whatever ways were most beneficial. From Dr. Miyamoto’s journal: As the equatorial sun beats down on us, we drive quickly to the Command Center in Portoviejo, Ecuador, Ground Zero. We are a little late by 30 minutes, Latin America Standard Time. The young planning director we met yesterday is here, working hard already. Papers are scattered everywhere. It looks like a whole crew spent the night here. Disasters are always like that, everyone works around the clock, 7 days-a-week, pay or no pay. We are all motivated by a bigger mission: save lives, build back the community. As soon as he spots us, he spreads out a large map and we start working. A detailed damage assessment map and aerial maps from the drone we saw flying over us drape over the table. The buildings are marked in green (inspected), yellow (damaged, limited entry), red (dangerously damaged, do not enter) and black for the collapsed buildings. I pick three blocks and explain that our goal is to help them build capacity. He looks at me puzzled. “It doesn’t make sense for foreigners to do it alone,” I explain. “We don’t stay indefinitely. You can make a long-lasting impact.” He really likes this idea. I tell the second young man, a structural engineer assigned to oversee this process, that “this initially seems tedious, but it’s very important. Eliminating the large, 40-block Red Zone and creating smaller, more targeted Red Zones around dangerous buildings, and the affected buildings around them, will open the city and really facilitate redevelopment.” He begins to nod. “Your work is so critical,” I say, looking into his serious brown eyes. “The city’s future is in your hands. If you fail, the city fails. If you do right, you’re going to be a hero.” 25 A NEW STANDARD FOR SETTING THE STANDARD EARTHQUAKE-READY BUILDINGS The Burbank Airport is nearing completion of their Emergency Operations Center in the Los Angeles Basin, the Regional Intermodal Transportation Center (RITC). Upon completion, it will be one of the most prepared centers, ready to withstand a massive earthquake, such as the 6.7-magnitude quake that hit Northridge 20 years ago. The Burbank Airport Authority has set extraordinarily high goals for the seismic performance of the RITC in its secondary role as a key emergency-response facility. The building utilizes stateof-the-art seismic resilient technology designed to keep the building standing even after multiple quakes and tremors, which often happen when a major earthquake occurs. “In the event of a major earthquake, the airport will be the center of emergency response for Southern California,” said Dan Feger, the airport’s executive director. The facility’s design stands out for its commitment to seismic performance, said Dr. Kit Miyamoto of Miyamoto International, the high-performance structural engineering firm on the project. “This is why we exist,” Miyamoto said. “We want to make the world a better, safer place. We want to save lives. Our mission is so critical and the Burbank Airport is one of the great examples of it.” Miyamoto International used a “beyond code” approach to the transportation hub’s design rather than a “codeminimum” approach. The design incorporates more than 100 triple-pendulum bearing isolators that allow the structure to stay standing and remain operational, even after a very large earthquake. Officials from FEMA, CALIMA and the Los Angeles County Sheriff and City Fire departments toured the facility and understand its value as an emergency operations base. Its location is critical because, after an earthquake, airports are a lifeline for supplies, medical aid and volunteers. “What I would say to someone who’s contemplating performance-based design” over just doing the bare minimum of what the building code requires, Feger said, is ‘Go for it.’ This is a project of the future.” 27 Arch|Nexus Sacramento, CA A NEW STANDARD FOR PROTECT THE ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABLE ENGINEERING Architectural Nexus’ adaptive reuse of an existing building resulted in a newly renovated office building that tackles California’s energy and water crises head on with net zero energy and water consumption. The result is an extraordinary space showcasing the highest in sustainability standards. Once the 12-month performance period ends, the structure will be the first certified Living Building Challenge project in California. To date, only 11 such projects exist worldwide. Rainwater supplies all of the water needed and solar panels generate all energy on site. Waste is also locally composted. These elements embrace the firm’s core values of inspiration, stewardship and regeneration. Miyamoto was the expert structural consultant. The project was designed to be an inspiration for others to employ similar methods -an example of how a building can regenerate the environment and community while inspiring new design trends. Located on Sacramento’s historic R Street, the building is crafted of recycled wood and steel and locally sourced materials. Miyamoto is fully committed to projects that meet the highest sustainability standards. Other examples include: • 2600 Capitol Office Building Sacramento, CA, LEED Gold • University of California San Diego, East Campus Medical Office Building San Diego, CA LEED Silver • Dr. Mary McLeod Bethune, Exposition Park, Regional Branch Library Los Angeles, CA LEED Gold • Sutter Health, North Bay Regional Surgery Center Novato, CA LEED Gold • Los Angeles City College, Student Union Los Angeles, CA LEED Gold 29 we are working to create a network of global offices and companies that extensively support each other. 2010 Haiti Earthquake GROWING PARTNERSHIPS Our professional staff and consultants have responded to more than GROWING PARTNERSHIPS 100 earthquake and hurricane events over the past 30 years. We provide crucial post disaster activities, including structural safety assessment, damage assessment, damage data collection, retrieval of critical documents, debris management, human capacity building, establishment of assessment technical platforms and training programs, as well as development of reconstruction strategies. As a global leader in engineering, partnering with the World Bank, United Nations, USAID, and various NGOs, we continually respond to disasters to help restore safety. SELECTED GOVERNMENTS • United States Government • Government of Ecuador • Government of Haiti • Government of Romania • Government of Thailand (Royal Thai Government) • Government of Japan • Government of Nepal • Republic of Turkey • State of California GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS • Ministry of Public Works, Transportation and Communications (MTPTC) • Ministry of Transport, Construction and Tourism (Haiti) • Ministry of Culture, Tourism and Civil Aviation (Nepal) • Ministry of Education (Nepal, Ecuador) • United States Agency for International Development (USAID) • United Nations Office for Project Services (UNOPS) • United Nations AIDS Program (UNAIDS) • United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) • United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA) • United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) • United Nations Development Program (UNDP) NON-GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONS • Adoration Christian Centre • Aide Medicale Internationale • Caterpillar Foundation • Caritas Autriche • Clinton Bush Haiti Fund • Development Alternatives, Inc. (DAI) • European Commission Humanitarian Aid & Civil Protection (ECHO) • European Union • Japan Emergency Non-Governmental Organization (JEN) • Pan American Development Foundation (PADF) • World Bank 31 2012 Italy Earthquake KEY STRATEGIES KEY STRATEGIES Decentralize, coordinate and constantly evolve the company. Open new offices where disaster mitigation and reconstruction activities are required by partnering with local firms or individuals. Our presence makes the community a better, safer place. Focus on high-performance engineering. Deliver unique value that justifies the highest profitability, allowing us to continue our research into advanced technical solutions. Commit to building a powerful brand. A brand that is known worldwide, through high-quality staff; innovative public relations; and consistent application of the Miyamoto name, graphic image and approach. Be progressive, innovative and creative in the way that we lead our staff, work with strategic partners, and manage our company. Be one company. We use and share resources, our workforce and expertise from office locations for optimal quality and cost-effectiveness. Be committed to having fun, and being a positive influence on the world and the communities we serve. 33 save lives from disaster. GLOBAL DISASTER RELIEF “I know that repairing one school may not be a priority for large international organizations, but it is also true that the act of strengthening one school will create public awareness of the desperate condition of Haitian schools and promotes further action. Miyamoto Relief provides the strategic leadership necessary to save children’s lives.” – Dr. H. Kit Miyamoto, President After successfully completing the Lycée National de Cité Soleil school strengthening, which provided 1,500 students with a safer school, the non-profit Miyamoto Relief turned its attention to raising awareness and support for the Petion-Ville High School project in Haiti. The three-story structure rests atop columns, causing a potential structural risk to the building known as a “soft story.” In the case of an earthquake, the building will be at great risk of collapsing, putting the lives of thousands of students at risk as more than 4,000 students attend the school in shifts. Miyamoto Relief also works to save important and irreplaceable historic heritage structures, such as the Gaddi Baithak in Nepal, which was damaged in the 2015 earthquake. With funding from the U.S. Ambassadors Fund, Miyamoto Relief is repairing and strengthening the cultural icon for generations to come. To make a donation please visit our website: miyamotorelief.org DONATE NOW 35 “Earthquakes don’t kill people, buildings kill people.” Dr. H. Kit Miyamoto 2015 Nepal Earthquake MEDIA MEDIA NY Times: Nepal Earthquake Early Report Anderson Cooper of CNN Reports the Haiti With Andy Revkin Earthquake Featuring Miyamoto International CNN News: Another deadly quake Discovery Channel: Criterion Theater shakes Nepal gets Viscous Dampers New Zealand News 3 Reports On Discovery Channel: Saving the Pietà Miyamoto’s Evaluation of CBD Rondanini for generations to come. Demolition ABOUT Visit the links below to learn more about Miyamoto International, our culture, our work and our people. YouTube • Awards • In the News • Press Releases 37 miyamotointernational.com © Copyright 2017 Miyamoto International, Inc. Sacramento | San Francisco | San Jose | Los Angeles | Orange County | San Diego | Reno | Washington, D.C. Costa Rica | Colombia | Haiti | Liberia | Italy | Turkey | India | Nepal | Thailand | Japan | New Zealand
