— Dear Mr. Secretary-General, DA TE 10 A ugus t 2019 I respectfully write to reaffirm I.R. Consilium, LLC’s continued support of and commitment to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-corruption. — TO In this annual Communication on Progress, I am pleased to share some of H .E. Antóni o Gute rres the activities and initiatives that demonstrate our commitment to the Global Secre tary-Gene ral Compact and its principles, as well as the Sustainable Development Goals. Unite d Nati ons This promise is reflected in our business strategy, culture, and daily Ne w Y ork, NY 10017 operations, is written within our Code of Conduct, and is discussed at team Unite d States of Am erica meetings. We work to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles not only within our internal operations, but also within the projects and partnerships we undertake. — F ROM While there are numerous examples of how our work has furthered the aims Dr. I an Ralby of the Global Compact, as well as the Sustainable Development Goals, I am I .R. Cons ili um , LLC pleased to share a few with you: 10913 Park He ights A ve . Owi ngs Mi lls , M D 21117 With unparalleled sources, we have worked to draw international Unite d States of Am erica attention to the urgent matter of the Safer, a floating oil storage i mral by@i rconsi li um.com and offloading facility in the Red Sea, roughly 5 miles off the coast of Yemen. While the most visible work on this matter has come in the form of reports for the Atlantic Council on “Why the Massive Floating Bomb in the Red Sea Needs Urgent Attention” and “Gaming out the Disaster: What Could Go Wrong with the FSO Safer,” as well as through numerous media articles, much of our effort has been focused on working to get the information and insight into the hands of key actors who can help avert a potential environmental and humanitarian disaster. The impact of this situation on the marine environment (SDG 14), the livelihoods of coastal communities (SDGs 1 and 8), food security in the Red Sea (SDG 2), conflict from lack of clean water thanks to the destruction of desalination plants (SDG 6), escalation of the famine in Yemen (SDG 2), the already fragile regional context (SDG 16), and the wider life in the Red Sea region (SDG 15) would last decades if this matter is not resolved. We will continue to do all we can to prevent such a crisis. With deep relationships throughout Atlantic Africa, we have worked to advance the efforts of West and Central African States in securing, governing, and developing the maritime space of the wider Gulf of Guinea. In particular, we held a workshop in Sierra Leone that included participants from ten African states, four 10913 Park He ights A ve . Owi ngs Mi lls , M D 21117 Uni ted State s o f A me rica T : +1 410 935 1745 African multinational institutions, and three international organizations, along with private and public sponsors. The workshop focused on how technology could be used as a tool to enhance the efficiency and effectiveness of national, zonal, regional and inter-regional initiatives. A major focus of the event was both protection of the marine environment from illegal activities (SDG 14) and the law enforcement responsibilities of states in the region to counter crime in the maritime domain (SDG 16). With unique access to information and sources, we have been working to identify and expose illicit supply chains of different sorts, most notably illicit mining supply chains that are tied to widespread criminality, violence, and sanctions busting (SDGs 3, 6, 11, 13, 15 and 16). With the world’s leading credibility on the subject, we also continued our work in researching, reporting on, and advising on downstream oil theft and ways to combat illicit hydrocarbons activities (SDGs 7, 9, 11, 12 13 and 16). This includes preparing for the change in marine fuel regulations in January 2020. In addition to these examples, we have spoken and published extensively on matters as diverse as the blue economy, oil and fuel crimes, the “invisible supply chain,” the use of fishing vessels as platforms for criminal activity, effective use of technology for maritime security, governance and development, and general trends in maritime security. As proud contractors to the United Nations, we support the broader goals of the UN and the Global Compact specifically. We are honored to highlight our participation to the general public through our website and will continue to work to uphold and promote the Ten Principles. Please accept this annual report as a statement of our continued participation. We recognize and celebrate that in taking action implementing the Ten Principles and wider UN goals, we contribute to a safer, more secure, more peaceful, and more prosperous world. Respectfully yours, ___________________ Dr. Ian M. Ralby CEO, I.R. Consilium, LLC 10913 Park He ights A ve . Owi ngs Mi lls , M D 21117 Uni ted State s o f A me rica T : +1 410 935 1745
