UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 www.netafim.com Netafim Ltd. Communication on Progress UNGC 2018 2 CONTENTS MESSAGE FROM OUR PRESIDENT AND CEO .............................................................. 3 ABOUT NETAFIM ............................................................................................................. 4 OUR SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY ................................................................................ 6 SUPPORTING THE SDGS ................................................................................................ 8 ADVANCING THE 10 PRINCIPLES .................................................................................. 9 Protecting human rights ................................................................................................................... 9 Investing in our communities ........................................................................................................ 11 Upholding labor rights .................................................................................................................... 13 Environmental stewardship ........................................................................................................... 15 Eliminating corruption .................................................................................................................... 16 CEO WATER MANDATE ................................................................................................ 17 ABOUT THIS REPORT ................................................................................................... 18 Farmers using our smart irrigation solutions achieve up to 50%-100% increase in income and up to 40% reduction in production costs, turning economic stress into sustainable opportunity. Netafim Ltd. Communication on Progress UNGC 2018 3 Message from our President and CEO It gives me great pleasure to introduce our annual Communication on Progress, representing our commitment to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and to the CEO Water Mandate. We are pleased to confirm our ongoing support for conducting business in a way that positively benefits society and the environment. Today, there can be no doubt about the benefits of precision irrigation in improving agricultural yields and quality and supporting farmer livelihoods while minimizing use of water, land and other resources. Our solutions have been making a difference for more than 50 years; we continue to innovate to deliver even higher precision in our irrigation solutions, utilizing our advanced dynamic crop models and real-time decision-making, to provide farmers with better analysis, monitoring and control capabilities, for different crops in all types of climatic and cultivation conditions.. As the leading global business in precision irrigation, supported by the worldwide network and capabilities of Mexichem, our majority shareholder, we are proud to play a significant role in improving sustainable prosperity, in perfect alignment with the aspirational Sustainable Development Goals of the United Nations. As we advance precision irrigation, being a responsible, ethical and transparent business is always at the forefront of our decision making. We uphold the UNGC’s Ten Principles of Responsible Business and publicly report on our progress through a full Sustainability Report, prepared in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards every two years and a Communication on Progress in the interim years. In this 2018 update, we present our progress versus our 2020 Sustainability Strategy, our alignment with the UN Sustainable Development Goals and key performance in other areas. Thank you for your interest in this report. We welcome your feedback. In the meantime, we continue to expand our business to deliver the benefits of precision irrigation to more farmers and communities around the world and continue to drive continuous improvement in adherence to responsible standards and practices. Sincerely, Ran Maidan President and Chief Executive Officer Netafim Ltd. Communication on Progress UNGC 2018 4 About Netafim Netafim is the global leader in drip irrigation for a sustainable future. Our solutions advance sustainable productivity by enabling growers to cost efficiently produce better and higher yields, while using fewer of the world’s limited resources – water, land and energy. We are dedicated to helping our customers achieve their goals by growing more with less using state of the art technology and agronomic expertise. Netafim Ltd is a private company, headquartered in Tel Aviv, Israel. In 2017, 80% of Netafim shares were purchased by Mexichem, the global leader in water conduction solutions for building and infrastructure, the leader in the data conduction market in the U.S., the global leader in the production of specialty resins, one of the global top ten PVC producers, and the owner of the biggest fluorspar reserve globally. Mexichem shares are publicly traded as part of the S&P/BMV Sustainable Index in the Mexican Stock Market. The remaining 20% of Netafim shares are held by Kibbutz Hatzerim (Israel), one of Netafim’s founding organizations. Netafim Ltd. Communication on Progress UNGC 2018 5 Our Footprint 4,300 17 29 110 employees in our factories in commercial countries served total workforce 13 countries subsidiaries with our products To date, we’ve irrigated over ten million hectares of land and produced over 150 billion drippers for more than two million ambitious farmers. Our Backbone Purpose Helping the world grow more with less Vision As the world’s leading irrigation company, we will drive mass adoption of smart irrigation solutions to fight scarcity of food, water and land. Together with our partners, we will revolutionize irrigation globally for a Mission sustainable future. We will drive mass adoption of innovative, simple and reliable drip irrigation solutions. Our teams around the world will provide customers with the best agronomic and technical support to ensure outstanding results and peace of mind. Dare Values Make it Happen Create an Impact Partner for Success Our Products Agriculture We offer drip irrigation solutions that are suitable for a broad range of crops, and support growers from the planning phase to crop management and harvest. Our products incorporate advanced water management practices and technologies for enhanced landscape irrigation, providing the basis for Landscape water conservation and recycling solutions while improving city and residential landscape planning. We offer comprehensive solutions for greenhouses, from planning and Greenhouses construction, through irrigation systems and other equipment, to aftersale agronomic support. Our drip irrigation solutions for the extractive industries ensure uniform Mining coverage, minimal clogging and optimal metal recovery in leaching processes for mining applications. https://www.netafim.com/en/Netafim-irrigation-company_about-us/ Netafim Ltd. Communication on Progress UNGC 2018 6 Our Sustainability Strategy We continue to advance our Sustainability Strategy that was developed in 2014. This strategy reflects the key ways we make an increasingly positive impact on people and the planet with drip irrigation. Our Strategy is structured under three pillars: Action, Education, Backbone: Make smart irrigation solutions the accessible and preferred choice for irrigated crops all over the world Action: Help farmers achieve sustainable livelihoods Technology and innovation: Agritech partnerships: Advance knowledge Provide simple and affordable Engage in partnerships to sharing: Increase practical technology to enable mass advance technology uptake and support and technology adoption of smart irrigation for to adapt to the needs of local knowledge sharing for small farmers of all sizes, from largefarmers. and large farmers to enable scale agri producers to tailored irrigation solutions. smallholders. Education: Increase awareness of the benefits of drip, and increase its access for farmers worldwide Access and education: Public sector collaboration: Private sector collaboration: Raise awareness and educate Maintain active involvement with Collaborate with private sector farmers in the use of drip governments, the UN and other companies, NGOs and the irrigation to help them grow international organizations and government sector to promote more with less. NGOs to advance policy that smart irrigation solutions helps farmers improve their throughout the entire food livelihood by using drip value chain. irrigation. Backbone: Conduct our business ethically, responsibly and transparently Employee engagement: Lean supply chain: Reduce Product development for Develop our employees, our direct environmental climate change: Focus improve their wellbeing, and impacts and contribute to global product development priorities engage them in our efforts to mitigate climate on smart irrigation solutions for sustainability goals and ethical change. crops that have the biggest approach. impact on climate change. Netafim Ltd. Communication on Progress UNGC 2018 7 Progress against our Sustainability Strategy in 2018 Pillar Goal Target Progress in 2018 Technology Continue to develop • Introduced NetBeat™, the first digital farming solution to and innovation new products and enable automated irrigation, fertigation and crop methods protection. • Introduced Streamline™ X, thin wall dripline with a unique ribbed surface that simplifies installation and retrieval Agritech Create collaborative • Advanced our DripByDip partnership with Bayer partnerships opportunities for the • Expanded Netafim financial solutions in India and the U.S. development and • Engaged in the Better Life Farming Alliance, a partnership applications of drip with Bayer, IFC (International Finance Corporation) and Action Swiss Re to help smallholders to unlock their farming irrigation potential. technologies. Advance Drive an increase in • The percentage of micro irrigation of total irrigated land knowledge the percentage of currently is 6% (ICID). sharing micro irrigation of total irrigated land from 5% to 10% by 2020 At least 2,000 • In 2018, we conducted over 2,700 events for over 110,000 Access and annual training farmers including field tours, seminars, lectures, and road education shows. events for farmers. Public sector Continue our support • Partnership with Ningxia (China) Agricultural & Rural collaboration and activities for Department to promote smart digital farming, crop irrigation promoting the and fertigation technologies to transform agriculture in adoption of policies Ningxia province. • Continue to support the Grow Africa Partnership, enabling the use of participate in the UNGC program, the CEO Water drip irrigation. Mandate, and Action Platform: Water Security through Education Stewardship. • Participated in developing quality standards for irrigation • Participated in global events and forums on water and agriculture Private sector Develop and deepen • Partnership with Dexis Consulting Group and collaboration collaboration with SOPROTRILAD in Mali to pilot a drip irrigation for rice private sector project to help build Mali's food resilience. companies to implement new irrigation initiatives in their supply chains. Employee Maintain employee • Employee engagement score of 91% in our 2018 survey engagement engagement score of 4 (80%) or above. Lean supply Maintain electricity • Electricity consumption per ton raw material: increased by chain consumption per ton 6.5% vs 2015 Backbone raw material at 2015 • Recycled waste: 73% in 2018 level or reduce. Product • We continue to invest in research and trials to increase the Introduce new development use of drip irrigation in rice cultivation. initiatives for the top for climate three crops by 2020. change Netafim Ltd. Communication on Progress UNGC 2018 8 Supporting the SDGs Our Sustainability Strategy is aligned with the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), adopted by the UN in 2015. Our business most closely aligns with and supports the advancement of nine SDGs. Advancing the SDGs through Better Life Farming In 2018, Netafim together with partners (Bayer, International Finance Corporation (IFC), Netafim, and Swiss Re Corporate Solutions) launched the Better Life Farming alliance to help develop sustainable business for millions of smallholder farmers. The alliance aims to facilitate access to financing, healthy seeds, crop insurance and farmer education in agricultural best practices, marketing, entrepreneurship and more. In 2018, the Alliance launched the Better Life Farming in Rice for Asia with several pilot programs in several Asian countries. Initial results are showing between 20% and 57% yield increases and 73%-170% income growth. Overall in 2018, the alliance reached almost 9,000 farmers. . Netafim Ltd. Communication on Progress UNGC 2018 9 Advancing the 10 Principles Protecting human rights • Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. • Principle 2: Businesses should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. We are committed to upholding laws, regulations and practices designed to protect human rights in all regions in which we Our Code of Business Conduct is operate. We strictly oppose all forms of discrimination, and available on our welcome all employees regardless of color, race, gender, website nationality, religion, sexual orientation or other personal diversity dimensions. We uphold practices that prevent all forms of child labor and forced labor and we implement training programs for our staff to prevent sexual discrimination and sexual harassment. We strive to do business in a fair and ethical manner, observing our Code of Business Conduct in all global operations. Our Code of Business Conduct is based on our business values and legal compliance, and applies to all Netafim employees, officers and directors. In 2017 we launched a new Code of Conduct eLearning module in five languages. Each employee is required to complete the module, including new employees as part of their onboarding program. In 2018, 93% of employees completed this training. We encourage employees, customers, suppliers, distributors and business partners to report suspected violations of ethical conduct, legal compliance or human rights abuse through our Whistleblower Policy, which is embedded in our Code of Business Conduct. Reports are directed to Netafim’s Chief Compliance Officer and Internal Auditor. All reports are thoroughly investigated, and action is taken as appropriate. Netafim's Board of Directors is notified of all reports under the Whistleblower Policy. Supporting water as a Human Right The Human Right to Water and Sanitation was formally acknowledged and affirmed by the UN General Assembly and Human Rights Council in 2010. As a member of the UN Global Compact’s CEO Water Mandate, we have been active in the Human Rights Working Group, and support developments that require corporations to ensure sustainable water practices. Increased use of drip irrigation in agriculture can more than double water availability for domestic use worldwide. We therefore promote the uptake of drip irrigation through training and educating farming communities worldwide and we collaborate with business partners, governments and organizations to provide financial support and assistance for drip irrigation. Our operations around the world are executed by our local Netafim subsidiaries that uphold our ethical standards, including respecting human rights. In many regions, we work with dealers who market, sell and install our irrigation equipment and service customers. We strive to maintain long-standing relationships with dealers who are familiar with our work methods and ethical policies and maintain our global standards. Netafim Ltd. Communication on Progress UNGC 2018 10 Accessible drip irrigation In 2016, we concluded a multi-year collaborative flagship project that Netafim had supported as a founding partner over several years. The Ramthal Community Drip irrigation Project in Karnataka state in India was financed by the Indian government. It is the world’s largest, fully automated, community-based drip irrigation project. Netafim India installed drip irrigation systems across 11,700 hectares with fully automated scheduling and a full crop management package, including training for locals on how to use the equipment to cultivate the most profitable crops and optimize land and equipment use. In 2018, Netafim completed a social impact assessment to monitor the success of the project. Around 4,500 farmers – 76% of those included in the project – took part in a survey addressing socio-economic factors such as age, education level, access to banking and mobile phone usage, as well as agricultural information such as plot size, irrigation type, mechanization and types of crop. This survey will serve as a baseline for further monitoring of yields, crop income and changes in the socio-economic status of the farming communities in the region and provide valuable information on how improvements can be made in Karnataka and similar initiatives identified elsewhere. Ramthal Community Irrigation by the numbers 2,200 km bulk water pipes 77,000 km drip irrigation lines 11,000 m3 water distribution per hour 11,700 hectares 22 villages 7,000 farmers 1.74 hectares average plot size The Ramthal Community Irrigation Project is a strong example of improving access to water for communities in emerging markets – enabling locals to realize their right to water and also advancing several UN Sustainable Development Goals and stabling a new baseline for property in the region. Netafim Ltd. Communication on Progress UNGC 2018 11 Investing in our communities We support community empowerment and economic development. Drip irrigation solutions provide a basis for improving livelihoods and enable communities to do more with less. By donating our products and providing training to local communities, Netafim contributes to improving the quality of life in communities worldwide. Global community investment ($) 2016 2017 2018 Cash donations 402,541 454,844 103,807 Product donations (cost value) 176,541 110,435 87,715 Total 579,083 565,279 191,521 Hours volunteered by employees 6,850 4,892 8,122 Notes: • Community investment data includes eight countries representing about 80% of our global workforce. • Employee volunteering is not tracked in all countries. Rehabilitation through farming In Israel, as part of our approach to sustainability education, we partnered with two residential rehabilitation farms for at-risk youth. At the Nitsan and Nirim farms, youths undertake farm tasks to provide a new sense of opportunity and accomplishment and are assigned a personal mentor that helps them overcome their issues and return to school. Since 2013, Netafim has played a significant role in the creation and development of these farms, donating irrigation equipment and a greenhouse, supporting the planning and cultivation processes and mentoring the young residents and even the farm management. At the Nirim farm, since 2013, with 100 young residents, Netafim equipment and support has helped transform the farm into a self-sustaining farm supplying vegetables and dairy products for its residents. At the Nitzan farm since 2015, with 15 youth residents, Netafim irrigations systems has transformed a sandy plot of land into a thriving farm. In 2018, 25 Netafim volunteers created a spice garden and planted 60 fruit trees in addition to donating irrigation equipment and many hours of mentoring sessions Netafim Ltd. Communication on Progress UNGC 2018 12 Helping Kids Get Healthier As an organization committed to sustainable agriculture and advancing life, in Israel, we identified an opportunity to change the eating habits for better health, support food security and inspire young children to respect the land. The Arab city of Baqa al-Garbbiyye, less than 10 kilometers from our Magal factory in Israel, has a population of 30,000 inhabitants. In 2014, we joined forces with the local municipality of Baqa al-Garbbiyye, a local academic college and partnering nonprofits to establish a program of community vegetable gardens in local kindergartens. Netafim provided the drip irrigation kits for the vegetable gardens and our employees volunteered to support the training of the kindergarten staff in their installation and use. Once established, the children and their families tended the gardens to grow fresh produce. Parents were also offered training on healthy dietary habits for their children and for the entire family. By 2018, this collaborative community effort had yielded more than 80 community gardens, covering all the kindergartens in the city, benefiting more than 1,200 kindergarten children. A further outcome of this ongoing initiative is that, today, the local city policy demands that every new kindergarten established in the city will have a community vegetable garden. Additionally, Netafim’s Magal Plant was granted the Social and Environmental Leadership Award for this project by the Manufacturers Association in Israel. “Drip irrigation is not only about saving water. It’s a way to transform the lives of entire communities, whether this is through sharing our knowledge with farmers to generate better yields and improve their livelihoods or teaching young children to cultivate vegetables that they can enjoy eating as part of a healthy diet. Our initiative in Baqa-ElGarbbiyye was also significant, bringing Arab and Jewish communities together in a collaborative, long term project that benefits us all!” Naty Barak, Chief Sustainability Officer, Netafim Netafim Ltd. Communication on Progress UNGC 2018 13 Upholding labor rights Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. Principle 4: Businesses should support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor. Principle 5: Businesses should support the effective abolition of child labor. Principle 6: Businesses should support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our employees are talented individuals who contribute to our innovative spirit, advanced capabilities and market success. We encourage the inclusion of, women and men from diverse backgrounds. We aim to provide a stable, safe and sustainable workplace in which the rights and dignity of every one of our employees are respected. We encourage employee engagement, commitment and performance by rewarding employees fairly and in line with their experience, capabilities and contribution. We offer personal and professional growth opportunities through training and development programs. Employees by 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 region India 1,392 1,281 1,202 1,177 1,078 Israel 981 761 1,029 1,123 906 Americas 766 820 954 984 998 Rest of the world 590 642 716 788 863 All employees 3,729 3,504 3,902 4,072 3,845 Netafim Ltd. Communication on Progress UNGC 2018 14 Engaging our employees In mid-2018, we conducted a global survey to measure employee engagement, with participation of 90% of employees from 32 countries. The survey was offered in 13 languages, giving almost all employees the opportunity to respond in their own language. Overall, engagement at Netafim was 91%, outperforming industry benchmarks. The survey responses demonstrated that employees feel secure at Netafim, are familiar with our organizational strategy, have high confidence in Netafim’s products and services, pride in the company and the brand, and feel they contribute to our success. We also found that employees have a deep connection to our values. Opportunities for improvement that we identified include improving our ability to adapt to changes some aspects of our recognition and reward policy. Freedom of association We support the right of employees to freedom of association and collective bargaining. Netafim employees are generally hired on personal contracts and are not represented by employee associations. Our respect for employee rights, access to management, and employee involvement in business decisions means that most Netafim employees typically have not felt the need to form or join an association to protect their rights. 11% of Netafim employees worldwide are members of employee associations. Child and forced labor We oppose all forms of child and forced labor. No children under the age of 15 are employed in any of our operations around the world. All employees join and remain at Netafim of their own free will and sign an agreed employment contract prior to starting employment. Training and development We provide our employees with training that helps improve their capabilities and skills in current and future roles. Our performance management system covers all global operations and helps ensure consistent performance development processes throughout the organization and equal opportunity to develop and advance for all employees. Employee health and safety We are committed to maintaining a safe and healthy work environment that is compliant with occupational health and safety regulations and applicable standards across all our operations. We offer comprehensive training in safety procedures for employees when they join the company and throughout their employment. All Netafim factories track safety performance, review safety incidents and implement corrective action as required. Netafim global safety performance 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Injury rate 3.07 1.94 1.67 1.6 1.0 lost day rate 33.20 24.14 21.26 20.9 21.9 Injury and lost day rates are calculated per 100 employees and based on production employees only. Injuries are those which incur lost workdays. Minor injuries are not noted. No fatalities as a results of workplace injuries in 2014-2018 Netafim Ltd. Communication on Progress UNGC 2018 15 Environmental stewardship Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Environmental stewardship is core to Netafim's business. Our innovative drip irrigation systems positively impact the environment in many ways, including optimization of arable land use, reduction of energy consumption, GHG emissions and soil and water contamination, water conservation, and lower agrochemical consumption, all of which positively contribute to addressing the challenge of climate change. Our prime contribution to environmental stewardship is promoting awareness and the use of precision irrigation solutions for sustainable productivity, enabling farmers worldwide to grow more with less. In addition, we strive to minimize our direct environmental impacts by conserving resources where possible in our supply chain operations. We conduct environmental risk assessments of the direct impacts of our production operations. These include conservation and rehabilitation of nature and biodiversity, air, water and soil pollution prevention, noise and odor prevention, greenhouse gas reduction, natural resource reduction, and water use and waste management reduction (sewage, hazardous waste and detergents). In addition, the EHS team maintains our ISO 14001 and ISO 18001 certifications in our three Israeli factories. Our EHS compliance includes two annual audits performed by external auditors, as well as preparatory internal audits. Change Environmental Change 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 since performance in 2018 2013 Electricity consumption 3.10 3.19 3.14 3.20 3.13 3.35 7% 8% (GJ/ ton raw material) Greenhouse gas emissions (Scope 2 tons CO2e per 0.54 0.55 0.53 0.53 0.51 0.54 6% -1% ton raw material) Water withdrawal (total m3) 144,528 120,107 124,535 130,270 152,047 154,396 2% 7% Total waste (tons) 2,007 1,920 2,313 2,859 3,398 3,299 -3% 64% Percentage of waste 72% 67% 60% 68% 73% 73% 0% 1% recycled Notes: • Increase in consumption per raw material in 2018 is due to decrease in raw material usage, while maintaining production and resource consumption levels. Decrease in materials use due to a change in the mix of products and materials • We report energy as electricity consumption. Use of other energy sources such as fuel are insignificant. • Greenhouse gases include CO2, CH4 and N2O • Water withdrawal data covers all facilities worldwide as of 2016. Data for Brazil is not available prior 2016. Data for 2014 excludes Peru. • Water withdrawal data for 2013 was updated in 2018 to reflect a more accurate data from Magal, Israel. • All water is sourced from municipal supplies except Ribeirão Preto, Brazil, where water is drawn from an onsite well. Water withdrawal data for this factory is provided for the first time in 2016. • Emissions for Israel and U.S. are tons CO2e. Emissions for all other sites are tons CO2. • GHG data for 2013 was restated due to a change in the emissions factor used for U.S. facilities Netafim Ltd. Communication on Progress UNGC 2018 16 Eliminating corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Netafim's Code of Business Conduct rests on a strong platform of both values and legal compliance. It applies to all Netafim directors, officers and employees without exception, and is related to all activities, whether internally with colleagues, or externally with customers, suppliers, partners, shareholders and other Netafim stakeholders. Our Code of Business Conduct includes a strict policy regarding improper payments and giving and receiving of gifts. Our Code of Business Conduct includes a requirement of all employees to report suspected breaches. Instructions for reporting violations or suspected breaches are provided to employees and appropriate training is conducted. Anonymous complaints are treated with equal importance. All reports are directed to Netafim’s Chief Compliance Officer and Internal Auditor via mail, email or our Intranet portal and are thoroughly investigated. Action taken is reported to Netafim's Board of Directors. There are no reprisals against employees who report alleged breaches of the Code of Business Conduct. Our internal auditor monitors our risk management, compliance, control, and governance processes and collaborates with Netafim’s third-party internal auditor to provide insight and recommendations to improve business processes. Netafim Ltd. Communication on Progress UNGC 2018 17 CEO Water Mandate The CEO Water Mandate is a special initiative of the UN Secretary-General and the UN Global Compact, providing a multi-stakeholder platform for the development, implementation, and disclosure of corporate water sustainability policies and practices. Netafim was one of the first companies to endorse the CEO Water Mandate in 2008. Just 140 companies around the world have endorsed this important initiative to date. This Report serves as Netafim's Communication on Progress for the CEO Water Mandate for 2018, in line with the CEO Water Mandate Transparency Policy. Netafim's CEO, Ran Maidan, confirms that Netafim continues to endorse and promote the CEO Water Mandate, and will continue to disclose transparently the company's water management performance. Below is a table cross-referencing Netafim's progress updated in this report against the six core elements of the CEO Water Mandate. Water Mandate Principles Included in this report Element 1: Direct operations Environmental stewardship Supply chain and Netafim suppliers are not involved in high water Element 2: watershed management consumption industries. Element 3: Collective action See below Element 4: Public policy See below Protecting human rights, Supporting water as a Element 5: Community engagement Human Right Element 6: Transparency Environmental stewardship Elements 3, 4: Collective action and public policy We share our knowledge and expertise in water conservation, access to water, and agricultural efficiency as part of the global dialogue for advancing sustainable development. Netafim actively engages with governments, academic institutions, environmental organizations and other businesses in a range of collaborative initiatives at local, regional and global levels. We participate in global conferences on water and food sustainability and are active in several UN frameworks. We are also involved in three primary areas of policy advancement relating to water and human rights, corporate water disclosure and engagement and collective action. Advancing quality standards for drip irrigation At Netafim, we share our knowledge and help advance standards across the industry, helping set global standards for the benefit of all farmers who use irrigation systems. Industry standards provide farmers with a tool to acquire and deploy irrigation systems that meet the most stringent quality standards and are manufactured in controlled and consistent processes. All Netafim products are manufactured in conformance with and certified to relevant ISO (International Standards Organization) published standards. Our Chief Sustainability Officer, Naty Barak, serves as the Chairperson for the ISO/TC 282 Water reuse Technical Committee for the development of a Standard to define the processes for re-use of wastewater in different ways, including drip irrigation. Netafim also participates in the Technical Committee, chaired by the Standards Institute of Israel (SII), ISO/TC 23/SC 18 (irrigation and drainage equipment and systems), to standardize irrigation equipment, sprinklers, durability and clogging test methods and more. Netafim Ltd. Communication on Progress UNGC 2018 18 About this Report This Communication on Progress follows the 10 reporting criteria of the UNGC framework and lays out our approach, policies and performance in the areas of human rights, ethics, society and the environment. All data relates to the 2018 calendar year unless otherwise stated. We publish a full Sustainability Report, using the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework, every two years in which we include our UNGC COP and CEO Water Mandate disclosure. In the interim years, we publish a standalone COP which also fulfills our communication requirement for the CEO Water Mandate. In this report, we have included data from our global operations. Environmental and safety data relates to production facilities only. More information, including our 2017 Sustainability Report, can be found on Netafim’s corporate website, www.netafim.com. Contact Details This Communication on Progress will not be printed in hard copy. It will be made available through the UN Global Compact website and Netafim's corporate website. Netafim employees worldwide will be informed of this communication, which will serve as a basis for further dialogue and the development of sustainability practices. Netafim Ltd. Contact Person 10 Derech Hashalom Natan Barak Tel Aviv 67892 Israel Director of Corporate Affairs Tel: +972-8-647-3222 Netafim Ltd. Tel: +972-52-5013754 Email: natan.barak@netafim.com Fax: +9728-647-3028 Netafim welcomes feedback and suggestions regarding this Communication on Progress. Thank you for your interest in this report!
