NUROL YES! Sustainability Report 2018 CONSTRUCTION INDEX NUROL CONSTRUCTION PERFORMED VIABLE ARCHITECTURAL AND ENGINEERING SOLUTIONS IN LINE 08 CORPORATE PROFILE 56 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY WITH MODERN LIFE ESSENTIALS ABOUT NUROL CONSTRUCTION VISION, MISSION AND CORPORATE VALUES OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY TRAININGS OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE THROUGHOUT ALL PROJECTS OPERATIONAL MAPPING PROJECTS: ON-GOING AND IN THE SCOPE OF REPORT CONSISTENTLY. 60 VALUE CHAIN MANAGEMENT PROJECTS: ON-GOING AND OUT OF THE SCOPE OF REPORT SUSTAINABILITY FOR SUPPLY CHAIN 22 FINANCIAL OUTLOOK 66 WORKING AT NUROL CONSTRUCTION FINANCIAL INDICATORS ECONOMIC VALUE: GENERATED & DISTRIBUTED HUMAN RESOURCES EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT SUBCONTRACTOR EMPLOYEE MANAGEMENT ABOUT THE REPORT WORKING LIFE 26 GOVERNANCE Nurol Construction and Trading Co. Inc. (Nurol completed projects domestic and abroad. As Nurol BOARD OF DIRECTORS & CORPORATE GOVERNANCE RISK AND OPPORTUNITY MANAGEMENT 72 CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY Construction), operating globally and pioneer of the Construction family, we aim to create prosperously ETHICS MANAGEMENT CONTRIBUTION TO LOCAL COMMUNITY AND ECONOMY industry, mainly operates in construction industry habitable and sustainable world with our world-wide SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIVITIES and founded in Ankara (capital city of Turkey) in projects. We care both for today and future of our 34 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 1966. In 2015, moving HQ to Istanbul from Ankara, world, our country, humanity and stakeholders. Our Nurol Construction operates for the construction of 2018 NUROL GES (Governance, Ecosystem, Social) SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS 78 PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT CORPORATE MEMBERSHIPS AND EXTERNAL RECOGNITION infrastructure and superstructure projects, subway, Sustainability Report release is an expression of our SUSTAINABILITY GOALS SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT PERFORMANCE INDICATORS DETAILS railway, motorway, tunnel, viaduct, suspension vision and activities created through 50+ years of COMMUNICATION WITH THE STAKEHOLDERS bridge, dam, hydroelectric power plant, hotels, our history, in international standards. We named SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES housing estate, stadium, ready to operate facilities our report shortly as ‘Nurol GES Sustainability 89 UNGC CONTENT INDEX and industrial facilities. The company is a member Report’, where we share our objectives and 46 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS of Nurol Group of Companies. The main shareholder performance for touching every aspect of ENVIRONMENTAL TRAININGS is ‘Nurol Holding Inc.’ and managed by the members sustainability for effective governance, protection 90 GRI CONTENT INDEX ENERGY AND EMISSIONS MANAGEMENT of ‘Çarmıklı’ family. Together with more than 8.000 of healthy ecosystem, forming happy individuals WATER MANAGEMENT employees, the company has many on-going and and balanced societies in social life. WASTE MANAGEMENT BIODIVERSITY COMPLIANCE TO UNGC AND GRI STANDARDS Our report prepared in accordance with United Nations Global Compact (UNGC), where Nurol is a signatory, oriented Progress Notification and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards’ ‘’Foundation’’ option. We believe, our report will support and take us to higher standards, more effective stakeholder dialogue, happier employees and healthier tomorrow. All efforts during the preparation of the report made under the coordination of Nurol Construction Integrated Management Systems Directorship and Consultancy Company supported the company during the content preparation, ensuring compliance to standards and report design. SCOPE OF THE REPORT Our Sustainability Report (shortly 'Our Report' or 'Report') is the first ever sustainability report prepared and released covering the performance figures and actions on governance, economy, environment, social and ethical topics for January 1December 31, 2018. Unless otherwise stated, reporting period covers the January 1December 31, 2018 period or current status as of December 31, 2018. BOUNDARIES OF THE REPORT Report covers actions and data about governance, environment, occupational health and safety, ethics, economic and social subjects. Presented information belongs to domestic and abroad projects led solely by Nurol Construction Head Office (HQ) and Nurol Construction. All projects mentioned or not mentioned in the report and on-going ones covered under Corporate Profile section. ‘Our Projects’, and ‘Projects included in the report’ refer to mentioned projects. All other projects where Nurol Construction has and act as partners are not covered in the report as Nurol Construction is not the sole owner of the project thus may not have the flexibility to maintain own standards. Economic and financial indicators cover the companies which included in consolidated reports, referred companies are accessible under Corporate Profile. Financial information shared in Financial Outlook part audited by independent third parties, while remaining did not. FEEDBACK We designed our sustainability report both to support our development in this area and a regular communication platform with our stakeholders. Our target is to release the report annually by enhancing the content. We will be glad to hear from you via all communication mediums especially via e-mail for any contribution, comment and questions for related topics. E-mail: info@nurolinsaat.com.tr Nurol Construction and Trading Co. Inc. Integrated Management Systems Directorship Nurol Plaza, Büyükdere Caddesi No:255 Kat:19 34485 Maslak – Sarıyer / İstanbul / TURKEY Güneş Kocamanoğlu Integrated Management Systems Manager gunes.kocamanoglu@nurol.com.tr MESSAGE FROM GENERAL MANAGER Dear Stakeholders, stakeholders in a dialogue platform. By this means, we As a pioneering company of Nurol Group of Companies founded introduced more organized tracking and management systems in 1966, we achieved to take many innovative steps and success both for Nurol Construction and its subcontractors. during more than half of a century period. We care supporting Under the responsible management perspective, we both value our local and global experience in construction industry together our employees as we operate in labor intensive industry and with innovative technology. Also, we want to continue our ethical exercises. On top of sharing our expectations and journey with strong steps by the power of our vision, our working conditions upfront with our subcontractors, we also corporate culture which is open to change and based on strong audit them considering social and environmental topics principles. regularly. As we value occupational health and safety, we As Nurol Construction, we achieved another milestone by being regularly track performance of our subcontractors. It is the a signee of United Nations Global Compact Agreement, which is consequence of our training and audit efforts behind a clear indicator of our efforts on sustainable development and occupational health and safety that our accident rate is low, vision on compliance to global standards. Our objective by being although we are operating in a high-risk industry. a supporter of UNGC – a volunteer organization supporting The essence of our foundation is contributing socially where sustainable development and good corporate citizenshipis to we invest. Some of our projects contribute to irrigation thus contribute to a shared culture both in construction industry and agriculture; some increase tourism and trading volume, while business world on global principles and standards. In line with some contribute to industrial development including tourism this objective, we feel justified proud and joy of releasing first by increasing the civilized transportation both inner state and ever NUROL GES (Governance-Ecosystem-Social) report mainly upstate. including our approach to these topics and our performance On top of that, we continuously focus on referred 3 priorities: results which is in accordance with UNGC and GRI standards. I Solid Governance Structure, Protection of Ecosystem, would like to take this occasion to thank all who contributed to Empowering Social dimension, to make the mentioned the preparation of this report and who engaged to the improvements sustainable… sustainability efforts. Under the scope of our report, we calculated greenhouse gas We will continue to be in touch with our stakeholders via our emission,which is the main reason for global warming, first sustainability reports where we share our performance. I want time ever in the scope of our report and started to manage it to emphasize that; your improvement feedbacks matter for us. effectively. We are striving for minimizing negative; From the foundation day of our company, we continuously maximizing positive effect of infrastructure and superstructure spent effort behind environment, working standards, fighting projects on environment. The ecological bridge we completed against corruption; which are also core of our working principles. for Gebze – Orhangazi İzmir Motorway Project, LEED By being a signatory of UNGC, our goal is to be a part of world’s certification owned by Nurol Tower are the examples of our most extensive platform on sustainability where we will have approach. the opportunity to share best practices locally and globally; also, As a multinational and pioneering company of a rooted group to reach related resources and experience to improve our own of companies, our objectives are showing progress vs prior practices. years, leading the change, adopt higher ethical standards and As the constructor of many buildings globally; we believe in internalize those company-wide, rise on the sustainable the power of strong corporate structure and systems, which business model instead of showing seasonal up-rises, will protect us against any headwinds, thus we care about increasing market share in current markets and entering new working systems and right structuring. We are fully aware of markets, realizing projects behind innovative and creative staying locally and globally strong is the main resource for models instead of doing business as usual. Besides, we target making investments supporting development especially during to own higher degree of difficulty projects where Nurol have the trade wars, geopolitical risks, embargo, global economy competitive advantage on engineering, expertise, financial agenda on exits from the unions, raw material cost increase power vs competition. behind exchange shocks periods. As Nurol, we will be always committed to grow behind It made a huge difference to define our priorities, current creating value to industry, be supporter of sustainable status, processes, performance and targets on Governance, development and UNGC, execute the best behind Governance, Ecosystem and Social topics behind our sustainability vision Ecosystem and Social dimensions, and perform the best. following the release of our report and sharing it with our NURETTİN AKDENİZ NUROL CONSTRUCTION GENERAL MANAGER 06 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 MESSAGE FROM GENERAL MANAGER 07 CORPORATE PROFILE About Nurol Construction Vision, Mission and Corporate Values Vision Mission Quality, Reliability, Dignity Conventionality and Innovation Equality, Fairness, Fidelity Social Benefit Respect to Environment Operational Mapping Projects: On-going and In the Scope of Report Projects: On-going and Out of the Scope of Report ABOUT NUROL CONSTRUCTION Having proud references as a result of global contributions Project by total 33.000 tons of steel usage, 22.500 tons of on construction and contracting, Nurol Construction steel utilization with 1.123 meters incremental launching successfully completed many projects: infrastructure for method; and also, Turkey Record by moving the 2.600 motorway, bridge, viaduct, tunnel and barrage tons of final deck. The most important stage of construction; superstructure for industrial facilities, hotel, Osmangazi Bridge project, 2.907 meters of height shopping mall, residence constructions, on the basis of including 1.550 meters suspension and connection decks, strong corporate culture and experienced teams. the bridge is the 4th longest suspension bridge in the Number of Employees world and 2nd in Europe. Company is a member of Nurol Group of Companies. The main shareholder is ‘Nurol Holding Inc.’, managed by Gulf countries has a crucial role in overseas activities of 8.000+ ‘Çarmıklı’ family members. Established in 1966 in Ankara Nurol Group of Companies. and moved HQ to Istanbul in 2015. Contributed to heavy In the scope of ongoing projects in UAE, by the industry with irrigation projects and ready to operate employment of pioneering investors of the region, total industrial plants construction during the establishment residence construction area is larger than 500.000 sqm period. Utilizing effective and innovative technology in all which built in scope of satellite towns; infrastructure and projects, in 1976, Nurol Construction led the way on Ayas technological steel construction projects also became our Tunnel project by implementing New Austria Tunnel references. Opening technology in Turkey for the first time ever. Net Sales On the other side, in Abu Dhabi, there are sea bridge Dedicated to applying proper technical and architectural connections and canals, various infrastructure projects for $ 3,75 bn solutions in line with modern life necessities in each bridges and tunnels and luxury hotel and residence period of time and projects, Nurol Construction completed building projects. satellite town and luxury estate projects; which globally and locally appreciated in terms of design and quality. Starting the journey in South Africa with Algeria, we GEBZE – İZMİR MOTORWAY, SOUTH APPROACH VIADUCT PROJECT expanded our region by including Morocco; by the scope of Ilısu Dam and Hydro-Electric Power Plant projects which infrastructure projects like dam, bridge, motorway and are on the edge of completion; is the second biggest dam also corporate buildings construction. of Turkey with 11bn m3 reservoir storage, 1.200MW established power and 4.1 bn kWh energy production Nurol Construction for the last 14 years takes its place on Total of NUROL CONSTRUCTION AND TRADING CO. capacity yearly will contribute to close Turkey’s energy gap. ‘ENR World’s Biggest Contractors List’ with proud. Projects Nurol Real Estate Investment Trust Inc., which is the INC. WHICH IS THE FIRST AND PIONEERING Utilizing all potential of technology, connected two sides pioneering, among the other companies under group of $ 23 bn COMPANY OF NUROL GROUP OF COMPANIES, of Istanbul with Bosphorus Rail Tube Crossing Project (MARMARAY) by railway line 60 meters under the sea companies with the investments, continues Istanbul (NUROL Park, NUROL Tower, NUROL Life) residence and WAS FOUNDED IN 1966 AS AN INTERNATIONAL level. office projects, land development, project design, expertise transfer in construction and marketing. GENERAL CONTRACTING COMPANY, CREATED Nurol Construction completed projects which made Turkey proud with latest technology usage, design-oriented By the IPO in 1999, Nurol Real Estate Investment Trust Inc AWARENESS AND RECOGNITION BEHIND MANY engineering solutions and %100 local labor force. quoted on the Istanbul Stock Exchange. [A1] Nurol Construction’s ongoing and completed projects total LARGE SCALE AND HIGH-TECH INTERNATIONAL During the time of construction, being the biggest ‘Build – Operate – Transfer’ project of Republic of Turkey is around $ 23bn. Total Consrtuction PROJECTS SINCE ITS ESTABLISHMENT. with 7.5bn$ investment, Istanbul-İzmir road transport Site decreased to 3.5 hours from 9 hours by the ‘GebzeOrhangaziİzmir Motorway’ project. Breaking the World 3,3 million sqm Record during completion of South Approach Viaduct NUROL Group % 99,90 DETAILED INFORMATION SHAREHOLDING ÇARMIKLI Family Share NUROL Construction On Going Projects: www.nurolinsaat.com.tr/en/ongoing-projects % 0,10 445.004.000 NUROL Construction Completed Projects: www.nurolinsaat.com.tr/en/completed-projects STRUCTURE Share 467.000 10 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ABOUT NUROL CONSTRUCTION 11 VISION MISSION As Nurol Family, we are aware of our Producing the best goods and services responsibilities. Our target is to be the behind solid principles relying on our 50+ best and recognized with our quality in years of local and global experience and industries we operate and create expertise, acting innovative while highest social and economic value for keeping conventionality and taking those our country. values to next generations with the strength we take from our employees and society. CORPORATE VALUES 1QUALITY, RELIABILITY, DIGNITY 2 CONVENTIONALITY AND INNOVATION Dating back to a renowned history of over half a century, Under this solid roof aged half a century, tradition our dignity based on quality and reliability. Our and innovation has been combined. We create commitment is, to submit all of our projects flawlessly our future by carefully placing contemporary and and on time; to create durable and qualified work and to progressive approaches on the basis of our deep produce the most reliable goods and services. While rooted and lasting values. With our continuously realizing these, we never compromise on honesty, accuracy learning and progressing structure we work hard and stability. Our most essential principle is to work for providing visible contributions to our workers, continuously as much as we can, to aim the highest business partners and clients. accomplishments and to progress further and further. 3 EQUALITY, FAIRNESS, LOYALTY 4SOCIAL BENEFIT Even the smallest of our accomplishments is big With the awareness of our being a part of the enough not to be just a single person’s work. society, we give an utmost care to our corporate Considering the fact that, people can only accomplish targets to be in tune with the interests of the great things by trusting and relying on each other, our country and the society. To create a sustainable managers and all the workers within our Corporation future, we search for our share of obligations and have been interlocked as a family. All the members of fulfill them in the most beneficial way. Nurol Family have a strong team spirit based on a constituent comprised of affection-respect-devotion. 5 RESPECT TO ENVIRONMENT One of the core principles of our corporate culture is to act due to the awareness that giving the priority to increase the life quality of the next generations can only be managed by preserving the nature and helping the ecological system in all our business processes. 12 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 VISION, MISSION & CORPORATE VALUES 13 OPERATIONAL MAPPING Romania Nurol Romania Office setup actions started in 2017 and completed by the beginning of 2018. Especially infrastructure related Business Development actions continued all year around in 2018. Morocco Nurol Morocco, started the business by the beginning of 2012 for the construction of Al Jadida Safi Motorway Lot 3&4 Project. By final approval of the project in 2017, Business Development activities United Arab Emirates continued in the region. NUROL UAE, started business as a local firm in Abu Dhabithe capital city of UAEin April 2003. In 2004, Dubai branch opened. Founding purpose is to materialize high scope projects via benefiting from Libya the current potential in construction industry. All projects in Libya; Algeria rehabilitation of 160 km divided Marina City Development Project / Abu Dhabi Cordonnier Estate Building Project / Abu Dhabi Nurol Construction started highway for Coastal Road Rehabiltation GA09 Golf Apartment Building Project / Dubai the business in Algeria in Algarabolli Misurata Dual Highway GA14 Golf Links Villa Project / Dubai 2013 and on-going projects as Section Project, Al Fateh University P20 The Cove Dubai Gulf Building Project / Dubai of 2018 year-end are: Economics and Law Faculty Buildings, P32 Parcel Dubai Gulf Building Project / Dubai Dubai Souk Tleta Dam, Physical Education Faculty and Saudi Arabia Vista Beach Towers Building Project / Dubai. Boukhroufa Dam, Landscaping Works and Campus B, Nurol Saudi Arabia, started Tizi Ouzou Motorway Infrastructure Works in Trablus are on business in Riyadh in 2010 Project hold as of the country's current and took license for situations and judicial process infrastructure systems, is in progress. building and premises, clean water and waste-water systems construction, electric and electromechanics projects and road building. Georgia Turkey Established in 1966 in Turkey, Nurol Georgia, started business in Georgia in 2007 to operate in construction on-going projects as of 2018 are; industry in Batum. Nurol Georgia, completed Iraq Gebze Orhangazi İzmir Motorway Project, Gebze-Orhangazi-İzmir Motorway Project and the constructions of The Ministry of Internal Nurol Construction Erbil, Gebze – Orhangazi – Izmir Motorway, Affairs Complex in Tbilisi, Sheraton Hotel and As of 2018 projects according to Balıkesir – Kırkağaç – Akhisar Section Project, Convention Centre and Company's HQ in got the final approval for the silo complex Batum. Actively running Batum Sheraton countries mapped above. Eyiste Viaduct Project, Yusufeli Dam Bridges Project, Hotel, construction completed in 2010. consisting 80.000 tons capacity and UmraniyeAtaşehirGöztepe Metro Project , Nurol Georgia completed Paravani 12 warehouses, in Silifke-Mut Motorway Project, Hydroelectric Power Plant Regulator, Peramagnum district in Yeşilyaka Project, Ordu Ring Road Project, Valve Room, Central Building Construction Suleymaniye City. Ordu Ring Road Replenishment Project, And Procurement Of Hydromechanics Ilısu Dam and Hydro Electric Equipment Project in 2015. Power Plant Project, HasanKeyf Group Bridges Project. 14 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OPERATIONAL MAPPING 15 Ümraniye Ataşehir Göztepe Metro Project Address: Yusufeli Dam Tatlısu Mah. Alptekin Cad. Bridges Project OPERATIONAL G-2 Sk. No:01 34777 Ümraniye İSTANBUL / TURKEY Phone: Ordu Ring Road Project Address: Kazım Karabekir Mahallesi Tekkale (İspir) Yolu Üzeri No: 112 Merkez Yusufeli MAPPING +90 533 658 64 41 ARTVİN/ TURKEY Address: Phone: Ordu Çevre Yolu İnşaatı Eski +90 466 811 21 21 Pazar Köyü Aydınlık Mah. 4.Sokak Altınordu ORDU/ TURKEY Phone: +90 452 222 05 56 Gebze – Orhangazi – İzmir Motorway Project, Balıkesir – Kırkağaç – Akhisar Section Ilısu Dam and (Km: 224+300-317+284) HEPP Project Address: Savaştepe Yolu ( Hydroelectric Power Plant ) 22 nd Km Ertuğrul Köyü Mevkii Address: Altıeylül Ilısu Köyü Dargeçit BALIKESİR/TURKEY MARDİN /TURKEY Phone: +90 266 268 17 32 Phone: +90 533 658 64 41 Silifke-Mut Road Project Address: Silifke-Mut Yolu Tosmurlu Mah. Mut Yolu Üzeri Orman Hasankeyf Deposu Karşısı Silifke Group Bridges MERSİN/TURKEY Gebze – Orhangazi – Address: İzmir Motorway Project, Hasankeyf – Otoyol A.Ş. Eyiste BATMAN/ TURKEY Phone: Address: Viaduct Project Nurol Construction and Trading Co. Inc. Bilkent Plaza A3 Blok No: Address: +90 533 658 64 41 Head Office 21-24 Çankaya Eyiste Belören Ayrımı ANKARA/TURKEY Hadim Devlet Yolu 100.Km Nurol Plaza, Büyükdere Caddesi Hadim KONYA/TURKEY No:255 Kat:19 34485 Phone: +90 332 423 00 50 Maslak – Sarıyer / İstanbul / TURKEY 16 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OPERATIONAL MAPPING 17 PROJECTS: ON-GOING AND IN THE SCOPE OF REPORT 4 active on-going projects Gebze Orhangazi İzmir Motorway, Balıkesir Kırkağaç Akhisar Section, Konya Eyiste Viaduct Project, Algeria Boukhroufa Dam Projectand HQ are included in the scope of Nurol Construction's sustainability report. Main reason for the inclusion of referred projects is Nurol Construction is the main proprietor of these project. In other words, there is no available partnerships for these projects. Thus, Nurol Construction is the sole proprietor for the management of these projects and the main responsible from the performance and actions. Affiliates and subsidiaries of Nurol Construction is not included in the report. GEBZE-ORHANGAZI-IZMIR MOTORWAY BALIKESIR-KIRKAGAÇ-AKHISAR SECTION PROJECT (BALIKESİR MOTORWAY PROJECT) As per the implementation Section: 25,1 million m3 cut contract signed on September excavation, 76 million m3 2010 and effective as of March borrow pit excavation, 25,8 2013 with General Directorate million m3 filling works, for Highways and Highway 900.000 m3 concrete works, ALGERIA BOUKHROUFA DAM PROJECT ALGERIA SOUK TLETA DAM PROJECT Investment and Enterprises Inc; 3.319 prestressed beams and Nurol Construction is the 19.642 meters bored piles, 4.4 Boukhroufa Dam is under construction by Nurol Construction at Souk Tleta Dam is under construction by Nurol Construction at undertaker of the project and million tons wetmix and 2.2 the El Tarf province of Algeria. It is located on the Boukhroufa the Tizi Ouzou province of Algeria. It is located on the continues the Balıkesir million tons hotmix, thus total Stream, 9 km south of the Bouteldja city, to provide 125 hm3 of Bougdoura Stream, 8 km south of the Draa Ben Khedda city, to Kırkağaç Akhisar Section of 6.6 million tons of irrigation water for agricultural lands in the region. The dam is a provide 90 hm3 of irrigation and drinking water for Tizi Ouzou construction which is the superstructure production exist. clay core earth fill dam and it will be 87 m high from the and Boumerdes regions. The dam is a clay core earth fill dam second phase of İzmirGebze On top of 5 bilateral motorway foundation. Once completed, its reservoir will have a and it will be 95 m high from the foundation. Once completed Motorway project. 93 km facilities, in this section; there 125.000.000 m3 storage capacity. Project’s scope is 2.200.000 m3 its reservoir will have a 90.000.000 m3 storage capacity. motorway and total 6 viaducts, are 5 intersections and 20 toll cut excavation, 4.800.000 m3 fill, 82.000 m3 concrete and 2.800 Project’s scope is 1.600.000 m3 cut excavation, 1.800.000 m3 37 overpass bridges, 75 booths area connecting tons of reinforcement. In 2018, for the project: fill, 116.000 m3 concrete and 3.600 tons of reinforcement. In underpass bridges, 224 box Balıkesir, Savaştepe, Soma, 2018, for the project: culverts, 6 retaining walls and Kırkağaç and Akhisar sections. 10 diversion canals are under In 2018, for the project: the scope of the project. 185.000 m3 cut excavation 1.100.000 m3 filling works 1.360.000 m3 cut excavation 4.600 m3 reinforced concrete production completed. 273.850 m3 filling works 4.770.000 m excavation 3 40.150 m grading works 1.960.000 tons of wet mix production for superstructure 4.839.000 m3 filling works 852.000 tons of hot mix production for superstructure completion. 70.250 m3 reinforced concrete production completed. 76.217 m3 reinforced concrete Expected project completion: March 2021. Expected project completion: August 2019. Expected project completion: April 2021. KONYA EYİSTE VIADUCT PROJECT The tender related to the Eyiste of 25 meters will be constructed; Viaduct has been conducted by and it will be one of the world's General Directorate of biggest balanced cantilever Motorways, the contract has been viaduct. The superstructure will awarded to Nurol Construction by be constructed on 2 abutments end of 2016. Within the scope of and 8 piers with varying heights the project, a bridge with a length between 31 meters and 155 of 1.372 meters and a total width meters. In 2018, for the project: 22.150 m3 cut excavation 560 m bored pile works 45.810 m3 reinforced concrete production 9.461 tons of reinforcement production completed. Expected project completion: December 2022. 18 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ON GOING PROJECTS 19 PROJECTS: ON-GOING AND OUT OF THE SCOPE OF REPORT GEBZE – ORHANGAZİ – İZMİR MOTORWAY PROJECT ORDU RING MOTORWAY PROJECT The Ordu Ring Motorway is being constructed by NUROL-YÜKSEL-ÖZKA-YDA Joint Venture. The project consists of 21,4 km of 2x2 lanes split As per the implementation centers, 3 tunnel operation and motorway with miscellaneous motorway structures of 5.3 km*2 length (3.3 km*2+2km*2) double tube, 3 viaducts total of 1.98 km length, 5 contract signed on 27 maintenance centers and 18 bridges, 2 underpass and 3 crossover road along the route. The project completed in 2018. September 2010 between bilateral motorway service General Directorate of facilities (A type: 2, B Type: 4, C Motorways and Motorway type: 5 and D Type: 7). Dilovası ORDU MOTORWAY CONNECTION PROJECT Investment and Operating Co., Intersection (km:0+000) and The project owner is Nurol-Yüksel-Özka-YDA Joint Venture and signed an additional agreement aiming to complete the remaining construction that became effective on 15 İznik South Intersection activities. According to the agreement, project is expected to be completed by 2022. March 2013 a total of 427 km (km:58+152) are completed and motorway -384 km motorway & opened to traffic, for the rest of 43 km connection wayis being the project construction SİLİFKE-MUT ROAD PROJECT constructed between Gebze and continues. As per the Under Nurol Construction's responsibility; Silifke-Mut Road will be completed for 16.7 km highway, having 2X2 road section together with tunnel izmir. The scope of the project implementation contract, and engineering structures. 6.850 meters length of double tube and 410 meters II. Kılıçarslan Bridge (cable-stayed and balanced cantilever includes İzmit Bay Bridge, 29 construction period is 7 years beam method) are also under the scope of the project. viaducts, 3 tunnels, 199 after the contract became valid motorway bridges, 20 toll and accordingly official project booths area, 25 Intersection, 6 completion date is March 2020. ILISU DAM AND HEPP PROJECT AND HASANKEYF operation and maintenance GROUP BRIDGES PROJECT NurolCengiz Joint Venture Nurol-Cengiz Joint Venture also PTO TİZİ OUZOU BOUİRA INTERSECTION MOTORWAY established for the construction established Nurol Cengiz PTO PROJECT of Ilısu Dam and HEPP, located Hasankeyf Partnership for the on Tigris River in Mardin, dam completion of Hasankeyf Group The Tizi Ouzou-Bouira intersection with 48 km length is being will be constructed by concrete Bridges Project considering the constructed by Özgün-Nurol Joint Venture in Algeria. face rockfill and the dam body agreement dated 2013. Project In 2018, for the project: volume will be 23,76 million m3, includes construction of 1.400.000 m3 cut excavation by 1.200 MWh capacity with Hasankeyf-1, Hasankeyf-2, 470.000 m3 fill 4.120 GWh yearly production. Reşat Baysal and Başur 75.000 m3 reinforced concrete production Dam foundation is 131 meters Motorway Bridges in Batman 346.000 m3 tunnel excavation high and maximum water level and Siirt cities. Project 3.800 m3 tunnel pavement concrete production of 528.87 meters. Project completion date is September 185.000 tons of superstructure wet mix production completion date is June 2019. 2019. 231.000 tons of superstructure hot mix production completed. Expected project completion: 2023. UNITED ARAB EMIRATES PROJECTS YUSUFELİ DAM RESERVOIR VIADUCTS PROJECT NUROL UAE, started business as a local firm in Abu Dhabithe capital city of UAEin April 2003. In 2004, Dubai branch opened. Founding purpose is to materialize high scope projects via benefiting from the current potential in construction industry. 4 Viaducts, to be implemented by balanced cantilever beam method in Yusufeli District of Artvin 277.539 m3 cut excavation 457.777 m3 foundation excavation Ongoing projects of Nurol UAE in Dubai and Abu Dhabi by end of 2018 are as below: City has assigned to Nurol-Gülsan Joint Venture by 33.873 m bolt production 452 m3 plain concrete production, General Directorate of Motorways. The project began 13.191 m barbican production 718 tons of reinforcement working in 2017 and expected to be completed by 2021. 253 tons of matting steel production 3.562 m3 reinforced concrete production The Cove Dubai Gulf Building Project Cordonnier Estate Building Project In 2018, for the project: 22.408 tons of shotcrete production completed. Located in Dubai, total construction area is 76.000 sqm and there will Located in Abu Dhabi, with total construction area of 67.000 sqm, be 3 residence buildings. construction of tower including commercial, office and residence GA09 Golf Apartment Building Project sections will be completed. YEŞİLYAKA PROJECT GA14 Golf Link Villas Project Located in Dubai, 288 (108X1, 132X2, 32X3, 2X4 Bedroom and 14 Yeşilyaka project contains the construction villas, social facility, sales office and trading area, around Büyükçekmece Sırtköy district on detached house) apartment (Z+11) construction will be completed. Located in GA14 region in South Emaar, construction of 204 villas will 1.000.000 m2 land. For the Yeşilyaka Project MesaNurol Joint Venture established. P32 Parcel Dubai Gulf Building be completed by 2020. Located in Dubai, construction of twin towers including 471 residenDubai Vista Beach Residential Towers Project ÜMRANİYE ATAŞEHİR GÖZTEPE METRO PROJECT ces will be completed Located in Dubai Harbor, residential towers (2) will be completed by The project consists of the construction of a 13 km long double tube TBM tunnel along with 2 train storage tunnels and a connection tunnel. 2021. There are 11 stations within the scope of the project, 5 of which being shaft+tunnel type. Construction scope is architectural and electromechanical installment. For this project, Gülermak-Nurol-Makyol Joint Venture established. 20 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ON GOING PROJECTS 21 FINANCIAL OUTLOOK Financial Indicators Economic Value: Generated & Distributed FINANCIAL OUTLOOK FINANCIAL INDICATORS ECONOMIC VALUE: GENERATED & DISTRIBUTED FINANCIAL INDICATORS (IFRS CONSOLIDATED) MTL Bin TL Nurol Construction continued to grow also in 2018 with stable 2016 2017 2018 I. DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED financial structure. In this context, the picture related to our TOTAL 3.744.833 6.002.570 6.496.406 8.518.650 Net Sales company's financial outlook is as ASSETS below. By the end of 2018, Dividends from Equity Method Investment Activity 473.097 consolidated active assets increased by 31% vs ya, TOTAL Revenue from Investment activities 197.500 shareholders' equity increased by SHAREHOLDERS’ 1.920.656 2.096.714 2.825.350 Financial Income 504.913 35% vs ya. Shareholder's equity EQUITY equals to 33% of total assets. Revenue 4.920.343 Interest, Amortization and EBITDA increased by 75%. Our revenue EBITDA 368.752 550.814 951.525 II. DIRECT ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED increased by 55% and realized around 3.744.833 TRY. By the end COGS (Including Operational Costs) 2.860.333 of 2018, the size of completed and on-going projects is above 23 Administrative Expenses 68.136 billion USD. SALES 2.304.234 2.421.588 3.744.833 REVENUE Expenses for Society Development Activities 1.498 Financial Expenses 1.973.586 Taxes (Government related) -1.800 Total Expenses 4.901.753 TOTAL ASSETS SALES REVENUE III. PROFIT/LOSS (GENERATED ECONOMIC VALUE) 2018 8.518.650 2018 3.744.833 Total Revenues 4.920.343 Total Expenses 4.901.753 2017 6.496.406 2017 2.421.588 Profit/Loss (Generated Economic Value) 18.590 Notes: 2016 6.002.570 2016 2.304.234 No significant penalties for 1. Reporting Period. 31 % 55 % Branches and Joint Ventures Nurol U.A.E. projects Nurol Construction Morocco projects Gama Nurol Joint Venture Özgün Nurol Joint Venture Nurol Georgia projects Nurol Construction Erbil projects Nurol Özaltın Makyol Astaldi Göçay Nurol-Gülermak Joint Venture Joint Venture (NÖMAYG) Nurol Saudi Arabia projects Nurol Construction Baghdad projects Nurol-Gülermak-Makyol Joint Venture Nurol Yüksel Özka YDA Joint Venture Nurol Construction Libya projects Nurol Cengiz Joint Venture Nurol-Mesa Joint Venture Nurol Yüksel YDA Özka Joint Venture Nurol Construction Algeria projects Nurol Cengiz Hasankeyf Joint Venture Nurol-Gülsan Joint Venture 24 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 FINANCIAL OUTLOOK 25 GOVERNANCE Board of Directors & Corporate Governance Risk and Opportunity Management Assessment of Process Risk and Opportunities Monitoring Economic, Social and Environmental Issues Occupational Health and Safety and Environmental Risk Assessment Ethics Management Policies and Principles for Practice Codes of Conduct Ethics and Discipline Committee GOVERNANCE Nurol Construction is managed and represented by Board of representing Nurol Construction is mainly responsible from, Board meetings requires presence of majority; during decision budget presentation meeting. Nurol Construction is represented by Directors, excluding exceptions written by law. Board of Directors has informing Nurol Construction HQ on, board activities and decisions making, majority of attendants is required. In case of equal votes, General Manager almost in every 2.5 months, in Nurol Group Board of eight members who are all capable and eligible to manage Nurol and integrating Nurol HQ top management to decision making the decision topic postpones to the next meeting. In the second Directors meeting. Construction in terms of education and work experience. Board process. Thus, Executive Board can be associated indirectly with meeting, the referred proposal counted as rejected in case equal Project Control Department is responsible from information, Members elected for maximum 3 years of duty and those can be Board of Directors. votes repetition. The validity of decisions depends on being signed. documentation and presentation preparation for Board of Directors elected over after 3 years completion. Nurol Construction is managed by Chairman, Vice Chairman, Group Ordinary meeting held in 3 months period following the end of each meetings. All production and financial data about projects are In the projects where we have partners, each and every partner is Managers and Department Managers. Corporate communications of operating cycle. During these meetings discussion and decision provided to Project Control Department by Worksite Technical Office represented in Executive Boards, who ensures tracking of production Nurol Construction led by Nurol Holding HQ. topics are as follows: election of related administrative unit, financial Units. After proper controls and filtering of data, Project Control progress and financial performance. Executive Board Member reports, yearly report of Board of Directors, assessment of profit Department makes the needed arrangement to make the data ready utilization, dividend and earning per share decisions, Board of for presenting to Nurol Group Board of Directors. Budget and Directors release and topics related with current operating cycle and Financial Control Department takes an active part in the need based other topics. In case of any need Board can hold special arrangement of data related with financial activities of Nurol meetings. Construction. By the compilation of all data, General Manager signed Operation and process details of Board of Directors are organized report and presentation becomes ready to be shared by Board of under company’s articles of association. Directors. General Manager is usually equipped by Executive summaries on production progress and Administrative Allowance Nurol Group of Companies attend Nurol Group Board of Directors Payment Charts as supporting documents. meeting, which held 5 times in a year and one of which is yearly Governance Principles In 2018 ‘Governance Principles’ released defining logic and behavior shaping all business relations and transactions, risk management applicable for all areas of activity, ethical principles and internal control policies. ‘Governance Principles Manual’ printed and distributed to all employees to Erol ÇARMIKLI Nurettin ÇARMIKLI M. Oğuz ÇARMIKLI increase employee awareness and accessibility of Governance Principles. Nurol Goverance Principles cover below topics: BOARD OF DIRECTORS & CORPORATE GOVERNANCE Codes of Conduct Anti-Corruption and Bribery According to 31 January 2017 dated Board of Directors decision, below table shows the members ratified to serve as specified Board Members. Human Resources and Employee Relations Facilitation Payments Customers, Suppliers and Subcontractor Relations Gifts, Representation and Hosting Responsibility Name, Surname Asset Security and Protection Consultants Nurol owned Information Protection Working with Partners and Other Working Arrangements Chairman Nurettin ÇARMIKLI Fraud Prevention, Accurate Accounting Recording and Lobby Activities, Political Support and Political Donation Vice Chairman M. Oğuz ÇARMIKLI Accuracy of Company Books Sponsorships Conflict of Interest Disaster Management Board Member Gürol ÇARMIKLI Honest Communication with Society and Media Risk Management Board Member Gürhan ÇARMIKLI Occupational Health and Safety Operational Excellence Declaration Board Member Oğuzhan ÇARMIKLI Product/Service Quality and Safety Social Responsibility and Volunteerism Board Member Bülent ERDOĞAN Sensitivity to Environment Charity Donations Respect to Law and Compliance to Regulations Violation Declarations Board Member Mehmet BUYURGAN Board Member Semih KAYAALP Governance Principles shared with employees through ‘Nurol Construction Family Talks’ organizations which kicked off by Nurol Construction in 2018, helping to inform employees on governance principles and increase awareness. Besides, Nurol Construction signed United Nations Global Compact and declared to support Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. DETAILED INFORMATION For Board of Directors operations and Board Member biographies: https://e-sirket.mkk.com.tr/esir/Dashboard.jsp#/sirketbilgileri/11082 28 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 29 Main Committees and Boards MONITORING ECONOMIC, SOCIAL AND ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES Board of Directors can delegate authority to individuals or formed to inform employees and to take requests/feedback of Nurol Construction monitors the economic, social and environmental Besides, Daily Reports and Monthly Operating Report helps tracking committees excluding the non-statutory authority. employees both for HQ and projects. For all domestic and overseas activities regularly. By the help of target programs prepared for of activity progress and compliance to work program. Yearly project Responsibility of management belongs to Board of Directors in case projects, Occupational Health and Safety and Environment projects, performance is tracked for related activity. Referred budget compliance is also tracked by budget report shared by project of non-delegation. Board of Directors can form committees or Committees are formed meeting monthly. Formen and workmen monitoring executed by regular monthly ‘Target Tracking Reports owners monthly. Project Monitoring type, Monitoring activity and commissions via including the members of board, for business delegates are elected and included in Occupational Health and Safety and Occupational Health and Safety and Environment Monthly frequency is as below table: monitoring, report preparation, implementation of the decisions or and Environment Committee meetings, also Project Manager, Report’. Project owners are informed on realization of targets and in internal control purposes. Department Delegate and Occupational Physician participate to case of any deviations from the targets monthly. As mentioned above, Nurol Construction formed ‘Ethics and meetings. Discipline Committee’ in 2018, reporting to Board of Directors, to Attendance of Board of Directors is planned to ‘Nurol Construction ensure loyalty to ‘Nurol Governance Principles’ and to evaluate the Family Talks’ organized to increase awareness of employees on cases independently in case of any deviation from the principles. The Governance Principles and take feedbacks of employees, for 2019. Monitoring Type Monitoring Activities Frequency committee consist of 5 members: Human Resources Coordinator, Nurol Construction, forming Sustainability Committee in 2019 Financial Management of Risk Management Plan Project risks and opportunities included considering latest economic developments On-going Nurol Company Chief Counsel, Nurol Company Human Resources planned to increase performance of sustainability. Attendance of Manager and 2 members from Internal Control Department. at least one member of the Board of Directors to Sustainability Occupational Health and Safety, Environment Report Occupational Health and Safety, Environment report Monthly Occupational Health and Safety and Environment Committees are Committee is also planned. Quality Control Project based quality control report Monthly External Relations Project based monthly external relations report Monthly RISK AND OPPORTUNITY MANAGEMENT Project Risk Assessment Project based risk assessment report. Monthly Risk management considering the management systems of defined Quality, Risk Management Plan Quarterly Occupational Health and Safety and Environment risk processes. ASSESSMENT OF PROCESS RISK AND OPPORTUNITIES Quality, Occupational Health and Safety and Environment topics have 'Target Programs' Risk Management provides efficient risk management for any topic, the plan. Risk Assessment Plan is reviewed by related process owner Target Follow-up Report Monthly and this report will follow the monthly realizations of the targets. the probability of risk realizations and result simulation prior to risk yearly. Meanwhile, project risks reviewed during risk assessment Occupational Health and Safety, The improper actions related with Occupational Health and Safety and Environment realization and proper handle in case of risk realizations in Nurol meeting quarterly, in case of any need, changes are reflected in Risk Weekly Environment Follow-up Report recorded by this form. Necessary actions are taken as a corrective action. Constructions just like all companies of Nurol Group of Companies. Assessment Plan. Besides regular reviews, Risk Management Plan is This policy covers monitoring, definition, analysis, evaluation and revised in case of: changes in conditions of contracts, new technic Corrective Actions Follow-up Report Necessary corrective actions following for improper actions identified in HQ and projects. Weekly assessment, reduction and reporting of the risk. developments, new equipment or machinery buy outs, changes in There are variety of processes and methods for the efficiency of organizational structure or processes, new raw material or Accident Investigation Follow-up Report Following of actions to prevent repetition of incidents happened both in HQ and projects. Weekly risk management within Nurol Construction. For the assessment of semi-manufactured goods production process, changes in regulations, environmental accidents, occupational accidents, Hazard Notification and Following of actions to prevent repetition of hazardous and near-miss incidents the risk and opportunities related with processes ‘Process Risk Weekly completion of Risk Management Plan measures. Near-Miss Follow-up Report happened both in HQ and projects. Assessment’ actions started in 2017 and the scope broadened in 2018. These studies and actions aim risks and opportunities’ Monthly training realization following for the compliance of yearly calendar of quality, Training Plan Monthly assessment, analysis and taking corrective action in case of any occupational health and safety and environment trainings for HQ and projects. need, helping the assessment of status change of the risk for Nurol Construction HQ and projects. Thus, all projects have Risk Management Plan embedded in all projects outline to ensure efficient and effective risk management for all actions and OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY AND ENVIRONMENTAL RISK ASSESSMENT processes. Integrated Management Systems Department is responsible from coordinating Nurol Construction Process Risk ‘Risk Assessment Procedure’ defined for the assessment and both environment and health and safety of employees, new technic Assessment studies. For HQ, Integrated Management Systems evaluation of Nurol HQ activities and operational activities about developments, changes in organization or work flow, new raw Manager is responsible from the risk management of processes, environmental effect and occupational health and safety risk material or semi-manufactured goods production process, while for the projects Authorized Personnel Secretariat is assessment and evaluation serving the Occupational Health and environmental accidents, occupational accidents or occupational responsible. During the process risk assessment studies, ‘Risk Safety Risk Assessment and Environmental Risk Assessment disease, any occurrence seriously effecting the environment and Assessment Team’ formed having representatives from all perspective of the company. As defined in the procedure, occupational health and safety, any incompleteness in actions. departments. Employees in Risk Assessment Team are equipped environmental assessment of Nurol Construction and operational For the Occupational Health and Safety and Environmental Risk with proper information about risk assessment principles and related activities are defined, risks are assessed and required steps are taken Assessment efforts, Risk Assessment Groups are formed. In the necessities. Risk Assessment plan is prepared by considering accordingly. Subsequent to all Nurol Construction operations, Risk group; Representative of the Employer, Occupational Physician, processes in process risk assessment studies and inhouse and Assessment is completed and shared with all stakeholders in Occupational Safety Specialist, Representative of Employees, outhouse risks. Defined actions are tracked after the preparation of advance. Support Employees, representatives from related departments and For all projects, Occupational Health and Safety and Environmental employees from related departments are the participants. Risk Risk assessment is revised yearly. Besides, also revised and updated Assessment Group has trainings prior to start off, to be capable in case of: new equipment or machinery buy outs which might effect about risk assessment steps. 30 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 31 CODES OF CONDUCT Nurol Codes of Conduct is as below: Human Resources and Employee Relations Facilitation Payments Customers, Suppliers and Subcontractor Relations Gifts, Representation and Hosting Asset Security and Protection Consultants Nurol owned Information Protection Working with Partners and Other Working Arrangements Fraud Prevention, Accurate Accounting Recording and Lobby Activities, Political Support and Political Donation Accuracy of Company Books Sponsorships Conflict of Interest Disaster Management Honest Communication with Society and Media Risk Management Occupational Health and Safety Operational Excellence Declaration Product/Service Quality and Safety Social Responsibility and Volunteerism Environmental Awareness Charity Donations Respect to Law and Compliance to Regulations Violation Declarations Anti-Corruption and Bribery In case of any violation thought considering the Codes of Conduct During notification and investigation period, confidentiality, defined in Governance Principles; notice line exists for declarations of objectivity and compliance to codes of conduct is crucial. In case of the employees. All announcements related with the usage of Ethics any intentional and inaccurate notification, it will be treated as Notice Line are already on the notice boards. violation of codes of conduct. ETHICS MANAGEMENT All employees are liable for notifying the company via Nurol The practices, during the compliance to Governance Principles, CODES OF CONDUCT AND corporate website (www.nurol.com.tr), etik.bildirim@nurol.com.tr, Ethics and Discipline Committee and Ethics Representative and/or reviewed by Nurol Construction Internal Control and corrective actions taken in case of any detection of misfit. POLICIES AND PRINCIPLES FOR PRACTICE WORKING PRINCIPLES related Company General Manager for any doubts of violation on these policies and principles. Notifications can be via phone Violations are reviewed, solved and reported by Ethics and Codes of Conduct prepared for Nurol Group of Discipline Committee. +90 312 455 10 05 directly to our Ethics Notice Line. Companies includes all standards and mindset All notifications are anonymous, any notifier is not disclosed. for business relations and transactions of Accountability Nurol Construction. The principles are binding We are all responsible from and explanatory for risk management, our own actions working principles, ethical principles and ETHICS AND DISCIPLINE COMMITTEE internal control. Ethics and Discipline Committee is formed to put into practice, apply, Compliance to rules is under the responsibility of Nurol Group Board The principles are binding for all employees of Honesty own and discipline the ‘Governance Principles’ of Nurol and Ethics of Directors and Nurol Ethics and Discipline Committee is responsible Nurol Construction regardless of the title and Committee is responsible from running the principles and practices. from execution. Nurol Company Board of Directors and EDC revise Nothing counts like reality location and defines ethical working principles Ethics and Discipline Committee (EDC) consist of 5 members, Human the Codes of Conduct considering the developments once a year. The and essentials. All employees regardless of Resources Coordinator, Nurol Company Chief Counsel, Nurol Company results and recommendations shared with Board of Directors. the location; should act accordingly and Human Resources Manager and 2 members from Internal Control According to evaluation results of 2018 activities & operations and properly during the relations with all our Department. Working procedures and principles of Ethics and Honesty Ethics Notice Line notifications under the light of Nurol stakeholders (other employees, customers, Discipline Committee is defined by Nurol Group of Companies Ethics We walk the talk Governance Principles, ‘Anti-Corruption and Bribery’ section, there suppliers, subcontractors, shareholders and and Discipline Committee Working Procedures and Principles is no anti-corruption incident both in HQ and projects. competitors, etc.). regulations. Applying the codes of conduct is the core for the reputation and the success of our Transperancy company. Codes of conduct is our reference for Sincere and direct answers to questions all our actions & operations; we own them to represent our company as a model. In the light of this approach, we avoid any misbehavior which might affect our company reputation Respect adversely. We respect all individuals and treat in a dignified, respectful and thoughtful manner 32 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GOVERNANCE 33 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Sustainable Development Goals Sustainability Management Sustainability Efforts and Reporting Process Dialogue with Stakeholders Sustainability Priorities Integrated Management Systems Corporate Memberships and External Recognition SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH As Nurol Construction, we continuously focus on the value we create operations and also care doing the best for our world and country. In Our sustainability strategy aims to contribute positively to the UN Sustainable Development Goals through our projects and activities. Related on sustainability of our society and the world. By this means, we the light of our referred vision, approach and motivation; we signed Sustainable Development Goals according to our contribution focus is as below: focus on solid governance structure, protection of ecosystem and UNGC on August 2017 in line with our sustainability effort and strengthen our effect on social dimension. In the light of our vision approach. By being a signee of compact, we announced that ‘we will of continuous development, being the pioneer of the industry and act in accordance with 10 principles.’ It helped to accelerate our increasing the number of signature projects worldwide, we prioritize sustainability awareness and reporting activities. On top of being a sustainability as it is an essential part of our business. Thus, we take signee of UNGC, we decided to report in line with latest GRI care of our stakeholders and aim to shape the future together with standards -which is more detailed and globally accepted reporting harmony. Our employees care for the societies where we have system. THE ESSENCE OF OUR FOUNDATION IS CONTRIBUTING SOCIALLY WHERE WE INVEST. SOME OF OUR PROJECTS CONTRIBUTE TO IRRIGATİON THUS AGRICULTURE; SOME INCREASE TOURISM AND TRADING VOLUME, WHILE SOME CONTRIBUTE TO INDUSTRIAL DEVELOPMENT INCLUDING TOURISM BY INCREASING THE CIVILIZED TRANSPORTATION BOTH INNER STATE AND UPSTATE. ON TOP OF THAT, WE CONTINUOUSLY FOCUS ON REFERRED 3 PRIORITIES: SOLID GOVERNANCE STRUCTURE, PROTECTION OF ECOSYSTEM, EMPOWERING SOCIAL DIMENSION, TO MAKE THE MENTIONED IMPROVEMENTS SUSTAINABILITY MANAGEMENT SUSTAINABLE. We set up the structure for internalization of our sustainability quality and increasing harmony with stakeholders. ‘Governance model, management and communication with stakeholders in the Principles’ released to form mechanisms for taking opinions on ethic company. In Nurol constructions, Board of Directors is responsible related issues, and notification of unethical issues and following from our duties to Nurol Group, company culture set up and processes are defined in 2018. Governance Principles includes policies internalization, stakeholder responsibilities and performance. Thus, of Codes of Conduct and working principles and code of practice. Nurol Construction Board of Directors lead and serve as model for our ‘Ethics Notice Line’ formed for notifying the company in case of any SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS company’s economic, social and environmental approach, doing the violation on policies and regulations which is accessible by all business in ethical way, configuration of effective and reliable employees. After review and investigation of all notification, Ethics By being a signee of UNGC, our aim is to be a part of solutions for eliminate the urgent and important environmental, social, governance systems. Board of Directors is mainly responsible from and Discipline Committee is informed and this committee prepares a main global problems targeting 17 main global goals. By the global humanitarian, economic and administrative problems. transparency, management and performance of sustainability report and kicks the solution process. goals of Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), the aim is to efforts. Nurol Construction targets form ‘Sustainability Committee’ directly Nurol Construction complies to legal procedures by the nature of its reporting to Board of Directors for the purposes of addressing vision and policies. In the countries where Nurol has projects, on top sustainability by broader vision, increase the performance and of meeting legal requirements, Nurol have principles aiming to continue to be the leader and exemplary in the industry. At least one overachieve environmental and social necessities in the countries member of the Board will be a part of the planned committee and DETAILED INFORMATION where legal requirements are insufficient. Thus, local community after preparation of the procedures defining working principles and opinions are taken into consideration and their need, expectations rules; the first meeting of the committee is planned within the year. http://www.tr.undp.org/content/turkey/tr/home/sustainable-development-goals.html and complaints are evaluated. This is the way of enhancing service 36 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 37 The aims of the Sustainability Committee are foreseen as below: SUSTAINABILITY REPORTING PROCESS As a part of our sustainability strategy and approach, within the scope of our Report; we aimed to provide information about our management INTEGRATING SUSTAINABILITY WITH COMPANY’S MISSION, VISION AND STRATEGIES approach, policies, practices we have implemented, our performance and goals that are important for our company and stakeholders. TAKING NECESSARY ACTIONS AND MEASURES TO ENHANCE COMPANY SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE, SUPPORT COORDINATION AND COMMUNICATION, PREPARATION PRIORITIES WORKSHOP ACTION, PERFORMANCE ENCOURAGE INNOVATIVE ACTIONS AND PRACTICES AND GOAL SETTING Research Identification of Stakeholders PROVIDING AUTHORIZATION AND SUPPORT TO LARGE SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES Identification of Nurol Definition of Prioritized Issues Endorsing Sustainability REQUIRING LEADERSHIP COMMITMENT Sustainability Teams Actions Strategy Definition Sustainability Introducing Sustainability CONTRIBUTING TO THE DEVELOPMENT OF INSTITUTIONAL AND OPERATIONAL Performance STRUCTURE FOR IMPLEMENTATION AND MANAGEMENT OF SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES Preparation PROVIDING SUPERIOR MANAGEMENT SUPPORT FOR INSTITUTIONALIZING LOYALTY TO In the first stage of the sustainability structuring and reporting activities, following the research on the characteristics of the construction SUSTAINABILITY AND CONTRIBUTE TO EXTENSION THROUGHOUT THE COMPANY industry, projects and our stakeholders, we held a sustainability meeting by the participation of our top management. The meeting was fruitful in terms of increasing executives’ awareness and knowledge on sustainability and identification of priorities and strategies. At this stage; the EVALUATING AND FINALIZING POTENTIAL SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES AND RELATED assessment of the structure of our company and its main effects on the sustainability completed and our Sustainability Team formed. COSTS ENCOURAGING AND EXTENDING INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL COMMUNICATION ON Identification of Priorities SUSTAINABILITY INITIATIVES AND EFFORTS AND COORDINATING IN CASE OF ANY NEED For the identification of key stakeholders and sustainability priorities of our company, workshops held and the dialogue with our stakeholders and shareholders examined. In line with these efforts, together with consultancy company and sustainability team considering the opinions of DETERMINING BEST PRACTICES, ENCOURAGING AND SUPPORTING ACTIONS FOR key executives; sustainability strategies, key stakeholders and sustainability priorities are defined. The results of these studies: sustainability INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL DISSEMINATION matrices and stakeholder dialogue tracking charts presented to our stakeholders within the scope of our sustainability report. SUPPORTING THE SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS FOR THE DISSEMINATION TO SOCIETY Sustainability Action and Process Identification We gathered information about our company profile, operational environment, value chain, governance, economy, environmental, social and ethical practices, information related with performance and targets by the support of our sustainability representatives. The collected information; compiled and transferred in line with UNGC and GRI Standards. By this purpose, in addition to studies carried out in HQ; we conducted a field visit to our Balıkesir Motorway Project with HQ Integrated Management Systems Team and our Sustainability Consultant to organize sustainability training, to exchange information on observations and practices, and to identify potential improvement areas. SUSTAINABILITY EFFORTS AND REPORTING PROCESS In the current state, Integrated Management Systems Department is responsible from managing and coordinating the sustainability efforts of Nurol Construction and projects. Sustainability Team is formed under the leadership of Integrated Management Systems Department for sustainability management and reporting. During the process, we took support from HQ Integrated Management Systems Department and Projects’ Sustainability Representatives. DIALOGUE WITH LESS THAN FREQUENT FREQUENT Universities, Media, STAKEHOLDERS Insurance Companies, Competitors We identified our key stakeholders according Sectoral Associations to the degree which they are affected by our and NGOs activities or they affect our activities, in three different categories and grouped them as Nurol Construction Sustainability Team “the most affected by our activities” or “the MORE THAN FREQUENT most affecting our activities” , having Customers, Financing Providers, “moderate” and “minor affects” on our Nurol Construction Finance Department activities as follows: Employees, Regulators and Legislators, Sustainability Team Project Control Department Subcontractors/ Suppliers, Local Community Integrated Management Business Development Department Systems Department (Leader) Personnel Affairs Department 38 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 39 These issues took place in the upper right corner, under the “Priority upper left corner of the Matrix) and the other issues that we believe PLATFORMS FOR COMMUNICATION WİTH THE STAKEHOLDERS AND FREQUENCY Issues Matrix’’ as below. As part of our sustainability strategy and have high impact on Nurol Construction's corporate success (in the Various dialogue platforms utilized to learn about our stakeholders' expectations from us on sustainability issues and to inform our approach, within the scope of our report; we cared to provide lower right corner of the Matrix) within the framework of our stakeholders on these issues. information about our governance approach, policies, practices, our management approach and practices. Within the scope of Nurol performance and objectives, which are crucial both for Nurol Construction's value chain, we have also mentioned the important Stakeholders Monitoring Activities Frequency Topics Construction and our key stakeholders. In addition, we tried to issues outside the corporate boundaries by highlighting them with address information that is important for our stakeholders (in the the red font in the following matrix. Project technical interviews, project implementation, work Visits, dialogues, employer audits, creditor audits, e-mail, Daily, weekly, monthly, schedules, project drawing minutes approvals, allowance Employer Domestic official correspondence, meetings, reports, agreements, payments, materials and quality control, manufacturing in case of need activity report, allowance material issues, occupational health and safety and environmental issues Weekly, monthly, Project progress, quality, OHS-E, allowance payments, HIGH Employer Abroad Meetings, correspondence, reports, presentations technical, financial, administrative and contractual issues in case of need related to the project Economic Performance Occupational Health and Safety Administration and employer correspondence, e-mail Unexpected ESG Risks correspondence, implementation of the project, job Impact on the Assessment and Visits, dialogues, audits, e-mail, official correspondence, Daily, weekly, monthly, Local Employment Counsellor Domestic deliveries in the site, job request forms follow-up, as-built meetings, reports, job request forms, quality test forms in case of need Environmental Management project approvals, technical discussions on productions, Safety Practices project quality control tests and reports, sample testing Indirect Economic Impacts Meetings, correspondence, reports, Suppliers Environmental Audits Weekly, monthly, Project progress, quality, OHS-E, allowance Counsellor Abroad Suppliers Social Audits presentations, site visits in case of need payments, project issues Decision Making of the Stakeholders Waste Management Meetings, dialogues, offers, agreements, official Water Management Project issues, work schedules, drawing deliveries, work correspondence, dialogues, e-mails, trainings, OHS Daily, weekly, monthly, Training Subcontractors progress and planning, OHS, quality and environmental committees, audits, site visits, warning and safety signs, in case of need Workforce / Management Relations issues, allowance payments, work deliveries reports Meetings, offers, agreements, official correspondences, Daily, weekly, monthly, Payments, standards, quality, OHS and environmental Suppliers e-mail, trainings, OHS committees, audits, site visits, in case of need issues, sectoral developments, financial issues, security order letters Legislative and Corporate visits, dialogues, official correspondence, Work, SSI, OHS, environment, tax law issues, permits, LOW Impact in terms of GES Performance of Nurol Construction HIGH Regulatory Institutions Yearly, in case of need meetings, site visits, seminars, permits expropriation, public order and security issues * Issues which are also important for value chain highlighted in red Monthly, Half-yearly, Project progress, quality, OHS-E, mutual interactions, site Partners Board meeting, Executive board meeting, correspondence in case of need management issues, partnership issues Trainings, social events, e-mail correspondence, Informing the employees about their duties in the project, meetings, notice boards, intranet, trainings, contracts, construction site information sessions, Integrated Daily, weekly, monthly, Employees Nurol Construction Family Talks organizations, internal in case of need Management Systems informing, OHS-E informing, labor Operating in construction industry, Nurol Construction and Trading corruption. We refuse accepting and giving bribes regardless of communication materials, corporate web page, Nurol law issues, employee personal rights, job descriptions, Co. Inc., is active in the construction of infrastructure and purpose, we terminate our business relationship with third parties Publications administrative affairs issues, Nurol Governance Principles superstructure projects, dams, hydroelectric power plants, hotels, who intend to do business with Nurol Construction by this means. In Monthly, yearly, public housing, ready to operate production and industrial plants and this regard; we act within the framework of Nurol Governance Union Meetings, correspondence OHS, employee personal rights in case of need waste-water treatment plants. Principles. It is important for us to have a positive background in all fields of activity with the criteria like experience, financial Financial Institutions Regional and project management visits, accounting Daily, weekly, monthly, Project and investment issues, deposit We act with human-oriented approach; and we respect our department visits, official correspondence, dialogues, visits in case of need performance and technical competence in the selection stage of the transactions, payments employees, society and environment where we operate. We treat companies and business partners where goods and services are Official correspondence, dialogues, non-governmental Project related requests and complaints, environmental occupational health and safety as a priority. We provide safe and Society Monthly, in case of need purchased and sold. Companies or business partners with negative organizations, media, social responsibility activities issues, project information, expropriation issues healthy working conditions for our employees and comply with all intelligence about bribery or corruption is not considered as a relevant legislation within this scope. We prioritize protecting Media Press releases, interviews, social media, project Yearly, in case of need Project news, social responsibility news, project stakeholder even if all other criteria meet the expectations. management visits presentation, project progress occupational health and safety, structuring and working in a way to prevent occupational accidents. We take care of our relations with our internal and external NGOs E-mail, correspondence Yearly, in case of need Opinions on legislation, certification stakeholders and evaluate their expectations, demands and In the scope of our projects of various sizes and purposes, we operate Project implementation, work progress, work program, complaints. This includes dialogue between employee and Consultants Correspondence,site visits, meetings, workshops Monthly, in case of need in many different geographies and in our operation regions, besides allowance payments, OHS-E management, as well as relations with the local community at the constructing structures that provide welfare to the region; we also project sites. provide direct and indirect economic benefits through local supply and labor preference. In the projects carried out through our Within the scope of our Sustainability Report, we will mainly share SUSTAINABILITY PRIORITIES subcontractor or suppliers; with our social standards, the support and our approach, policy, implementation, performance and goals related audit for the realization of social standards; we maintain compliance to our priorities. Besides; Integrated Management Systems is also During the “Stakeholder Analysis and Prioritization” workshop we according to the biggest impact on our corporate success and to legal regulations and standards for our value chain. Thus, we help covered which contributes to the systematic management of conducted and afterwards, to determine our sustainability priorities; stakeholders, and our key stakeholders care most about and want to them to develop and increase their standards. sustainability issues. In addition, our corporate memberships, which we have addressed the main and prioritized sustainability issues obtain more information. directly or indirectly contribute to our sustainability goals, are also As Nurol Construction, we stand against all kinds of bribery and mentioned. 40 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 41 INTEGRATED MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS EXTERNAL AUDITS AND CERTIFICATIONS Within the scope of Integrated Management Systems (IMS) in Nurol ensure and maintain high standards via coordination with HQ. We Nurol Construction crowned its high 45001: 2018 Occupational Health and Construction; we target permanent, continuously improving, monitor and control the related performance of our projects through standards with national and / or Safety Management System, which was sustainable structures for quality management system, regular project visits and internal audits conducted by our central IMS international standards and documents. published in 2018 replacing the OHSAS STANDARD, DOCUMENT NAME environmental management system and occupational health and organization, as well as reporting. Through regular internal audits, In line with ISO 9001 Quality Management 18001 standard. T. C. “Facility Security System, ISO 14001 Environmental Certificate” audit completed successfully ISO 9001:2015 Quality safety management system in accordance with the requirements of we audit all Nurol Construction projects in accordance with the Management System international standards. We aim to apply Nurol Standards specified procedure and monitor the audit results centrally. We Management System and OHSAS 18001 which was conducted by the Ministry of throughout all projects by the coordination of Integrated examine the implementation levels of the projects during the project Occupational Health and Safety National Defense in 2018 and were ISO 14001:2015 Environmental Management Systems Department managed from HQ. Our teams visits and inform them about recent developments. We report all Management System standards awarded the “NATO Secret and National Management System working on Quality, Environment and OHS issues in our projects, will control results to senior management and monitor the results. requirements, we ensure the continuance Secret Facility Security Certificate”. We ISO 45001:2018 Occupational of our certification via audits by meet the requirements of the security Health and Safety Management authorized independent audit firms for management system requirements and System years. Since then, we are regularly manage our related processes in Facility Security Certificate audited. The audit scope covers Nurol accordance with the system. (Nato Secret and National Secret) Construction's domestic and international WE OWN THE CULTURE OF EXCELLENCE construction projects investment, design Ministry of Labor and Social Security audit some of our projects in Turkey on and construction of contracting services. WITH INTEGRATED QUALITY APPROACH The externals audit of ISO 9001: 2015 Occupational Health and Safety. The audit scope includes compliance with ACCREDITATIONS IN GOVERNANCE AS THE WAY OF DOING Quality Management System and ISO 14001: 2015 Environmental Occupational Health and Safety legislation in the field and Turkish Accreditation Agency (TÜRKAK) BUSINESS. Management System standards completed successfully in 2018. We were documentation. Similarly, Ministry of Environment and Urbanization holds German Accreditation Agency (DakkS) among one of the first companies in the audits about environmental legislation Turkish construction industry to having compliance. the privilege to be certified by ISO QUALITY POLICY The prior objective of Nurol Construction and Trading Co. Inc. as a commercial entity and for each company member, is to serve at the highest CORPORATE MEMBERSHIPS AND EXTERNAL RECOGNITION service standards and to provide unlimited Client satisfaction. Excellency is not a choice but a must of our business and our main goal is to reach this objective. We herewith commit the execution of principles given here-below at each field we have activities: As Nurol Construction, we provide information about our corporate follow the decisions. TUSIAD formed three sub-working groups memberships and recognition in external structures: under the Climate Change Working Group. Referred sub-groups are; Covering the requirements of our leading role in the quality issue; Climate Change and Low Carbon Economy Sub-Working Group, By being a signee of the United Nations Global Compact in August By providing design, laborship and service quality through each product, reaching the highest quality level; Financing Models and Incentives Sub-Working Group and Zero Waste 2017, we pledged that we will support and act on the 10 fundamental By covering the quality issues in internal communication, providing of precious integrated team work; Sub-Working Group. As Nurol Construction; by being an active universal principles of human rights working standards, environment member of TUSIAD, we express our opinions during preparation of By giving the priority to the quality issues in the internal training programs, bringing the individual improvement of each and corruption. We are members of Supply Chain Working Group and environmental legislation. member to a level convenient to moderate requirements; Women's Empowerment Working Group formed by the UN Global By the execution of individual liabilities completely, reaching to the quality objectives; Compact Turkey's Secretariat and we participate actively. According to the largest contractors list prepared by News Carrying out necessary activities for continuous improvement the effectiveness of the Quality Management System; ‘’Engineering Record”(www.ENR.com) based in the United States, The World Water Council is an international multi-stakeholder Nurol Construction has been listed as the ‘The Biggest Global Covering the necessities of legal, regulatory and Client’s contractual requirements exclusively. platform organization whose mission is to mobilize action on critical Contractors” and “The Biggest International Contractors’’ for the last water issues at all levels, including the highest decision-making 14 years. level, by engaging people in debate and challenging conventional thinking. The Council focuses on the political dimensions of water Founded in 1952, Turkish Contractors Association TMB; act to security, adaptation and sustainability. We are a member of World address the problems of member companies and to improve Water Council. domestic and international connections and cooperation via continuous activities, meetings and trainings. Besides being one of On top of being a member of TUSIAD (Turkish Industry and Business the most active members of TMB, we cared to participate and Association), we participate in the Energy Efficiency Task Force and contribute to the meetings and workshops of the association in 2018 Environment and Climate Change Working Group activities and 42 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 43 Foreign Economic Relations Board of Turkey Undertaken the duty of managing foreign economic relations of the Turkish private sector. Together with founding Institutions, members and the Business Council and Turkey's leading entrepreneurs & representatives a volunteer 'business diplomacy' organization. As Nurol Construction, we take part in the executive boards of the Business Councils of Romania, Algeria, Qatar, United Arab Emirates, Hungary and the United States. İstanbul Chamber of Industry An effective stakeholder giving direction to the industrial climate, an organization developing the Turkish industry worldwide by increasing the sustainable competitiveness and competencies of our industrial companies. İstanbul Chamber of Commerce Promoting the rapid development and expansion of trade, small industry and service sectors. Works to create new markets abroad. Identifies the obstacles for the development of the business world and acts to remove the barriers. We are a member of Istanbul Chamber of Commerce since we moved our HQ from Ankara to Istanbul in 2015. Asphalt Contractors Association of Turkey As a non-governmental organization representing the real sector in the asphalt industry, the Ministry of Public Works and Settlement has been actively communicating with the General Directorate of Motorways, which has an important place in the development of the asphalt industry with the decisions and initiatives, and has been organizing various activities and joint studies with coordination since its establishment. Turkey Construction Industry Employers' Association Established in Ankara in 1964 and is a non-governmental organization representing the leading companies of the Turkish construction sector. The aim is to contribute to the development of the industry with its activities and to help the sustainable growth and development of the national economy. The members of İNTES, which are defined as “Construction Industrialists’’ are the companies that have the principles of constructing their business according to the rules of science and art and qualified employment and being registered in the economy. İNTES members increase the brand value of the Turkish construction industry with the projects they complete in Turkey and abroad. In addition to construction, INTES members support the development of our country with investments in different industries such as energy, agriculture, food and tourism. Turkish Exporters Assembly The exporter firms around 83 thousand acting in 27 separate sectors in which export records are maintained, conduct foreign trade transactions on 61 exporter associations organized in region and sector-wide. Such 61 associations are collected under 13 general secretaryships. Turkish Exporters Assembly is the upper organization of 13 general secretaryship and exporter associations. Union of Chambers of Turkish Engineers and Architects Chamber aims to represent the engineers and the architects of our country in professional, economic, social, and cultural areas; protect and improve their rights and interests on the basis of the common interest of our people; ensure their professional, social and cultural development; and provide a common ground to use their professional experiences for the benefit of public. 44 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH 45 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS Environmental Trainings Energy and Emission Management Water Management Efforts Behind Water Consumption Decrease Waste-Water Management Waste Management Biodiversity ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS In line with our corporate culture, we monitor and manage our reflections. In our projects where the legal requirements of the environmental impacts in all our projects. In this context; we assess country, in which we have projects, are inadequate according to the ENVIRONMENTAL TRAININGS the environmental impacts of our projects and apply the necessary requirements of Nurol Construction Environmental Management control methods by the evaluation of the effect. Starting from the System or infrastructure problems related to environmental control Maintaining our activities in harmony with the natural life, not awareness by conducting training needs analysis once a year. planning stage of our projects, we try to predict the effects. We measures are experienced; we expect implementation of our system adversely affecting the environment and taking the necessary We share the basic information about the trainings on environment reflect the results proactively on operational decisions of the requirements in the project and we follow the issue closely. actions in this context are basically stemming from increasing the and other subjects in our HQ and projects in 2018 as below projects. awareness of our employees and suppliers. For our HQ and projects, breakdown: We supervise our subcontractors and suppliers on environmental environmental trainings are planned to improve environmental For environmental awareness improvement of our employees, we issues by defined plans and give support to improve their continue to focus on raising awareness in our projects every year. We environmental performance. Besides, we question the requirements aim to improve environmental awareness of our employees and of all the environmental legislations and provide the necessary TRAINING HOURS ON ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES 2018 make the issue a part of our culture and reflect to our way of doing support to eliminate any deficiencies. Total Training Hours Training Hour Per Employee business. (employee.hour) (hour/employee) By analyzing the project activities and sites, we prepare waste We comply with environmental regulations, as we all do for legal management plans and realize accordingly. Including the Environmental Trainings regulations. We implement sustainability policies effectively in all subcontractors into this process, we closely monitor their waste our processes and support preventive approaches that will not harm management activities and provide operational support in case of HQ 277,93 4,03 the environment. For this purpose; we closely monitor the changes in need. environmental laws and share the changes with our relevant Balıkesir Motorway Project 558,18 1,79 We have provided the information about the audits we conducted for employees. Besides, we reflect any changes to our practices. We also Eyiste Viaduct Project 165 1 our subcontractors and suppliers and respective 2018 results in the inform the relevant subcontractors and suppliers and monitor Sustainability in Value Chain section of the report. Boukhroufa Dam Project 323,65 1,84 Nurol Construction and Trading Co. Inc. aimed at the protection of natural environment, while conducting its Souk Tleta Dam Project 400,50 2,41 production activities at top quality level. In this respect, we confirm that we will realize the principles given-below, All Trainings related with the environment we borrowed from future generations, in every area we have activities: HQ 6.250,75 90,59 Balıkesir Motorway Project 16.014,15 36,58 Eyiste Viaduct Project 3960 24 Boukhroufa Dam Project 3.737,83 16,238 Souk Tleta Dam Project 1.339,00 4,83 To prevent air, To comply with the To provide execution In situations when water, soil legal legislation of design activities conditions cannot be pollution in a about environment, with minimum interfered, not In 2018, we were not subject to any significant sanctions or penalties for non-compliance to environmental legislation. During our audits, we did continuous administrative environmental participating in the improvement regulations and the affects, production activities not coincide any suppliers that had significant negative impact on the environment. manner, rules that should which may have In the scope of this section, we are sharing the activities we carried out with respect to our environmental awareness under the subheadings of naturally be obeyed, significant and negative energy and emission management, water and waste-water management, waste management and biodiversity. effects on environment, ENERGY AND EMISSION MANAGEMENT During the environmental impact analysis of our projects, we define Dust emissions are generated from concrete plants and quarries. In all sources of our emissions and take under control, by following the this context; we regularly monitor particulate matter 10 (PM10) and necessary legal permission processes. collapsible dust values. We take a series of preventive measures to As a result of activities such as asphalt plant, beam casting area, prevent dusting at our sites. Dust barriers, pumper use, pulverized greenhouse gas emissions occur in our motorway projects. We systems are among these measures. Within the To share the acquired In scope of production To provide the monitor our emissions for asphalt plants and incorporate them into In addition to dust emissions, we also have fossil fuel utilization for framework of environmental activities, to spend necessary training legal authorization processes. Emissions occur from the steam transportation and heating; energy consumption and greenhouse engineering experiences with excessive emphasis on and education principles, using public, private sector the utilizing of natural programs for bringing boilers at beam casting sites. Referred emissions are not subject to gas emission resulting from electricity consumption. Referred energy environment corporations and resources in the most all our staff, suppliers emission permits for the projects in our country, but we still carry out consumption and the greenhouse gas emissions resulting from friendly inputs non-governmental effective way, the and subcontractors to measurements. these consumptions are given below. throughout our organizations provisions of source the required level of activities, mutually, saving and recycling, environmental consciousness. Nurol Construction has certified its environmental management with ISO 14001: 2015 Environmental Management System 48 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS 49 ENERGY CONSUMPTION Our construction site area is not located within the protection groundwater. Therefore, we are aware of the possible negative distances of water basin areas. However, there is a possibility of impacts of our work and strive to eliminate them and, if not, Energy Consumption within Balıkesir Konya Eyiste Boukhroufa Souk Tleta construction activities could adversely affect surface and minimize them. Possible effects can be summarized as follows: the Organization TOTAL Motorway Project Viaduct Project Dam Project Dam Project Fuel Diesel (fuel, heating) 56.153,02 1.184,55 3.708,27 7.375,98 68.421,81 MOTORWAY RELATED CUT AND FILLING WORKS, STONE QUARRY OPERATION, LNG* 3.743,87 3.743,87 LANDSCAPE WORKS, CLEANING OF THE AREA AND SURFACE FLOWS THAT CAN BE CNG** 2.321,22 2.321,22 FORMED IN SOIL STORAGE AREAS, Electricity DURING THE CONSTRUCTION, USAGE OF BITUMINOUS INSULATION MATERIALS REQUIRED FOR WATERPROOFING CONCRETE SURFACE, Electricity Form The Grid 5.607,24 2.086,38 14.302,82 1.685,71 21.998,13 LEAKS-SPILLS FROM FUEL TANKS IN THE CAMP SITE, Total Energy Consumption (GJ) 65.504,13 5.592,15 18.011,08 9.061,69 96.485,03 WASTE-WATER IN CAMP SITE Note 1: The data of the table consists of the energy consumption of Scope 1 and Scope 2 in GHG emissions calculation methodology, in other words, the consumption of machinery and DETERIORATION OF STREAMBEDS DURING THE CONSTRUCTION OF vehicles belonging to Nurol Construction. WAREHOUSES AND PRODUCTION Note 2: Electric energy is used for heating purposes in Boukhroufa Dam Project, so there is no fuel consumption for this purpose. There is no heat center in Souk Tleta Dam project, thus there is no fuel consumption for heating purposes. NATURAL DEEP SPLITTING DURING CUT EXCAVATION *LNG: Liqiufied Natural Gas ** CNG: Compressed Natural Gas CONSTRUCTION OF ART STRUCTURES ON HIGH LEVEL OF GROUND WATER GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS FROM ENERGY CONSUMPTION (tCO2e) Scope Emission Source Balıkesir Konya Eyiste Boukhroufa Souk Tleta TOTAL Motorway Project Viaduct Project Dam Project Dam Project Water management procedure created in the scope of terrestrial structures are planned. Considering the effect to prevent water flow Direct Emission environmental management plan, to reduce the referred impacts, during flood periods, hydraulic structures such as bridges, culverts defining how to work around surface water and groundwater and diverting channels sizes were also revised. In this context, 22 box Diesel Fuel Combustion Emission 3.919,182 82,675 258,817 514,804 4.775,478 resources during our construction activities. Within the existing culverts, 4 bridges and 3 viaducts will be used for river crossing. Scope 1 LNG Combustion Emission 189,213 189,213 route, considering all the dry and overflowing creek beds below CGN Combustion Emission 117.312,693 117.312,693 Water Withdrawal Indirect Electricity Emission Scope 2 Tracking of water withdrawal and discharge will help us to measure water footprint and manage our activities more effectively Direct Electricity Consumption Emission 724,27 269,49 2.026,23 0,24 3.020,23 Water Drawing Levels according to Source is mentioned below: Total Emission 4.832,66 117.664,86 2.285,05 515,04 125.297,62 Note 1: Data consists of the energy consumptions in Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions for the calculation for GHG emissions, in other words, GHG emissions from machinery and vehicles WATER WITHDRAWAL SOURCE (M3) belonging to Nurol Construction. Project Tap water Surface water (river, lake, etc.) Underground water Operating in the construction sector; we cannot provide the GHG emission intensity of our projects, as of the fact that the production processes Balıkesir Motorway Project 5.204,4 7.986,6 are gradual (earthworks, concrete works, etc.), different manufacturing types (motorway, dam, etc.) and each project and project location have its own characteristics. Konya Eyiste 144.560,0 Viaduct Project WATER MANAGEMENT Boukhroufa Dam Project 0,0 232.000,0 15.945,0 We spend continuous efforts and take precautions behind the water management purposes. The depth of the wells is less than 10 Souk Tleta Dam Project 7.500,0 14.400,0 conscious consumption and effective usage of water, which is crucial meters, thus not subject to permission according to the groundwater asset for the beginning and continuation of life. regulations. Water level is constant during the level measurements No water resources affected significantly by our water withdrawals in the stated amounts above for our projects. There is no water recycling in in the well. Thus, it was concluded that there was no attraction our project sites or HQ. Caisson wells were built due to the high groundwater level at the affecting the water body. Ertuğrul construction site, a part of Balıkesir Motorway Project; for 50 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS 51 EFFORTS BEHIND WATER CONSUMPTION DECREASE Balıkesir Motorway Project practices already mentioned under the employees for the usage of sets. In addition, all employees and Waste Management heading. To summarize here; ‘Spill Response subcontractors are obliged to report any environmental incidents. We take precautions and carry out activities to reduce water consumption and to use water consciously and effectively for both utility and Kits’ containing absorbent materials suitable for materials to be Environmental cases examined and necessary precautions and potable water in our projects. There are no significantly affected water resources in our project sites due to the water withdrawals. directly intervened in the field were provided. They were kept in safe actions are taken. and clearly marked locations and trainings were provided to Balıkesir Motorway Project Instead of clean water, we utilize the rested water in the sedimentation ponds, for concrete mixer and pump washing WATER DISCHARGE ACCORDING TO THE RECEIVING ENVIRONMENT instead. This helped us to decrease water consumption to 558 m3 and to save 5.022 m3 of clean water. Leakage monitoring through regular controls of water consumption (i.e., determination of water leaks in pipes by comparing consumptions), Project Waste Water Source Quantity (m3/year) Wastewater Discharge Point and Method We quickly eliminate defects which can increase water consumption Ertuğrul Construction Camp Site 10.950 Packaged waste water passes from waste water treatment Shower heads and taps frequently controlled by camp supervisor to prevent water leaks Balıkesir Motorway Project system (Biological Process) and delivered to Üzümcü Creek. Savings through washing machines usage only by authorized persons with the selection of the economic programs of the Kızılören Construction Camp Site 4.938 Direct discharge to Manisa Sewage. machines, No waste water discharge. Septic Switching to drip water system in the construction sites hobby gardens for saving purposes Konya Eyiste Viaduct Project Camp Site Domestic Use 1.220 shooting with vacuum trucks. Create 'saving' awareness via warning signs After biological process, given to Construction Camp Site 14.600 Improving the storage conditions, ensuring the drinking water quality, preventing the discharge of drinking water help Boukhroufa Stream directly. packaged water consumption. We store water in cool (5-15OC), dark (away from sunlight) and dry place (where humidity is Boukhroufa Dam Project Reused via discharge to the sedimentation tank. If the less than 50%). Besides, we keep them away from chemicals, detergents, cleaning stuff, gasoline and so on. Storage is Stone Crusher 18.250 sedimentation tank and the deposition tank become full, carried out by Nurol Construction Warehouse Department and controlled by Administrative Affairs Department. These directly discharged to Boukhroufa Stream. precautions help us to ensure storage in healthy environment and drinkable during the shelf life and prevent waste drinking water. Souk Tleta Dam Project Utility Water 14.400 Discharged to sewage system. Thanks to high standards of construction sites, we prevent the consumption of packaged water for utility purposes by reaching every point in the site area and also reduce the generation of packaging waste. We also reduce our water consumption by the awareness of our employees. Water Bodies Effected by Water Discharges Eyiste Viaduct Project By the assessment of water bodies that will be affected by discharge Waste-water in Boukhroufa Dam Project camp discharged to or flow within the scope of our projects, what we see is as below: Boukhroufa Creek through biological treatment, thus the Creek is not We inform our employees to prevent unnecessary water consumption adversely affected by our waste-water. Balıkesir Motorway Project water discharges; Uzumcu River is approximately 56 km long and combines with Simav River, which is Waste-water from Souk Tleta Dam Project camp area is discharged Boukhroufa Dam Project born from Ivrindi district of Balikesir city and flows into Marmara to the sewerage system utilized by the surrounding villages in the For the crusher plant, berm was built in the riverbed. The accumulated water is used in the crusher plant and rested in front Sea. Observations show that the flow of our project does not harm sub-site through local septic tanks located around the structures. of the upstream battery and pumped behind the crusher set for re-use. By the help of the referred re-use, 240,000 m3 of the biological diversity of Üzümcü Stream. Yearly average of 10,950 This sewage system reaches to the treatment system. In case of water need can be met only with 24,000 m3 of water. Thus, we save 216,000 m3 by water by re-use. m3 of treated water is discharged. Waste-water assessment clogging, the sewage truck is called and conveyed to the waste frequency is in line with legislation, the analysis show that we meet treatment system in the Oued Smar region. It is known that the Souk Tleta Dam Project discharge standards. water coming out of the system is released to the bed of Bougdura stream and reaches to the Mediterranean Sea. Utilization of water saving systems No discharge for Konya Eyiste Viaduct Project camps, Municipal Saving through keeping the car wash system in single zone Konya teams remove the collected waste-water by septic extraction. Storage of drinking water in suitable environment and consumption for the main purpose. WASTE-WATER MANAGEMENT In the planning stage of our projects, we determine the appropriate ensure the wastewater is taken through the sewage truck at regular waste-water disposal method by conducting necessary intervals in accordance with the protocol and delivered to the infrastructure researches. In the projects where there is no sewage discharge area. line, we use septic tank treatment or treatment systems for In cases where the number of personnel is not suitable for septic domestic waste-water depending on the number of personnel living tank, we monitor the activities in a controlled manner by establishing in the site. package waste water treatment systems. We obtain the necessary permissions and perform the tightness Prevention of spillage-scattering and the corrective interventions in checks; If septic tank is to be formed, depending on the number of cases where it prevented the other dimensions of our waste water people staying in the sites. We negotiate protocols with the management. organizations that can discharge the waste-water properly and 52 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS 53 WASTE MANAGEMENT BIODIVERSITY We focus on waste collection and recycling and disposal according to In Konya Eyiste Viaduct project, approximately 490 kg of vegetable In the regions affected by our activities within the scope of Balıkesir Motorway Project, IUCN red list species and national protection list species the type of waste in line with waste management plan. We monitor waste oil, 2 kg of medical waste, 200 kg of hazardous waste oil, 12 are included. Information on these species is presented in the table below. and report waste amounts monthly. Besides; we regularly train our pieces of hazardous waste consisting of filters, 3 containers of employees on waste management and ensure waste management plastics, 45 oil tar and can and 2.113 kg of domestic non-hazardous efforts in projects are in line with our principles. waste has been formed. 2.605 kg of domestic, medical and Scientific Name Common Name Status Comments on Prevalence IUCN Category National Red List We share detailed tables of waste management, which are disposed vegetable wastes have been disposed of properly. Coracias garrulus Blue Raven Passenger Breeding Uncommon breeding bird NT VU according to the types and quantities of solid waste generated in our In our Boukhroufa Dam Project, 40,000 liters of machine oil, 500 A common breeding bird in the mature Turkish pine Sitta Kruperi Anatolian Plasterer Stay & Breed NT projects in 2018, in our Performance Indicators section. To summarize liters of vegetable oil, 6 kg of medical waste and 129 batteries of forests in and around Manisa here; hazardous waste, 80.7 tons of non-hazardous household waste has Milvus Migrans Black Rookie Winter Visitor VU Within the scope of Balıkesir Motorway Project, hazardous waste been formed. In our project, 119 tons of construction iron recycled. Aquila heliaca Eastern Shah Eagle Winter Visitor Uncommon in West Turkey, non-breeding visitor VU consisting of approximately 1.9 tons of vehicle tires, 30.4 tons of In Souk Tleta Dam Project, approximately 4,800 liters of oil, 7,6 tons vegetable, hydraulic oils and hazardous waste from fuel filter, 6.8 of plastic waste, 135 tons of household waste and 18,25 tons of Falco Naumanni Little Kestrel Passenger Breeding Near Balıkesir city center, a small colony may exist VU tons of contaminated and medical hazardous waste and 4.3 tons of non-hazardous waste were formed. All domestic wastes disposed Anthyllis hermanniae Smart Tragacanth packaging waste produced. Total 14.8 tons of contaminated properly and all iron wastes recycled. packaging, oil-fuel filter and medical wastes completely disposed We take many preventive measures to prevent significant Ophisops elegan Field Lizard, LC Snake Eyed Lizard All regions in Turkey and 26.6 tons of oil and packaging wastes and all vehicle tires spillage-scattering and contamination before and during field recycled. activities for our projects. Within this scope, the following measures Sciurus anomalus Persian Squirrel LC taken for Balıkesir Motorway Project: Eurasian Badger Badger LC Meles meles Badger LC Campanula lyrata subsp Memek LC Storing fixed fuel tanks in flood concrete pools, Thymus zygoides Wild Thyme LC Storing the fixed generators in the flood concrete pool, Procedure definition on how to intervene against leaks and organizing training and exercises on the issue, Continuous maintenance of mobile fuel tanks and keeping emergency sets in mobile fuel tanks, There is no IUCN red list and national protection list IUCN RED LIST CRITERIA Sealing of waste-water septic tanks and regular checks species in the areas affected by our activities, except Hazardous wastes are kept in temporary waste storage facilities in compliance with the standards by cutting off the contact from this project. In addition, there are no protected LC (Least Concern) EN (Endangered) with environment (soil, water, etc.), or restored habitats in our project sites. Similarly; our Performing daily and weekly inspections of the waste-water treatment system, meeting the minimum analysis projects have no significant impact on areas with requirements specified in the legislation, high biodiversity value, except protected and NT (Near Threatened) CR (Critically Endangered) Storage of portable generators in large drip pans at construction site, non-protected areas Establishing vehicle washing areas and making oil trap before exit water in case of contamination with hydraulic oil, VU (Vulnerable) Regular field checks for environmental reporting No large-scale industrial accident, spill-scattering occurred in our projects within the scope of the 'Regulation on Soil Pollution Control and Point Sourced Contaminated Sites' DETAILED INFORMATION For IUCN Red List Species: www.iucnredlist.org/search/list?taxonLevel=Amazing&searchType=species 54 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ENVIRONMENTAL AWARENESS 55 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Occupational Health and Safety Trainings Occupational Health and Safety Performance OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY Protecting employee health and preventing occupational accidents healthy working environment, complying with safe working rules and and risk management are our priorities and we also audit the processes, working to prevent and reduce the effects of occupational subcontractors for these topics. accidents by using the personal protective equipment designated In our projects we strive to achieve highest Occupational Health and and assigned to them. Safety (OHS) standards, comply with all applicable local laws, even Nurol Construction has certified its occupational health and safety take preventive actions beyond legal requirements. Each of our management with ISO 45001: 2018 Occupational Health and Safety employees is obliged and aware of the responsibilities of protecting Management System. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY (OHS) POLICY As Nurol Construction, we hold monthly Occupational Health and related month. At the end of the meeting, the resolutions of the Safety and Environment (OHS-E) Board meeting to inform our meeting are recorded and announced for realization. Decisions are employees about occupational health and safety issues and / or to also announced via bulletin boards. get their opinions. Project manager, department representatives, As Nurol Construction, in cases where it is not legal obligation to occupational physician, employee and foremen representatives establish an OHS-E Board (different countries, number of attend the meetings. All employees' opinions on OHS-E issues are employees, etc.), we form an OHS-E Board for the projects and received and evaluated through employee representatives. hold monthly meetings. Occupational accidents and near misses during the relevant month, In conducting its activities of production at the highest level of unsafe movements and situations, emergency preparations, OHS quality, Nurol Construction and Trading Co. Inc. considers the issue of and environmental actions, periodic controls, training plans and unexceptional protection of occupational health and safety of its activities, annual occupational health and safety plans and employers and continuous improvement of the working environment evaluations, employer declarations, open topics for complaints and as one of its main targets. In this context, we commit ourselves to improvement recommendations are the meeting agenda for the provide and maintain the following conditions: Provision of elimination of occupational health and safety risks personnel in these processes; through preventive actions; Provision of training so as to make both direct company personnel Provision of continuous improvement as regards to OHS issues; and the employees of subcontractors aware of their individual Strictly obeying the applicable OHS legislation in force, OHS responsibilities; administrative regulations and conditions of subscribed Periodic review of OHS Policy so as to maintain compliance with organizations; conditions, OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY PERFORMANCE Improving participation and consultation procedures of our OHS Reciprocal exchange of OHS experience acquired with public, Management System and ensuring the involvement of all our private sector entities and non-governmental organisations. We monitor our key performance indicators to keep our OHS total accident frequency and total accident weight ratios are low performance under control and to continuously improve it. All our compared to our industry. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY TRAININGS employees, including our subcontractors, are obliged to report any Detailed information and explanations about our OHS performance work accidents and incidents. Cases are examined and necessary are included in the “Performance Indicators Details” section of our As we care for raising awareness on Occupational Health and Safety issues and creating experience, we schedule OHS trainings for our precautions and actions are taken. Report, but we share our total accident numbers, frequencies and employees. Besides; due to the preventive effects of OHS trainings and the special importance we attach to occupational health and safety, Although our business falls under high-risk occupation class, our weight ratios as below: we keep training hours intense. TRAINING HOURS ON OHS ISSUES 2018 TOTAL ACCIDENTS, FREQUENCY AND RATE 2018 Total Training Hours Training Hour Per Employee Total Accidents Frequency Rate Total Working Hours (employee.hour) (hour/employee) HQ 584,33 8,47 Balıkesir Motorway Project 35 9 3 4.099.945 Balıkesir Motorway Project 15.177,48 33,089 Eyiste Viaduct Project 18 38 8 473.940 Eyiste Viaduct Project 3.795 23 Boukhroufa Dam Project 21 21 11 1.009.623 Boukhroufa Dam Project 3.142,18 13,446 Souk Tleta Dam Project 10 13 13 798.463 Souk Tleta Dam Project 934,50 2,408 All Trainings We value OHS for our supply chain too, and we included our practices in the Value Chain Management section. HQ 6.250,75 90,59 Balıkesir Motorway Project 16.014,15 36,58 Eyiste Viaduct Project 3.960 24 Boukhroufa Dam Project 3.737,83 16,24 Souk Tleta Dam Project 1.339,00 4,83 58 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY 59 VALUE CHAIN MANAGEMENT Sustainability for Supply Chain Supply Chain Environmental Audits Adverse Environmental Impacts and Precautions in the Supply Chain Social Impacts and Actions in Supply Chain VALUE CHAIN MANAGEMENT Providing products and solutions that meet customer needs at the best is a Necessary feedbacks are shared with our suppliers. In accordance Development Group' 'C: Long-Term Contract Group'. Supplier permanent goal of Nurol Construction. Establishing healthy and secure with our Supplier Performance Evaluation Procedure, suppliers are contracts are terminated in case of continuous problems; incapable cooperation with the value chain is the essence of this goal. evaluated by the ERP Resource Management Program at certain to solve the quality, environment and OHS related problems, not intervals on Compliance with Environmental Rules', taking corrective actions. Selected suppliers are supported to 'Corrective/remedial action requests fulfilling speed topics. enhance their performance on quality, environment and OHS. The general approach for partnering with subcontractors and / or We are a member of Supply Chain and Women's Empowerment Suppliers are grouped according the results as 'C: Unworkable', 'B: suppliers in our projects is as below: Working Group created by UNGC Turkey Secretariat and we In the projects where we act as employer; our desire to focus on participate to the meetings. Our industry is high density in terms of Konya Eyiste Viaduct Project project management makes it attractive to partner with partnerships with subcontractors. In this context; within the scope of the activities carried out in Supply Chain Working Group; we aim to We conduct OHS-E field visits and carry out environmental by initiating corrective actions. In this context, we conducted 36 subcontractors and suppliers due to the ability and speed of share our experience with our subcontractors and also to improve our inspections almost every week with the participation of our OHS-E field visits in 2018 and initiated 19 corrective actions for the subcontractors providing employment, flexible working structures subcontractor management processes. subcontractors. We report any detected nonconformities and report findings of the field visits. and cost advantages. Besides; we also prefer to partner with them to the relevant subcontractors and then follow up the process subcontractor and suppliers where special expertise required and the Performance details of Supply Chain is covered in Performance related business volume does not cover the investment cost. Indicators section of the report. Boukhroufa Dam Project We continuously monitor our subcontractors working in the field through our management and OHS-E teams and monitor and inform them both written and by opening nonconformities. SUSTAINABILITY FOR SUPPLY CHAIN Souk Tleta Dam Project Protection of our reputation by providing trust, fairness and sustainability We supervise the working conditions of our subcontractors during the monthly field visits conducted under the supervision of our site through all projects is the core. We treat all our customers, suppliers and management and ensure corrective actions in case of nonconformities. subcontractors equal, fair, responsible and ethical considering the related laws and regulations. NEGATIVE ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACTS IN SUPPLY CHAIN AND ACTIONS TAKEN We provided the details of negative environmental impacts in supply chain and actions taken as below: Protection of our reputation by providing trust, fairness and Integrated Management Systems Department. Besides; we audit our sustainability through all projects is the core. We treat all our subcontractors and suppliers at regular intervals with our Balıkesir Motorway Project customers, suppliers and subcontractors equal, fair, responsible and experienced auditor teams. Particularly, we provide support for In the selection of suppliers, we consider environmental and that need improvement and initiate corrective actions and encourage ethical considering the related laws and regulations. corrective actions detected during the legal compliance audit employee health criteria for our projects. In our researches about the them for taking corrective actions. In 2018 our two main suppliers As Nurol Construction, we plan to embed environmental and social processes. We act as advisors for our subcontractors and focus on company, we take into consideration the environmental awareness were audited by our internal auditors and also 6 main suppliers issues in subcontractor selection processes. This will help us to get developing processes where we have influence. Also; we closely of the company and the compliance with the environmental and audited during the project. In addition to these audits, we information from our potential subcontractors about environmental follow the related issues via meeting the employee rights of our occupational health conditions of raw materials. In the scope of our periodically conduct performance evaluations for our suppliers and and social issues through a list of questions at the tender stage. subcontractors; within the framework of compliance with the planned Quality, OHS, Environmental and legal requirements audits evaluate their compliance with environmental and OHS related rules. laws. We are trying to increase the awareness of our subcontractors and for our main suppliers, we question company's compliance with the In 2018, OHS, environmental and social necessity audits were suppliers on environmental and OHS issues through information Our main suppliers are also included in our audit plans. We assess environmental law and implementations, determine the processes conducted to 7 subcontractors in our project. meetings. We organize joint training programs and monitor the the compliance with laws on environmental and OHS issues and deficiencies identified in the field through the employees of the follow-up through corrective actions if deviations exist. We carry out Konya Eyiste Viaduct Project follow-up audits if necessary. Emissions of the subcontractor supplying concrete reported and limits. We used closed systems and dust suppression methods to according to the report, the emission values were below the legal reduce the negative impact of dust emissions on the environment. SUPPLY CHAIN ENVIRONMENTAL AUDITS The environmental audits conducted for suppliers in 2018 according to projects are as below: Boukhroufa Dam Project Balıkesir Motorway Project In 2018, subcontractors working for the project were periodically audited and nonconformities were followed. Environmental impacts of our activities with our suppliers are standards. We carry out our planned audits every year and share the inseparable from the main activities of the project and all evaluated audit results with the companies as an Audit Report . 'Project Souk Tleta Dam Project under 'Environmental Risk Assessment'. Including 2018, in line with Integrated Management Systems Department' is mainly responsible Within the scope of the field visits we conducted each month, we audited our subcontractors and opened form of nonconformity in case of any our second party audit plan; our 6 main suppliers audited on Quality, from follow up of the actions mentioned in the report. Improvement nonconformity; and prevent repetition. OHS and Environment issues by our internal project auditors. These actions identified during planned audits for sustainability of supply audits also cover the occupational safety and environmental issues in chain and daily audits for projects are monitored by Purchasing and the light of current legislation. We audited the quality issues in IMS Department. accordance with the requirements of the relevant specifications and 62 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 VALUE CHAIN MANAGEMENT 63 SOCIAL IMPACTS AND ACTIONS IN SUPPLY CHAIN 2018 findings related with social impact scanning of our new suppliers on project basis is as below: Balıkesir Motorway Project We did not encounter any uninsured personnel in the subcontractors Manager. The aim of this process is to work with subcontractors with operating within the scope of our project. The health examinations higher OHS-E performance and create OHS-E awareness on and orientation trainings of the personnel who will be employed for sub-contractors during the tender stage. In addition, a Nurol Construction are conducted one day prior to employment. sub-contractor evaluation plan was prepared for our project. Subsequently; ‘Personal Protective Equipment’ is embezzled and Subcontractor performances are evaluated through interim or employees started to work the subsequent day. end-of-job evaluations in line with this plan. Within the scope of the Our project is classified as 'High-Risk Job Class' and it is forbidden to evaluation questions, scoring is also made according to employee employ forced labor and child labor in accordance with the provisions rights of the personnel employed by the sub-contractor (SSI of Article 4 of Labor Law No. 4857 and the provisions of Occupational registration and premium payment, wages, compensation payments, Health and Safety Law No. 6331. etc.) on a regular basis. When subcontractor elections are held, “Subcontractor Selection Within the scope of second-party audit , our internal auditor teams Process OHS-E Evaluation Form” is used within the scope of OHS-E audit subcontractor and main suppliers. During the audits, quality assessment. The completed version of the Evaluation Form is shared and OHS-E issues and legal compliance are also audited. The results with OHS-E Manager. The evaluation report is prepared by OHS-E of these audits and following 'Corrective Action' process tracked which affect the performance of subcontractor and supplier. Konya Eyiste Viaduct Project The legal regulations in force are applied and the documents documents are subject to physical checks during the work period and requested by the suppliers and subcontractors for the personnel by the end of 2018, no misfit occurred. before starting the work are provided and checked. Personnel Boukhroufa Dam Project Absolutely no concessions in terms of uninsured employment, forced reviewed on a monthly basis for the review of uninsured labor and child labor during and after subcontractor elections. In employment. It is strictly forbidden to employ uninsured or child Algeria, as in our country, although there is no obligation to obtain a labor. In our project, until the end of 2018, no negative cases related sub-contractor insurance number attached to the employer insurance to these issues were encountered. number and not to employ uninsured workers; subcontractors are Souk Tleta Dam Project For the subcontractors who employ one-to-one workers in our and forced labor within the framework of the following principles. In construction site, we control issues like child labor, uninsured labor our project, there was no negative incident in 2018. SUBCONTRACTORS AND SUPPLIERS ACCORDING TO PROJECTS Main subcontractors of our Balıkesir Motorway Project are groundworks, superstructures, large art structures and secondary works companies. Suppliers are large art structures, other materials and transport, small art structures companies operating in the related field. Full list of employees and Main subcontractors of our Konya Eyiste Viaduct project are viaduct reinforced SSI Rolls of employees concrete and ground works companies. Suppliers are viaduct reinforced concrete, Copy of the employee contracts bored piles and shoring works companies. Main subcontractors of our Boukhroufa Dam Project are the companies that make rough construction and injection works. Suppliers are viaduct reinforced concrete, bored piles and shoring works companies. Companies providing purses, iron, steel, explosive materials, sand, gravel, stone chips. Main subcontractors of our Souk Tleta Dam Project are ground works, electrical displacement works, various manufacturing and drilling works companies. Suppliers are other operating materials and timber companies. 64 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 VALUE CHAIN MANAGEMENT 65 WORKING AT NUROL CONSTRUCTION Human Resources Employee Training and Development Subcontractor Employee Management WORKING AT NUROL CONSTRUCTION Human is the essence of our work thus we establish relations with Our main objective is to raise manpower both for our company and As stated clearly in our company policy, we do not employ and allow with the legislation and prevent child labor, all employee records of both our customers and employees based on mutual trust, respect society, who believes in team spirit, has high environmental and child labor. We did not experience any cases of child labor and no case our subcontractors and suppliers are taken and checked for to human values, love, justice, fidelity and sharing while keeping the social sensitivity, devoted to the company by heart, prioritizing of forced or compulsory labor in our offices and projects. compliance. pace with technological developments human and professional development. Nurol Construction is committed not to employ any personnel in Detailed tables about our employees shared in the Performance violation of the Labor Law by policies and values. In order to comply Indicators section of the report. EMPLOYEE TRAINING AND DEVELOPMENT DESPITE THE OPERATIONS IN DIFFERENT COUNTRIES AND DIFFERENT INDUSTRIES; Balıkesir Motorway Project ALL GROUP COMPANIES HAVE A SHARED As Nurol Construction Project Directorate, we provide project orientation training to the personnel employed for at least 2 hours. done, camp areas, emergency meeting places and emergency location plans, legal rights and responsibilities, internal guidelines, HUMAN RESOURCES POLICY AND HUMAN Following topics are shared by Nurol Construction OHS-E department employees in the scope of training; project sections and works to be occupational health and safety general rules, compulsory personal protective equipment to be used in the field. PERSPECTIVE. Information on labor legislation, Legal rights and responsibilities of employees, Legal consequences of occupational accident and occupational disease HUMAN RESOURCES Trainings scheduled for above mentioned topics in 2018 are as below: Human factor is the golden key to success especially for our industry. health insurance upon request and PPS participation. We also Total monthly average employee: 140 employees Providing the reflection of our know-how and efficient asset provide company car and telephone to some senior executives. utilization to our actions and behavior is one of the most important Clothing is provided to service staff. During the employment process, Number of employee received training: 123 employees goals of our company. We believe putting people at the heart the contracts are determined by the relevant labor law and mutual Received Training hour: 4 hours differentiates us to create sustainable competitive advantage and agreement with the employee is ensured. Employee.Hours: 492 hours create difference in our activities. Training Ratio: 4 hour/employee For effective employee representation; Nurol Construction appoints We contribute to the motivation of our employees by creating fair sufficient number of employee representatives as specified in the and objective career management, providing the chance to define legislation by appointment in case it cannot be determined by Throughout the year, we provided orientation training to 45 new employee hires. Since there were no security personnel in our project, no long term company goals, bringing together employees with selection, considering the operational and departmental risks and training provided for this topic. Also, we organized the below trainings for the related departments to increase employee capability and skills: different perspectives and backgrounds, supporting their continuous balanced distribution in projects and HQ. Employee representatives learning and development. are announced to all employees by notice boards and e-mail. Employee representatives are responsible from conveying the Nurol Construction HQ organized Accident Research and Root Cause Analysis Training to increase the root cause analysis Nurol assures that employees at all levels are treated with respect skills and project OHS-E and IMS teams participated to the training. Contractor Subcontractor Communication Training also opinions, complaints or suggestions about Occupational Health and and dignity. Each employee is assessed on the basis of personal conducted for referred teams to improve subcontractor communication effectiveness. Safety and Environment of all employees in OHS Meetings or sharing qualifications, experience, discipline understanding and work with OHS Department. Employee Representative is also responsible In order to develop skills like Sampling, test application and test results, transfer, interpretation for the Quality Control efficiency, regardless of race, national origin, religious belief, age, from informing the related employee on any hazardous situation on Laboratory Team in our project, Quality Control Experiments and Applications Training was organized by Nurol Construction physical disability, gender or sexual orientation, in accordance with the site. In our overseas projects, this practice is also in place even Laboratory Chief. the relevant legislation. Compensation is also arranged regardless of there is no legal requirement. Within the scope of Nurol Construction gender. Employees should notify their managers in case they Production, Transport and Installation of Prestressed Beams training was held with the participation of Nurol Construction Family Talks organizations; employees were represented through encounter any practice contrary to Nurol's policy. production team and other departments and subcontractors and Atılım University faculty members on Beam Production, participatory personnel. We have announced the rights and obligations of Nurol employees Transport and Installation , which is one of our most critical activities in our project. No formal or informal agreement with any union for Balıkesir and their working conditions within the scope of the ‘Personnel Motorway Project, Konya Eyiste Viaduct Project and Souk Tleta Dam Regulation’. Regulation arranges promotions, wages, benefits and Projects while some of our employees are union members in rewards, working conditions, permits, penalties and social benefits. Boukhroufa Dam Project. Social benefits provided to our employees include food card, private 68 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 WORKING AT NUROL CONSTRUCTION 69 As the Project Directorate, we continued our efforts behind professional qualification certificates of the personnel employed in our subcontractor companies and 8 subcontractor personnel took the exam. The exam was conducted by MEYBEM SUBCONTRACTOR EMPLOYEE MANAGEMENT Vocational Qualification Certification Institution in two stages, theoretical and practical. Examination of the employee rights of subcontractors at our construction sites are conducted by the relevant project management. Routine The project employees received ISO 45001 Transition Training by the release of ISO 45001: 2018 OHS Management System, checks are available to ensure no uninsured personnel are employed for all our projects and in case of non-compliance, the employee is removed to understand the requirements added to the OHS management system standards; within the scope of digitalization of from the work site. processes. Project Directorate held various trainings on 'QDMS Programme' which put into practice by Nurol Construction HQ Integrated Balıkesir Motorway Project Management Systems Department. In accordance with the obligations arising from the Law No. 4857, it is evaluated. In case of justification, the victimization is eliminated. If By the purpose of increasing the ability of the project employees to cope with stress, Psychosocial Risk Factors-Stress checked whether the rights and receivables of the sub-contractor the subcontractor is unable to pay the wages and insurance of the Management training was organized for the awareness of stress factors experienced in the workplace. personnel are paid in full. Employee rights are guaranteed in the employees, the labor payments of the working companies are contracts with subcontractors. Also; subcontractor employees may assured by Nurol and deducted from the allowance payments. also notify us in case of any setbacks and these notifications shall be Konya Eyiste Viaduct Project Orientation training, which includes information about the risks 6331, labor law no. 4857, social security and general health insurance Konya Eyiste Viaduct Project arising from the work to be carried out in the work area, is organized law no. 5510, social security law no.506 reminding rights and Personnel payrolls and SSI accruals of subcontractor employees are taken monthly and payment receipts are requested monthly prior to for new employee hires of Nurol Construction or subcontractors. responsibilities of the employees. In 2018, within the scope of Nurol allowance payments. In addition, SSI is monitored via website. Since there is no security personnel in our project, no training was Construction Family Talks; codes of conduct, policies and practices of provided. 'Nurol Governance Principles' shared. We informed our employees on Boukhroufa Dam Project Orientation trainings for new employee hires of Nurol Construction codes of conduct, working principles, accountability, honesty, Subcontractors are not obliged to take social insurance number for employees as in Turkey, but sub-contractor staff monitored for the tracking and subcontractors cover occupational health and safety law no. accuracy, openness and respect. of the issue on a monthly basis. In our project, no negative cases were encountered in 2018 regarding these issues. Boukhroufa Dam Project Souk Tleta Dam Project At the beginning of each year, training calendar is prepared and Applications, ISO 45001: 2018 Transition Training were taken by Subcontractors provide below during the contract stage: trainings in line with this plan are scheduled throughout the year. related personnel. Additional training is provided during the year according to the needs 1. Updated employee list Employees were informed about codes of conduct, policies and or opportunities. practices mentioned in 'Nurol Governance Principles'. During Nurol 2. Algeria social security insurance entries for all employees In 2018; 2018 Budget and Watch-outs, Body Fill Construction Construction Family Talks held in the last quarter of 2018, 3. Pay roll copies requested regularly. Method, Labor Law and Applications, Lifting Equipment Operators participants were informed about the governance rules and they On top, subcontractor employee number is tracked by monthly and daily reports. Training, Auscultation Devices Installation Methodology and shared their opinions accordingly. Souk Tleta Dam Project In 2018, the following trainings were received by the relevant employee: Helmet usage and material storage Risk of dangerous stones falling from height No alcohol or drug in the workplace Risks in confined spaces High temperature hazards and protection measures Safety precautions for chemical use Working at height Precautions against infectious diseases Electrical risks and precautions Precautions while loading and unloading material Emergency drill Precautions and controls while using a crane Safety and health signs training Cleaning in the work area Emergency simulation training in fire Construction equipment usage for the main purpose Basic OHS trainings Usage of safety equipment First aid and rescue training in the workplace Hygiene in the work place On-site vehicle usage training Consequences and effects of occupational accidents In addition; we shared the Nurol Governance Principles with our project employees. During the trainings, local employees (Algerian) were informed about Nurol Governance Principles. 70 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 WORKING AT NUROL CONSTRUCTION 71 CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY Contribution to Local Community and Economy Social Responsibility Actions Nurol Education, Culture and Sports Foundation Nurol Art Gallery CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY Contribution to society where we live and operate is one of our core values. SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY ACTIONS Thus, we take active part in social responsibility activities and actions. DOWN SYNDROME ASSOCIATION 2018 NEW YEAR AND BIRTHDAY GIFTS As Nurol Construction, we cooperate with the Down Syndrome touch the lives of Down syndrome individuals. Besides, via buying Association, working to ensure equal opportunities for individuals the birthday and Christmas gifts of our employees from Down CONTRIBUTION TO LOCAL COMMUNITY AND ECONOMY with Down Syndrome and to strengthen their place in society. We Syndrome Association, we aimed to add value both to association support the association via arranging various activities together, to and children. On top of projects contributing to local economy directly and indirectly, Nurol Construction contributes to local society by the strong dialogue means. Below are some examples from our projects: CONSTRUCTION MATERIAL AID TO THE FAMILY HOME OF HOPE FOUNDATION FOR CHILDREN WITH CANCER (KAÇUV) 12 APRIL 2018 BALIKESİR MOTORWAY PROJECT We are cooperating with Hope Foundation for Children with Cancer Our project pass through the settlements where villages and the communication with the local people until the cause of the and supporting the treatment process of Children with cancer neighborhoods are located in borders of Balıkesir and Manisa cities. complaint disappears. Beyond that; we strive to avoid any through various projects since 2016. The Hope Foundation for Therefore; one of the important sustainability issues in our project is complaints by taking care of our activities and taking Children with Cancer ensures the continuity of the treatment of maintaining 'Relations with the Local Community' and accordingly, solution-oriented approach by listening to the demands of the local children at risk of disrupting treatment due to financial problems, not to create any complaints and to handle the complaints if received people. To further explain the additional benefits we create; we providing psychological support and treatment environment any from the local community. Since the initial phase of the project, utilized the land located on the project route as a storage area in line appropriate to child psychology, which is an important requirement the local community has addressed complaints and requests to with the project needs, which belongs to the local people and which during the fight against cancer. In 2018, we donated some related department managers, project managers and administrative is largely unfit for agriculture , with the approval of the local people. construction materials to KAÇUV to support the second family house department manager through face-to-face meetings with local By the completion of the project, after reclamation the land handed project to be constructed by the Foundation in Pendik, Istanbul. people, mukhtars, on-site visits and official correspondences. over to local people as a contribution. Starting from the formation of the complaint, we do not interrupt LÖSEV (HEALTH AND EDUCATION FOUNDATION FOR CHILDREN WITH LEUKEMIA) AWARENESS ACTIVITY KONYA EYISTE VIADUCT PROJECT 02 NOVEMBER 2018 We monitor our relations with the local community; with sightseeing, dialogue and visits to local people. We recruit people from the local We closely follow the projects and awareness activities of LÖSEV community who fits. Besides; we evaluate local suppliers in supplier selection. Within the scope of our project, no complaints were received (Health and Education Foundation for Children with Leukemia) from the local community. aiming to support children to fight against leukemia by meeting all kinds of needs during the treatment process. We cooperate with LÖSEV and participate in various activities in order to BOUKHROUFA DAM PROJECT provide support to children. Our project located in El Tarf in the northeast of Algeria, 20 km from it will be used as water source for the operation of phosphate mines During the Children with Leukemia Week, on November 2, 2018, the Mediterranean coast and Tunisia border, contribute both locally in the region. We also give priority to local recruitment and support Nurol Construction Head Office employees participated in the and nationally. The project is an important milestone for regional local employment. In this context; we support the certification by ''Wear your mask and share your photo with the @ lösev1998 tag” development; as this region of the country is less developed than the providing training for employees in the occupational fields that event organized by LÖSEV to create awareness. other coastal regions. There is also heavy rainfall in the winter and require certification. The material needs of the construction site floods in the region. With the completion of the dam, floods will be were primarily supplied from the regions close to the project, thus All our HQ employees including our Board members, General controlled. Besides; the dam has national importance for Algeria, as contributing to the regional economy. Manager, department managers; all wore masks and participated in the event. We also informed and invited the visitors of Nurol Construction SOUK TLETA DAM PROJECT whose visit coincide with the event. Contribution to local economy maintained via local supply. In case of any misfit on machinery and equipment from the existing machinery park, we supply them through rental or sub-contracting service by local channels. We support local recruitment to increase local employment rate. 74 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY 75 “ORANGE THE WORLD” ACTVITIY FRIENDLY LIFE DOWN SYNDROME FOUNDATION 26 NOVEMBER 2018 CHRISTMAS EVENT 27 DECEMBER 2018 Since 2016, we have been in institutional cooperation with Friendly Life Down Syndrome Foundation, which has been working for many years to ensure the participation of individuals with Down Syndrome in the society as productive citizens with constitutional rights, and access to qualified education and health services. As Nurol Construction, we came together with the foundation in 2018 as we do every year, to facilitate the lives of individuals with Down Syndrome and to improve their opportunities. We organized a New Year's Eve event together with the children of Friendly Life Down Syndrome Foundation and Nurol Construction employees in 2018 year end. We played various games, had pleasant tea party and gave Christmas gifts. A traditional cooperation between the two institutions has been formed with this activity, which was the third activity together. NUROL EDUCATION, CULTURE AND SPORTS FOUNDATION Nurol Education, Culture and Sports Foundation founded by values activities aiming to improve the quality of society life and ÇARMIKLI Family in 1996, to promote and develop our national maintains its tradition of supporting contemporary education, culture by preserving its ties with the past, to contribute to the sports, culture and art in order to create better future. efforts of our country to reach the level of modern civilization and to The foundation, donated libraries, sports, educational and congress take the place it deserves internationally. halls, cinema, theater together with building facilities and Nurol Foundation continues the activities by the return of the assets landscaping in various regions of Turkey under the scope of By being a signee of UNGC, we took many steps on human rights in its portfolio and the financial support provided from the Group educational support activities and the Foundation continues offering and women's rights in this context. One of the activities carried Companies every year. In the light of the principles and values, Nurol its service to our country today too. out by Nurol Construction in 2018 was the 16-Day Activism Campaign to Combat Gender-Based Violence, led by the Secretary-General of the United Nations. The campaign, which is organized internationally every year, NUROL ART GALLERY started from 25 November 2018 and lasted 10 December 2018. This year's slogan for the campaign, coordinated by the Women's Nurol Art Gallery serving the art lovers since 2002 in the Kavaklidere Global Leadership Center, was 'Orange the World: #HearMeToo'. Ankara. The gallery programs an average of eight or nine exhibitions We aimed to raise awareness on the fight against gender-based in each art season, as well as talks, signatures and promotional violence, to strengthen advocacy efforts and to share days. Our gallery provides a comprehensive catalog for each information and innovations on the subject by participating in exhibition and creates a permanent document for both our gallery the campaign. In this context, we participated in various and the artist. On top of catalogs, many art publications have been activities of the campaign. prepared so far to contribute to culture. Afterwards, the works exhibited in the gallery are presented to the art lovers in our Art We illuminated the exterior of Nurol Plaza building with orange Gallery in Bodrum OASİS. lighting during the campaign. We illuminated the pyramid on Nurol Life building in orange color We supported the campaign with Nurol Plaza employees by wearing orange vests on Monday, November 26, 2018, We prepared informative brochure about the campaign and distributed it to Nurol Plaza employees. 76 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 CONTRIBUTION TO SOCIETY 77 PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT Sustainability Goals Performance Indicators Details PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT SUSTAINABILITY GOALS KONYA EYİSTE VIADUCT PROJECT LOST DAYS AND OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS PERFORMANCE Total (Nurol Total Working Hours 473.940 Goal Issue 2019 Goals Construction + Subcontractor) Female Male Total Sustainability Management Establishing Sustainability Committee via inclusion of Board of Directors and senior management. Total Number of Accidents 0 18 18 Determining and obtaining new certifications in line with the needs and expectations of the relevant parties (employers, legal authorities, etc.) in the new markets where we are developing business. Number of Accidents with Lost Days 0 4 4 Management Systems Increasing the number of modules used in the Document Software System (QDMS). Number of Fatal Accidents 0 0 0 Governance Principles Sharing Governance Principles for all projects through Nurol Construction Family Talks Organizations and increase awareness on the issue. Occupational Injury Rate 0,000 37,979 37,979 Serious Injury Rate 0,000 8,440 8,440 Stakeholder Engagement Arranging Nurol Construction Family Talks Organization for all projects for min 4 times yearly. Meeting with sub-contractors on environmental issues quarterly Releasing 'Improvement Report' on OHS-E issues for improvement in HQ and projects. BOUKHROUFA DAM PROJECT LOST DAYS AND OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS PERFORMANCE Environmental Management Total (Nurol Total Working Hours 1.009.623 Carrying biodiversity studies in all project sites, project planning for the protection of biodiversity Construction + Subcontractor) Female Male Total Carrying out species protection studies in all project sites, project planning for the protection of species. Total Number of Accidents 0 21 21 OHS Management Publish and distribute ‘OHS-E Handbook’ to all employees to raise the awareness and competence of all working for the projects. Number of Accidents with Lost Days 0 11 11 OHS-E Trainings 100 min / month training about Quality, Environment and OHS issues for Nurol Construction head office personnel. Number of Fatal Accidents 0 0 0 OHS Trainings 45 min/month training for Nurol Construction employees. Occupational Injury Rate 0,000 20,800 20,800 OHS Operational Controls Yearly 12 occupational safety site visits together with Project Management Serious Injury Rate 0,000 10,895 10,895 Accident Weight Ratio below 1.8 Occupational Accidents Accident Weight Ratio = Total Working Day Loss * 103 / Total Working Hours SOUK TLETA DAM PROJECT LOST DAYS AND OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS PERFORMANCE Accident Frequency Rate below 18 Occupational Accidents Total (Nurol Total Working Hours 798.463 Accident Frequency Rate = Total Number of Accidents with Lost Day / Total Working Hours x 10 Construction + Emergency Management Minimum 3 emergency drills during the year. Subcontractor) Female Male Total Value Chain Management Carry out a second party audit (supplier and subcontractor) at least once a month to monitor OHS, Environment and Quality issues. Total Number of Accidents 0 10 10 Number of Accidents with Lost Days 0 10 10 Number of Fatal Accidents 0 0 0 PERFORMANCE INDICATORS DETAILS Occupational Injury Rate 0,000 12,524 12,524 OHS INDICATORS Serious Injury Rate 0,000 12,524 12,524 BALIKESİR MOTORWAY PROJECT LOST DAYS AND OCCUPATIONAL ACCIDENTS PERFORMANCE Total (Nurol Total Working Hours 4.099.945 Construction + Subcontractor) Female Male Total Total Number of Accidents 1 34 35 Number of Accidents with Lost Days 1 13 14 Number of Fatal Accidents 0 1 1 Occupational Injury Rate 0,244 8,293 8,537 Serious Injury Rate 0,244 3,171 3,415 Job Induced Mortality Rate 0,000 0,244 0,244 80 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT 81 BOARD OF DIRECTORS Project Name Subcontractor Nurol Construction (%) Blue Collar White Collar (%) Only Nurol Construction Employees (%) All Employees inc. Subcontractors (%) Nurol Construction Subcontractor Blue Collar White Collar Female Male Female Male BOARD OF DIRECTORS AGE BREAKDWON HQ 100% 0.00% 35.40% 64.60% 23.89% 76.11% 23.89% 76.11% < 30 30 50 > 50 BKAO Project 7.73% 92.27% 94.68% 5.32% 2.84% 97.16% 3.07% 96.93% 0 4 4 KHEV Project 9.09% 90.91% 91.52% 8.48% 0.00% 100.00% 2.42% 97.58% BBFA Project 93.97% 6.03% 91.78% 8.22% 2.92% 97.08% 2.74% 97.26% BST Project 86.58% 13.42% 89.78% 10.22% 4.43% 95.57% 3.83% 96.17% SENIOR MANAGEMENT AND OTHER EMPLOYEES AGE BREAKDOWN BY GENDER Male Female < 30 30 50 > 50 < 30 30 50 > 50 Project Name Disabled Employee Number (Nurol Construciton Employee) Senior Management 0 10 3 0 4 0 White Collar Employee Blue Collar Employee Female Male Female Male Other Employees 5 44 19 4 18 1 HQ 0 0 0 3 BKAO Project 1 0 0 2 EMPLOYEE PROFILE BREAKDOWN KHEV Project 0 0 0 0 Figures under ‘Employee Profile Breakdown' heading are compiled from the data of 4 projects of Nurol Construction, where employees are directly employed and the projects included in the report. BBFA Project 0 0 0 0 BST Project 0 0 0 0 Project Name Employee Number White Collar Blue Collar Project Name Full-Time Half-Time Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Nurol Construction 21 52 6 34 HQ 27 85 0 1 HQ BKAO Project 4 137 0 0 Subcontractor 0 0 0 0 Nurol Construction 4 47 0 90 KHEV Project 0 15 0 0 BKAO Project BBFA Project 10 333 0 0 Subcontractor 3 43 49 1589 Nurol Construction 0 11 0 4 BST Project 12 259 0 0 KHEV Project Subcontractor 0 3 4 143 Nurol Construction 4 26 6 307 Project Name Fixed-Term Employment Contract Permanent Employment Contract BBFA Project Subcontractor 0 0 0 22 Female Male Female Male Nurol Construction 4 26 8 233 HQ 0 0 27 86 BST Project Subcontractor 0 2 0 40 BKAO Project 0 0 4 137 KHEV Project 0 0 0 15 BBFA Project 10 278 0 55 BST Project 12 202 0 57 82 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT 83 Project Name Citizen of Republic of Turkey Employees Foreign Nationality Employees NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES CURRENTLY WORKING Blue Collar White Collar Blue Collar White Collar Male Female Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Project Name < 30 30 50 > 50 < 30 30 50 > 50 Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) HQ 6 52 21 34 0 0 0 0 BKAO Project 2 47 2 90 0 0 0 0 HQ 5 4.42% 57 52.21% 24 19.47% 4 3.54% 22 19.47% 1 0.88% KHEV Project 0 6 0 9 0 0 0 0 BKAO Project 9 6,38% 106 75,18% 22 15,60% 0 0.00% 4 2,84% 0 0.00% BBFA Project 0 18 0 37 4 270 6 8 KHEV Project 0 0.00% 13 86.67% 2 13.33% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% BST Project 0 44 0 13 8 189 4 13 BBFA Project 39 11.37% 239 69.68% 55 16.03% 1 0.29% 8 2.33% 1 0.29% BST Project 36 13.28% 181 66.79% 42 15.50% 4 1.48% 8 2.95% 0 0 Projects Category Subcontractor Number RECURITED EMPLOYEE IN THE RELEVANT PERIOD Earth Works 14 Male Female BKAO Project Structure Works 20 Project Name < 30 30 50 > 50 < 30 30 50 > 50 Pavement Works 4 Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Building Works 3 HQ 0 0.00% 17 77.27% 2 9.09% 4 9.09% 1 4.55% 0 0.00% Earth Works 1 BKAO Project 10 37.04% 13 48.15% 4 14.81% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% Structure Works 2 KHEV Project KHEV Project 2 9.52% 14 66.67% 4 19.05% 0 0.00% 1 4.76% 0 0.00% Pavement Works 1 BBFA Project 23 22.33% 44 42.72% 34 33.01% 1 0.00% 1 0.97% 1 0.97% Building Works 0 BST Project 6 21.43% 13 46.43% 6 21.43% 4 10.71% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% Earth Works 5 Structure Works 0 BBFA Project LEAVE OF EMPLOYMENT RATE IN THE RELEVANT PERIOD Pavement Works 17 Male Female Building Works 0 Project Name < 30 30 50 > 50 < 30 30 50 > 50 Earth Works 8 Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Structure Works 34 HQ BST Project 0 0.00% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% Pavement Works 0 BKAO Project 40 46.51% 26 30.23% 18 26.47% 2 2.33% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% Building Works 0 KHEV Project 0 0.00% 3 0.00% 2 0.00% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% 0 0.00% BBFA Project 22 25.00% 56 63.64% 7 8.64% 1 1.14% 2 2.27% 0 0.00% BST Project 5 21.74% 11 54.64% 4 24.80% 2 8.70% 1 4.35% 0 0.00% 84 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT 85 PARENTAL LEAVE USAGE AND POST-MATERNITY LEAVE RETENTION WASTE MANAGEMENT DISPOSED AND RECYCLED WASTE QUANTITIES Female Male Total Number of Employees Eligible for Parental Leave 33 00 BKAO PROJECT Total Number of Employees Using Parental Leave 3 0 Waste Type Quantity Unit Number of Employees Returning to Work After Parental Leave 3 0 Contaminated Packaging Wastes 6.740 kg Number of Employees Returned to Work and Continues after 12 Months 2 0 Oil and Fuel Filter 8.070 kg Total Number of Employees Returning from Other Hydraulic Oils 21.710 kg 3 0 Hazardous Waste Parental Leave Before Reporting Periods Vegetable Waste Oil 580 kg Total Number of Employees Needed to Return to Work After Tires End of Life 1.900 kg Parental Leave (other than those known to be transferred to 3 0 another job or to be retired) Medical Waste 26 kg Return to Work Rate Among Parental Leaves 100.00% 0.00% Contaminated Packaging Wastes 6.740 kg Retention Rate Between Parental Leaves 66.67% 0.00% Disposal Oil and Fuel Filter 8.070 kg Medical Waste 26 kg TRAINING INDICATORS Non-Hazardous Waste Packaging Wastes 4.285 kg Packaging Wastes 4.285 kg AVERAGE TOTAL TRAINING HOURS PER EMPLOYEE (HOURS) Other Hydraulic Oils 21.710 kg Recycle White Collar Blue Collar Total Vegetable Waste Oil 580 kg Tires End of Life 1.900 kg HQ 88,42 2,17 90,59 Balıkesir Motorway Project 11,00 25,58 36,58 KHEV PROJECT Konya Eyiste Viaduct Project 3 21 24 Waste Type Quantity Unit Boukhroufa Dam Project 0,90 15,34 16,24 Vegetable Waste Oil 490 kg Souk Tleta Dam Project 0,12 4,71 4,83 Medical Waste 2 kg Female Male Total Oil Drums 5 piece Hazardous Waste HQ 35,30 55,29 90,59 Contaminated Soil 50 kg Balıkesir Motorway Project 1,19 35,38 36,58 Contaminated oil-tar can 40 piece Konya Eyiste Viaduct Project 1 23 24 Filter (diesel-oil) 12 piece Plastic contaminated container 3 piece Boukhroufa Dam Project 0,20 16,04 16,24 Waste oil 200 kg Souk Tleta Dam Project 0,00 4,83 4,83 Vegetable Waste Oil 490 kg Disposal Medical Waste 2 kg Domestic Waste 2.112 kg Non-Hazardous Waste Domestic Waste 2.112 kg Recycle 86 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT 87 UNGC CONTENT INDEX BBFA PROJECT The UN Global Compact is an initiative that encourages companies to operate responsibly and support society. Accordingly, the UN Global Compact strives to ensure that companies do not only add value to their financial resources, but also to people, communities and the planet. Waste Type Quantity Unit The UN Global Compact is the world's largest voluntary corporate sustainability initiative with 13,538 participants in 159 countries. Tehlikeli Atıklar Medical Waste 6 kg Page Disposal None HUMAN RIGHTS Non-Hazardous Waste Domestic Waste 80.700 kg Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; 68-71 Battery 129 piece Principle 2 Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 68-71 Vegetable Oil 500 liter Storage At Work Place LABOUR Machine Oil 40.000 liter Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 68-71 Scrap Metal 40.000 kg Recycle Scrap Metal 118.940 kg Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 64, 68-71 Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and 64, 68-71 BST PROJECT Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 64, 68-71 Waste Type Quantity Unit ENVIRONMENT Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 48-55, 62-63 Hazardous Waste Oil 4.800 liter Domestic Waste 135.000 kg Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 48-55, 62-63 Disposal Principle 9 Plastic Waste 7.566 kg encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 48-55, 62-63 Plastic 7.566 kg ANTI-CORRUPTION Non-Hazardous Waste Domestic Waste 135.000 kg Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 28-29, 32-33 Metal 18.246 kg Plastic Waste 7566 kg Recycle Metal 18.246 kg ABBREVIATIONS GES Governance Ecosystem Social OHS Occupational Health and Safety Inc. Incorporated Company OHS-E Occupational Health and Safety, Environment BBFA Boukhroufa Dam Project ISO International Organization for Standardization PPS Private Pension System KAÇUV The Hope Foundation for Children with Cancer BKAO Gebze İzmir Motorway Balıkesir KHEV Konya Eyiste Viaduct Project Kırkağaç Akhisar Section Project LNG Liquified Natural Gas UNGC United Nations Global Compact LÖSEV Foundation for Children with Leukemia BST Souk Tleta Dam Project NATM The New Austrian Tunnelling Method CNG Compressed Natural Gas SSI Social Security Institution DakkS German Accreditation Agency SDG Sustainable Development Goals EDK Ethics Discipline Committee NGO Non-Governmental Organization IMS Integrated Management Systems TÜRKAK Turkish Accreditation Agency EBITDA Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization IFRS International Financial Reporting Standards GRI Global Reporting Initiative UNGC United Nations Global Compact HEPP Hyrdo Electric Power Plant 88 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 PERFORMANCE ASSESSMENT 89 GRI STANDARD CONTENT INDEX This Report contains information on the sustainability performance and implementation of the projects included in the reporting period GRI Standard Standard Name Disclosure Page between 1 January 2018 31 December 2018. The content of the report developed in accordance with the 'FOUNDATION' option requirements of the Global Reporting Principles Standards. 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Sustainability Approach 40 No Collective 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Bargaining Agreement. 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Sustainability Approach 39 GRI Standard Standard Name Disclosure Page 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Sustainability Approach 39-40 GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Sustainability Approach 41-42 GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Financial Outlook 24 102-01 Name of the Organization About the Report 3 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries About the Report 3 About Nurol Construction; 102-47 List of material topics Sustainability Approach 41 102-02 Activities, brands, products and services 11; 18-21 Location of Operations 102-48 Restatements of information First year of reporting 102-03 Location of headquarters Corporate Profile 16 102-49 Changes in reporting First year of reporting 102-04 Location of operations Location of operations 14-17 102-50 Reporting period About the Report Board of Directors & 102-05 Ownership and legal form 28 102-51 Date of most recent report First year of reporting Corporate Governance About Nurol Construction; 102-52 Reporting cycle About the Report 5 102-06 Serviced markets 11; 18-21 Location of operations 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Back Cover 97 102-07 Scale of the organization Financial Outlook 24-25 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards About the Report 5 Working at Nurol Construction; 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index 90 102-08 Information on employees and other workers 68-69; 82-86 Performance Assessment 102-56 External Assurance Sustainability Approach 43 102-09 Supply chain Value Chain 62-63 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain GRI Content Index First year of reporting ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Risk and Opportunity Management 30-31 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary About Nurol Construction; 11 Management Financial Outlook 102-12 External initiatives Sustainability Approach 43-44 Approach 2016 About Nurol Construction; 24 103-2 The management approach and its components Financial Outlook 102-13 Membership of associations Sustainability Approach 44 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Message from General Manager 7 About Nurol Construction; 24 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Financial Outlook 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Risk and Opportunity Management 30-31 GRI 201: Economic 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Financial Outlook 25 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior Corporate Profile 13 Performance 2016 204-4 Financial assistance received from government Financial Outlook 25 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics Ethics Management 32-33 INDIRECT ECONOMIC IMPACTS Board of Directors & 102-18 Governance structure 28-30 37; 39 Corporate Governance GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Sustainability Approach Management 102-19 Delegating authority Sustainability Approach 37 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Sustainability Approach 37; 39; 41 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics Sustainability Approach 38-40 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability Approach; 41; 74 Contribution to Society Board of Directors & Corporate 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees Governance; Performance Indicators; 28; 37; 82 GRI 203: Sustainability Approach Indirect Economic 203-3 Spending rate to local suppliers in total expenditure Sustainability Approach; 41; 74 Impact 2016 Contribution to Society Board of Directors & 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 28 Corporate Governance ANTI-CORRUPTION 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Governance 28 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Governance, Sustainability Approach 29; 33; 40-41; 43 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts Sustainability Approach 40-41 Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance, Sustainability Approach 29; 33 Approach 2016 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes Risk and Opportunity Management 30-31 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Sustainability Approach 33 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics Sustainability Approach 36-39 GRI 205: 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption Sustainability Approach 41; 43 102-36 Process for determining wage Working at Nurol Construction 61; 71 Anti-Corruption policies and procedures 2016 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken Sustainability Approach 33 90 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GRI CONTENT INDEX 91 GRI Standard Standard Name Disclosure Page GRI Standard Standard Name Disclosure Page MATERIALS EFFLUENTS AND WASTE GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Sustainability Management 42 GRI 103: Sustainability Management, 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental Awareness 41; 52-54 Management Management 103-2 The management approach and its components Sustainability Management 40-42 Approach 2016 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Sustainability Management, 41; 52-54 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Corporate Profile 18-21 Environmental Awareness GRI 301: 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental Awareness 53-54 Materials 2016 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Corporate Profile 18-21 GRI 306: 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Environmental Awareness 53 ENERGY Effluents And 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Sustainability Management, 54; 87 Waste 2016 Environmental Awareness GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Sustainability Management, 41; 49 Management Environmental Awareness 306-3 Significant spills Environmental Awareness 54 Approach 2016 Sustainability Management, 103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental Awareness 41; 49 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Environmental Awareness 54 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental Awareness 50 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff Environmental Awareness 53 GRI 302: 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environmental Awareness 50 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE Energy 2016 302-3 Energy Intensity Environmental Awareness 50 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Governance, Sustainability Approach 29; 37; 41-42; 48-49 Management 302-4 Reduction of Energy Consumption Environmental Awareness 50 Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance, Sustainability Approach 29; 37; 41-42; 48-49 WATER 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental Awareness 48-49; 53 GRI 103: Sustainability Management, GRI 307: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Environmental Awareness 41; 50 Environmental 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations Environmental Awareness 48-49; 53 Management Compliance Approach 2016 Sustainability Management, 103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental Awareness 41; 50-52 SUPPLIER ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental Awareness 51-52 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Value Chain Management 62-63 GRI 303: 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Environmental Awareness 51 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Value Chain Management 62-63 Water 2016 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal of water Environmental Awareness 51 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Value Chain Management 63 303-3 Water recycled and reused Environmental Awareness 51 GRI 308: Supplier 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria Value Chain Management 63 Environmental BIODIVERSITY Assessment 2016 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain 308-2 Value Chain Management 63 and actions taken GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Sustainability Management, 41; 55 Management Environmental Awareness EMPLOYMENT Approach 2016 Sustainability Management, 103-2 The management approach and its components Environmental Awareness 41; 55 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Corporate Profile; 13; 68 Management Working at Nurol Construction 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Environmental Awareness 55 Approach 2016 Corporate Profile; 103-2 The management approach and its components Working at Nurol Construction 13; 68-70 GRI 304: 304-1 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected Environmental Awareness 55 Biodiversity 2016 areas and areas of high biodiversity value outside protected areas 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Working at Nurol Construction 69-70 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on 304-2 Environmental Awareness 55 GRI 401: 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Performance Assessment 85 biodiversity Employment 2016 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Environmental Awareness 55 401-2 provided to temporary or part-time employees Working at Nurol Construction 68-69 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list 304-4 Environmental Awareness 55 401-3 Parental leave Performance Assessment 86 species with habitats in areas affected by operations 92 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GRI CONTENT INDEX 93 GRI Standard Standard Name Disclosure Page GRI Standard Standard Name Disclosure Page OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR GRI 103: Governance, Sustainability Approach, GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Sustainability Approach, 41; 68 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Working at NUROL Construction 30; 58; 68-69 Management Working at NUROL Construction Management Approach 2016 Governance, Sustainability Approach, Approach 2016 Sustainability Approach, Working at NUROL Construction, 103-2 The management approach and its components Working at NUROL Construction 41; 68-70 103-2 The management approach and its components 30; 58; 68-69; 80-81 Performance Assessment 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Working at NUROL Construction 68 Governance, Sustainability Approach, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Performance Assessment 31; 68; 80-81 GRI 409: Forced or Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of Compulsory Labor 409-1 Working at NUROL Construction 68 forced or compulsory labor GRI 403: 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system Occupational Health and Safety, 58; 68-70 2016 Occupational Working at Nurol Construction Health and SECURITY PRACTICES 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation Working at Nurol Construction 68 Safety 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Sustainability Approach, 41; 68 Workers with high incidence or high risk of diseases Working at NUROL Construction 403-3 Performance Assessment 80-81 Management related to their occupation Approach 2016 Sustainability Approach, Worker participation, consultation, and 103-2 The management approach and its components Working at NUROL Construction 41; 68-70 403-4 Working at Nurol Construction 68 communication on occupational health and safety 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Working at NUROL Construction 69 TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 410: Security Security personnel trained in human rights policies or Practices 2016 410-1 Working at NUROL Construction 69 GRI 103: Sustainability Approach, procedures 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Working at NUROL Construction 41; 69-71 Management Approach 2016 HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT Sustainability Approach, 103-2 The management approach and its components Working at NUROL Construction 41; 69-71 GRI 103: Sustainability Approach, 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Working at NUROL Construction 41; 68 Working at NUROL Construction, Management 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Performance Assessment 69-71; 86 Approach 2016 Sustainability Approach, 103-2 The management approach and its components Working at NUROL Construction 41; 68-70 GRI 404: Sustainability Approach, Occupational 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Health and Safety, Performance 49; 58; 86 Training and Assessment 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Working at NUROL Construction 69-70 Education 2016 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition Sustainability Approach, Occupational -404-2 Health and Safety, Working at NUROL 49; 58; 69-71 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures Working at NUROL Construction 69-70 assistance programs Construction DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY LOCAL COMMUNITIES GRI 103: Sustainability Approach, 41; 68 GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Sustainability Approach; 37; 41; 62 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Working at NUROL Construction Value Chain Management Management Management Approach 2016 Sustainability Approach, Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Sustainability Approach; 37; 41; 62 103-2 The management approach and its components Working at NUROL Construction 41; 68-70 Value Chain Management Working at NUROL Construction, Value Chain Management; Working at NUROL 64-65; 70; 74 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Performance Assessment 68; 82-85 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Construction; Contribution to Society GRI 405: Diversity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Performance Assessment 82-85 GRI 413: Local Operations with local community engagement, impact Working at NUROL Construction; and Equal 413-1 Contribution to Society 70; 74 Communities 2016 assessments, and development programs Opportunity 2016 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Working at NUROL Construction 68 Operations with significant actual and potential negative Value Chain Management; CHILD LABOR 413-2 impacts on local communities Contribution to Society 64-65; 74 GRI 103: Sustainability Approach, 41; 68 SUPPLIER SOCIAL ASSESSMENT 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Working at NUROL Construction Management Approach 2016 GRI 103: 103-1 Value Chain Management Sustainability Approach, 62; 64-65 Sustainability Approach, Working at NUROL Construction 103-2 The management approach and its components Working at NUROL Construction 41; 68-70 Management Approach 2016 Sustainability Approach, Value Chain Management; 103-2 Value Chain Management Working at NUROL Construction 62; 64-65 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Working at NUROL Construction 64; 69 103-3 Value Chain Management Working at NUROL Construction 64-65 GRI 408: Child Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of Value Chain Management; Labor 2016 408-1 Working at NUROL Construction GRI 414: Supplier child labor 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria Value Chain Management 64-65 Social Assessment 2016 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions 414-2 Value Chain Management 64-65 taken 94 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GRI CONTENT INDEX 95 GRI Standard Standard Name Disclosure Page CUSTOMER PRIVACY GRI 103: 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Governance 33 Management Approach 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Governance 33 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Governance 33 SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE GRI 103: Explanation of the material topic and its boundary Governance, Sustainability Approach, 103-1 Value Chain Management 29; 37; 41; 62; 64 Management Approach 2016 Governance, Sustainability Approach, 103-2 The management approach and its components Value Chain Management 29; 37; 62; 64 Sustainability Approach, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Value Chain Management 41; 65; 70 CONSTRUCTION GRI 419: Sustainability Approach, Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social Socioeconomic 419-1 Value Chain Management 41; 70 and economic area Compliance 2016 Nurol Plaza, Büyükdere Caddesi No:255 Kat:19 34485 Maslak – Sarıyer / İstanbul / TURKEY Central Registration System No: 0632004223900012 Trade Registry : İstanbul – 964991-0 P: +90 212 286 80 10 F: +00 212 286 80 11 www.nurolinsaat.com.tr info@nurolinsaat.com.tr For NUROL Construction Sustainability Report, contact: Güneş KOCAMANOĞLU Integrated Management Systems Manager gunes.kocamanoglu@nurol.com.tr This report is printed on 100% recycled paper. Nurol Construction Sustainability Report (“Report”) is prepared solely for information purposes and does not constitute a basis for any investment decision. The contents and information contained in this report have been prepared by using the information and sources believed to be accurate and reliable at the time of the preparation of the report and the referred objectives and content in the report cannot be interpreted as any declaration, guarantee and / or commitment, and is not guaranteed to be immutable. 96 NUROL YES SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 GRI CONTENT INDEX CONSTRUCTION
