01 CHAIRPERSON’S MESSAGE 02 RÖNESANS 02 About Rönesans Holding 07 Companies 08 Mission, Vision, Values 9 09 Organizational Management & Governance 11 ABOUT THE REPORT 12 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 12 Human Rights Principles 1 2 14 Health and Safety 17 Labour Rights Principles 3 6 20 Environmental Principles 7 9 20 Sustainable Development Goals at Rönesans 21 Sustainability Management at Rönesans 21 Rönesans Sustainability Management Organization 21 Sustainability Perspective 22 Waste Management System 23 GHG Emission Management 24 Stakeholder Management 25 LEED Certificated Projects 40 Anti-corruption Principle 10 41 PART 2: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES 41 Rönesans Becomes the “Compass” for Young People 42 Design Sustainable Future 43 REV Academy-Personal Development Program 51 MEMBERSHIPS & AWARDS CHAIRPERSON’S MESSAGE Since our inception in 1993, Rönesans has transformed into a giant world competitor consisting over more than 75,000 employees working in 28 countries. Our growth has responded responsibly to the changing dynamics of today’s resource limited world, by aggressively investing in sustainable frameworks and installing best management practices in all our projects. Twenty-four years of experience in leading the forefront of construction and trade has helped develop our corporate responsibility to the highest standards. Rönesans Holding, as a UN Global Compact Participant, adapts Environmental and Social Sustainability philosophy to protect particularly human health, natural and cultural heritages in all activities throughout the projects’ lifecycle by positively influencing its stakeholders, communities and environment. As Rönesans, we also support continuously Global Compact by making its principles part of strategy, culture and day-today operations of our company, and engaging in collaborative projects which advance the border development goals of the United Nations. Our triple bottom line approach “people, the planet and economy” is at the heart of our business. We believe sustainable business practices not only have immediate positive impacts on environment and society, but also provide long-term economic benefits to future generations. This belief has established a foundation of trust and built symbiotic relationships with our stakeholders and local communities over the years. I would like to express my sincerest gratitude to our clients, who shared our vision, and for their continued support. At Rönesans, we solve sustainability challenges through the adoption of innovative measures in design, technology, and management. Most importantly, we listen to our stakeholders; through their active inclusion in every phase of our projects, we ensure our corporate social responsibility in achieving the triple bottom line. Our green vision is not only to be ranked in the top 10 construction companies in the world by our economic performance but also achieving this goal by being more and more respectful to the environment. I would like to thank all my colleagues who contributed this report which is a great way to express how much Rönesans cares environment and social life. Dear stakeholders, Your support and encouragement is key to meet the expectations of our company and, to serve our communities better by improving our sustainability approach. Thank you. İPEK ILICAK KAYAALP Chairperson of the Board 01 RÖNESANS About Rönesans Holding Established in St. Petersburg, Russia in 1993, Rönesans Holding serves as main contractor and investor with over 75 thousand employees across 28 countries. Rönesans Holding ranks as the world’s 33rd and Europe’s 9th largest contractor in the ENR list of the world’s top contractors. As of end-2018, the holding has a global turnover of USD 4.9 billion and total assets of USD 8.4 billion. The holding builds heavy industry facilities, infrastructure projects, manufacturing industry facilities, chemical and pharmaceutical production facilities, food and beverage processing facilities, automotive and machinery factories, government buildings, health complexes and power plants, as well as shopping centers, office buildings, hotels, residences and mixed-use property. Lakhta Center St. Petersburg, Russia 02 RÖNESANS About Rönesans Holding | Timeline 1993 • Foundations of Rönesans • Renaissance Construction is founded by Dr. Erman Ilıcak in St. Petersburg, Russia. 2000 • Growing in Russia • Renaissance Construction opens the Moscow Office. 2001 • Expansion into different areas • Rönesans expands into the real estate 2004 • The first project in Turkey • Optimum Outlet, the company first shopping center investment project, is launched in Ankara. 2006 • Rönesans establishes Rönesans Real Estate Investment in Ankara. • Ankara Optimum Shopping Center opens its doors to visitors. • Growth with global achievements • Renaissance Construction makes its debut in one of the world’s most prestigious surveys the ‘’ENR Top 225 International Contractors list.’’ 2007 • A new sector: Energy • Rönesans becomes the second largest contractor company in Russia • Renaissance Energy is established. 2008 • The first infrastructure project • Rönesans’ first infrastructure project Sochi International Airport is launched. • Rönesans MEA is established and the areas of operation are expanded to include Middle East and North Africa 2009 • The foundation carries out social responsibility projects • Rönesans establishes the Rönesans Education Foundation (REV) and centralizes its corporate social responsibility activities under a single roof. • Shareholding agreement with PORR AG concluded. 2010 • New markets • Operations are expanded into Türkmenistan. • İstanbul Optimum Shopping Center is recognized as Europe’s and Turkey’s ‘’Best Shopping Center’’. 2011 • Goals for the industry • Renaissance Heavy Industries is established. 03 RÖNESANS About Rönesans Holding | Timeline 2012 • Rönesans expands its areas of operation and diversifies its services • Rönesans signs contracts for its projects • Rönesans Sağlık Yatırım A.Ş. becomes operational. 2013 • First steps towards the health sector • Rönesans performs the groundbreaking ceremony of city hospitals built by Rönesans Healthcare Investment in Adana, Yozgat and Elazığ • Piazza Shopping Centers in Şanlıurfa, Kahramanmaraş and Samsun opens their doors to visitors. • RönesansBiz Mecidiyeköy Office Project becomes operational. • Russia’s first LEED Gold Certified office building Renaissance Pravda opens. 2014 • The company performs the groundbreaking ceremony of Bursa City Hospital. • Rönesans completes the construction of the LEED Platinum Certified Rönesans Tower in İstanbul. • Rönesans Real Estate enters into partnership with GIC, a sovereign wealth fund established by the Government of Singapore. • In collaboration with REV and the Turkish Education Association, TED Rönesans College welcomes its students. • The company undertook the construction of the Gotthard Base Tunnel Project, the world’s longest and deepest railway tunnel in the Swiss Alps. • Rönesans completes the construction of the Ammonia and Urea Factory, the largest operational industrial facility in Turkmenistan. • The company begins the construction the world’s largest natural gas to gasoline plant in Turkmenistan. 2015 • A year full of world records • Lakhta Center Project in St. Petersburg breaks the world record with a monolithic concrete pouring operation of 49 hours. • The construction of the 246-meter Evolution Tower, one of the tallest high-rise buildings in Europe, is completed. • The sale of Rönesans Tower in Istanbul is closed. • Turkey’s first online scholarship application system and education portal REV Academy Project is launched. 2016 • Rönesans enters into shareholding agreement with IFC, a member of the World Bank Group. • Rönesans Energy adds the Şanlıurfa HPP to its generation portfolio. • Acquisitions at full steam • Rönesans acquires 99.25% shares of the Netherlands-based Ballast Nedam NV. • The construction of the Gotthard Base Tunnel is completed. • Europe’s largest iron ore pelletizing plant ‘’Stoylensky GOK’’ is opened. 2017 • Rönesans announces that, with Ballast Nedam, it has undertaken the renovation project of the Amsterdam • Arena Stadium, one of the largest stadiums in the Netherlands. This project is considered to be the most extensive renovation the stadium has undergone since 1996. 04 RÖNESANS About Rönesans Holding | Timeline • Ballast Nedam signs an approximately EUR 1 billion Public-Private Partnership (PPP) project for roads and tunnels in the Netherlands. • The construction of the Linde Nitrogen Togliatti Ammonia and Hydrogen Production Facility is completed. Kazakhstan’s largest shopping center Mega Silk Way opens its doors to visitors. • Neva Towers, built in Moscow, is recognized a ‘’the Best International Residential High-Rise Development’’ at the International Property Awards. • In Turkey, İkitelli City Hospital is financially closed for JPY 163 billion. The agreement is recognized as the ‘’PPP Agreement of the Year’’ in Europe. • Turkey’s first LEED Certified hospital Yozgat City Hospital and Adana City Hospital, featuring the world’s largest seismic isolator, are opened. • Hilltown Shopping Center opens its doors to visitors in Küçükyalı, Istanbul. • Thanks to all of its breakthroughs, Rönesans Holding qualifies to be in the finals and wins an award in the • ‘’Local Currency Bond Deal of the Year’’ category at the Bonds & Loans Awards. • Rönesans is granted the GAN (Global Apprenticeship Network) Turkey Special Award for its ‘’Young Discovery Program Pusula’’. 2018 • Ranked 36th in ENR’s list of the world’s largest construction companies, Rönesans Holding is also the 9th largest contracting company in Europe. • Rönesans signs a EUR 1.3 billion deal with Maire Tecnimont for the construction of the Amur Natural Gas Processing Plant, which will be one of Russia’s the largest and among the world’s most prominent natural gas processing plants. • Developed by Renaissance Construction in St. Petersburg, Russia, the ‘’Lakhta Center’’ office project reaches its highest at 462 meters. • Hilltown Shopping Center Project qualifies for the LEED Gold Certificate. • The mechanic and construction work of Phosagro Ammona Facility, jointly built by Renaissance Heavy Industries and the Japanese IGC Group, completed. • The partnership between the group company Ballast Nedam and TAV Construction win the tender for the construction of an additional terminal at the Amsterdam Schiphol Airport which is planned to be completed in 2019. The airport is gearing up to become one of the busiest aviation hubs in Europe. • Piazza Maltepe Shopping Center, EUR 320 million investment, opens its doors to visitors. • The International Council of Shopping Centers (ICSC) recognizes Izmir Optimum Shopping Center as the best in Europe. • Elazığ City Hospital, built by Renaissance Healthcare Investment, becomes operational on August 1. • The GTG (Gas-to-Gasoline) project Rönesans developed in Turkmenistan’s capital Ashkhabad is noted for being the world’s largest facility to produce gasoline from natural gas. The facility has a production capacity of an average daily output of 1800 tons, and on a yearly basis, an average 600,000 tons of gasoline and 100,000 tons of LNG (liquefied natural gas). • The 900 million Euro financial closure of the Ballast Nedam and Blankenburg Access Road project was completed in 2018. This project has the distinction of being the biggest PPP project realized in the Netherlands up until now. 05 RÖNESANS About Rönesans Holding | 2019 at a Glance Rönesans becomes the world’s 33th largest construction company, and the 9th in Europe, according to ENR’s rankings. With its TRY 23.4 billion turnover, RC Rönesans Construction has taken its place as No. 13 in the Fortune Turkey 500 Listings of Turkey’s 500 largest companies. Additionally, Rönesans Construction is fourth after Turkish Airlines, Ford Automotive and Arçelik in the rankings of companies bringing the most international revenues into Turkey. Campaign Turkey Magazine annual “Campaign Agency & Brand of the Year” awards ceremony has been organized annually for the last 25 years by Campaign UK and Campaign Asia Pacific. Rönesans Holding received the “Brand of the Year” award in the Construction category. Built in St. Petersburg, Russia, Laktha Center, at a height of 462 meters, carries the distinction of being Europe’s highest building. The project is at the same time one of the highest 20 buildings ever built in human history. A total of 92,000 [tons] of ironwork went into the skyscraper’s concrete foundation. A copy of the Eiffel Tower can be built with only one part of the metals used in the project. The Amur Gas Processing Plant Project will be Russia’s biggest and one of the world’s most notable gas processing plants when it is completed in 2023. Launched under a 1.3 billion euro agreement with Maire Tecnimont, the project will have an annual production capacity of 42 billion cubic meters. 06 RÖNESANS Companies • Rönesans Construction (RC) is involved in engineering, procurement and construction contracts primarily as a construction company. Its primary focus is on large commercial and industrial projects such as shopping malls, hotels, business centers, hospitals, government & private offices and industrial plants for public and private clients. • Rönesans Heavy Industries (RHI) carries out its activities in the construction of petroleum chemicals, gas, energy, metallurgy, mining, and processing plants. The main service areas of RHI include engineering, procurement, logistics, construction, and test commissioning works. • Rönesans Real Estate Development includes Rönesans Real Estate Investment (in Turkey, RGY) and Desna Real Estate Investment (in Russia, Desna) and provides construction and development of residential and commercial real estate. • Rönesans Healthcare Investment Company (RSY) carries out investment in the healthcare sector under the public-private partnership scheme in Turkey. • Rönesans Energy (REN) carries out investment and development of energy projects, including renewable energy. • Rönesans Middle East & Africa (MEA) was established in 2008 and opened its first office in Libya. It now works in several countries building stadiums, hotels, residences, and hospitals. Gotthard Base Tunnel Faido, Switzerland 07 RÖNESANS Mission, Vision, Values | Our Mission Is to contribute to the benefit of our employees and society through high quality and innovative projects that we take on even under challenging and variable market conditions. We implement our mission by virtue of being reliable and dynamic in rendering our services and by making a visible difference in each market sector where we are active. Mission, Vision, Values | Our Vision Is to maintain our leading position in Turkey and to be ranked among the top 10 construction companies in the world. We aim to be a unique and dynamic business in each target sector by maintaining sustainable growth. Mission, Vision, Values | Our Values INTEGRITY We are committed to the values described in our Code of Conduct which puts integrity first. At Rönesans we are convinced that honesty is the best policy. We promote and encourage honesty, integrity, and transparency in all our business processes and corporate communications. • To Do Things Right is Rönesans • Showing True Respect to All is Rönesans • Representing Trust is Rönesans COMPETENCE We believe that by employing competent people, we ensure the highest quality of our projects. Competent employees demonstrate a high level of knowledge and skills. They perform their work conscientiously, thoroughly, and accurately. They feel confident when it comes to assuming responsibility; thus, they are perceived as reliable colleagues and strong team players. • Being Aware and Extending Your Knowledge is Rönesans • Discovering for More Creativity is Rönesans • Challenging Yourself to Reach Excellence is Rönesans TEAMWORK We understand the importance of team spirit and teamwork. The most impressive results are achieved by close-knit teams which, we believe, we have at Rönesans. We place great emphasis on coordination and harmonization of efforts of our team members because this ensures success and great accomplishments for our company. At the same time, we strive to provide our employees with an encouraging and inspiring work environment where everyone can fulfill their potential, develop their talents, and come up with the most efficient and creative solutions for our clients. • Building with Passion is Rönesans • Marching Together for A Greater Success is Rönesans • Presenting The Same Quality Everywhere and Every Time is Rönesans CARE FOR THE FUTURE Rönesans is a dynamically growing company that follows long-term development strategies and aims to establish solid relationships with its employees, clients and other stakeholders; by envisioning a clear destination and the future of our company. Therefore, we ensure the right road to arrive at the best results possible and even exceed the expectations which we have set. We are determined to move forward without stopping, to set new goals and expand our horizons in order to make people’s lives safer, more comfortable, and more enjoyable. • Giving a Chance is Rönesans • Being A Bridge Between the Past and The Future is Rönesans 08 RÖNESANS Organizational Management & Governance Rönesans is governed and represented by a board of highly reputed industry leaders and professionals. Our Board of Directors determines the company’s management organization, establishes the necessary arrangement for financial planning, appoints senior management, strengthens risk management, creates the company committees, and oversees whether the persons involved in management comply with the laws, articles of association, internal guidelines, and the Board’s written instructions. The Board also holds General Assembly Meetings with the participation of the shareholders and ensures the implementation of decisions taken in General Assembly. The secretarial services, control, management and archiving of corporate documents of the Board is undertaken by Legal Affairs Department. Rönesans adopts the legality and the rule of law in its all works and in this way it provides the legality of the administrative affairs of the company. BUSINESS ASPECTS CORPORATE GOVERNANCE SYSTEM Rönesans has a corporate governance system that relies on a set of key components to operate and ensure accountability, efficiency, and the successful distribution of rights and responsibilities among different participants. These include the Performance, Process and Document, and the Strategic Management systems. The communication channels in these structures are bidirectional, and these frameworks also serve as a platform for individuals and groups to relay critical concerns to the highest governance body. PERFORMANCE MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Rönesans has developed a well-structured performance management system to help the company achieve long-term strategic objectives. In the system, the overall Rönesans mission and vision are translated to the diverse business units and corporate functions while the business streams are planned in detail with the involvement of executive management. Subsequently, those plans are communicated across the company and linked to the short-term and long-term operations of the business units. As a result of the system, Rönesans’s overall strategy has been successfully translated into operational terms. 09 RÖNESANS Organizational Management & Governance PROCESS AND DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM The Process Management System defines the structures of the business units and the organization as a whole, clarifies rights and responsibilities of each individual and standardizes the work processes through corporate procedures and standards, ensures compatibility among corporate functions, and minimizes ambiguity in operations while providing transparency and accountability. It minimizes redundant approval procedures and non-value adding control mechanisms involved in the company’s daily operations reducing extensive time spent, idle processes and waste of waiting. As a part of the process management system, standards related to the operations of diverse business units are developed. In the system, the operational roles and responsibilities of these functions are captured, work principles and authorizations are discussed, and process diagrams representing the sequence of these operations are established. CENTRALIZED DOCUMENT MANAGEMENT SYSTEM The Document Management System ensures that any information, knowledge, and documents can be successfully captured, classified, formatted, retrieved, reported, delivered, integrated, and secured; that is, wholly managed. STRATEGIC MANAGEMENT SYSTEM Rönesans’s strategic management approach includes the formulation and implementation of the company’s goals over the long term based on the organizational strengths to enhance competitive advantage and meet customers’ and employees’ expectations. Rönesans formulates its strategy to give direction and establish the company’s scope of operations over the long term, and to maintain success in a changing and competitive environment while considering internal dynamics and the external operating environment. RISK MANAGEMENT Risk management is a keystone in implementing corporate, sustainability and social strategy. Rönesans attaches high importance to comply with law, transparency and accountability. Rönesans Risk Management is implemented to prevent any contingency with a potential negative impact on the attainment of qualitative or quantitative activities. Its aim is early identification and control of the risks including market risks, operational risks, financial risks and information security risks linked to Rönesans’ global business. In this way, the potential impact of identified risk can be minimized, and future threats to the company inhibited. 10 ABOUT THE REPORT This report covers the environmental and social performance of Rönesans from September 2018 to September 2019 and illustrates our corporate culture which is driving our achievements. We refer to the company’s subsidiaries and its joint ventures as “The Group” and use consolidated annual data from our global operations in all sectors and businesses to highlight our performance. This report also describes the practical actions that Rönesans has taken to implement UN Global Compacts ten principles in each of the four issue areas; human rights (1 and 2), labor rights (3, 4, 5, 6 and 10), environmental (7, 8 and 9) and anti-corruption (3, 4, 5 and 6). The performance figures in our Green Projects was reviewed by the U.S Green Building Council as part of the LEED certification process. We did not employ an external agency to audit this report itself. This report was directed by Sustainability Office of Rönesans Holding. Please contact us via e-mail (sustainability@ronesans.com) for questions related to this report. 11 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES 12 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within their sphere of influence. 2. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights abuses. HUMAN RESOURCES PRINCIPLES Employee Satisfaction and Motivation • Conducting surveys and interviews about employee satisfaction • Allowing for career possibilities and skill development • Offering a workplace environment in which business and private lives are balanced • Awarding employees who deliver an outstanding performance • Providing fringe benefits Dynamism, Innovativeness and Team Spirit • Encouraging creativity, innovation, and entrepreneurship • Ensuring a flexible and dynamic workplace environment • Cultivating a strong team spirit in order to achieve sustainable Success • Right Person for the Right Job • Selecting employees who are capable of adding value to Rönesans culture, vision and mission • Effectively assessing the education, knowledge, experience, and skills of candidates and employees Investment in Human • Adopting the principle of continuous and sustainable development • Organizing training for personal and Professional development • Making contributions to development of skills Diversity and Non-Discrimination Diversity and nondiscrimination are basic principles of Rönesans’s HR policy. The company does not tolerate any form of discrimination and promotes equal opportunities and equal treatment for all, regardless of race, nationality, social background, disability, political or religious beliefs, gender, and/ or age. An individual’s dignity, privacy and personal rights must be respected. Degrading employees through psychological stress or in other ways is under no condition tolerated. Conducting operations in various countries, Rönesans promotes staff diversity in terms of gender, professional, ethnical, and cultural backgrounds. Diversity helps the company to be closer to its local clients, partners and communities. 12 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Gender Equality Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality Rönesans, having made a public commitment to 7 principles of Women’s Empowerment Principles since February 2016, aims to increase environmental and social corporate policies that will advance social gender equality. Women’s Empowerment Principles platform is one of the most prominent global initiatives of the private sector, aiming for the empowerment of women in order to enable them to have a place within the economic life, in all sectors and all levels. Women’s Empowerment Principles platform adopts 7 core principles. These are: • Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality • Treat all women and men fairly at work – respect and support human rights and nondiscrimination • Ensure the health, safety and well-being of all women and men workers • Promote education, training and professional development for women • Implement enterprise development, supply chain and marketing practices that empower women • Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy • The Holding ensures that it will measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality. Ethics Rönesans sees ethical standards as a key indicator for achieving long-term success at workplace. However, as a company who carries out activities worldwide, Rönesans is under the risk of internal and external ethical violations due to expanding field of activity and growing organization. In order to manage unethical actions brought to attention, Rönesans takes efficient actions and regularly controls the management and implementation of related actions. Ethical values of Rönesans are stated in Code of Conduct Agreement with related principles and defined responsibilities. According to the code: • Employees of Rönesans are committed to the principles of honesty and integrity in its relations with stakeholders. • Reliability is and essential necessity in Rönesans. Therefore, employees of Rönesans avoid any behavior which may damage the confidence to company’s activities. • Employees of Rönesans should respect the rights of the individuals and their cultural differences; any sort of harassment and peer pressure is forbidden in Rönesans. Employees should be open, respectful and responsible when sharing their ideas and opinions. • Rönesans pays special attention to the principle of equality both among its employees and in its business relations with third parties. • Rönesans values transparency in its transactions with third parties such as its employees, customers, suppliers, subcontractors, shareholders and affiliates unless otherwise regulatory requirement; and expects same manner from all parties in its value chain. All newly hired employees sign the Code of Conduct which is an attachment to the employment contract. Rönesans also expects its third-party stakeholders such as customers, suppliers, sub-contractors, etc. to follow its ethical standards. Compliance with the rules and principles is a permanent process and requires the employees to make conscious decisions, discriminative and unethical behaviors are strictly not tolerated. Implementation and monitoring processes are ensured by Internal Audit Department. Ethics Hotline is a major contributor in monitoring process. It is used for obtaining information about Rönesans’ ethics applications and reporting inappropriate behaviors. Internal Audit Department is responsible of conducting in-depth researches, studies, reviews, investigations, report evaluation and answering received questions. All complaints and reports are kept confidential and reviews/ investigational works are conducted in strict confidence. Rönesans Ethics Hotline may be accessed to by mail or telephone. Contact information of Rönesans Ethics Hotline is +90 216 430 64 54, ethichs@ronesans.com or Taner BİLGİN/Chief Risk and Compliance Officer 13 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HEALTH AND SAFETY At Rönesans, we are determined to make occupational health and safety an inseparable part of our corporate culture. We believe that every accident can be prevented through reliable risk analysis and a proactive health and safety management system. We are working continuously to improve health and safety management policies by constantly bridging the communication gap between the management, employees, subcontractors and clients. Rönesans established a centralized Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) Department in 2014 to improve management between our network of offices and projects. This body consists of health and safety management representatives, construction safety steering committee, safety and environmental action committee, safety managers, safety advisors, and safety supervisors. The department exercises a state-of-the digital network system for health safety data collection, monitoring, and reporting. This implementation has resulted in a drastic increase in the quality, type, and frequency of incident reports. In all operation areas, project managers, site engineers and labor personnel are also better interconnected and more prepared to deal with incidents. Our HSE Management System incorporates guidelines and reporting standards of the Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) of the United States and the European Agency for Safety & Health at Work (EU OSHA). It operates via the following mechanism, • Provide mandatory HSE training to all employees, starting at the recruitment stage • Cover emergency protocols via dynamic educational courses not only for employees but also subcontractors • Train all site-specific employees on-site with HSE induction training and project-specific HSE training • Screen potential work-related health risks in employees who works on-site via medical checkups • Timely inspection of hazardous conditions on-site. • Validate the efficiency and accuracy of the HSE Management System by routine monitoring, data analysis, and regular internal/external audits • Comply with local and global industry standards in health and safety requirements related to handling of equipment and materials. In order to emphasize the commitment in Health, Safety & Environment, the top management of Rönesans and its group companies’ representatives continuously performed site visits, HSE walk-downs and meetings. Rönesans Holding’s successful Accident Prevention Program and commitment of Top Management and their visible leadership achieved a drastic reduction at incident / accident frequency (TRIF: Total Recordable Incident Frequency) rates. 2019** Total Recordable Incident Frequency (TRIF) Rate: 0,76 Total Recordable Incident Frequency Rate = Total Recordable Cases*200000/Total Man-Hours (OSHA) TRIF Rate provided below is collated from the date between September 2018 August 2019. *U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics ** The date between September 2018 August 2019 14 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HSE Recognition Programs Rönesans Holding adopts a zero-accident culture throughout its projects. Rönesans Holding uses HSE campaigns and HSE poster and slogan competition in order to increase the employee awareness on HSE. Compliance with safety protocols and successful progression toward and achievement of their safety goals to develop and reinforce an organizational norm is recognized and rewarded by Rönesans. JSA (Job Safety Analysis), Line of Fire, Eye and Face Protection Campaign Announcements HSE campaigns are conducted in every 3 months period. All Rönesans adapts the campaign program accordingly and share the result of campaigns at the end of 3 months period with Rönesans Corporate HSE Department. Prior to decide the subject of related campaigns the last 3 or 6 months Incident statistical analysis conducting in order to focus the main general hazard across the Rönesans. The HSE poster and slogan competition organized to raise consciousness and awareness about HSE and to contribute to development of HSE culture. Awards were presented to the top 5 participants in both categories by the Corporate HSE Department. Below are the top 5 works in the poster area. 15 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS HSE Training Creating a healthy and safe working environment is the first priority of Rönesans Holding and the major supporting element is the competent workers, supervisors and managers at work. Considering awarenessraising as one of the preliminary steps into establishing a strong Safety Culture at Rönesans Holding, training launched every year with enhanced techniques and increased rates for everyone. In order to make these activities sustainable, since 2016, each project created training department. Provided OHS Training data is collated from the date between September 2018 August 2019; 1,074,110.00 attendees across group companies received 1,844,605.41 man-hours of training (OHS Induction and toolbox talk training excluded) and 0.0080 training hours/man-hours achieved between these period. For the period of September 2018 – August 2019 total 4,826,088.00 man-hours training (OHS Induction and toolbox talk training are included) received and 0.0208 training hours/man-hour achieved for all Group Companies. Adequate resources have been allocated for OHS training and training targets have been set for Rönesans Holding; as a result, rates continue to increase since 2016. *Training Rates provided above is collated from the date between September 2018 – August 2019 To build up an effective leadership of our managers and supervisors “Safety Leadership” Training Program has been launched in 2017. In Rönesans projects and establishments 580 managers and supervisors received training as of August, 2019 and the program is ongoing with all projects and will continue for upcoming new projects. Competency Assessment Program is planned to be carried out for HSE Personnel. The aim of this competency assessment program is to identify the training needs of the HSE personnel and establish a training plan in order to increase the competency across Rönesans. First phase of this program has been completed and for other projects this program will be carried out. In order to increase awareness and risk perception of the management, supervisors and formen Hazard Hunt / Risk Awareness training is commenced in 2019. The training is ongoing and 476 personnel have been trained as of August 2019. 16 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS LABOUR RIGHTS – PRINCIPLES 3 6 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 6. Businesses should eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. DISCRIMINATION The Rönesans Code of Conduct Agreement enforces that there is zero tolerance for discrimination due to race, color, national or social origin, religion, age, sex, and physical disability. Our hiring process within human resources is also dictated by the Rönesans Codes of Conduct Agreement, which provides equal opportunities and equal conditions. The Code outlines disciplinary regulations that making discrimination for the reasons of language, race, sex, political opinion, philosophical beliefs, religion and sectarian in the course of performing a task and acting as targeting the benefit or disadvantage of someone is a reason for discharge. Beyond these issues, it is also emphasized that performance and productivity will be taken into account for the criteria of accountings and promotions and a transparent, clear of discrimination and fair policy will be pursued in all kinds of processes (recruitment, promotion-transfer-rotation, payment, rewarding, training, social rights etc.). We fully support the United Nations Global Compact’s Ten Principles, which are based on The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, The International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development and The United Nations Convention Against Corruption. Rönesans supports the United Nations Framework on Business and Human Rights. EMPLOYEES WORKPLACE Headquarters Operation Locations • Rönesans Holding Turkey, Ankara • Germany • Switzerland • Rönesans Holding Russia, St. Petersburg • Saudi Arabia • Qatar • Austria • Kazakhstan • Azerbaijan • Libya • Belarus • Luxembourg • Belgium • Mozambique • Curacao • Nigeria • Finland • Russia • Gabon • Sint Maarten • Ghana • Turkey • The Netherlands • Turkmenistan • Iraq 17 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS TRAINING PROGRAM AND COMPETENCY Rönesans values its employee’s professional and personal success and development. Based on these strategies the Talent and Development Management processes have been applied. As a part of talent management, employees competency evolutions are repeated annually after evaluations employees who were specified as high potential are attended Assessment Center. In Assessment Centers; Rönesans’s high potential pool and employees’ strengths and development areas are identified. Trainings and development activities in Rönesans are based on two major outputs. First one is strategies of the group, and the other one is talent and performance management evaluation results. In order to increase the effectiveness of our trainings and development activities we use blended learning methods as in class, on the job and online trainings. For Rönesans; creating own Leaders inside the group is one of the most important strategy and in parallel with this strategy; development of managerial skills of our executives (top and mid-level management) are supported by Talent and Development Management. Accordingly; We have generated two different programs “Leadership Development Program” and “Executive Development Program”. The first program designed for the manager and directors, is oriented into coaching and leading strategy has 3 modules and takes 6 days. Additionally, for mid-level managers a different program is applied which is oriented into team management skills and abilities. This program has 2 modules and takes 4 days. In addition to in class trainings, we are also supporting our leaders with Mentorship Program. The program includes our board members and top management. Not only the leaders but also our young talents are the target group. With this program, we aim to widespread our strategy and organizational culture to our young talents as well. This year; we are conducting the third term of the mentorship program. Besides Leadership Programs; we also present our employees optional trainings and mandatory trainings, in order to support their development needs, optional trainings are presented each year. This year in the training catalogue, we linked all trainings with our competencies. All employees could choose two trainings according to their development areas which are stated at their competency evaluation reports. Some of the training in the catalogue are as below. • Customer Relations Management • Change Management • Delegation Management • Stress Management • Performance Management • Negotiation Techniques • Strategic Thinking and Decision Making • Emotional Intelligence and Communication • Coaching • Advanced Excel • Excel Macro • Project Management Methods and Practices • PMP Exam Prep • BIM Workshop • Risk Management in Projects • Cost and Budget Management in Projects 18 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS For technical development based on health and safety, quality and job specific needs, for this year some of the mandatory trainings are as below. • Revit Mep • Revit Dynamo • Revit Architecture • Rönesans Orientation e-Learning Programs • ISO 9001 Trainings • Project Management with Primavera 6 (Basic) • Project Management with Primavera 6 (Advanced) • Compliance In conclusion; between September 2018 and September 2019; we had conducted 44.000 hours, 21 employees/hour and 3 employee/day training and development activities 19 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES 79 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Sustainable Development Goals at Rönesans Rönesans Holding adopts principles that are based on universally accepted declarations within the framework of UN Global Compact. September 2015, Rönesans Holding has been among the signatories of the UN Global Compact, which calls on companies to align their strategies and operations with the universal principles of human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption and take actions that advance societal goals. Our strategic plan focuses on key areas of poverty reduction, democratic governance and peacebuilding, climate change and disaster risk, and economic inequality. In accordance with these principles, Rönesans Holding; By means of the Scholarship Program administered without any sort of discrimination, the Foundation has provided education support to 8500 individuals since its inception and offered vast opportunities for the personal and professional development of the youth. 1800 scholarship students were part of the scholarship program in the academic year of 2018-2019. Pusula has been providing employment opportunities at Rönesans Holding since its inception in May 2016. 340 students have enrolled in the program so far and approximately 50% of them continued their careers at Rönesans. Rönesans has organized the fourth “Design the Sustainable Future” in 2018 and since its inception, nearly 20,000 students have participated in the competition. The goal is to reach 100,000 young people in five years. As of 2018, we monitor consumption data (electricity, water, natural gas and waste) in our operations to ensure sustainable management and efficient use of natural resources and develop strategies to reduce the consumption. In 2018, carbon footprint monitoring was performed in 30 projects by taking into account the requirements of ISO 14064 and IFC for the management of greenhouse gas emissions produced in the operations and projects of the Rönesans Holding. Rönesans Holding works in accordance with the biodiversity management procedure in all its activities to ensure the protection of biodiversity, to maintain ecosystem services and to manage living natural resources in a sustainable manner. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, Rönesans supports the work carried out with NGOs to achieve the Sustainable Development Goals. In this context, Rönesans has been working with the Business Council for Sustainable Development Turkey and has been collaborating as a TMM (Turkey Materials Marketplace) platform user for two years. 20 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Sustainability Management at Rönesans Rönesans Holding, as a UN Global Compact Participant, adapts Environmental and Social Sustainability philosophy to protect particularly human health, natural and cultural heritages in all activities throughout the projects’ lifecycle by positively influencing its stakeholders, communities and the environment. Principles of creating Environmental and Social Sustainability at all levels constitute the core of Rönesans culture. As Rönesans Holding, we structure our organization, management system and procedures in compliance with relevant laws, regulations and standards. At Rönesans, we strive for the continuous improvement of our Environmental and Social Management System and performance by setting targets and objectives for our key activities. We assess our performance under the principles of our environmental and social consciousness. Rönesans Sustainability Management Organization Environmental sustainability and social responsibility are deeply valued and adapted as core principles in Rönesans. Therefore, every step taken towards the company’s future, brings the need of continuous improvement on environmental and social actions. In order to fulfill the requirements of this improvement, Corporate Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS) has been conducted since 2016. Environmental and Social Management System (ESMS); is the entirety of the documentation and systems that are established with the purpose of monitoring, management and improvement of environmental and social sustainability performances in the activities conducted by Rönesans Holding. All applications within the scope of Rönesans Holding ESMS are designed in line with international standards. Sustainability Department is responsible for the application, monitoring and supervision of the systems established within the body of ESMS in such a manner that is in accordance with the legal legislations in effect in the geographical region where the operations are carried out. The applications within the scope of Rönesans Holding ESMS are divided into 6: • Environmental and Social Sustainability Policy • Environmental and Social Management Procedures • Environmental and Social Management Documentation • Waste Register System • Energy Consumption Monitoring System • Greenhouse Gas Emission Management System Since the beginning of 2017, Rönesans has been ensured ESMS to adopt and perform as minimum requirement by all group companies within the body of its own. Sustainability Perspective Rönesans, starting from top management, is committed to minimize the negative impacts of its activities to the environment and social life as well as ensure continuous improvement. Within this scope Sustainability Department conducts activities and implements new initiatives and managerial efforts related with environmental and social aspects in Rönesans Holding. Regular OHS and E&S trainings are conducted to improve employee awareness in line with the Project / Operation training plans. E&S trainings related with ESMS mechanisms are provided on a regular basis to update subsidiaries. In addition to these E&S implementation trainings, GHG Management, Waste Management System and Consumption Data Management System are conducted by Sustainability Department as well. Depending on each subsidiary’s needs and managerial decisions, different level of training can be provided by third-parties. Within the scope of HSE (Health and Safety and Environment) employees, ISO 45001 training of the world’s first international occupational health and safety standard was completed. 21 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Rönesans Holding supports the Zero Waste project conducted by the Ministry of Environment and Urbanization. In 2018, Zero Waste strategy has been started to be implemented in our operations. Rönesans, aims to reduce the environmental impact of its production processes through measures such as energy savings, waste reduction, reuse and recycling, limiting or eliminating harmful chemicals. In this context, trainings were given to all our employees in the projects and operations, signboard and posters were prepared for awareness in shopping malls and offices. Campaign programs will be organized for the dissemination of the Zero Waste Strategy. Rönesans Holding Sustainability Department conducts audits properly to determine the risks and impacts of group companies’ projects on environmental and social issues related to RHOL Environmental and Social Management System requirements. In addition to identifying risks and impacts, Environmental and social audits are aimed to ensure stakeholder’s participation in terms of project activities and establishing an effective grievance mechanism, and helping to prevent and manage risks and impacts for sustainable operations. The audit checklist prepared by taking into consideration Rönesans Holding Environmental and Social Management System and IFC performance standards aims to help prevent, mitigate and manage risks and effects in the project. In order to understand the size of the impact that will arise from the project and to take the necessary precautions, the control list includes the main section such as water and wastewater management, stakeholder participation, waste management and biodiversity. Waste Management System Waste Management System developed by the Rönesans Sustainability Department aims to enhance waste management activities and increase sustainable waste disposal practices within the projects. Waste Register System on Sustainability Portal was developed for monitoring, controlling and managing wastes of Rönesans Holding projects. Through this system, any information related with the type, quantity, transportation and disposal of the generated waste are regularly monitored. Waste Register System is developed in accordance with the international standards, laws and regulations and through the use of this system it is aimed to establish an effective waste management process and to define goals that could make a prospective difference in this field through regular monitoring. Each project has its own method of waste management including different ways of storage, handling and treatment implementations. The waste data collected in the projects and facilities are presented to IFC in the Annual Monitoring Report each year. Please find the waste monitoring data from the AMR report of 2018 in the table below. 22 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS * Data is taken from Annual Monitoring Report (AMR) consists January, 2018 through December, 2018 reporting period. GHG Emission Management It is estimated that construction of buildings has very important impact on the environment related to energy consumption and greenhouse gas emission. Rönesans considers environmental responsibility a strict requirement and has implemented several sustainable strategies in order to prevent probable damages that may be caused by its operations. Improvements related to greenhouse gas reduction or removal are made in accordance with TS ISO 14064-2 Standard that has scope as given below: Scope1: Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions released from sources owned or under its control Scope2: Purchased electricity, steam, heating, cooling etc. Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions from Operations Scope3: All other indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions not covered under Scope 2, e.g. Greenhouse Gas Emissions related to transportation activities where the establishment is not the owner and not directly controlled, Greenhouse Gas Emissions etc. which may be caused by recycling or disposal of the products used. Rönesans Holding GHG Management Procedure is applied regarding following purposes: • To ensure that all documents, data and references used in the calculation of greenhouse gas emissions are properly and appropriately supplied and used • To ensure the data flow activities carried out under the annual greenhouse gas emission report are not misrepresented and the relevant activities are identified • Provision of guidance on measures and actions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions production In 2018, carbon footprint monitoring was performed in 30 projects by taking into account the requirements of ISO 14064 and IFC for the management of greenhouse gas emissions produced in the operations and projects of the Rönesans Holding. Data on various activities of subsidiaries collected by identified operations and projects and transmitted to Sustainability Department by relevant persons in compliance with Communique on Monitoring and Reporting of Greenhouse Gas Emissions. Reports were prepared consideration of data on activities, calculations were conducted and findings and results were shared. 23 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS In 2018, it was observed that natural gas (%43) and fuel gas (%42) consumption were the most influential parameters in carbon footprint calculations. Our efforts to reduce our carbon footprint will help us to concentrate on these two parameters. Therefore, Rönesans is planning to initiate a new study which will focus on reducing machine and equipment related carbon emissions in RHI and RC project. The study will be implemented in 2019. STAKEHOLDER MANAGEMENT Rönesans attaches great importance to meet expectations collaboratively with all stakeholders. To share the Company’s values, support and encourage stakeholders for good relationship, Rönesans implements Stakeholder Engagement Procedure (SEP). SEP requires efficient management and implementation of resources and responsibilities. Rönesans identifies the stakeholders’ requirements, wishes, and expectations, addresses them discerningly, incorporates them into its business activities. Rönesans believes sustainable business practices have positive impacts on environment and society. According to Stakeholder Engagement Procedure, project stakeholders, their effects are determined and community engagement activities on a project-level are conducted by regular meetings. In addition to project-level implementations, Rönesans Holding conducts grievance mechanism properly with the aim of developing good relationships with all stakeholders and handling complaints in an efficient manner. As an example, hospital projects are private investment organizations, they need to prepare a stakeholder engagement plan and hold meetings with stakeholders. You can find detailed information about Adana, Elazığ and Yozgat Hospitals in the list below. Yozgat City Hospital: Stakeholder Engagement Plan has been published on www.pppyozgathastanesi.com. Regarding the plan, first stakeholder meeting regarding environmental and social aspects is held with mukhtars on 9.04.2018, 10.04.2018, 12.04.2018 and related actions are taken. Adana City Hospital: Stakeholder Engagement Plan has been published on www.pppadanahastanesi. com.Regarding the plan, stakeholder meetings regarding environmental and social aspects are held on 03.07.2018 and related actions are taken. Elazığ Fethi Sekin City Hospital: Stakeholder Engagement Plan has been published on http://www. pppelazighastanesi.com.Regarding the plan, first stakeholder meeting regarding environmental and social aspects are held on 15.01.2019, 23.01.2019, 24.01.2019 and related actions are taken. Sustainability website (sustainability.ronesans.com) was established in order to publicly disclose environmental and social aspects adopted by Rönesans such as E&S Management System, Corporate Social Responsibility Activities, LEED Projects, initiatives and reporting information. This website also includes an ‘Opinions and Complaints’ function which contributes to public consultation and communication. 24 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Rönesans has many stakeholders including: • Customers • Employees • Suppliers • Business partners • Local and neighboring communities • Investors • Non-governmental organizations • Government authorities • Media • Academics • Social and environmental agencies Rönesans SEP aims to engage relevant stakeholders for a purpose to achieve accepted outcomes, manage their business more consciously for the well-being of all major stakeholders while fulfilling their highest business purposes, intercorporate vision, mission and values. Five main categories are identified in SEP to manage key issues of each stakeholder group in Rönesans value chain. • Material Channel: Tools and methods which includes necessary information in order to manage material issues • Material Issues: Key factors for each stakeholder • Impact Channel: Rönesans uses various methods depending on target audience in order to increase the efficiency of communication. Communication methods including consultation and disclosure channels are integrated to SEP as Impact Channels. • Impacts: Direct or indirect outcomes of Rönesans activities on stakeholder groups • Description: Main stakeholder groups of Rönesans are classified as Society, Employees, Investors, Business Partners and Customers. Scope of each main stakeholder group is provided in Description section. 25 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS LEED CERTIFICATED PROJECTS Rönesans, having embraced the continuous progress principle and the environmental responsibility mentality as an integral part of its corporate culture, is considered to be a pioneering and leading company in its sector with regards to designing, constructing and operating projects with sustainability principles. Rönesans, acting with a sense of environmental responsibility, has become one of the prominent actors in the sector through successful green building applications. Some of Rönesans’ buildings with LEED certificate are: 26 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Elazığ City Hospital (Gold LEED Award, December 2018) The Project was designed to meet LEED Gold standards. Elazığ City Hospital is a top class city hospital located in Elazığ. This project is the first hospital in Turkey to receive Leed certification by the US Green Building Council. The Project comprises of an integrated health campus with a total capacity of 1,038 beds consisting of two hospitals and one clinic. These are the 888-bed Main Hospital, 150-bed High Security Forensic Psychiatric Hospital and 60-unit Oral and Dental Clinic. Main Hospital will include 493-bed General Hospital, 299-bed Women/Maternity and Children’s Hospital and 96-bed Psychiatric Hospital. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 11/18 8/9 23/39 4/16 10/18 4/6 3/4 27 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Maltepe Piazza Office & Shopping Mall (Gold LEED Award, December & November 2018) Maltepe Piazza has mixed use consisting of residential, office and shopping mall. The project includes 225 residences, 34.000 square meters of office space and a shopping center with 60.000 square meter of leasable area. It is located on E-5 in Maltepe and also directly connected to the Esenkent metro station. The shopping center has a children’s playground of 850 square meters, 205 stores, 10 movie theaters, 35 cafes / restaurants, private parking areas for motorcycles and bicycles and parking lot for 1790 cars. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 22/28 10/10 16/37 5/13 5/12 5/6 3/4 28 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Adana City Hospital (Gold LEED Award, August 2018) The Project was designed to meet LEED Gold standards. Adana City Hospital Project has been awarded USGBC LEED certification. The Project comprises of an integrated health campus with a total capacity of 1,550 beds consisting of 3 hospitals. These are the 1,300-bed Main Hospital, 150-bed Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Hospital and 100-bed High Security Criminal Psychiatric Hospital. The Main Hospital consists of four patient tower blocks surrounding a common core. The Main Hospital will include: 182bed Oncology Hospital & 185-bed Cardiology and Cardiovascular Hospital, 349-bed Women/Maternity & Pediatrics Hospital, 584-bed General Hospital. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 10/18 7/9 23/39 8/16 8/18 3/6 3/4 29 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Renaissance Business Park (Platinum LEED Award, January 2018) The project was designed to meet LEED Platinum standards. Renaissance Construction was the general contractor of the Renaissance Business Park was the first project LEED Platinum certified building in Russia. Renaissance Business Park is a new Class A business center with gross building area is 28,320 m². The nine-storey facility offers a one-level underground parking lot for 160 vehicles. The business center building equipped with the most upgraded security alarm and fire-fighting systems, ventilation and air conditioning as well as an electronic access control system. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 24/2 10/1 21/3 6/13 11/1 6/6 4/4 30 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Hilltown Shopping Mall & Office (Gold LEED Award, January & February 2018) The Project was designed to meet LEED Gold standards. Hilltown Shopping Mall is the first shopping center with LEED GOLD certificate issued by USGBC. Hilltown has an area of 63 thousand square meters of leasable area, approximately 2 thousand square meters of recreational area plus an office block of 8 thousand square meters of leasable area. Hilltown’s concept architecture is American architectural office signed by Elkus Manfredi Architects. Hilltown has 200 stores, 9 movie theaters, 40 restaurants and parking for 2,400 cars. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 22/28 8/10 14/37 6/13 7/12 4/6 2/4 *Hilltown Shopping Mall Score Card Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 22/28 8/10 16/37 6/13 7/12 4/6 2/4 *Hilltown Office Score Card 31 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Yozgat Education and Research Hospital (Gold LEED Award, August 2017) The Project was designed to meet LEED Gold standards. Yozgat City Hospital is a top class city hospital located in Yozgat. This project is the first hospital in Turkey to receive Leed certification by the US Green Building Council. Yozgat City Hospital is a general hospital with 475 beds and includes Acute, Newborn Intensive Care Unit, Intensive Care Unit, Radiology, Angio Unit, Chemotherapy Unit, Nuclear Medicine Unit ve Physiotherapy Centre. The hospital, which has a construction period of 24 months, was built on a total construction area of 142.000 m2 and the gross building area is 128.118 m2. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 12/18 5/9 15/39 8/16 11/18 6/6 3/4 32 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS RönesansBiz Küçükyalı Office Project Block C (Platinum LEED Award, June 2015) The project was designed to meet LEED Platinum standards. The implementation of sustainability in the architectural design and engineering of this A+ class Office Project led it to obtain Leed Platinum Certificate. It is located on E-5 in Küçükyalı, consists of three office buildings in A+ class standard. RönesansBiz Küçükyalı comes to forefront by its easiness of transportation, modern architecture and environmentfriendly design. Compared to conventional buildings, significant amount of water saving is obtained due to selection of efficient water fixtures and smart landscape design. In addition, energy performance is optimized by the use of automation systems, energy-efficient lighting fixtures and integration of efficient electrical and mechanical systems. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 25/28 8/10 22/37 7/13 10/12 6/6 4/4 33 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS RönesansBiz Küçükyalı Office Project Block A&B (Platinum LEED Award, May 2015) The project was designed to meet LEED Platinum standards. The implementation of sustainability in the architectural design and engineering of this A+ class Office Project led it to obtain Leed Platinum Certificate. It is located on E-5 in Küçükyalı, consists of three office buildings in A+ class standard. RönesansBiz Küçükyalı comes to forefront by its easiness of transportation, modern architecture and environmentfriendly design. Compared to conventional buildings, significant amount of water saving is obtained due to selection of efficient water fixtures and smart landscape design. In addition, energy performance is optimized by the use of automation systems, energy-efficient lighting fixtures and integration of efficient electrical and mechanical systems. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 25/28 8/10 22/37 7/13 8/12 6/6 4/4 34 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Rönesans Tower (Platinum LEED Award, September 2014) The project was designed to meet LEED Platinum standards. The Rönesans Tower is a Class A high-rise office and the first tall structure in Turkey to receive the Leed Platinum Certificate by the US Green Building Council. The 186-meter-tall Rönesans Tower is located on the Asian side of Istanbul, at the intersection of two major highways where the two continents connect. Rönesans Tower has a different appearance from every angle and is going to become a new symbol for the city. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 27/28 10/10 19/37 6/13 11/12 4/6 4/4 35 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS TED Rönesans College (Gold LEED Award, May 2014) The project was designed to meet LEED Gold standards. The TED Rönesans College is a top class private school located in the district of Maltepe in Istanbul. This project is the first school structure in Turkey to receive the Leed certification by the US Green Building Council. The college is designed to house 1,254 students. The kindergarten has six classrooms, a gym, as well as indoor and outdoor playgrounds. The elementary school has physics, chemistry, biology, music, visual arts, and computer classrooms as well as club rooms. A band room, a dance hall and a physical education hall are planned to be shared high school and elementary school units. The college has a total outdoor area of 6,300 m², including ceremony grounds, sports fields and playgrounds. The college has an indoor sports facility for 284 people, a dining hall for 564 people and a multipurpose hall for 297 people. The administrative section covering a total area of 500 m² includes an executive board unit and offices. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 18/24 8/11 11/33 6/13 10/19 5/6 4/4 36 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Renaissance Pravda Business Center (Gold LEED Award, September 2013) The project was designed to meet LEED Gold standards. The Renaissance Pravda Class A business center is the sixth real estate project implemented in St. Petersburg. The office building is located in the center of St. Petersburg, in the former St. Petersburg headquarters of the famous Pravda newspaper founded in 1912. A distinctive feature of the project is its unique architecture. The interior reflects the classical atmosphere of St. Petersburg: some balconies and street lights are placed in an impressive four-storey atrium. The Renaissance Pravda is designed to offer comfort and flexibility to its tenants, enabling them to plan their office space in accordance with their wishes and requirements. The Renaissance Pravda Business Center has become the first office building in Russia to receive LEED Gold Certification from the USGBC. In addition to this, the project won three prestigious awards at the International Property Awards ceremony held on September 24th, 2013, in London. The building was selected as the best office development project in Russia and the best commercial project both in Russia and in Europe. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 19/28 8/10 22/37 3/13 10/12 4/6 4/4 37 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS RönesansBiz Mecidiyeköy Office Project (Gold LEED Award, November 2012) The project was designed to meet LEED Gold standards. RönesansBiz Mecidiyeköy Office, has a difference making value by its position in Class A Office concept with its sophisticated technology and environmentfriendly architectural understanding. With its interior garden and yard creating a sense of “outdoor space” the project offers to office employees habitable spacious business areas just in the center of the city. The Mecidiyeköy office project was developed on a 3,917 m² plot in Mecidiyeköy. The gross leasable area is 14,316 m². Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 22/28 8/10 15/37 4/13 8/12 5/6 4/4 38 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Renaissance Plaza (Silver LEED Award, May 2012) The project was designed to meet LEED Silver standards. Renaissance Plaza” is one of the largest “A” class business centers of Saint Petersburg located in the historic part of the city. This 8-storeyed building with its imposing air was created with usage of fine architectural and most modern technological solutions. Renaissance Plaza Business Center is comprised of three buildings joined together by a well-furnished green internal yard. Renaissance Plaza is now the first LEED EBOM Certificated office building of Russian Federation. LEED EBOM (Existing Building Operation and Maintenance) certification system identifies and rewards current best practices and provides an outline for buildings to use less energy, water and natural resources; improve the indoor environment; and uncover operating inefficiencies. Sustainable Water Energy & Material & Indoor Innovation Regional Sites Efficiency Atmosphere Resources Environmental Priority Quality Credits 3/26 7/14 21/35 3/10 9/15 5/6 2/4 39 PART 1: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ANTI-CORRUPTION – PRINCIPLE 10 10. Businesses should work against all forms of corruption, including extortion and bribery. AntiCorruption Rönesans operates in conjunction with the existing legislation within the countries it operates in, where corruption or criminal activity is subjected to sanctions, including imprisonment. In order to prevent such behavior and attempts related to bribery and corruption we monitor all of our business processes carefully associated entities carefully and investigate anyone acting on his/her behalf in order to avoid any behaviors and attempts of bribery and corruption pursuant to the sensitivity displayed for the issue. No employee of Rönesans can be in any action of offering or accepting bribes and/or any such action that would constitute an offense. Such incorporating offense activities used in order to gain any advantage have certainly been forbidden. Rönesans displays a similar approach to so-called “facilitating payments” abroad regardless of its name under which is made; and making such payments is certainly forbidden. 40 PART 2: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES RÖNESANS BECOMES THE “COMPASS” FOR YOUNG PEOPLE Rönesans Holding has taken on another educational support program through Rönesans Education Foundation (REV) as a mission in order to support the development of skilled young people, who will shape the future. “Young Discovery Program Pusula”, organized in 2016 for the first time, provided new university graduates with job opportunities at Rönesans Holding and its affiliated group of companies. The program, which already stands out as one of the best corporate social responsibility programs that provide new graduates with employment opportunities in Turkey, aims at developing professional competencies and qualifications of young people, as well as enabling them to adopt the business culture and prepare for the business life. Record Number of Applications Within the scope of the Compass program, which was held for the third time in 2018, the project, which received more than 22,000 applications from 252 universities across 81 provinces of Turkey, involved face to face interviews with 1000 young people in Ankara. Following the evaluations, 100 new graduates from relevant departments of economics and administrative sciences, architecture and engineering faculties were employed for one year at Rönesans Holding and its group of companies, where they would prepare for the business life. In 2019, the program will again offer at least 100 young graduates the opportunity to start their career at Rönesans Holding and its group of companies and gain a unique experience at an international company. 41 PART 2: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES DESIGN SUSTAINABLE FUTURE “We reached 100,000 students with the Designing the Sustainable Future Project Competition” Sustainable Future Design Competition is implemented five years ago, we, as Rönesans, believe that to support future generations to live in healthier and more environmentally friendly conditions, we need to teach sustainability culture to university students and therefore we implemented this project. For this reason, we reach out to universities from all around Turkey which have architecture and engineering faculties, visit many of them, give seminars and ask students to share their visions and projects for a sustainable future. Each year we are visiting more than 25 Universities all around Turkey. The projects are evaluated based on different criteria such as sustainability, recycling, energy efficiency, urban development, innovative ideas and problem-solving, advanced production and waste management, visual design and social sustainability. The evaluations are carried out by a four-member jury consisting of women scholars and architects and they are assisted by Rönesans Holding’s architects and engineers at every stage of the project. We give a monetary award to the winners of the competition, as well as internship opportunities in Rönesans Holding. This year, our fifth anniversary, 680 projects were submitted to the competition. Right now, the projects are in the evaluation stage by our jury of architects and scholars. 42 PART 2: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES REV ACADEMY-PERSONAL DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM REXA The business world needs more people who appreciate success and are open to development and positive change. In this regard, Rönesans started a reward system in 2015 called REXA, which is “Rönesans Excellence Awards.” We award successful work and practices within the company according to these criteria and promote better work. There are awards for work safety, quality standards, difficult working conditions, which are given especially to construction sites, as well as “Women to Watch,” “Green Project of the Year” and “Innovative Project of the Year” awards in the individual category. With these awards, we bring out the best practices within all the group companies and hold them up as examples. Rönesans Education Foundation REV Rönesans Education Foundation (REV) was established in 2009 in order to support the education and personal development of youth and children. REV has created educational programs, social projects and permanent institutions with the aim of helping children and young people realize their potential and grow up as versatile, well-educated and productive individuals, thus upholding its mission of contributing to the future. REV Scholarship Program By means of the Scholarship Program administered without any sort of discrimination, the Foundation has provided education support to 8500 individuals since its inception and offered vast opportunities for the personal and professional development of the youth. 1800 scholarship students were part of the scholarship program in the academic year 2018-19. Volunteering Each student who joins the REV Scholarship Program is encouraged to perform voluntary activities to raise public awareness. The concept of ‘volunteering’ is explained to students in detail through online and faceto-face training, information is provided about Non-Governmental Organizations, and guidance is given to those scholarship students who wish to realize their own social responsibility projects. In the academic year 2018-2019, our scholarship students performed 28 thousand hours of voluntary work. Scholarship Student Gatherings Gatherings featuring expert panelists are organized each year with our scholarship students to get to know them better, and to discuss issues of voluntary work and social innovation. In this scope, during the academic year 2018-2019, we met with our scholarship students in face-to-face gatherings in 3 different provinces and in 20 webinars in order to reach our students in the other provinces. “Pano” Promotes a Culture of Sharing We established a platform to develop a sharing culture within the company and to connect the 75,000 people in Rönesans, enabling them to be in touch with each other. It is named Pano. And its slogan is: Share what you can. On the Pano website, Rönesans employees from around the world put up products they are not using, for example a baby stroller, and someone who needs it makes a request on the platform. With this platform, we are creating a sharing culture and economy. The project is still very new and it is being implemented in Turkey as the pilot area. In the future, it will be implemented in the other 28 countries we operate in. Stuff such as baby strollers, children’s furniture, washing machines, books and toys have been shared so far. 43 PART 2: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES Career Talks Every year, career talks are held to guide our scholarship students as they gradually prepare themselves for business life. In the 2018-2019 academic year, we brought together the students of Darende Bekir Ilıcak Vocational School with specialized architects, engineers and technical painters. The speakers shared with our students their know-how on construction site management and technical drawing, and organized applied workshops. We also came together with our scholarship students in online environments where boundaries are eliminated: In the academic year 2018-2019, specialized professionals from our company organized career talks in webinar format on topics such as Architectural Experience at the Office and Construction Site, Financial Literacy, the Compass Program, preparing a CV and Job Interviews, Embarking Upon Business Life, Business Development and Business Ethics. Designing Learning Cities The workshop Designing Learning Cities is organized in collaboration with SogLAB Social Entrepreneurship Laboratory within the scope of REV Academy Personal Development Program in order to teach young people the design-oriented thinking method and help them acquire a more global perspective. Throughout the day-long workshop, scholarship students first receive general information about Global Goals, with a special focus on “Quality Education” and “Sustainable Cities and Communities” chosen from among the 17 goals. Scholarship students work in groups: First they identify the problem, then they conduct research and formulate ideas, and then they implement the ideas they formulate in the form of models. They observe the fruitfulness of collaborative teamwork during the production process in the workshop, and also develop complex problem solving, critical and creative thinking skills. In the academic year 2018-2019, 225 scholarship students were reached in a total of 9 workshops organized in Ankara, İstanbul, Kocaeli, Bursa, Trabzon, Eskişehir and İzmir. 44 PART 2: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES Room of Dreams Room of Dreams is a social responsibility project for kindergarten students, designed to enhance their education and personal development. This project aims to encourage our children to interact with and love books in a pleasant environment, to instill in them the habit of reading at a young age, and to deliver a quality education environment to everyone. Under the scope of the Room of Dreams Project, with the contributions of volunteer REV scholarship students in different cities, colorful and interesting reading rooms are established where kindergarten students feel comfortable. In order to enhance the scope and quality of the project in the 2018-19 academic year, REV joined forces with Ankara University, Faculty of Educational Sciences to design the ‘I Love the World’ education module for kindergarten students. The education module consists of 20 activities based on game learning, and aims to contribute to the development of children as individuals who embrace the world with tolerance and love. In the 2018-2019 academic year, a total of 10 Rooms of Dreams were established in Trabzon, Kahramanmaraş, Adana, Ankara, Kastamonu, Elazığ, Van, Çorum and Kocaeli. Within the scope of the project, the content of ‘I Love the World’ module was shared with teachers in 15 schools through the method of trainers’ training. All materials used in the activities were prepared in special boxes for classrooms and delivered to the teachers. After the implementation phase, teachers gave feedback stating that the activities were instructive, applicable in classroom, fun, and suitable to their purpose. A total of 1900 children were reached within the scope of the project. Permanent Institutions Since its establishment, REV has established a series of permanent institutions, such as TED Rönesans College, İnönü University Darende Bekir Ilıcak Vocational School, TED University Ayşe Ilıcak Library, Keriman Çetinkaya Kindergarten, Amasya University Yüksel Akın Vocational School, Ayşe Ilıcak İH Junior High School and Anatolian High School for Girls, and Gürsu Cüneyt Yıldız State Hospital. The groundbreaking ceremony for the Malatya Erman Ilıcak High School for Science was held in the 2018-2019 academic year. The High School for Science’s construction is planned for completion in 2020 and education will begin in the same year. Students of Darende Bekir Ilıcak Vocational School were provided scholarships by FEV, and computers, tablets and sound recording devices were awarded to the students who made it to the top 3 in the 3rd Model Design Competition organized to support the professional development of the students. 45 PART 2: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES Social Projects and Support REV had previously contributed to the improvement of the physical conditions of Dr. Sami Ulus Children’s Hospital: This time, REV organized a New Year event for the children undergoing treatment at the Oncology Department. Before the event, as is the case every year, children were asked what they wished as New Year’s gift, and the gifts they wished for were packaged specially for each child. Our volunteering scholarship students wore colorful costumes representing the children’s favorite fairy-tale characters. The presents were thus delivered with entertaining games. At the Şanlıurfa Akkese Primary School, Hatay Balarmudu Junior High School, and Şırnak Bener Cordan Primary School, winter clothes were provided to 170 students in need. The clothes were packaged separately for each child with the contribution of volunteering scholarship students. The gifts prepared were delivered to the schools. Financial assistance was provided to the families of sick children hospitalized in the oncology wards of seven hospitals in Ankara. At the Malatya Ayvalı Primary School, a colorful library was established, complete with furniture designed to facilitate students’ access to books. 46 PART 2: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES REV Academy Personal Development Program is an online education platform designed with distance education technologies in order to contribute to the multi-faceted development of Renaissance Education Foundation scholarship students. Giving the youth an opportunity of high quality and permanent learning by removing the limits of time and space in their personal development process, the platform is designed as a dynamic and interactive learning environment. The content of the program, which our scholars can benefit from during their participation in the REV Scholarship Program, consists of ‘Personal Development’, ‘Preparing for Business Life’ and ‘Active, Responsible Citizenship in the 21st Century’. Our scholarship students received a total of 4100 hours of training on the REV Academy online training platform during the 2018-19 academic year. The below lists shows REV Academy activities which were conducted in recent years. Book Donatıon Campaign “Each Book is a New World” Rönesans Real Estate organized a book donation campaign in the shopping centers under their management in collaboration with Rönesans Education Foundation. With the goals of supplying school libraries with new books and recycling old and outdated ones, the project not only provides thousands of books for children and teenagers but also benefits the future by saving trees. The campaign is still ongoing. Rönesans Real Estate Receives four awards from MarCom Awards In 2018, Rönesans Real Estate was awarded one platinum, one gold and two honorary awards for their book donation campaign, organized with the help of Rönesans Education Foundation, by MarCom Awards, a competition for non-governmental organizations and the advertisement and public relations departments of the top companies in the world. 47 PART 2: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES University Career Days – “Right Job, Happy Future” Rönesans Real Estate’s Şanlıurfa Piazza AVYM (Shopping and Living Center) has been organizing ‘’Şanlıurfa Career Days’’ for nine years with the goal of assisting young people taking the right steps for their future. Arranged in collaboration with Şanlıurfa Provincial Directorate for National Education and expert educators, the event help students make the best decisions for choosing the right university for themselves. ‘Career Days’ event has been held for the past nine consecutive years with at least 40 universities attending each year. Şanlıurfa Piazza AVYM receives Bronze Award in ‘’Best Brand Experience’’ Category from Stevie Awards Stevie Awards, the only international business award program of the world, recognized Şanlıurfa Piazza AYVM with a bronze award in ‘’Best Brand Experience Event’’ category for its Şanlıurfa Career Days, an event helping students making the right decisions for choosing the right school after university exams. Şanlıurfa and Kahramanmaraş Science Fair Şanlıurfa and Kahramanmaraş Piazza Shopping Centers hosted the 3-day Science Festival, took place in October, 2018 in the shopping center of the parking lot took place. Şanlıurfa Governor, Şanlıurfa Province National Education Directorate, Harran University, Şanlıurfa Municipality, GAP Development Administration, Karacadağ Development Agency, Piazza Shopping Center and supported by sponsors TUBITAK 4007 Şanlıurfa Science Festival in Turkey was attended by about 300 thousand people from 81 provinces. 93 Scientific and Thematic Workshops, 1395 Workshops, 11 Stage Shows, 3 Workshops, 6 Interviews, 5 Scientific Shows, Astronomy Shows, Knowledge Contests, International VEX Competition and AwardWinning International STEAM Competition was held. With this project, while the sense of belonging to the city integrated with our brand, we touched the lives of hundreds of thousands of children and strengthened our love of heart with our visitors. We were the finalists in the Social Responsibility Project ’category on ICSC award platforms applied for with the Science Festival project and we expect the results to be announced on 25 September. 48 PART 2: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES Hilltown Shopping Center Social Responsibility Project with The Cooperation of Cirque Du Soleil 28/08/2019 Wednesday at the invitation of Renaissance Real Estate Investment World-famous Cirque Du Soleil show Bazzar exhibited for the first time in Turkey. Total of 100 children participated in the orphanage in Zeytinburnu, Bahçelievler and Küçükyalı. Woman Shuttle Service Driver Project at Adana Optimum Adana, where women make 39% of the labor force participation rate in Turkey is the 6th largest city. Adana Optimum Shopping Mall has announced a female service driver to draw attention to the importance of the issue. 4 female drivers selected among 30 candidates were provided with driving training. After the training, women moved to the wheel. In addition to the more courteous and disciplined work of women drivers, communication skills and the compassionate attitude of being a woman increased satisfaction from the first days they started to work. My World at Optimum İstanbul SRP My World event was planned as an activity where children could reflect all their wishes to paint everywhere and reflect their wide imagination during the development period. The event enabled children to develop their creativity while having fun in the park. Our erasable park is re-cleaned every week and reopened for the use of our little visitors. At the end of 4 weeks, our park, which was painted by our little visitors, was prevented from being erased by painting fixing. Ali Nihad Tarlan Primary School, which was shown to us by Ataşehir District Directorate of National Education because there is no private park for kindergarten students, was selected for donation. The Istanbul Optimum Outlet 10th year park, painted by our little visitors on 07.12.2018, was presented to Ali Nihad Tarlan Primary School and Kindergarten students. 49 PART 2: SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITIES İzmir Optimum El Ele Café Rönesans Real Estate and İzmir Optimum collaborated with the Anatolia Autism Foundation as part of the social responsibility project “El Ele Café”. The Anatolia Autism Foundation aims to create a successful example of a chain model that will serve as an example across Turkey, provide service and education for autistic people of all ages, and break new grounds in this area. The Shopping Center Management charges no rental and consumption (electricity, water etc.) fees for the El Ele Café project, which is set up in a café developed free of charge by Rönesans Construction (including construction costs such as architectural and mechanical development) in a leasable area of the shopping center. İzmir Optimum Receives Silver and Bronze Awards in Two Categories Through the El Ele Café project, which, for the first time in Turkey, employs children with autism in a shopping center setting to support their educational development, İzmir Optimum has won silver and bronze awards in two different categories for the “Best Consumer Event” and “Corporate Social Responsibility Program of the Year in Europe” in the 2018 edition of the Stevie Awards, the world’s only international business awards program. 50 MEMBERSHIPS & AWARDS 2019 • The project Rönesans is working on with its affiliate Ballast Nedam, “The Blankenburg Connection” (Blankenburg-Verbinding Public-Private Partnership Project) was chosen “Transport Deal of the Year” in Europe by PFI (Project Finance International). The awards were presented on February 13 at a ceremony held in London. The project, which is being undertaken in Rotterdam, encompasses roads, tunnels and highway accesses. The Blankenburg Connection project entails an approximate investment of 900 million euros, thus earning the distinction of being among the biggest infrastructure agreements to be enacted in the Netherlands. The agreement introduced finance institutions, corporate investors, the European Investment Bank (EIP) and two new Korean banks to the Netherlands. The successful project financing agreement led to its winning the PFI award. • RC Construction was selected to be among 10 companies to be acknowledged by Capital and Economist Magazines for providing the most jobs at the awards ceremony for “Turkey’s Employment Leaders.” • The companies in the rankings of Capital Magazine in “Turkey’s 500 Largest Private Companies Survey” received their acknowledgments in this, the 21st year of the awards. Evaluated on the list in terms of turnover, profitability, exports and employment figures, the companies were given 23 awards in a total of nine categories. RC Rönesans Construction succeeded in leaving all its sector competitors behind when it received an award in the category of “Companies with the greatest number of employees.” The leader in the category in which RC Rönesans Construction came in second was the retailing giant BIM Joint Stores. In third place was another retailing leader, LC Waikiki Merchandising. REC International Construction and Rönesans Energy Group President Kamil Akın accepted this prestigious award in the name of Rönesans Holding. • Rönesans Holding took 7th place as one of Turkey’s largest services exporters and 2nd place in the contracting category at the “Turkey’s 500 Largest Services Exporters” awards ceremony organized by TİM (Turkish Exporters Assembly). Taking place every year, TİM’s “Turkey’s 500 Largest Services Exporters” awards ceremony was held in the presence of President of Turkey, Recep Tayyip Erdoğan. The awards are given to the 10 companies in Turkey realizing the greatest volume of exports and to the first 3 companies standing out in 17 different sectors, Rönesans Holding won awards under both headings. Succeeding in assuming 7th place in the general category in which all sectors are evaluated, Rönesans earned 2nd place in the contracting sector. Rönesans Holding Board Member Ferit Seyfi Yağmuroğlu accepted the award in the name of Rönesans Holding on this meaningful occasion. • The winners of Turkey’s most comprehensive social media competition, the “Social Media Awards Turkey,” have been announced. The companies that were the most interactive and had the greatest number of followers, those that responded the fastest and were strikingly ahead of the others with their shared content were handed awards. Rönesans Holding received a silver medal in the Holding category. The corporation also entered the ranks of the leading 50 companies in the “all brands” category, taking up its place with consumer-centric brands like Starbucks, Nike and THY. • ICSC SOLAL MARKETING: The industry’s Most Prestigious Award in Marketing Management. In the Solal Marketing Awards, El Ele Cafe project won the best social responsibility project gold award. • REXA: El Ele Cafe project awarded the Holding Best Business Award within the scope of REXA awards organized by Rönesans Holding every year. 51 MEMBERSHIPS & AWARDS 2018 • Rönesans becomes the world’s 36th largest construction company, and the 9th in Europe, according to ENR’s rankings. • Izmir Optimum Shopping Center, the biggest mall in the Aegean Region, is chosen as the best in Europe. • Rönesans Holding received the title of “Brand of the Year” in the construction category. • Hilltown was awarded the LEED Gold Certificate, one of the most prestigious green building certificates in the world. • Renaissance Business Park, implemented in St. Petersburg, has become the first LEED Platinum certificated project in Russia. • Ikitelli City Hospital was chosen as the “PPP Contract of the Year” in Europe at the Project Finance International Awards organized by Thomson Reuters. • Rönesans Real Estate appended its signature under a great achievement by receiving nine awards in total at the MarCom Awards, listed among the most important marketing and communication awards in the world. • Adana City Hospital, built by Rönesans Healthcare Investment, was entitled to receive the LEED Gold Certificate. 2017 • Ranked 38th on ENR’s “Top 250 International Contractors” list • TISK GAN Award (‘The Young Discovery Program – Pusula’) • USGBC LEED Gold Certification – Yozgat Education and Research Hospital, Yozgat, Turkey • First LEED EBOM (Existing Building Operation and Maintenance) certified office building Renaissance Plaza, St. Petersburg, Russia • The Firm Generating the Highest Employment in Anatolia Award 2016 • International Finance Corporation (IFC) equity investment • Ranked 44th on ENR’s “Top 250 International Contractors” list • Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) Participant • European Bank for Reconstruction and Development (EBRD) Sustainability Award Most Advanced Carbon Credit Project for SENA HEPP 52 MEMBERSHIPS & AWARDS 2015 • Ranked 37th on ENR’s “Top 250 International Contractors” list • European Property Awards The Best Office Interior Design • USGBC LEED Platinum Certification RönesansBiz Küçükyalı Office Project • UN Global Compact Participant 2014 • Ranked 53rd on ENR’s “Top 250 International Contractors” list • CRE Federal Awards Russia’s Best Large Shopping Center: Aura Shopping Center, Yaroslavl, Russia • CRE Federal Awards – Best Developer of 2014 • USGBC LEED Gold Certification – TED Rönesans College, Istanbul, Turkey • USGBC LEED Platinum Certification – Rönesans Tower, Istanbul, Turkey • Asia-Pacific Region International Property Awards Best Public Service Interior 2013 • Ranked 64th on ENR’s “Top 250 International Contractors” list • International Property Awards – Best Commercial Renovation/ Redevelopment Europe/ Russia; Best Office Development Russia: Renaissance Pravda Class A Business Center, St. Petersburg, Russia • USGBC LEED Gold Certification – Renaissance Pravda Business Center, St. Petersburg, Russia 2012 • Ranked 81st on ENR’s “Top 225 International Contractors” list • CRE Federal Awards Russia’s Best Large Shopping Center: Aura Shopping Center, Novosibirsk, Russia • CRE Federal Awards – Best Developer of 2012 • Shopping Center, Novosibirsk, Russia • CRE Federal Awards – Best Developer of 2012 53 Ankara, Turkey Portakal Çiçeği Sokak, No:33 Y.Ayrancı Ankara 06540 Turkey Phone: +90 312 840 10 00 Fax: +90 312 442 58 16 E-Mail: ankara@rencons.com Istanbul, Turkey Küçükbakkalköy Mahallesi, Kayışdağı Caddesi No:1 34750 Ataşehir Istanbul Phone: +90 216 430 60 00 E-Mail: istanbul@ronesans.com St. Petersburg, Rusya 26A Ulitsa Shatelena St. Petersburg, 194021, Russia © 2019 Phone: +7 812 740 63 70 Rönesans Holding / Sustainability E-Mail: stpetersburg@rencons.com
