OUR GRI CONTENT INDEX Clifford Chance applies the internationally recognised GRI G4 Sustainability Reporting Guidelines to support our commitment to transparency. This index contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. Our approach to GRI is based on a pragmatic interpretation of the guidelines. We have therefore focused our GRI reporting on the indicators which we believe are the most relevant to our business and of greatest interest to our stakeholders. For more information about our stakeholders and the issues material to them, please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘Trust and Confidence’ and ‘Monitoring our Progress’ and our Responsible Business Report 2016, ‘Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement.’ The level of disclosure assessments below are self‑declared and have not been formally verified by a third-party. GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES Disclosure Description Fully/partially Comments Number reported Strategy and Analysis 102-14 Statement from senior decision Fully Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019 – maker ‘Trust and Confidence.’ Organizational Profile 102-1 Name of the organisation Fully Clifford Chance LLP. 102-2 Activities, brands, products and Fully www.cliffordchance.com – ‘Applied Solutions’. services 102-3 Location of headquarters Fully London, UK. 102-4 Location of operations Fully The firm has offices in 22 countries and works in a significant number of other markets globally from this network. During 2017/18 we had an association in Saudi Arabia with Abuhimed Alsheikh Alhagbani Law Firm (AS&H) and Ukraine with Redcliffe Partners. 102-5 Ownership and Legal Form Fully LLP. 102-6 Markets served Fully www.cliffordchance.com – ‘Expertise’ & ‘Offices’. 102-7 Scale of the organisation Fully Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019. 102-8 Total number of employees by Partially www.cliffordchance.com – ‘Reporting and Resources.’ employment contract and gender 102-41 Percentage of total employees Partially All employees are free to join collective bargaining covered by collective agreements but the specifics vary significantly from bargaining agreements one office to the next, partly dependent on local employment legislation and general practice. Clifford Chance Responsible Business Report 2019 1 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Disclosure Description Fully/partially Comments Number reported Organizational Profile 102-9 The organization's supply chain Partially As a global law firm, we work with a large range of suppliers supporting us across multiple categories, including, but not limited to, operations, IT, HR, knowledge and information, professional services, travel, etc. Some of these relationships are managed through centrally managed global relationships, others at a regional or local level. We aim to treat all suppliers fairly and we have a Global Procurement Policy that governs how we work with our suppliers, and ensures that appropriate due diligence is undertaken. We recognise the importance and value of our suppliers to our firm, and Clifford Chance has recently appointed a new role to lead its global supplier relationship management programme, which includes the deployment of a new SRM framework and policy, as well as a focus on supplier diversity and ‘sustainability’. We are looking to draft a sustainability statement for our suppliers to reflect Clifford Chance’s values and inform suppliers of our expectations to encourage sustainable behaviour. This includes, but is not limited to, assessing our carbon footprint, evaluating our suppliers using value alignment indicators such as locality, shipping distance, pollution, and supply chain transparency. As we evolve our supplier programme, we will also be reviewing the tiering and risk criteria used to identify the most strategic suppliers to our firm. 102-10 Significant changes during the Fully There have been no relevant changes. reporting period regarding the organization’s size, structure, ownership or supply chain 102-11 Explanation of whether and Fully We manage risk proactively. Risk management is how the precautionary approach the responsibility of the firm’s Executive Leadership or principle is addressed by Group and is managed by a team reporting to the the organization. Executive Partner. Our Audit and Risk Committee, which is made up of four internal members and one external member, monitors our approach to risk management. We are committed to protecting natural resources and our Responsible Business activities contribute to mitigating various environmental challenges, including the prevention of global warming and reducing waste to landfill. Clifford Chance Responsible Business Report 2019 2 Disclosure Description Fully/partially Comments Number reported Organizational Profile 102-12 Externally developed Fully reported Clifford Chance endorses the UN Sustainable economic, environmental and Development Goals. We are a signatory to the UN social charters, principles, or Global Compact and the UN Women’s Empowerment other initiatives to which the Principles and we support and respect the UN’s organization subscribes or which Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights it endorses and LGBTI standards. We also support the World Economic Form’s Partnering Against Corruption Initiative and are a member of the 30% Club. Individual offices are also signed up to environmental standards, which are administered locally at this time. We have been awarded ISO 14001 certification London, and the LEED certification in Washington, DC. Our London office has recently implemented an ISO 50001 certified energy management system. Our Luxembourg office is BREEAM certified. 102-13 Memberships of associations Not reported We do not currently have a process in place for (such as industry collating up to date information in this area from associations) and national or around our global network. Clifford Chance is a international organizations member of a wide range of legal sector associations, financial services industry sector associations and trade bodies, and we actively support a number of academic institutions as well as some think tanks, representing a range of perspectives. Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries 102-45 Entities included in the Fully www.cliffordchance.com – ‘Who we are and how organization’s consolidated we work’ financial statements. Clifford Chance Responsible Business Report 2019 3 GENERAL STANDARD DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Disclosure Description Fully/partially Comments Number reported 102-46 Explanation of the process for Fully Please see our Responsible Business Report 2016, defining the report content and ‘Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement’, and the Aspect Boundaries, and how our 2015 Corporate Responsibility Report, pages the organization has implemented 8 – 11, for further information about our 2015-2016 the Reporting Principles for materiality assessment. Defining Report Content. Identified Material Aspects and Boundaries 102-47 The material Aspects identified Fully • Economic in the process for defining Economic Performance report content. Market Presence • Environmental Energy Emissions Products and Services Compliance • Social Labor Practices and Decent Work Employment Training and Education Diversity and Equal Opportunity Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Human Rights Investment Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Supplier Human Rights Assessment Society Local Communities Anti-corruption Public Policy Anti-competitive Behaviour Compliance Product Responsibility Product and Service Labelling Marketing Communications Customer Privacy Compliance Clifford Chance Responsible Business Report 2019 4 Disclosure Description Fully/partially Comments Number reported 103-1 Explanation of the material topic Fully The Aspect boundary for all Aspects includes all and its boundary internal operations and stakeholders. The Aspect boundary for all Aspects includes all external stakeholders. There were no developments within our business that would require any restatement of information provided in our previous reports. There are no significant changes from the previous year that would prevent comparability with the previous year’s performance indicators. Stakeholder Engagement 102-40 Stakeholder groups engaged by Partially Please see our Responsible Report 2019, ‘Trust the organisation and Confidence’. Please also see our Responsible Business Report 2018 ‘Question Challenge Act’. 102-42 The basis for identification and Partially Clifford Chance interacts with a broad range of selection of stakeholders with stakeholders. This includes individuals or groups which whom to engage we consider critical to the success of our firm both in the short and long-term, such as our people, our clients, regulators, government bodies and academic institutions. We also actively engage with those stakeholders where we believe we can add value and create benefit through our expertise and resources, for example, in supporting the work of NGOs and charities in the communities where we operate. Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019 ‘Move the Dial’, our Responsible Business Report 2018 ‘Make an Impact’ and ‘Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement’ for more information. 102-43 The organisation’s approach to Please see our Responsible Business Report stakeholder engagement 2019, and our Responsible Business Report 2016, ‘Materiality and Stakeholder Engagement.’ Please see our Corporate Responsibility Report 2012, pages 6-7, for further information. 102-44 Explanation of key topics and Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019 concerns that have been raised and our Responsible Business Report 2018, passim through stakeholder engagement, and in particular ‘Question Challenge Act’, and our and how the organization has Responsible Business Report 2017 ‘Materiality and responded to them. Stakeholder Engagement’ Report Profile 102-50 Reporting period Fully Financial year ending April 2019. Clifford Chance Responsible Business Report 2019 5 Disclosure Description Fully/partially Comments Number reported 102-51 Date of most recent report Fully September 2019. 102-52 Reporting cycle Fully Annual. 102-53 Contact point for questions Fully crfeedback@cliffordchance.com regarding the report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance Fully Clifford Chance’s approach to GRI is based on a with the GRI Standards pragmatic interpretation of the guidelines and as such the indicators we report on have been informed through consideration of the materiality principle. This means that we report fully on some, but not all of the core disclosures. 102-55 GRI Content Index Fully This index contains Standard Disclosures from the GRI Sustainability Reporting Guidelines. 102-56 External Assurance Fully This report has not been assured by external auditors. 102-18 Governance Structure Fully Our approach to governance is set out on www.cliffordchance.com, ‘How we manage our firm’. Our Executive Leadership Group and Executive Operations Group are responsible for making decisions on economic, environmental and social topics. Input is also provided by our Responsible Business Committee. The decision-making process and its topics are reviewed by the firm’s Partnership Council. 102-16 The organisation’s values, Fully The provision of legal services is a highly regulated principles, standards and norms industry. Lawyers and law firms are expected to meet of behaviour strict standards in relation to how the firm is run, how its services are supplied and managed and in the behaviour of its people, particularly but not solely its lawyers. At a minimum, we meet these standards in every market where we operate, and where our global policies and protocols are more stringent those instead provide the standard we expect. We have often played a role in setting new high professional standards in markets that can subsequently be adopted by other firms operating there. As a minimum our guiding principles globally follow those of the Solicitors Regulation Authority of England & Wales, which include that we “uphold the rule of law and the proper administration of justice; act with integrity; act in the best interests of each client”. In addition to these expectations, the firm has a set of Principles that are designed to guide behaviour in the firm. Clifford Chance Responsible Business Report 2019 6 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES Disclosure Disclosure Title Fully/partially Comments Number reported Economic Performance Disclosure on Management approach Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019. 201-1 Direct economic value generated Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019 – and distributed ‘Monitoring our Progress.’ 201-4 Financial assistance received Clifford Chance does not receive any financial from government assistance from governments. Market Presence 202-2 Proportion of senior management Partially We do not have specific procedures on local hiring. hired from the local community However, we are guided by local law. Our employees, partners and management are drawn from a wide range of nationalities and many of our offices are headed by a citizen of the country where they are based. There is a rigorous process for hiring of partners. This includes: a review process by all relevant business line heads (regionally and by practice area and, as necessary, by sector); a full assessment with the firm’s Partner Selection Group (which also makes recommendations on all partner promotions); analysis of the business case for investment in the relevant practice; agreement by the Executive Leadership Group and the Partnership Council and finally a vote of the global partnership. Environmental Energy 302-4 Reduction of energy Partially Our energy consupmtion for FY 2018/19 was consumption. 6,088 kWh per FTE. This is a reduction of 0.669 kWh per FTE since FY 2017/18, during which energy consumption was 6,757 kWh per FTE. 302-5 Reduction in energy requirements Partially Clifford Chance’s core business is the delivery of legal of products and services. advice. We are an office-based business and work internationally. Some of our initiatives to decrease our energy consumption are outlined in our Responsible Business Report 2019. Clifford Chance Responsible Business Report 2019 7 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Disclosure Disclosure Title Fully/partially Comments Number reported Emissions Disclosure on Management Approach Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘Environment’ and ‘Monitoring our Progress.’ 305-1 Direct greenhouse gas emissions Partially The global CO2 emissions per FTE in 2018/19 is 2.41 (scope 1) for electricity and fuel emission sources compared to 4.50 in FY 2012/13, 4.62 in FY 2013/14, 4.55 in 2014/15, 4.06 in FY 2015/16, 2.98 in FY 2016/17 and 2.78 in FY 2017/18. 305-2 Energy indirect greenhouse gas Partially The global CO2 emissions per FTE for FY 2018/19 emissions (scope 2) is 2.41 for electricity and fuel emission sources compared to 2.78 in FY 2017/18, 2.98 in FY 2016/17, 4.06 in FY 2015/16, 4.55 in FY 2014/15 and 4.62 in FY 2013/14. 305-5 Reduction of greenhouse gas Partially As of FY 2018/19 scope 1 & 2 CO2 emissions per FTE emissions have decreased by 13.12% from the latest baseline of 2017/18. Compliance Disclosure on Management Approach Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘Environment’ and ‘Monitoring our Progress.’ 307-1 Monetary value of significant Fully There have been no incidents of noncompliance with fines and total number of nonenvironmental laws and regulations. monetary sanctions for noncompliance with environmental laws and regulations. Social Labour practices and decent work Employment Disclosure on Management Approach Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘People’ and ‘Monitoring our Progress.’ 401-1 New employee hires and Not reported We collate and report internally on the number of employee turnover joiners and leavers by gender and region. Clifford Chance Responsible Business Report 2019 8 Disclosure Disclosure Title Fully/partially Comments Number reported Training and Education Disclosure on Management Approach Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘People’ and ‘Monitoring our Progress.’ 404-1 Average hours of training per year Fully www.cliffordchance.com – ‘Academy Statistics’. per employee by gender and by employee category 404-2 Programs for upgrading Partially Lifelong learning is highly valued at Clifford Chance and employee skills and transition is enshrined in our culture, with an emphasis on ‘soft assistance programs skills’ – including managing wellbeing and resilience – as well as the development of technical capabilities. Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘People’, www.cliffordchance.com – ‘Academy Statistics’ and ‘The Clifford Chance Academy.’ 404-3 Percentage of employees Partially Clifford Chance has a global appraisal system; receiving regular performance we expect everyone in the firm to receive an annual and career development reviews, appraisal which sets objectives and considers by gender and by employee development for the coming year. We track completed category. appraisal rates, as well as data from the appraisals and the overall results and trends are reported to the firm’s senior leadership bodies. In the past year, nearly all partners, lawyers and business services staff had a completed appraisal. We do not currently report any further detail externally. Diversity and Equal Opportunity Disclosure on Management Approach Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘People’ and ‘Monitoring our Progress.’ 405-1 Composition of governance Partially www.cliffordchance.com – ‘Gender Statistics’, bodies and breakdown of ‘Ethnicity Statistics’. Our Executive Leadership Group employees is made up of 2 women and 11 men. Our Partnership Council is made up of 2 women and 7 men. Our Executive Operations Group is made up of 8 women and 9 men. Equal Remuneration for Women and Men Disclosure on Management Approach Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘People’ and ‘Monitoring our Progress.’ 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and Partially Clifford Chance operates a lockstep compensation remuneration of women to system for partners whereby remuneration is largely men by employee category, by determined by seniority. The arrangements for our significant locations of operation. other lawyers and business services staff varies by location. In line with the new regulation this information is available at www.cliffordchance.com – ‘Gender Pay Gap Report 2019’ Clifford Chance Responsible Business Report 2019 9 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Disclosure Disclosure Title Fully/partially Comments Number reported Human Rights Investment Disclosure on Management Approach Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘People’ and ‘Monitoring our Progress.’ 412-2 Total hours of employee training Partially Many of our lawyers are conversant with human rights on human rights policies or policies or rights standards and/or locally applicable procedures concerning aspects human rights procedures concerning aspects of of human rights that are relevant rights legislation. A number of our lawyers are leading to operations, including the advisers on these issues www.cliffordchance.com, percentage of employees trained ‘Business and Human Rights’) and a number of our lawyers internationally work pro bono in this arena (please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘Doing Business’). Clifford Chance operates to strict professional standards which all of our staff are expected and, where appropriate, trained to meet. The training provided to our employees includes a Professional Standards Training Programme, which includes 60 to 90 minutes of new online training introduced every year for all our lawyers, covering different areas of a lawyer’s practice. Offerings have included training specifically on Human Rights and The Modern Slavery Act. Clifford Chance Responsible Business Report 2019 10 Disclosure Disclosure Title Fully/partially Comments Number reported 412-3 Total number and percentage of Partially We do not currently monitor supplier agreements significant investment agreements that include human rights. We are in the process of and contracts that include human introducing procedures that will enable us to track rights clauses or that underwent whether our ‘required clauses’, inclusive of Clifford human rights screening. Chance’s Supplier Code of Conduct and United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, have been included in our supplier contracts and where identified gaps need to be addressed. We do, however, issue a ‘Supplier Assessment Questionnaire’ (SAQ) as part of our supplier due diligence and onboarding, which gathers information on a supplier(s) response and policies against different criteria (i) bribery and corruption (ii) health and safety (iii) financials (iv) diversity (v) the environment (vi) information security (vii) data protection and (viii) business continuity. This is to ensure that we are working with suppliers who are aligned to our procurement and firm practices regarding ethical and sustainable procurement. Integral to our ethical business principles is our commitment to uphold human rights wherever we are in the world. To support this commitment, we have a Modern Slavery statement, and we also have, as noted above, a ‘Supplier Code of Conduct’, which outlines our expectations of our suppliers and contractors. We ask our suppliers to comply with the code, which includes, but is not limited to (i) compliance with laws (ii) data protection, (iii) compliance with UK Bribery Act 2010 and US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act 1977, and best endeavours to support our commitment to conducting business ethically (iv) anti-tax evasion, ensuring tax laws are complied with (v) conducting their business consistently with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (vi) Anti-Modern Slavery, assessing whether the supplier has a modern slavery policy and/or has taken steps in relation to addressing any potential risk of modern slavery in its supply chain. Clifford Chance Responsible Business Report 2019 11 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Disclosure Disclosure Title Fully/partially Comments Number reported Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining Disclosure on Management Approach Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘People’ and ‘Monitoring our Progress.’ 407-1 Operations and suppliers Partially We have a Supplier Code of Conduct, which outlines identified in which the right to our expectations of our suppliers and contractors, and exercise freedom of association we expect all suppliers to comply with the applicable and collective bargaining may laws in the countries within which they operate, be violated or at significant risk, noting that the specifics regarding local employment and measures taken to support legislation and general practice may vary. We these rights. undertake appropriate due diligence of our suppliers as part of onboarding and we are in the process of introducing procedures that will enable us to track whether our ‘required clauses’, inclusive of Clifford Chance’s Supplier Code of Conduct and United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, have been included in our supplier contracts and where identified gaps need to be addressed. Clifford Chance Responsible Business Report 2019 12 Disclosure Disclosure Title Fully/partially Comments Number reported Supplier Human Rights Assessment Disclosure on Management Approach Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘Doing Business’ and ‘Monitoring our Progress.’ 414-1 Percentage of new suppliers Partially We do not currently monitor supplier agreements that were screened using human that include human rights. We are in the process of rights criteria. introducing procedures that will enable us to track whether our ‘required clauses’, inclusive of Clifford Chance’s Supplier Code of Conduct and United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, have been included in our supplier contracts and where identified gaps need to be addressed. Integral to our ethical business principles is our commitment to uphold human rights wherever we are in the world. To support this commitment, we have a modern slavery statement, and we also have, as noted above, a ‘Supplier Code of Conduct’, which outlines our expectations of our suppliers and contractors. We ask our suppliers to comply with the code, which includes conducting their business consistently with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and rejecting any form of forced, bonded or compulsory labour and/or other forms of slavery or human trafficking. As part of Clifford Chance’s onboarding processes, and where Procurement is engaged, we would ask for evidence from the supplier as part of our due diligence, including any supporting documents or policies. We expect all suppliers to comply with the applicable laws in the countries within which they operate, and this forms part of our standard terms and conditions. As we evolve our supplier relationship management programme, we will be reviewing the tiering and risk criteria used to identify the most strategic suppliers to our firm, and where greater oversight is required as part of in-life cycle management. Clifford Chance Responsible Business Report 2019 13 SPECIFIC STANDARD DISCLOSURES CONTINUED Disclosure Disclosure Title Fully/partially Comments Number reported Society Local Communities Disclosure on Management Approach Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘Community’ and ‘Monitoring our Progress.’ 413-1 Percentage of operations In FY 2018/19, all of our offices contributed to their with implemented local local communities by undertaking volunteering work community engagement, and making charitable donations. For the past six impact assessments, and years we have monitored our firm-wide contribution development programs. by setting a goal of helping 100,000 people p.a. In FY 2018/19 we helped 184,998 people. Anti-Corruption Disclosure on Management Approach Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘Doing Business’ and ‘Monitoring our Progress.’ 205-1 Total number and percentage Partially Clifford Chance operates to strict professional of operations assessed for risks standards which all of our staff are expected and related to corruption and the trained to meet. This includes polices in relation to, significant risks identified. inter alia, anti-corruption, money-laundering, legal ethics. The firm has a dedicated Risk team which works with management to identify any possible risk to the firm and to put in place appropriate measures to mitigate those risks. The Risk team undertakes a regular review of risk across every part of the business, including in relation to corruption matters which includes reviews of individual offices. All offices are under an obligation to report to the central Risk team any concerns or possible issues relating to corruption. 205-2 Communication and training Partially The firm has a global training programme in relation to on anti-corruption policies anti-corruption which is compulsory for every member and procedures of staff (with a very small number of exceptions) and for every partner in the firm. 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption Fully No incidents of corruption have been recorded. and actions taken. Clifford Chance Responsible Business Report 2019 14 Disclosure Disclosure Title Fully/partially Comments Number reported Public Policy Disclosure on Management Approach Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘Doing Business’ and ‘Monitoring our Progress.’ 415-1 Total value of political Fully No financial political contributions were made by contributions by country and Clifford Chance. Any political contribution must be recipient/beneficiary agreed in advance with our Global and/ or US General Counsel. The firm does, from time to time, host or sponsor events with mainstream political parties and related institutions representing a spectrum of interests and views. Anti-competitive behaviour Disclosure on Management Approach Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘Doing Business’ and ‘Monitoring our Progress.’ 206-1 Total number of legal actions for Fully There have been no legal actions for anticompetitive anti-competitive behaviour, antibehaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices. trust, and monopoly practices and their outcomes. Compliance Disclosure on Management Approach Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘Doing Business’ and ‘Monitoring our Progress.’ 419-1 Monetary value of significant fines Fully The firm was fined US$132,000 in August 2018 and total number of non-monetary for having removed from a document review a sanctions for non-compliance with contract lawyer who held dual citizenship. The firm laws and regulations. had understood that only US nationals could work on the relevant matter pursuant to the International Traffic in Arms Regulation (‘ITAR’), which prohibits the disclosure of ITAR controlled material to anyone who is not a US Person. The fine followed a finding that an individual with dual nationality was a US Person for these purposes and that the firm had therefore wrongfully discriminated against him. Clifford Chance Responsible Business Report 2019 15 Disclosure Disclosure Title Fully/partially Comments Number reported Product Responsibility Product and Service Labelling Disclosure on Management Approach Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘Doing Business’ and ‘Monitoring our Progress.’ 417-1 Type of product and services Fully In many jurisdictions where the firm operates there are information required by the strict standards in force relating to service information. organization’s procedures for The firm’s policy is to comply with these regulations product and services information in all jurisdictions in which we practise. All of our and labelling, and percentage of communications activity meets these standards. significant product and service categories subject to such information requirements. 417-2 Total number of incidents Fully There have been no incidents of non-compliance with of non-compliance with regulations and voluntary codes concerning product regulations and voluntary codes and service information and labelling. concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of outcomes. Marketing Communications Disclosure on Management Approach Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘Doing Business’ and ‘Monitoring our Progress.’ 102-2 Sale of banned or Fully The provision of legal services is a highly regulated disputed products industry. In some jurisdictions, limitations or constraints are placed on how we operate and/or the services we can provide to clients. The firm’s policy is to comply with these regulations in all jurisdictions in which we practice. 417-3 Total number of incidents of Fully There have been no incidents of non-compliance non-compliance with regulations with regulations and voluntary codes concerning and voluntary codes concerning marketing communications. marketing communications, including advertising, promotion, and sponsorship, by type of outcomes. Customer Privacy Disclosure on Management Approach Please see our Responsible Business Report 2019, ‘Doing Business’ and ‘Monitoring our Progress.’ 418-1 Total number of substantiated Fully There have been no complaints regarding breaches of complaints regarding breaches of customer privacy and losses of customer data. customer privacy and losses of customer data. Clifford Chance Responsible Business Report 2019 16
