July, 2019 LETTER FROM FBNHOLDINGS GROUP MD We are delighted to present our communication on progress report for 2018 to reaﬃrm our support for, and continued commitment to, the UN Global Compact. Since 1894, our ability to manage relationships with our stakeholders remains the bedrock of our commitment to nation building. These include meeting our obligations to our over 10,000 employees through constant engagement and empowerment; putting our customers' needs ﬁrst and enriching the lives of the communities where we live and work. As an institution, our contribution to overall sustainable growth and development ensures we enhance the quality of life and ﬁnancial security of our customers and their families whilst also ensuring that we manage our environmental, social and governance impacts in the process. Our commitment to the ten principles of the Global Compact (UNGC) is demonstrated through the alignment of our sustainability objectives with the principles structured along four key priorities, namely Sustainable Finance and Investment, Community Support, Environmental Sustainability and People Empowerment. We have updated each reporting section (Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption) with additional information on our activities in 2018. As part of our commitment to improve community values in raising people to do the right thing. We are support, under our FutureFirst and Youth Leadership committed to awaken national consciousness on the need programmes, we have reached out to an to act within individual spheres of inﬂuences to promote approximate 80,000 students with knowledge of kindness. This would help entrench a return to our moral ﬁnancial literacy and career counseling in selected values which appear to be eroding fast. (The 2018 report locations in Nigeria. We also initiated the SPARK would shed more (Start Performing Acts of Random Kindness) light on this). Initiative, that focuses on creating and reinforcing a consciousness/mindset of showing compassion, We again restate our commitment to upholding the empathy; as well as giving to others aimed at inspiring principles of the UNGC and our commitment to people to make a diﬀerence. accountability and innovation in the eﬀort to improve c onditions among all Nigerians and the world at large. We believe that every act of kindness (regardless of how little or in whatever form) ignites the moral Urum Kalu Eke GMD, FBNHoldings July, 2019 We are dedicated towards providing product and services tailored to meet the needs of its stakeholders. We demonstrate our commitment towards protecting, respecting, upholding their rights and code of ethics amongst youths. Also, ensuring businesses are sustainable and overcome major physical and environmental challenges, through the following initiatives: In keeping with our aim to promote ﬁnancial inclusion, we developed the FutureFirst initiative. FutureFirst is designed to drive ﬁnancial literacy and career counselling programme and entrepreneurship for young ones and secondary school students to build fulﬁlling careers and be ﬁnancially aware. The FutureFirst Programme has impacted over 80,000 secondary students, across diﬀerent parts of the country including Lagos, Port Harcourt and Abuja with knowledge of ﬁnancial literacy and entrepreneurship. This programme recruited staﬀ volunteers from the Bank expending over 38,000 staﬀ volunteering hours. The programme oﬀers an experiential supplement to the students to: Gain the tools and knowledge to make eﬀective and informed ﬁnancial management decisions and achieve long-term ﬁnancial independence; Insights on how businesses are organized and opera operated;............................................................ develop critical thinking, speaking and leadership skills and be able to demonstrate the rewards of the free enterprise system; and The Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article Make the right career choices and gain basic workforce-readiness skills. 26 underlines the signiﬁcance of education in the development of human personality. It also, underlines The Financial Literacy Day is one of the activities the signiﬁcance in the improvement of human rights commemorating the Global Money Week and World and fundamental human freedom. In line with this Savings Day; the Group was mandated by the Central fact, we have prioritized ﬁnancial education equipped Bank of Nigeria to adopt 30 schools across six geoin the direction of personal growth. political zones. To actualize these objectives, we partnered with Junior Achievement Nigeria, an NGO whose programme to implement FutureFirst projects. Through our partnership with JAN, secondary school July, 2019 students were provided with practical business The Ethics Challenge aligns with the CRS strategic experience through the organization and operation of approach and the objective of FirstBank's Endowment an after-school business enterprise incubation programme – the Samuel Asabia Chair for Business programme. Ethics at the University of Lagos. We believe that promoting ethics in business is not only important for The JAN programme is also connected to the the reputation of our brand, but also one of the solid Company of the Year (COY) competition. COY, pillars that eﬀectively support sustainable ﬁnancial sponsored by the FirstBank, is a competition institutions. organized to promote ﬁnancial inclusion, creativity, entrepreneurship, collective thinking and team work The 2018 Ethics Challenge took place at Lagos and amongst secondary school students, whilst driving Abuja at the regional stage, and the ﬁnal was held at their preparedness for university education and FirstAcademy, FirstBank's strategic platform for subsequent stages of life. This programme is aimed at competence development, knowledge management and inﬂuencing the economic growth and development in workplace culture change, on November 2, 2018 (Regional Stage); the ﬁnal was on November 3 2018 the respective Junior Achievement Worldwide member and the ﬁnal results of the Ethic Challenge was countries and the world at large. announced during the CFA Society Nigeria's 2018 Charter Award Dinner scheduled for November 9, The Inventive Explorers from Caro Favoured School, 2018 at the Eko Convention Hall, Victoria Island, Ajegunle in Nigeria won three diﬀerent categories: Lagos. Regional Company of the Year (NCOY), and Company of the Year (COY) Africa competitions. The latter took place in Accra, Ghana on Friday, December 8, 2018. The Inventive Explorers won the competitions with an inventive user-friendly and portable traﬃc light designed to reduce accidents. The team was equally awarded the Coca-Cola Excellence in Teamwork Awards and the FedEx Access Award, for having a business that best demonstrates the ability to transcend national borders. Participants of the FirstBank CFA ethics challenge competition at FirstAcademy Winners of the NCOY competition receiving an award Winner of the FirstBank CFA ethics challenge competition receiving an award CFA UNIVERSITIES ETHICS CHALLENGE AND SAMUEL ASABIA CHAIR ON BUSINESS ETHICS To demonstrate the Organsation's commitment to ethics, professional excellence; capacity building and inclusive growth of Nigerians; and support for youth education and the drive for nation building, we partnered with CFA Society in its yearly Universities Ethics Challenge. CFA Institute is a global, not-forproﬁt association of investment professionals with a mission to lead the investment profession globally by promoting the highest standards of ethics, education and professional excellence for the ultimate beneﬁt of society. July, 2019 In carrying out our day-to-day operations, we are committed to protecting, valuing and supporting the rights of our people and stakeholders. We believe our responsibilities go beyond legal compliance to moral obligations. We ensure human rights are not abused and make it our responsibility not to get involved in the violations of human rights. We are committed to dealing fairly with all our stakeholders which includes our staﬀ, customers, shareholders, government agencies amongst others. We do not encourage staﬀ to take advantage of each other or manipulate one another based on superiority rather respect for each other's dignity is encouraged. Gender discrimination and discrimination of minority group is not allowed. Harassment of staﬀ in any form is toughly discouraged and culprits are usually handed over to the Bank's disciplinary committee for sanctioning. Furthermore, the Group maintains an organizational culture that encourages an open line of communication between superiors and subordinates. The Group carries out induction for new staﬀ to acquaint them with values and vision of the organisation so as to understand how to behave with other sta ﬀin the course of their stay in the Group. March, 2017 These meetings provide a platform for management and union to discuss on all aspects of employees' employment relationship and Empowering People and also serve as collective bargaining mechanism to resolve issues. FirstBank also practices a Pay for Performance Principle where bonuses are tied directly to sta ﬀ performance. The Bank encourages sta ﬀto hold regular meetings, engage in open discussions and consultations so as to engender ﬂow of information. Across the Group, all employees get same remuneration regardless of gender or region. In carrying out our day-to-day operations, we have a framework designed to have the right people with the right skills doing the right job at the right time. We understand the importance of not only having the right talents at the right places, but also an environment where people are willing to work without coercion. Sta ﬀof the Group are hired based on their free will and there is no forced, bonded or involuntary prison labour. Sta ﬀare allowed to resign based on the terms in their contracts. We have been able to achieve this by developing the right policies and frameworks, which have helped ensure that our recruitment process is carried out in line with global best practice. This is devoid of all forms of bias such that potential At FBN Holdings, we ensure that in everything we do, employees make recruitment-based decision without our people feel a genuine sense of fairness, equality, fear. In the case of conﬂict amongst staﬀ, inquiries are freedom and participation. The Group creates and made regarding the dispute or conﬂict. The outcome sustains an environment that supports and of this investigation is the basis in which disciplinary encourages human rights/freedom of association as committees of the diﬀerent companies within the well as collective bargaining. For instance, at Group resolves such issues. Through this, the rights of FirstBank, employees have the opportunities to staﬀ are upheld and no single individual is treated belong to unions such as (ASSBIFI; NUBIFE) and the unfairly...................................................... employees are at liberty to either become members or not. Management of the Bank hold quarterly meetings with the executives of these unions who are also representatives of staﬀ. July, 2019 For existing employees, we have established a clear Through our Employee Giving & Volunteering framework for escalation. Our people can freely relate Programme, the Bank's staﬀs are provided with a with their Human Resource (HR) business partners on platform that creates an enabling environment for team any issue around supervisor-subordinate relationship. building and leadership activities and opportunities, as We have also reinforced acceptable workplace well as alleviating community development challenges. behaviours through a series of campaigns (Jerk This involves employees volunteering their time and behavior campaign, etc). All these initiatives are skills to support philanthropic activities. These strategically aimed at ensuring that we have a activities provide them with opportunities to use their workforce that is not only emotionally connected to capabilities in varied contexts, develop new skills, our brand but also willing to eﬀortlessly champion the partner with people within and outside the Bank, and cause of the brand. expand their horizons. We are also committed to fostering a safe work environment where the safety, Also, as a matter of principle, the Group does not security and wellbeing of our workers are protected. maintain partnerships with any organization or group Part of this includes the operation of a clinic where that uses forced or compulsory labour. We carry out ailing sta ﬀcan have access to ﬁrst aid and preliminary intensive due diligence checks on our partners' medical treatments before visiting the hospital. Our employment policies before building relationships with commitment to enshrining human rights guides the way them.............................................................................. we treat our employees; hence we ensure fair working conditions, improve employee engagement and eliminate discrimination......................................................... Hope Rising Initiative is one of the key programmes of the Group designed to empower people living with disabilities. Its key objective is engendering inclusivity and diversity through education, advocacy and enlightenment; skills acquisition training; as well as inclusive events. Our main focus is creating awareness on Down syndrome and how to live with Down syndrome. This is enhanced by the Hope Rising drama series which focuses on highlighting the challenges of Down syndrome and exploring eﬀorts at combating the disorder whilst providing the platform for advocacy We pride ourselves in being an equal opportunities and public enlightenment. employer, and have integrated diversity and inclusion policies and awareness into our practices. Our eﬀorts Asides from airing the Hope Rising Drama Series on at engendering diversity in the workplace include Down Syndrome, the Bank celebrates its Corporate having in place a diversity policy that encourages Responsibility & Sustainability (CR&S) week which is inclusion. The Bank's diversity and inclusion objective part of the Employee Giving and Volunteering programme. is to be a recognized industry leader in workforce FirstBank commenced a week celebration of its annual diversity and leverage diversity for the growth of the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability (CR&S) Bank and the success of the customers and initiatives. The second edition took place in June 2018. communities we serve. The theme for the FirstBank CR&S week in 2018 was “Touching lives; You First” This is a culmination and Our board composition consists of 21% female, the consolidation of the Bank's interventions in social highest in any holdings company in Nigeria. We have a responsibility, promoting random acts of kindness across female to male gender population at 44.4% to 55.6% communities in Nigeria's six geo-political zones and the male. Our workforce comprises of persons of every Bank's subsidiaries in United Kingdom and Middle Africa. tribe and culture in Nigeria including expatriates from other countries. We also employ persons with The programme reﬂects the FirstBank's brand promise disabilities; one of them is the President of the Nigeria to always put its customers ﬁrst while reinforcing the Association of the Blind (NAB). We support the NAB's Bank's role in driving sustainable development in the annual white cane and safety day where we donate communities where it operates. The CR&S week is white canes for the visually impaired and also specially designed to show act of kindness in our participate in the Charity Walk through the Group's society and the events are tailored towards re-orientating Employee Giving Volunteering Scheme. the society along the right values; encouraging citizenry to intentionally create positive impact in their immediate environment. One of the major highlights of the week July, 2019 has been dubbed the SPARK initiative; Start Performing Acts of Support to International Women Society (IWS) Widows Random Kindness. During the week-long activities, FirstBank's Trust Fund Annual January Feast & Fundraising Event employees give their time and resources to promote random Support to the Nigeria Police Lion Building Division acts of kindness within their communities, driving welfare for the Repairs of their Patrol Vehicles through giving and visits to orphanages/less privileged homes and Internally Displaced Persons (IDPs) camps. The Bank also Support to Area 'B' Command Headquarters, Apapa holds career counseling sessions with secondary school students as an approved capturing center for Vehicle Tinted across the country which involve FirstBank staﬀ coordinating Glasses sessions that will inculcate ﬁnancial literacy and inclusion in young students; supporting women empowerment initiatives as Support to over 600,000 internally displaced Persons in North East and Benue ﬂood victims and well asadvancing social engagement by providing vision over 22 charities/orphanage homes screening and aﬀordable eye glasses for low income earners. FirstBank's CR&S week is the ﬁrst of its kind in the ﬁnancial service industry in Nigeria. SPARK (Start Performing Acts of Random Kindness) is an initiative that focuses on creating and reinforcing a consciousness/mindset of showing compassion, empathy; as well as giving to others aimed at inspiring people to make a diﬀerence. We believe that every act of kindness (regardless of how little or in whatever form) ignites a ripple eﬀect that goes on without end. We are committed to using the SPARK platform to empower people and create a positive ripple eﬀect that expands and strengthen the Nigerian economy. Over 100 beneﬁciaries including capital boost petty traders; school fees for students and those with health challenges. Disaster relief Visit to Orphange home in Abuja during the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Week foundations Baby Ijeoma is one of the many beneﬁciaries nominated through the SPARK initiative platform. She had a heart condition and the parents could not aﬀord N4 million – the estimated cost to help save her life. Through the SPARK initiative, she got a corrective surgery in India in partnership with Vama Wave Foundation. Baby Ijeoma got another chance to live... Other initiatives supported by the Group in 2018 as part of the Hope Rising programme amongst others includes: Support to Down Syndrome Foundation Inter House Sports and donation to Down Syndrome Foundation from Proceeds of Gift Policy Support to the Nigeria Society for the Blind for its 2018 May Visit to Orphange home in Port Harcourt during the Ball Dinner & Dance Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Week Chinwe Bode-Akinwande Foundation (CBA): Fundraising Charity Walk Tagged Walk4Hope to Support Underprivileged Widows & their Children Pacelli School for Blind and Partially Sighted Children Support to Abolarin College for Building of Auditorium Support for Nigerian American Medical Foundation International (NAMFI) on their 6th Annual Meeting /Scientiﬁc forum Support to Hebron Limited for Training of Food Vendors for Home Grown School Feeding Program Support of the Nigerian Stock Exchange 2018 Edition of the Corporate Challenge Career Counseling lecture delivered at Yabatech Secondary School during the Corporate Responsibility and Sustainability Week Support Stella Monye on the save my only son campaign July, 2019 considering funding include adequate provision for actions necessary to prevent, control and mitigate negative impacts on the environment and communities, and to improve environmental quality. For eﬃciency, FirstBank is aligning the ESGMS process with its new credit workﬂow. The relevant implementation documents such as the environmental, social and governance risks screening checklist (which is to be completed by a relationship manager and veriﬁed by analyst against the EIA report are currently in use which is in compliance with the local & international regulation and best practices. We adhere to international guidelines for engaging in the three priority sectors, Agriculture, Power and Oil & Gas. Embedding Environmental Sustainability through Responsible Lending The indirect impact of our activities focuses largely on responsible lending. Responsible lending is about holding our customers to account by ensuring that the customers we lend to minimize their environmental impacts in their business operations through our environmental, social and governance management frameworks. To enable the Group drive responsible lending, we have put in place an environmental, social and governance management system (ESGMS). This guide ensures that all transactions that FirstBank is July, 2019 Part of the Group's long-term approach to As part of our eﬀorts to encourage environmentally sustainability is minimising its direct and indirect friendly technologies, we have been investing in impact on the environment. This has informed our Green IT initiatives. FirstBank has actively reduced eﬀorts at conserving energy to reduce global warming the size of its data centre using rationalisation and by reducing its CO2 emissions; as well as conserving virtualisation techniques. The Bank also has an onresources – a key aspect being through reduction in going partnership with the Nigeria Conservation the use of paper in our business operations, anchored Foundation, Nigeria's premier non-governmental environment conservation foundation dedicated to on our print optimisation programme. nature conservation and sustainable development in Nigeria and actively supports its activities annually. We are constantly seeking opportunities to manage environmental and social footprints through the use of alternative energy sources and the reduction of energy Innovating for a Sustainable Green Economy consumption for and from business activities and operations. These have included solar powered ATM FirstBank Agric Expo 2018 machines. In furtherance of FirstBank’s commitment to Staﬀ of the Bank are also encouraged to engage in sustainable agriculture, we organized the second teleconferencing in order to minimize traveling and edition of the FirstBank Agric Expo on the 28 June, carbon emission from vehicles. The Bank also invests 2018 at Eko Hotel & Suites, Victoria Island, Lagos in innovative technologies that lead to higher carbon with the theme“ Innovating for a sustainable green eﬃciencies and ﬁnancial savings. economy”. This is in line with the Bank’s drive to support agriculture and its value chain in Nigeria. The Agric Expo was created to explore the economic beneﬁts of a viable agriculture industry and its The FirstBank Conservation initiative is one of the key inﬂuence on the nation’s self-sustenance, export and foreign trade. The event, which was over-subscribed programmes of the Group and is part of our long-term by over a 100 percent, had the Minister of approach to promoting sustainability which involves Agriculture & Rural Development and Minister of minimizing our direct and indirect impacts on the Industry, Trade & Investment as special guests of environment. The conservation initiative employs the honour. Also in attendance were key policy makers, tree planting and students' conservation clubs as inﬂuencers, agriculture service providers, producers, vehicles to drive environmental protection and exporters and other players in the agric value chain. conservation. The key objectives are: To minimize carbon footprint through planting of trees To create awareness of the need to preserve wild life and biodiversity among school children. To educate and build environmental-conscious students through partnerships with reputable NGOs and institutions. FirstBank Conservation Initiative is implemented in partnership with the Nigeria Conservation Foundation. July, 2019 At FirstBank, our approach to conducting business is premised on high ethical standards and strict adherence to all provisions of the code of conduct guidelines. With an enviable corporate governance framework, the Bank has experienced continued growth in its various business operations in line with its strategic priority, which is 'to increase its share of the customer's wallet in the chosen market'. July, 2019 We also ensure customers are aware of our complaints channels by displaying information about them in all our branches. These include escalation channels for complaints that are not adequately resolved. We put structures in place to ensure that we have a holistic view of all complaints received. The use of the complaints dashboard has helped to identify recurring complaints, seasonal complaints and the source of these complaints, resulting in quick resolution while outstanding issues receive the required attention. At FirstBank, to ensure customers' complaints are properly handled, every customer on the bank's book has a relationship manager (RM). The RM is the main point of contact for the customer and ensures each account is functioning in accordance with the customer's expectations. As part of Know Your Customer, currently on an annual basis. The process is overseen by the Bank's Compliance department as part of its compliance monitoring programme. Complaints are tracked from initial receipt through the entire process until the complainant is satisﬁed or the ﬁnal decision is made. An up-to-date status is made available to the complainant upon request and at regular intervals, via any of our channels. The decision or any action taken regarding the complaint, which is FirstBank have designed programmes to optimise relevant to the complainant, would be communicated eﬃciencies in our business operations, in particular, to them as soon as the decision or action is taken via to strengthen service delivery excellence across our email and SMS. If the complainant accepts the businesses' value chains. We have eﬀectively ensured proposed decision or action, then the decision or that quality service delivery and the satisfaction of action would be carried out and recorded. If the our customers and other stakeholders are priorities in complainant rejects the proposed decision or action, our business dynamics. then the complaint would remain open. This would be recorded and escalated to the Complaints We respond to requests and enquires, and resolve Management Team. The complainant would be complaints 24hours a day, seven days a week through our contact centre and various channels available to informed of alternative forms of internal and external customers, such as emails via online platform, SMS recourse available. text alerts through the relationship managers, and direct contact with customer service oﬃcers in The organization would continue to monitor the branches. progress of the complaint until all reasonable internal and external options of recourse are exhausted or the complainant is satisﬁed. July, 2019 Complaints can be lodged to the Bank in one of the · By writing to us: Complaints Management Unit following ways: First Bank of Nigeria Limited 35 Marina · By completing a Complaints form on our website P.O. Box 5216 www.ﬁrstbanknigeria.com Lagos, Nigeria · SMS: Send an SMS to 30012 · By calling First Contact on 0700FIRSTCONTACT · Social Media: (0700-34778-2668228), 01-4485500, 0708-062-5000 Facebook: https://www.facebook.com/ﬁrstbankofnigeria Twitter: @ﬁrstbankngr July, 2019 professional integrity. In addition, it reinforces the value it places on sta ﬀto be honest and respected members of their individual professions. It provides a method of properly addressing bona ﬁde concerns that individuals within the organization might have, while also oﬀering whistleblowers protection from victimisation, harassment or disciplinary proceedings. The Bank's whistle-blowing policy spans both internal whistle blowers (staﬀ, contract employees, management or directors) and external whistle blowers (customers, service providers, applicants, auditors, consultants, regulators and other stakeholders). Whilst the Bank encourages disclosure of identity by the whistle-blower, where possible, it also appreciates disclosure under anonymity with re-assurance that such identity would be protected at all stages in any internal matter, except with the consent of the individual or in circumstances where the Bank is unable to resolve the concern without revealing such an identity; for instance, if external legal action ﬂows from the disclosure and the employee's evidence is required in court. Concerns are taken seriously and investigated and the outcome communicated. The phone lines are 01-9054583, 01-9054543 & 01-6054525 and the email address for the public is ﬁrstcontact@ﬁrstbanknigeria.com. Members of staﬀ The Group has in place whistle-blowing policies and procedures may contact......................................................... to avoid corrupt practices. For example, the FirstBank's Adeyemi.O.Ogunmoyela@ﬁrstbanknigeria.com or whistle-blowing policy is intended to encourage sta ﬀand other Internalaudit.Head @ﬁrstbanknigeria.com. relevant stakeholders to report unethical or illegal conduct or conduct of employees, management, directors and other In addition, whistle-blowers can also log onto stakeholders to appropriate authorities in a conﬁdential www.ﬁrstbanknigeria.com and click on the whistle manner without any fear of harassment, intimidation, blowing portal to report misconduct. Other avenues victimization or reprisal of anyone for raising a concern under open to whistle-blowers are through a letter to the this policy. Group Managing Director/Chief Executive or directly to the Chief Internal Auditor. Therefore, employees, stakeholders, and members of the public can raise legitimate concerns, without fear and are given assurance that such concerns would be adequately addressed. Our whistle-blowing policy is thus fundamental to the Bank's July, 2019 W W W . f b n h o l d i n g s . c o m
