SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 0 Content index SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 1 2 6 Introduction 20 The 34 Governance and compliance Andriani Group 6 Letter to the stakeholders 22 Main steps of a development path 36 Corporate governance and transparency in decision-making processes 8 Note on methodology A reporting 26 Food Innovation: a growing and evolving system for Agenda 2030 industry 40 Fight against corruption 10 Materiality analysis 28 Our business model 40 Respect for human rights 14 The Andriani Group for Sustainable 30 The strategic plan for sustainability Development 32 Our stakeholders and related dialogue tools 3 4 5 42 Economic responsibility 50 Responsibility to employees 68 Responsibilities regarding the product 44 Economic performance 52 Diversity and equal opportunity 70 Product safety and traceability 56 Development and protection of human 75 Customer satisfaction resources 78 Research, innovation, and product 58 Company welfare quality 64 Health and Safety in the Workplace 85 Nutrition and well-being 66 Shared company culture 6 7 8 90 Responsibility to suppliers 96 Responsibility towards the 102 Responsibility towards the community environment 92 Sustainable management of the supply 98 Involvement and support of local 104 Management of energy and resources in chain communities the atmosphere 93 Working conditions and Human Rights 101 Dialogue with associations and 109 Management of waste, recyclability, and institutions reduction in food waste 94 Procurement of local suppliers 110 Protection of the area and respect for biodiversity 115 Knowledgeable consumption of raw materials 116 Annexes 117 Global Reporting Initiative Content 128 Independent Auditor's Report Index 124 Global Compact Principles and GRI 6 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT Letter to the 102–14 stakeholders See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX Stakeholder estimates, in the last three years, the Andriani Group recordmy, or the SAI Platform, a non-profit organisation ed higher than expected results and an overall whose mission is the development of sustainable satisfactory performance, with an average annual agricultural practices. This is a challenge we are increase of 21.6% and a net profit growing 36%. reaffirming by presenting our first Sustainability Report, through which we have chosen to report 2018 ended with a total of €55.6 million: an unon and officially certify our commitment to Susexpected result that rewards everyone's efforts, tainable Development. It is an important moment fills us with pride, and drives us to work with even along a path of full integration of sustainability greater awareness and a sense of responsibility in the business, which sees us also engaged in towards our employees, people, the territory, and the integration of a strategic plan and also in the the community as a whole. identification of specific KPIs that relate to continThe Report, while representing the main tool to uous improvement, also aimed at contributing to tell the company’s story and its economic-finanthe objectives of the United Nations (SDGs). Also, cial performance, is inadequate to describe Anin the interests of absolute transparency and bedriani’s commitment to sustainable growth. One ing one of the first companies in the industry to word, sustainability, which represents a foundadopt it, the decision was made to begin creating ing moral value for our company, is integrated a precise annual report according to the GRI Stanthroughout the entire company management and dards and revised through a limited assurance enis a major growth driver. Growing, while continuing gagement report by Deloitte & Touche S.p.A. to invest in innovation and, on the one hand, genWe still have much to do and build. The future erating positive externalities for the community, calls us and we respond with our customary enon the other, reducing negative externalities for thusiasm. But this first milestone would have been the planet Proof of this are the many initiatives we impossible to reach without the passionate conpromote in the areas of corporate welfare, food tribution of all Andriani employees, as well as that education, energy saving, supply chain, protection of our partners who work alongside us, support of biodiversity, and adherence to international us, and along with us believe that doing business platforms such as the United Nations Global Comin an innovative way is possible. I send all of you pact, a strategic corporate citizenship initiative my sincere thanks. aimed at promoting a sustainable global econoSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA Michele Andriani Chairman of the Board of Directors 8 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT Note on methodology 102-52 102-45 102-53 102-50 102-54 A reporting system for See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX Agenda 2030 The 2018 sustainability report for the AnThe report also has numerous hypertext driani Group is the beginning of an uplinks (QR code format in the paper version), standing path in which sustainability will facilitating reading, which is enriched by be the heart of the business and the value informational content that refers to other creation process. documents on the web or to specific content in other sections of the report. In this perspective, the company management wanted to grasp the related manIn addition to the specific GRI Sustainmade pressures received from its strategic ability Reporting Standards reference disstakeholders, seeking to initiate a process closure, each paragraph of the document to formalise the sustainability mentality also includes the specific SDGs. present at the inception of the Andriani The document is essentially divided into Group. three parts. In this sense, the 2018 Sustainability ReThe first one illustrates the primary traits port is the result of a business need which, of the Andriani Group such as its history, already in its first edition, presents elereference industry, Group structure, busiments of differentiation that are codified in ness model, system of principles, and coma type of sustainability reporting focused pany values. on sustainable development goals and on how Andriani Group intends to communiThe second describes corporate govercate its commitment to the 17 Sustainable nance, the organisational structure, the Development Goals (SDGs), approved by strategic stakeholders and the strategic the United Nations. sustainability plan. The continuous references to the SDGs are, The third, more analytical section, focuses in fact, present in different passages of on material topics, i.e. specific information this report ranging from the letter to the that populates the six chapters aimed at stakeholders to the business model, to the satisfying the informational needs of sevmateriality analysis, to the sustainability eral stakeholders. plan, to the GRI Content Index, to arrive, in detail, to the content of the chapters that The qualitative and quantitative informaAgenda 2030 tion contained in the sustainability report Agenda 2030 for Sustainable describe the Group’s commitment towards Development is an action its stakeholders. refers to the Group’s performance for fiscal programme for people, the planet, year 2018 (from January 1 to December 31). and prosperity, signed in September The contribution to the SDGs is also made In order to allow the data to be compared 2015 by the governments of the possible by the presence of non-financial over time and to evaluate the performance 193 Member States of the United information on aspects related to goverof the Group's activities, a comparison with Nations. nance, human rights, and personal, social, the previous year has been offered, where environmental and anti-corruption compopossible. The use of estimates has been nents that illustrate the Group's diligence limited, as far as possible, and if included, and actions during 2018 as well as its objecthey are based on the best available methtives and the actions it intends to carry out. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 9 odologies and appropriately reported. The To provide an accurate representation of scope of reporting non-financial informacompany management and the impact retion extends not only to the data of the sulting from the Andriani Group’s activities, parent company, Andriani S.p.A., but also the report focuses on non-financial topics to those of the two consolidated compaidentified as being relevant for the materinies, Felicia S.r.l. and Cardo Rosso S.r.l., to ality analysis (page 10 of this report). which must be added the information reThe Sustainability Report was The reporting process included: prepared in compliance with the GRI lating to the subsidiary Terre Bradaniche Sustainability Reporting Standards S.r.l., which, however, is not included in the • the involvement of all company departpublished in 2016 by the Global Andriani Group’s consolidated financial ments responsible for the relevant areas Reporting Initiative (GRI) according and the related non-financial data and into the option “in accordance Core.” statement. The scope of this report does not include data related to the subsidiary, formation presented; Amendola Center S.r.l., which only had one • the contribution of the organisationemployee in 2018. al units was requested during the data collection, analysis, and consolidation Terre Bradaniche S.r.l., purchased by Andriphase, with the responsibility of verifying ani S.p.A. in 2018, is included in the non-fiand validating the information included nancial scope of the consolidation because in the report for their particular areas of it regards information that refers more GRI Content Index responsibility. The data contained in the specifically to the procurement of raw The annex to the document includes report refer to measurable values. If it materials from the legume supply chain, the GRI Content Index with details of was necessary to use an estimate, it was the contents reported in compliance without resorting to the external market, clearly indicated in the document; with the GRI Sustainability optimising and controlling the quality of Reporting Standards and related • the publication of the report on the informational omissions. This table the raw materials to be introduced into the Group’s website in order to make it availalso includes the connection with production cycle at the source. able in a transparent and usable manner the SDGs in accordance with the SDG Compass Annex: Linking the SDGs In various ways, each of the companies infor all stakeholders. The Andriani S.p.A. and GRI Standards”. cluded in the scope of the report presents Board of Directors approved this Sustaininformation relating to environmental and ability Report in November 2019. The Sussocial topics, staff, the respect for human tainability Report will be published on an rights, and the fight against corruption isannual basis. sues, useful for a better understanding of business performance, its results and, above all, the Group's impact on these issues. Communication on Progress The annex to the report also The interdisciplinary team that collaborated in the preparation of this report includes the link between the Communication on Progress and While it involved the entire organisational Stano, and Annamaria Todisco. the GRI Content Index structure of the Andriani Group in various The work group received technical and sci(page 124 of this Report). ways, the sustainability report was created by an interdisciplinary team made up entific support from ETX Stp, which all conof the following members: Filippo Capurtributed to the content management of the so (Supervisor of the work group), Angela report. Independent Auditor's Report Amendolara, Fabrizio Annese, Mariangela The 2018 Sustainability Report was Editing and graphic layout was performed subject to a limited examination Candido, Giuseppe Capone, Giovanna Ingby Interno 15 S.r.l. (“limited assurance engagement” hilterra, Rossella Labarbuta, Luigi Manfredi, Raffaella Moliterni, Domenico Montemurro, according to the criteria indicated by Comments and opinions on the sustainabilLuigi Montemurro, Franco Parisi, Nunzia the ISAE 3000 Revised standards) by ity report can be sent by email to: Pellegrino, Vito Raguso, Raffaele Raso, SalDeloitte & Touche S.p.A. f.capurso@andrianispa.com vatore Scaltrito, Mimmo Signorello, Patrizia 10 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT Materiality 102-40 102-42 102-43 analysis 102-44 102-46 102-47 See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX AccountAbility 1000 The information reported in the Andriani The examination of the documentation reStakeholder Engagement Group’s 2018 sustainability report is the sulted in 81 issues, some of them overlapStandard 2015 result of a preliminary materiality activity ping. The use of content analysis tools and carried out according to the GRI Sustainthe involvement of the Group’s manageability Reporting Standards and, in terms ment team allowed this number to be reof process, according to the AccountAbility duced to 31 themes related to the following 1000 Stakeholder Engagement Standard six areas: governance and social responsi2015. bility, responsibility to human resources, human rights, customers and product reTo do so, the work team conducted an analsponsibility, environmental responsibility, ysis aimed at identifying the material isand economic responsibility (suppliers and sues that could impact the Andriani Group. partners). At first, the external analysis focused on a benchmark of leading companies operatThe 31 issues were then subject to furing on a national and international level in ther analysis by certain internal company the food sectors and that prepare sustainstakeholders, which led to the definition of ability or non-financial reports. The topics 26 issues considered to be of impact to the identified were then enhanced with those business and to which 15 SDGs are associresulting from industry surveys on a naated. tional and international level. AREA TOPIC DESCRIPTION STAKEHOLDER IMPACT SDGs Corporate Definition of the structure and composition (also in terms of diversity) of the governance bodies, the InstituInternal Governance and appointment system, and the separation of powers, remuneration, and evaluation of the performance tions, and transparency in of Top Management and the Board of Directors (which includes social and environmental responsibility Shareholdexternal decision-making criteria). ers GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE processes Ethics and Integrity and transparency in business activities, promotion of Corporate Governance that aspires to the All Internal responsible highest ethical standards, integrity, and compliance with laws and regulations. Adoption of a Code of and business Ethics and principles and national and international guidelines (Global Compact) that include social and external environmental responsibility. Transparent communication related to good practices in governance of the organisation. Anti-corruption, Adoption of an Organisation and Management Model 231, internal policy and procedures for compliance All Internal fair competition, with current standards and any specific regulations (e.g., anti-corruption, anti-competitive behaviour, and and legality anti-money laundering) external Dialogue with Involvement and dialogue with public and private subjects (including NGO and Category Associations) Community External associations and and Institutions on sustainability issues that could influence business performance; transparent manageinstitutions ment and effectiveness of contributions from the Public Administration Economic The organisation’s economic and financial performance, financial stability, protection of profitability and All Internal performance economic value generated, positively contributing to the development of the economic and social fabric and ECONOMIC of the local community. Creation and distribution of value in the short, medium, and long term external RESPONSIBILITY Presence on Involvement of the organisation in the local area in which it operates through the definition of specific All Internal the market and policies for the hiring, remuneration, and management of locally employed personnel; analysis and manand indirect economic agement of the indirect economic impacts generated by the business activity, with particular reference to external impacts the organisation's supply chain SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 11 Diversity and Development of policies of inclusion, non-discrimination, and management of diversity for minorities Employees Internal equal opportunity (e.g., disabilities, gender, age, ethnicity, sexual orientation, religion); the issue includes equal pay for equal roles. Development Promotion of professional growth paths and personal training of organisation employees through develEmployees Internal RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES and protection of opment activities aimed at reinforcing the technical, managerial, and organisational skills of employees human resources and consolidating the professionalism required by the job held. Ability to attract and retain talent Company welfare Policies, benefits (economic and other), actions aimed at improving the well-being of employees and Employees Internal creating a comfortable work environment that meets the employees’ needs and expectations Health and Safety Development of practices and programmes that promote the protection of safety in the workplace; Employees Internal in the Workplace promotion of specific training sessions related to employee health and safety, and the monitoring and prevention of accidents in the workplace aimed at decreasing them. Shared company Promotion of a shared company culture through the implementation of initiatives and programmes All Internal culture aimed at consolidating the set of principles, programmes, and initiatives through the various operating and facilities. Promotion and implementation of surveys related to the organisation’s internal climate aimed external at dialogue and listening to the staff in order to improve the quality of relationships Product safety Production and sale of high quality products through actions aimed at improving the quality and safety Customers External and traceability of the products created; promotion of best practices related to product safety and the implementation of initiatives for the traceability of the raw materials and products used. Customer Customer experience and satisfaction surveys related to the quality, safety, and specific characteristics Customers External RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE PRODUCT satisfaction of the products. Support services that meet the needs of the customer/consumer, constant and open dialogue through special channels; management and minimising claims linked to the quality of the products and services offered Responsible Transparent and adequate communication related to the products offered, particularly through labelling Customers External product labelling in compliance with the legislation and that clearly states the primary characteristics of the products sold Innovation, and Offering high quality products that meet the needs of the customers and consumers through ad hoc Customers External product quality differentiation of products to meet and satisfy needs according to different diet types (vegetarian, vegan, kosher, gluten free, etc.). This approach also incorporates the creation of excellent recipes to obtain a superior flavour Nutrition and Promotion of a healthy lifestyle and the importance of proper nutrition through products, initiatives, and Customers External well-being specific communications; preparation of an offer of nutritionally varied and balanced products including organic products. Research, Control and analysis of the quality standards of the products offered through laboratory research and the Customers External innovation, adherence to national quality and safety standards. Monitoring of the product’s qualitative characteristics control and traceability along the supply chain. Research and Innovation in regard to logistical or packaging optimisation Sustainable Responsible procurement process management along the organisation’s entire supply chain; supplier Suppliers External RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS management of evaluation and screening based on social and environmental performance, promotion of social responsithe supply chain bility practices and conduct that drive suppliers to adopt sustainable behaviours. Working Management of the activities along the value chain (suppliers and customers) that can prevent significant Suppliers, Internal conditions and risks related to Human rights (forced labour, child labour, freedom of association and collective bargainEmployees, and RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS Human Rights ing, discrimination in the workplace) and any actions undertaken (e.g., training plans related to Human Community external Rights issues) Procurement from Procurement from local suppliers and promotion of initiatives that encourage the use of locally produced Suppliers External THE COMMUNITY local suppliers raw materials, increasing the relationship with the community and the reference area and optimising logistics processes Involvement and Development of business activities in full respect of local communities, promotion of educational/trainCommunity External support of local ing activities for the development of people and the territory; donations, sponsorships, partnerships, and communities collaborations with local organisations and associations, in support of the local community Food education Promotion of a healthy lifestyle and food education through the products offered as well as through the Community External organisation of events and campaigns aimed at raising awareness on topics related to nutrition, food, and related environmental and social issues Management Efficient energy management through actions, programmes, and management systems; reduction of enerEnvironExternal of energy and gy use from fossil fuels and promotion of the production and purchase of energy from renewable sources; ment resources in the monitoring, prevention, and reduction of greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and other pollutant emissions ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSIBILITY atmosphere Management of Knowledgeable management of the waste generated by the organisation's activities; dissemination of a EnvironExternal waste, recyclabilcorporate culture aimed at maximising waste management efficiency by promoting conscious management ity, and reduction ment methods and practices such as: reuse, sorting, and recycling of waste. Promotion of activities to in food waste raise awareness regarding food waste inside and outside of the organisation Management/ Responsible and non-invasive management of natural resources with special attention to the containEnvironExternal protection of the ment of environmental impacts linked to supply activities and their production; monitoring and protecment area and respect tion of the natural habitat, indigenous species, and local flora and fauna. Protection of the eco-system in for biodiversity its entirety, which could be put at risk by the organisation’s activities (production sites and raw materials) Knowledgeable Efficient use of raw materials and minimisation of waste along the entire production chain; analysis of EnvironExternal consumption of the environmental impact from the products and services offered by the organisation ment raw materials 12 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT Involvement of the stakeholders, primarily The stakeholders were asked their opinion mapped based on the criteria of influence, on the importance of 26 issues by giving strategic relevance, and proximity, involved each a score from 1 (less important) to 5 a total of 105 stakeholders in 8 categories (more important). (customers, suppliers, employees, partThe results of the survey were analysed ners, media, university, institutions, and and processed in the materiality matrix reassociations). ported below, which defines the positionData was collected from February 2019 to ing of the material issues, by area, interJune 2019 through the use of a non-proprisecting the different levels of importance etary software that allowed the manageassigned to the issues by the type of stakement of the responses obtained from the holder and the company’s organisational stakeholders surveyed. There were 44 restructure. sponses with 37 from external stakeholders. GRAPH 2018 Materiality matrix 5.0 4.9 RELEVANCE FOR THE ANDRIANI GROUP 4.8 4.7 4.6 4.5 4.40 4.50 4.75 5.00 RELEVANCE FOR STAKEHOLDERS Governance and Compliance Responsibilities regarding the product Environmental responsibility Responsibility to employees Responsibility to suppliers SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 13 The materiality threshold, set at a value of 4.4, led to the identification of 15 The table below helps the ready identify material issues. the specific disclosure connected to the 15 material issues in the document. It should TABLE Material issues identified also be noted that the sustainability report Impact CODE Material issue SDGs GRI Aspect Type of impact includes the following non-material issues: perimeter corporate governance, economic perforEconomic perforEthics and mance Andriani Caused by the mance, diversity and equal opportunity, 2 responsible Market presence Group Group business Public policy corporate welfare, shared corporate culture, Caused by the nutrition and well-being, involvement and Anti-corruption Group and Anti-corruption, Anti-competition Andriani directly consupport of local communities, and food ed3 fair competition, behaviour Group nected through and legality Social and economic ucation. a business compliance relationship Occupation Development Training and instrucResponsibility Andriani Caused by the connected 8 and protection of tion Group Group Relevant issues Chapters human resources Diversity and equal to relevant opportunity issues Employees Ethics and responChapter 2 Health and Safety Health and Safety in of the Caused by the sible business 10 in the Workplace the workplace Andriani Group Governance Governance Group1 and compliAnti-corruption, and ance fair competition, compliance Health and safety of Page 34 Product safety and the customers Andriani Caused by the and legality 12 traceability Privacy of the cusGroup Group tomers Development and protection of Chapter 4 Customer Andriani Caused by the Responsibility human resources Responsibility 13 satisfaction N/A Group Group to employees to employees Health and Safety Page 50 Responsible Marketing and Andriani Caused by the in the Workplace 14 product labelling labelling Group Group Product safety and Innovation, and Andriani Caused by the traceability 15 product quality N/A Group Group Customer Research, Andriani Caused by the 17 innovation, control N/A Group Group satisfaction Chapter 5 ResponsibiliResponsibiliSustainable Group Responsible Caused by the ties regarding ties regarding 18 management of Procurement practices Andriani, product labelling Group the product the product the supply chain suppliers Innovation, and Page 68 Non-discrimination product quality Relations between Caused by the workers and manageResearch, Group and ment Group innovation, control Working conditions directly con19 and human rights Child labour Andriani, nected through Forced labour suppliers Sustainable mana business Chapter 6 Evaluation of the agement of the relationship respect for human Responsibility supply chain Responsibility rights to suppliers to suppliers Management Working conditions Page 90 of energy and Energy Andriani Caused by the and Human Rights 23 resources in the Emissions Group Group atmosphere Management of energy and Management of resources in the waste, recyclability, Water discharges and Andriani Caused by the atmosphere 24 and reduction in waste Group Group food waste Management of waste, recyclability, Chapter 8 Management/ and reduction in protection of the Environmental comAndriani Caused by the Responsibility Responsibility 25 towards the food waste towards the area and respect pliance Group Group for biodiversity environment Management/ environment protection of the Page 102 Knowledgeable Group 26 Caused by the area and respect consumption of Materials Andriani Group for biodiversity raw materials Group Knowledgeable 1 The company will further analyse the significance of other non-employee workers in order to assess the need to collect data from employconsumption of ers of external collaborators and suppliers working at Group sites and/or those under Group control, assessing the quality and accuracy of raw materials the data over which it does not exercise direct control. 14 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT The Andriani Group 102-12 102-16 for Sustainable See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX Development 2015 was an important year for the global grate information on sustainability in the economy and our country. During this year, periodic reports”, implementing an acItaly chose to sign the 17 SDGs (Sustainable countability process able to responsibly Development Goals) of Agenda 2030, which highlight the contribution the company inare the 17 goals that represent the new tends to give to the 17 goals. inescapable challenges in terms of susMillennium To do so, it used a multi-level approach Development Goals tainable development to be implemented based on 4 pillars: by 2030, along with the other 192 Member States of the United Nations. Agenda 2030 surpassed the limits demonChoice of a business model aimed at sustainable value creation page 28 strated by the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), that, in addition to an extension of the concept of sustainability that is no longer focused solely on the environDefinition of a strategic plan that includes specific goals broken down mental dimension, provides an accountby area and related SDGs page 30 ability mechanism able to carry out effective control action towards those countries that have signed the agreement through a Adoption of transparent governance complex measurement system based on 17 focused on the SDGs page 36 goals, 169 targets, and over 240 indicators. Target 12.6 The Andriani Group also chose to contribof Agenda 2030 ute to target 12.6 of Agenda 2030, which Creation of a reporting and calls for:”Encouraging businesses, especommunication system based on the SDGs according to a multicially large and transnational companies, stakeholder approach page 32 to adopt sustainable practices and inteSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 15 Using the SDG Compass (GRI UNGC WBCSD 2017) as a road map, the Andriani Group The SDG Compass document provides companies with initiated a process to steer towards the SDGs, as yet unfinished, divided into five fundainstructions on how to align mental steps: their strategies and measure and manager their contribution to the achievement of the SDGs. 1 Understanding the SDGs and evaluating the points of conver2 gence in terms of the business. Selection of strategic priorities downstream of an assessment of the positive and negative external effects produced by the com3 pany business. Alignment between the priorities and the SDGs for understand 4 how to contribute to sustainable development. Activation of a process for sharing the SDGs, not only internally (governance bodies and organisational units), but also externally, along the supply chain and reference industry, interacting with an extended social community. 5 Reporting and communication through the use of a system of KPIs connected to the SDGs selected, able to inform the stakeholder of the results obtained and future performance to be achieved. The Andriani Group has chosen a responsidrives Agenda 2030, which is to bring the ble approach to the 17 goals introduced by countries and economic organisations that the United Nations, consciously choosing operate within it to contribute effectively the objectives on which the Group currentto all 17 goals, the company has chosen a ly feels it can make an active contribution. more or less impacting contribution on 15 Therefore, while aware of the spirit that sustainable development goals. 16 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT The contribution to the SDGs can be inferred not only from the specific issues covered in the report in question, but also from the description of the specific actions that the Andriani Group has implemented and is implementing to contribute to Agenda 2030. GOAL MATERIAL ISSUE ACTIONS IMPLEMENTED Food education Definition of a structured “strategic philanthropic” plan beginning with the theme of healthy food Management of waste, recyclability, and reduction in food waste Public-private partnership for spreading the culture of healthy food Nutrition and well-being Active participation in numerous events on the theme of nutrition and well-being Innovation, and product quality Implementation of the Multigrain mill Customer satisfaction Unceasing internal (laboratory) and external (universities, research bodies Responsible labelling and institutions) research activities Health and safety in the workplace Compliance to standards regarding labelling and internal and external Working conditions and Human Rights control activities Investments in health and safety including specific training activities Adherence to the Global Compact Adherence to the SMETA method for respecting Human Rights in the supply chain Development and protection of human resources Constant training activities for employees and partners Empowering People programme Diversity and equal opportunity -Diversity management interventions Knowledgeable consumption of raw materials Hort@ Project for the sustainable legumes chain Circular economy interventions Management of energy and resources in the Energy efficiency interventions including trigeneration plant and Bühler atmosphere Ecothermatik™ dryer for long pasta Dolomiti Energia 100% Clean Energy Certification Economic performance and related economic Increase in added value produced impact Interventions for the region and local communities Interventions for creating a safe and stimulating work environment for its employees Involvement of local suppliers, also through Terre Bradaniche S.r.l. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 17 GOAL MATERIAL ISSUE ACTIONS IMPLEMENTED Innovation, and product quality Construction of the Smart Building (New Headquarters) Research, innovation, control Computerisation of processes Intensification of audit activities on products and processes Company welfare Numerous projects for employees including: Bike to work, Family Day, Arts Academy Working conditions and Human Rights Activation of communication channels with its partners Diversity and equal opportunity Commitment to safeguard Human Rights through adherence to the Global Compact Sustainable management of the supply chain Membership to the SAI Platform Working conditions and Human Rights Numerous streamlining operations in production and logistics aimed at reducing CO2 emissions Management of energy and resources in the atmosphere Andriani Educational Project for schools and families Involvement and support of local communities Initiatives to promote sports and support sports events Innovation, and product quality Startup of new research projects in partnership with leading companies in the industry, research organisations, and local organisations Responsible labelling Monitoring and management of claims related to product labelling Management of waste, recyclability, and reduction in food waste Increase in the percentage of waste recycled Management of energy and resources in the Reduction in energy consumption for the same production volumes atmosphere Management/protection of the area and respect for Creation of a sustainable supply chain for legumes biodiversity Monitoring of the environmental impact of Andriani products through the Sustainable management of the supply chain Yousustain.net platform that analyses 6 parameters: water, soil, air quality, biodiversity, health, and energy. Ethics and responsible business Implementation of the Organisation and Management Model according to Italian Legislative Decree 231/01 Anti-corruption, fair competition, and legality Commitment to fight against corruption through adherence to the Global Involvement and support of local communities Compact Grants to the community Dialogue with associations and institutions Adherence to third party associations and institutions Involvement and support of local communities Active involvement in stakeholder activities on SDGs and on sustainability issues Company participation in workshops related to the 17 goals of Agenda 2030 18 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT These actions coincide with the activities the Group chose to implement by combining the 10 principles of the Global Compact in terms of Human Rights, labour, the environment, and the fight against corruption. GRAPH The 10 principles of the Global Compact Italian Global Compact Network TEN PRINCIPLES Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 2 and make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced LABOUR and forced labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greatENVIRONMENT er environmental responsibility; Principle 9 and encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. The 10 principles of the Global Compact FIGHT AGAINST Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion CORRUPTION and bribery. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 19 By joining the Global Compact, the Andrisustainability report the Communication ani Group has also chosen to communicate on Progress (COP), i.e. the document that to its stakeholders the actions it has takoffers its stakeholders information on the en and intends to take in compliance with organisation’s commitment to the 10 printhese principles, not only through this reciples (actions, results, and goals). port, but also through other channels of The 10 principles of the Global Compact are communication. associated with the values and principles 2018 was the first year in which the Group the Andriani Group strongly believes in and chose to integrate the ten principles of the are also present in the Group’s Code of EthGlobal Contract in its company strategy, ics (www.andrianispa.com). culture, and operations, considering the VALUES PRINCIPLES Respect for customer expectations Respect for the Law Compliance with the laws, transparency and fair management, trust and cooperation with stakeholders Respect for its human resources and the refusal of any form of Honesty Relationships with stakeholders are based on criteria and discrimination based on age, gender, sexual orientation, health behaviours of fairness, collaboration, loyalty and mutual respect condition, race, nationality, political opinions, or religious beliefs Training, empowerment and involvement at every level of all staff, Transparency and Completeness of Information The fundamental while ensuring respect for physical and moral integrity value of correctness of the information transmitted inside and outside the organisation Rationalisation of company management in all areas Fairness in corporate management and the use of resources Compliance with the law, the Articles of Association, and the regulations, ensuring the proper functioning of the corporate bodies and the protection of property rights to safeguard the integrity of the share capital and the real estate and financial assets Integration of the effectiveness and efficiency goals with the principles Confidentiality Compliance with the legislation regarding the of sustainable development and the prevention of injuries in the collection, processing, and storing of personal data and refraining from workplace seeking confidential data through illegal means Correctness of relations with the Public Administration and with the Respect for the individual Respect for the physical and moral integrity lending institutions of the individual and respect in relations with others Operating in the market in compliance with fundamental ethical Prevention of conflicts of interests Removing and preventing present principles such as honesty, impartiality, and respect for all current and potential conflicts of interest with its employees and partners standards (national and Community laws, internal regulations or codes, administrative measures, rules of ethics) Protection of the environment, security, and sustainable development The environment is seen as a primary asset at the focus of sustainable development for which the constant balance between economic initiatives, company needs, and environmental needs is fundamental in sharing a culture of security and the prevention of financial and other risks 1 The Andriani Group In this chapter: 22 Main steps of a development path 26 Food Innovation: a growing and evolving industry 28 Our business model 30 The strategic plan for sustainability 32 Our stakeholders and related dialogue tools Key numbers 40 5 +17m OVER LEGAL YEARS ENTITIES experience gained in the milling industry and, in particular, in OPERATING IN NET WORTH the planning, implementation, CONNECTED INDUSTRIES The Andriani S.p.A. holding company installation, and maintenance of the With a view towards business manufactures gluten free pasta. primary traditional pasta plants in diversification, Andriani S.p.A. has the country. chosen to begin initiatives linked to the development of startups and new businesses. Gluten free primacy The technical partnership developed over decades with the multinational Bühler (headquartered in Uzwil, Switzerland) has permitted the creation of the first facility in the world entirely dedicated to the production of gluten free pasta. 22 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 1.1 102-1 102-2 Main steps of a 102-3 102-4 102-5 development path See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX The spirit the distinguishes the Andriani The Andriani Group operates in the food Group can be summarised by these simsector as both a copacker for major interGluten free primacy The technical partnership ple words ”We think positive and we make national brands as well as on its own bedeveloped over decades with good innovation”. Andriani is a Group ophalf with the production and distribution the multinational Bühler (headquartered in Uzwil, erating in the food innovation sector and of Felicia Bio® and Biorì® brand products. Switzerland) has permitted the considers innovation to be its primary creation of the first facility in the The founding partners of the Andriani S.p.A. world entirely dedicated to the competitive advantage. Innovation meant holding company are brothers Michele and production of gluten free pasta. as a way of thinking, doing, and communiFrancesco, the sons of Felice Andriani, who cating. Innovation meant as being compreinherited his 40 years of experience in the hensive, starting from the product and promilling industry and, particularly, in the deduction processes carried out in a facility sign, creation, assembly, and maintenance dedicated exclusively to gluten free prodof the primary traditional pasta plants in uct and arriving at concrete daily actions. the country. Innovative thought is what helps us live better and leave fertile ground for future The technical partnership developed over generations. decades with the multinational Bühler (headquartered in Uzwil, Switzerland) has Andriani’s project began in 2009 with the permitted the creation of the first facility goal being to conceive, develop, and proin the world entirely dedicated to the produce a complete range of gluten free pasta duction of gluten free pasta. that is innovative and with a unique flavour, using a variety of ingredients such as rice, maize, quinoa, buckwheat, amaranth, lentils, peas, and other ingredients, all naturally gluten free. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 23 The Andriani Group is an integrated group made up of 5 legal entities operating in connected industries. With a view towards business diversification, Andriani S.p.A. has chosen to begin initiatives linked to the development of startups and new businesses. ORGANISATIONAL CHART Andriani Group Andriani S.p.A. Holding company in the gluten free pasta manufacturing industry. Net equity of €17,946,553 (as of 31/12/2018) Registered office in Gravina di Puglia (Bari) 100% Felicia S.r.l. Company that sells Andriani’s Felicia 66.7% brand products. Terre Bradaniche S.r.l. Net equity of €3,512,708 (as of 31/12/2018) Operates in the processing and marketing Registered office in Gravina di Puglia (Bari) of fertilizers and organic food products in general, as well as in the processing and cleaning of legumes. Net equity of €264,843 (as of 31/12/2018) Registered office in Gravina di Puglia (Bari) 60% Amendola Center S.r.l. 60% Company operating in the real estate sector. Cardo Rosso S.r.l. Net equity of €3,490,264 (as of 31/12/2018) Innovative start-up that will operate in Registered office in Bari. the production and sales of gluten free couscous. Net equity of €326,053 (as of 31/12/2018) Registered Office in Bologna 24 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT Andriani Group History 2009 The Andriani family founds Molino 2016 Andriani S.r.l. 2013 Construction of the gluten free facility in Gravina di Puglia. Molino Andriani S.r.l. initiates a 2014 reorganisation plan of corporate assets to establish a large-scale player in the Food Innovation secWith the startup of the new Nests tor, Andriani S.p.A., a company that and Lasagna line, Andriani S.p.A. passed a resolution to increase its increases the range of products share capital to €1 million. offered, bringing its production capacity to approximately 16.2 million tonnes per year. Andriani S.p.A. receives the Smau 2015 Innovation Award for Italian excellence to the computerisation of its packaging and product storage Founding of Felicia S.r.l, compaprocesses. ny owning the brand of the same name, dedicated to the distribution of gluten free products (share capital €1 million and Net Equity Construction of the Multigrain €3 million). milling plant. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 25 2017 2019 preview Warehouse opening in Matera. 2018 Andriani S.p.A. receives the “Company to watch” award from Cerved Andriani S.p.A. issues a minibond for its good performance in the of €6 million. Andriani S.p.A. is awarded by gluten free foods industry. Linkedin for the “Employer branding” project as a virtuous example of company welfare. Andriani acquires the industrial mill factory where the Company’s registered and operating office is Andriani S.p.A. wins the prestilocated. gious Felix Industrial Award during Andriani S.p.A. acquires the conthe fifth edition of “Felix Industrial trolling share in Holos Italia S.r.l. Award Puglia competes”. The company is admitted to the (now Cardo Rosso S.r.l.). “Elite” programme of Borsa Italiana S.p.A., an international platform of integrated services created to support companies in their growth path. Andriani S.p.A. acquires 33% of the Andriani S.p.A. is recognised by share capital (later increased to AIDP for the innovative company With the Puglia Regional Revenue 66.7%) of Terre Bradaniche S.r.l. welfare project, Bike to work. Agency Tax Auditing Office, Andriani signs the preventive agreement (tax ruling) for the determination Andriani files an application for the Andriani S.p.A. is selected as one of the economic contribution for preventive agreement (tax ruling) of the 50 best companies for its the direct use of intangible assets for the determination of the ecobrand portfolio and for its popursuant to Art. 1(37) of Italian Law nomic contribution for the direct sitioning in the Food Innovation no. 190 of 23 December 2014 (comuse of intangible assets pursuant sector monly named the Patent Box ) to Art. 1(37) of Italian Law no. 190 with the resulting tax exemption of 23 December 2014 (commonly of income deriving from the use named the Patent Box ) with the CRIBIS rates Andriani S.p.A. as havof intangible assets (expertise and resulting tax exemption of income ing the highest economic and comtrademarks) for the 2015-2019 tax deriving from the use of intangible mercial reliability. periods. assets (expertise) for the 20202024 tax periods. 26 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 1.2 Food Innovation: a growing and evolving industry In recent years, the international market reached a turnover of €2.022 million. for free from products recorded significant Food Innovation In further detail, the segment of gluten free The segment of gluten free growth rates, due in part to the increase products amounts to €320 products amounts to €320 million, with in coeliac disease and lactose intolerance, million, with 27% growth. Even 27% growth. Even the market for lactose the market for lactose free which represent, respectively, 26% and 66% free products is not to be outdone, with products is not to be outdone, compared to other types of food intolerwith 18% growth. 18% growth. ances. It should also be noted that the phenomeThe size of the markets in the USA, Austranon of the spread of gluten free products is lia, Russia, and Europe fluctuate between increasingly attractive to large distribution, €47 million and €442 million. There is also in order to increase the share of branded a new market emerging in the United Arab products of the various brands. Emirates that is recording exponential growth since 2011. In Europe, the countries The consumption of pasta accounts for with the highest turnover are Italy, the 14% of the gluten free market and to meet United Kingdom, Germany, and France. In the increasing therapeutic needs and new fact, in recent years, the business of free styles of eating. These new styles of eating from products grew by 5.1% in Europe and are a direct consequence of the success of The typical Andriani consumer CONDUCTS A HEALTHY IS PHYSICALLY ACTIVE AND NATURAL LIFESTYLE THROUGH HEALTHY EATING AND A PROPER LIFESTYLE SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 27 the new gluten free pasta varieties based made with legume flour, in which legumes on legumes and alternative grains. become the absolute protagonists of the Millennials and Generation Z dough, creating a product that has the same Among young consumers, the Such evidence is also confirmed by the Food shape, packaging and manufacturer as pasinnovation and curiosity bar Innovation market trends for 2019, where is raised towards a desire to ta, but with a different nutritional compoexperiment with “special” pastas about one in two Italians say they are insition and taste. Along with legumes, there made with legume flour. terested in new ingredients, new products, are also preferences for pastas made with and new types of pasta. maize, rice, and protein flours. So, this is a sensitive and sustainable consumer with different preferences depending on the type. It is definitely a consumer who, if over 50, continues to prefer a type of pasta made with Italian wheat and whole grain durum wheat. Young consumers (Millennials and Generation Z) differ, raising the innovation and curiosity bar, with a desire to experiment with special pastas SEEKS AN IMPROVEMENT EMBRACES THE “POSITIVE IS ATHLETIC IN PHYSICAL WELL-BEING LIFE” CONCEPT 28 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 1.3 102-6 102-7 Our business See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX model IIRC International “An organisation’s business model is its This definition is contained in the IIRC InFramework system of transforming inputs, through its ternational Framework, a document that business activities, into outputs and outcan be considered the only existing stancomes that aims to fulfil the organisation’s dard setter on an international level restrategic purposes and create value over garding the integrated report. the short, medium and long term.” Handling of raw materials Grinding Mixing Transformation Packaging Quality Control Handling of the finished product SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 29 Production lines Procurement Long pasta markets Asset Short pasta Italy Raw materials 1 manufacturing plant Nests and lasagna EU Grains 8 Storage warehouses Flours Non-EU Legumes 1 Processing warehouses Pseudo cereals 50 Silos Brand Quality Felicia certifications Biorì 3 company Private label 10 product Distribution channels Corporate Social Direct Responsibility Target markets Large distribution Agenda 2030 Sales Italy Small distribution GRI Organic North America E-commerce Global Compact Conventional EMEA Indirect APAC Copackers The Andriani Group's business model describes not only the input elements, transformaDOMINANT tion cycle, and output, but CSR: dominant in the corporate also some strategic drivers culture DEGREE OF INTEGRATION IN THE STRATEGY in the value creation process, INNOVATIVE including Corporate Social ReCSR: Integrated in the strategy sponsibility, which is factor for Social/environmental products integration with the company's SYSTEMATIC Strategic CSR initiatives philanthropy business within the Group. mapping Definition of the policies INFORMAL CURRENT Initiative Occasional Code of Ethics rationalisation initiatives Environmental, social, H&S GRAPH certifications Positioning of TIME Andriani S.p.A 30 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 1.4 The strategic plan for sustainability The Andriani Group conducted an internal strategic assessment activity starting from an 60 “as is” photograph in terms of its orientation to CSR and sustainable development and defined a three-year plan consistent with what was defined in the industrial plan. The Strategic Sustainability Plan is made up of: SPECIFIC ACTIVITIES scheduled in the three-year 5 Intervention areas Strategic Plan 2019-2021 19 fields/issues 11 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 60 Specific activities scheduled in the 2019-2021 three year period Expected economic, social, and environmental benefits according to the triple bottom line approach The execution of the Plan will be assigned to an interdepartmental project team, assisted by the consulting company Green Reset S.r.l., which specialises in strategic consulting regarding sustainability and circular economies. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 31 GRAPH Strategic plan Intervention areas FIELD ISSUE Biodiversity Management and protection of the area and respect for biodiversity GOVERNANCE Mobility Impacts from logistics & COMPLIANCE Emissions Management of energy and resources in the atmosphere FIELD Waste Management of waste, Corporate Governance and transparency in decisionrecyclability, and reduction in making processes food waste Ethics and responsible business Water Responsible water management Raw materials Knowledgeable consumption of raw materials Responsible packaging Circular Recovery of materials economy Reduction of waste STRATEGIC STAKEHOLDER SUSTAINABILITY PLAN ENGAGEMENT 2019 2021 STAKEHOLDER ISSUE Employees Development and protection of human resources Organisation and internal RESPONSIBILITY communication Company welfare PRODUCT Shared company culture Health and safety at work FIELD Supply Chain Sustainable management of the Research, innovation, and control supply chain Product safety and traceability Procurement from local suppliers Responsible labelling Customers Customer involvement in the ECONOMIC Sustainability Strategy PERFORMANCE Customer retention FIELD Local Food education communities Economic performance Monitoring and reporting Presence on the market and indirect economic impacts 32 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 1.5 102-21 102-40 102-44 Our stakeholders and See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX related dialogue tools The Andriani Group considers its stakefine the critical issues and preparatory holders to determine not only the definiSWOT analysis for preparing the Strategic tion of the material issues referred to in Sustainability Plan. this sustainability report, but also to deGRAPH Relevant stakeholders DESIRABLE STAKEHOLDERS ESSENTIAL STAKEHOLDERS (appropriate involvement) (necessary involvement) + Customers Banks Controlling shareholder Employees and partners Suppliers Analysts financial Competitors Local communities Media LEVEL OF INFLUENCE Government and regulatory bodies and the PA Associations Category Schools and Universities Non-profit sector (Foundations, Associations, and NGO) Representatives Union + LEVEL OF INTEREST As part of its process of continuous enback process in order to better grasp the gagement of its stakeholders, the Andrirequests coming from the company stakeani Group chose to focus on increasing holders. dialogue tools and streamlining the feedSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 33 The following are the primary dialogue initiatives carried out by the Group by type of stakeholder. Key issues Primary dialogue initiatives • Creation of business value and market presence • Shareholders’ meeting and boards • Anti-corruption • Financial statements Shareholders • Ethics and responsible business • Meetings with the Board of Statutory Auditors and SB 231/01 • Global Compact • Diversity and equal opportunity • Periodic newsletter • Development and protection of human resources • Confidential channel 231/01 • Company welfare • Climate monitoring Employees • Health and safety at work • Team building • Shared company culture • Improvement of safety • Respect for Human Rights • Meetings with union representatives • Product safety and traceability • Direct contacts • Consumer satisfaction • Customer care and market analysis • Responsible labelling • Activities in favour of the environment • Price • Pre and post-sales support Customers • Innovation and quality • Management of digital channels • Nutrition and well-being • Research centre • Research, innovation, and control • Compliance with the laws • Quality and safety of the raw materials • Supplier audits • Sustainable management of the supply chain • Technical and periodic visits and meetings Suppliers • Respect for Human Rights • Feedback on quality • Supplier evaluation • Local suppliers • Involvement and support of local communities • Projects in collaboration with universities and training schools in • Food education Italy and abroad • Respect for Human Rights • Cultural and artistic institutions • Transparency towards the media and the community • Conferences and co-organisation of events Community • Research and development, education, art, and culture • Support and participation at local events • Participation at institutional round tables on relevant issues • Participation in projects, tenders, or research • Periodic invitations to primary Authorities and institutional offices • Management of waste, recyclability, and reduction in food • Category round tables waste • Promotion and publication of customer events in favour of the • Atmospheric emissions environment • Water • Production process Environment • Management/protection of the area and respect for biodiversity • Knowledgeable consumption of raw materials • Investments in environmental protection • Packaging • Sustainable agriculture 2 Governance and compliance In this chapter: 36 Corporate governance and transparency in decision-making processes 40 Fight against corruption 40 Respect for human rights SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) Key numbers 3 CORPORATE BODIES Andriani’s governance structure, 8 MEETINGS OF THE BOD With an average duration of 2 hours 38years AVERAGE AGE OF as well as those of its subsidiaries, and 9 minutes for each sitting, and an is founded on a traditional model, average participation of 88% of the MEMBERS OF THE BOARD comprised of: Shareholder’s meeting, board members. OF DIRECTORS Board of Directors, Board of Statutory Auditors Respect for human rights The Group leverages the skills and potentialities of each one, firmly believing that only exchanges between generations, genders, and cultures can guarantee true success. Today, while the Group does not have specific procedures in place in terms of human rights, it adopts company policies in the same category both in human resources manages and in hiring (Empowering People policy, Family Day, Career Day, etc.). 36 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 2.1 102-11 102-15 102-18 Corporate governance and 102-21 102-29 102-22 102-32 102-23 302-5 102-33 transparency in decision-making See Attachment to the Report processes GRI CONTENT INDEX The corporate governance system of Andriani S.p.A. the company the performs Shareholders’ meeting management and coordination activiBody that has the broadest powers provided for by the Italian Civil Code ties for other affiliate companies in the in terms of: appointment and dismissal of directors, approval of the fiGroup, has a system of rules, conduct, nancial statement, distribution of profits, appointment of members of and processes aimed at ensuring effithe Board of Statutory Auditors, appointment of independent auditors, cient and transparent corporate govand definition of the related remuneration. ernance and efficient operation of the governing bodies and control systems. Andriani’s governance structure, as well Board of directors as those of its subsidiaries, is founded Body that performs of strategic guidance, organisational coordination, on a traditional model, comprised of the as well as verification of the existence of the necessary controls to monfollowing company bodies: itor the Company’s performance. This body is vested with the broadest powers for the ordinary administration of the Company and, more precisely, has the power to perform all the acts it deems appropriate for the achievement of the Company's objectives, excluding only those acts which are, exclusively, reserved to the Shareholders' Meeting. In addition to the specific matters assigned by the Italian Civil Code, the Board of Directors makes resolutions on the following matters: quarterly/annual financial statement, annual budget, investment plan, strategic plan, acquisition of corporate shareholdings, real estate investments. Board of Statutory Auditors Body that supervises the observance of the current legislation and the corporate by-laws, the observance of the principles of correct administration, the adequacy of the organisational structure for the aspects falling within its competence, the internal control system and the administrative and accounting system, as well as the reliability of the latter in representing management events and the adequacy of the instructions given by the parent company to its subsidiaries. The Board of Statutory Auditors acquires knowledge of and supervises the company's activities falling within its competence. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 37 The Board of Directors was appointed by the ordinary Shareholders’ Meeting on 28 June 2019 and is made up of three members: Michele Andriani Chairman of the Board of Directors, 38 ticular experience in R&D, marketing, and years old, founding shareholder and Sole the management control system. He is also Administrator of Molino Andriani S.r.l. from a Director in the subsidiary Cardo Rosso its founding. In recent years he gained parS.r.l. Francesco Andriani Deputy Chairman of the Board of Directors, istrator (Chairman) of the subsidiary Felicia 36 years old, founding shareholder, already S.r.l. In recent years he developed particumanager responsible for the Sales, Marlar experience in the marketing sector and keting & Business Development Division of sales of branded products on both the naMolino Andriani S.r.l. He also is Sole Admintional and international level. Tommaso Marvulli Director, 41 years old, manager and partner facilitated finance. Tommaso Marvulli also of the Andriani family since 1999. In recent holds the role of Sole Administrator of the years he developed particular experience subsidiary Terre Bradaniche S.r.l. and Diin general accounting, treasury, the manrector of the subsidiary Cardo Rosso S.r.l. agement control system, and ordinary and In 2018, the Board of Directors met 8 times for an average duration of 2:09 hours for each sitting, with an average 88% participation of the directors, and, in addition to ordinary management issues, it dealt with issues related to governance and sustainability. The decisions of the top management are shared and approved by the Board, which, in its function, oversees aspects of management also related to issues regarding sustainability in its various forms. Company management frequently interacts with the various stakeholders on relevant sustainability issues, even using other communication methods (meetings, specific focus groups, etc.). At the moment the Andriani Group has not set up an ad hoc committee for the management of sustainability issues. 38 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT The Andriani Group’s organisational prised of offices/departments and headThe Executive Committee supports the model is structured as follows: ed by junior/senior managers; Board of Directors in defining the operArea: complex structure directed by top Office/Department: basic structure of ational planning, investments, and demanagers, also comprised of several dithe business organisation led by middle velopment of the company's business, in visions; management/clerical staff. accordance with the vision and mission Division: less complex structure comdefined by the Board of Directors. GRAPH Andriani Group Organisation and Management Model Board of directors Planning and Management Control Board Corporate CSR & Secretariat Sustainability Vice Chairman of the Chief Financial Presidente Board of Directors Officer Francesco Andriani Michele Andriani T. Marvulli (CCO) (CEO) (CFO) Human Legal and Direzione Resources and R&D Operations Technical Corporate Commerciale Organization Division Division Division Affairs Division Division Geneal Affairs Commercial Communication Supply Chain IT Department Division Department Division Financial Division Strategic Process Production Marketing Departmente Division Treasury Operative Division Marketing Human Resources Quality Management Department Division Receivables Department BU Facility Manager Logistics and Administrative Copacker Warehouses Division Division BU Felicia Budget and Accounting Division Tax Affairs Department SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 39 It also facilitates the integration and coordiintegral part of the 231 Organisation and nation between the various Areas and DiviManagement Model. Organisation and sions and their managers. Management Model Following adoption of the 231 Model, the AnThe new version of the The Executive Committee is comprised of driani S.p.A. Board of Directors appointed the Organisation and Management Area Executives, Division managers, and, Supervisory Board, which is responsible for Model was approved by the Board of Directors on 29 March based on the topics covered, even by departmonitoring the operation of and compliance 2019 and is comprised of a ment managers. with the Model, ensuring that it is kept up to General Section and a Special Section, divided into six parts, date. The Executive Committee must meet once a each dedicated to one type of predicate offence. The Code month and external consultants may be inIn order to ensure the proper and effective of Ethics is an integral part vited. performance of the supervision of the Modof the 231 Organisation and Management Model. el, the Supervisory Board is comprised of 2 Besides the Board of Directors and the Shareexternal and 2 internal figures, with different holders’ Meeting, Andriani S.p.A.’s corporate levels of competence that can be integrated. bodies also include the Board of Statutory Auditors, whose members are: To support the approach to risk manage• Dr. Alberto Longo, Chairman of the Board of ment, the Board of Directors, through the Statutory Auditors (61 years of age); Model pursuant to Italian Legislative Decree • Prof. Andrea Venturelli, Statutory Auditor (42 231/2001, also established a model for the years of age); prevention of the main criminal risks, which • Dr. Francesco Paparella, Statutory Auditor takes into account the mandatory require(51 years of age); ments provided for by Italian Legislative Decree 231/01, as amended, combined with the In order to ensure that the conduct of all requirements expressed in Art. 30 of Italian those who work on behalf of or in the interLegislative Decree 81/08 regarding accident est of the Company always complies with the prevention. principles of legality, fairness and transparency in the conduct of business and corpoIn terms of Enterprise Risk Management, the rate activities, in July 2014, Andriani Group Andriani Group is management the following adopted an Organisation and Management types of risk: Model (www.andrianispa.com) pursuant to • Liquidity risk; Italian Legislative Decree no. 231/2018, pre• Market risks; pared according to the indications contained • Credit risk; in the Confindustria Guidelines. The new re• Risk of corruption in relationships with the vised and updated version of the OrganisaPublic Administration and between private tion and Management Model was approved individuals; by the Board of Directors on 29 March 2019 • Environmental risk; and is comprised of a General Section and a • Risk of false shareholder communications; Special Section, divided into six parts, each • Risk in terms of health and safety in the dedicated to one type of predicate offence. workplace; The Code of Ethics, the founding principles • Computer risk and illegal data processing. of which were previously mentioned, is an 40 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 2.2 Fight against corruption The Company is committed to the fight ing the company's activities, with particular against corruption through the identificareference to activities involving contacts and Maximum fairness and transparency tion, prevention, and control of risks of correlations with the Public Administration. Andriani S.p.A. calls for the ruption that are part of the 231 Organisascrupulous observance of the Also, in order to establish and maintain any law, the Code of Ethics, and the tion and Management Model and the Code relationship with representatives of the regulations and procedures of Ethics, which is as an integral part of it. governing the company's Public Administration based on the criteria activities, with particular More precisely, in the Organisation and Manof maximum fairness and transparency, the reference to activities involving contacts and relations with the agement Model Andriani S.p.A. identified Andriani Group sets out a series of prohiPublic Administration. the areas at risk of corruption crimes and bitions for managers, employees, and conthe controls put in place to protect against sultants in various capacities. At the beginthem. To this end, it calls for the scrupulous ning or renewal of any type of relationship, observance of the law, the Code of Ethics, they must sign declarations of formal acand the regulations and procedures governceptance of the rules set in the Model. 2.3 Respect for human rights The Andriani Group undertakes to uphold, In particular, the Group applies the proviwithin its sphere of influence, the global sions of the law (Constitution and Workers' Human rights The Group applies the provisions standard of conduct in human rights matStatute) regarding non-discrimination on of the law (Constitution and ters by providing: the grounds of race, language, gender, disWorkers' Statute) regarding nondiscrimination on the grounds of • human resources management policies ability, age, sexual orientation, and personal race, language, gender, disability, and procedures in line with Italian regulabeliefs. age, sexual orientation, and personal beliefs. tions and the main international standards The Group leverages the skills and potention the subject (principles 1 and 2 of the alities of each one, firmly believing that only Global Compact); exchanges between generations, genders, • ethical standards referred to in agreeand cultures can guarantee true success. ments with suppliers; • ethical parameters such as integrity and Today, while the Group does not have sperespect for human and labour rights in the cific procedures in place in terms of human process of selecting suppliers of raw marights, it adopts company policies in the terials; same category both in human resources • channels for receiving reports on violations manages and in hiring (Empowering People of the principles in the Code of Ethics. policy, Family Day, Career Day, etc.). 3 Economic responsibility In this chapter: 44 Economic performance SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) Key numbers € 55.6million TURNOVER 2018 2 + .8% GROWTH IN € 16.3million ADDED VALUE +8,4% COMPARED TO 2017 SALES VOLUME +4,9% COMPARED TO 2017 2018 was characterised by positive The sales volumes for the 2018 The “added value” is defined as the growth in both turnover and volumes fiscal year were approximately 22.2 ability to create wealth through the sold. thousand tonnes. company and the Group as a whole. Americas Europe Asia 13.3% 23.7% 0.6% 2018 turnover broken Italy down by market (geographic areas) 62.2% Other markets 0.2% 44 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 3.1 102-6 102-7 201-1 Economic performance See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX For the Andriani Group, 2018 was characof 2018 shows that as the Parent Compaterised by positive growth in turnover that ny, Andriani S.p.A. registered a positive amounts to €55.6 million (+8.4% compared to trend in terms of core revenues, equal to the financial statement for the previous fiscal €53.1 million (compared to €49.5 million in 22.2Ton year) and in volumes sold of approximately 2017), with an increase (+7.3%) that can be 22.2 thousand tonnes, +2.8% compared to the attributed to higher quantities of product same period in the previous year. However, sold and to a trend of increasing sales pricanalysis of the provisional data as of 30 June es (with an average of €2.38/kg compared 2018 SALES 2019 shows a further growth in turnover and to €2.33/kg in 2017). VOLUME sales volumes which amounted to €32.1 mil+2,8% COMPARED lion and 13.2 thousand tonnes respectively The consolidated turnover trend for the TO 2017 Group shows +46% in a comparison be(data related to Andriani S.p.A.). tween 2018 and 2016, and +8% in the comFurthermore, a more detailed analysis parison between 2018 and 2017. GRAPH Consolidated turnover (Euro) 55,648,976 51,320,767 38,088,882 + 8.4% TURNOVER 2016 2017 2018 GROWTH COMPARED TO 2017 The leading market for the Andriani Group is Felicia brand Bio pasta, the percentage Italy, which registered an effect on turnover effect of the two leading markets rises to of approximately 62% in 2018, followed by 65% for Italy and 26% for Europe, with the Europe with 24% and the Americas with 13%. American market registering a percentage Focusing the analysis on the turnover for no greater than 8%. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 45 GRAPH 2018 turnover broken down by Italy market (geographic areas) 34,028,478 3,713,614 Leading market The leading market for the Europe Andriani Group is Italy, which 11,726,341 registered an effect on turnover of approximately 62% in 2018, 1,461,653 followed by Europe with 24% and the Americas with 13%. Americas 6,904,116 469,755 Asia 295,456 Andriani S.p.A. 42,707 Felicia S.r.l. Felicia S.r.l. (Legal Entity of the Group, leading to the desired returns in terms of whose activity is focused on the sale of savings on the cost of raw materials. private label products) contributed €5.7 Andriani contributes to the development of million of aggregated turnover, in line with the local community, increasing partnerthe previous year. ships and relationships with raw materials The growth in 2018, although less proporsuppliers, particularly legumes. Through tional than in the previous two years, was the sustainable legume supply chain develaccompanied by a simultaneous mainteopment project, in 2018 the Andriani Group nance of margins. In fact, an EBITDA of €9.5 purchased approximately €2.5 million in million emerges, a value that is reflected in raw materials from local suppliers. an EBITDA margin of 17.6%. In further detail, To acquire the economic resources necesthere is a lower incidence of “purchases of sary to manage its business, Andriani uses raw materials” which, net of the change in the income from normal and accessory opthem, eroded the value of production by Development of the local erations. By subtracting the sums needed about 50%, thus recording an efficiency community to purchase raw materials, services, and Through the sustainable legume gain of about 2.3 percentage points comsupply chain development other goods from these incoming resourcpared to the previous fiscal year. This posproject, in 2018 the Andriani es, what remains is “added value”, defined Group purchased approximately itive effect can be mostly attributed to the as the ability to create wealth through the €2.5 million in raw materials “Multigrain” mill, with its implementation from local suppliers. 46 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT company and the Group as a whole. This • the prospectus for determining the Added +4.9% new wealth is used to provide a return to Value; the various stakeholders who provided • the prospectus for the distribution of the goods and services, work, investments and Added Value. public utilities, etc., contributing, in fact, in INCREASE OF generating economic wealth. In the 2018 fiscal year, the added value proADDED VALUE The table below shows Andriani’s added duced was €16,291,083, with an increase of COMPARED TO 2017 €758,187 compared to the same period in value, calculated according to the method the previous year. proposed by the Study Group for establishThe analysis with the amounts is provided ing Social Reporting Standards and probelow: vides two different prospectuses: 2018 2017 Delta PROSPECTUS FOR DETERMINING THE ADDED VALUE (Euro) (Euro) (Euro) A) Value of production 55,125,587 53,039,230 2,086,357 Revenues from sales and services 55,648,976 51,320,767 4,328,209 Variation of inventory of finished products and goods (672,526) 892,580 (1,565,106) increases of fixed assets from in-house production 75,168 (75,168) Other revenues and income 149,137 750,715 (601,578) B) Intermediate production costs 38,797,657 37,408,831 1,388,826 For raw materials, consumables and merchandise 28,103,701 28,507,431 (403,730) Costs for services 10,531,366 7,714,792 2,816,574 Costs for leased assets 422,980 415,767 7,213 Provision for contingencies 100,000 (100,000) Other operating costs 762,224 1,265,009 (502,785) Variations of inventory of raw and auxiliary materials, consumables and supplies (1,107,595) (1,330,106) 222,511 Write down of receivables included under assets forming part of working capital and of 84,981 735,938 (650,95)7 liquid funds C) Gross characteristic added value (C=A-B) 16,327,930 15,630,399 697,531 Profits and losses on exchanges (39,563) (13,093) (26,470) Characteristic added value net of exchange rates 16,288,367 15,617,306 671,061 Accessory management balance 22,123 28,462 (6,339) Total income from investments 1,643 203 1,440 Total other financial income 20,480 28,259 (7,779) Adjustments in value of financial assets (19,407) (112,872) 93,465 Total revaluations 38,193 38,193 Total write downs 57,600 112,872 (55,272) GROSS OVERALL ADDED VALUE 16,291,083 15,532,896 758,187 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 47 2018 2017 Delta PROSPECTUS FOR THE DISTRIBUTION OF THE ADDED VALUE (Euro) (Euro) (Euro) Staff remuneration 7,549,684 6,064,293 1,485,391 Wages and salaries 4,817,630 4,381,798 435,832 Social security contributions 1,387,497 1,076,116 311,381 Employee severance indemnity 358,960 323,538 35,422 Pension plan and similar items Other costs 5,189 1,146 4,043 Non-employee remuneration 980,408 281,695 698,713 Public Administration Remuneration (95,178) 499,974 (595,152) Taxes on income for the fiscal year 1,103,776 1,962,352 (858,576) Taxes related to previous fiscal years (558,556) (790,636) 232,080 Grants for current fiscal year (673,495) (698,228) 24,733 Indirect taxes 33,097 26,486 6,611 Remuneration of loan capital 921,920 950,889 (28,969) Passive interest 921,920 950,889 (28,969) Differential from financial instruments Company remuneration 3.861.181 2,949,341 911,840 Amortisations and write down of fixed assets 3,861,181 2,949,341 911,840 Remuneration of Risk Capital 4,047,776 5,062,079 (1,014,303) Profit (loss) attributable to the shareholders of the Group 4,105,594 5,098,677 (993,083) Profit (loss) for the year related to minority interests (57,818) (36,598) (21,220) Donations and sponsorships 5,700 6,320 (620) Donations and sponsorships 5,700 6,320 (620) Contributions for scientific research GROSS OVERALL ADDED VALUE 16,291,083 15,532,896 758,187 48 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT The table below shows the distribution of added value by reference stakeholder, comparing the data between the 2018 and 2017 fiscal years. GRAPH Distribution of the added value 2017 2018 2018 2017 Staff remuneration 46% 39% Added value to employees The Group increased the share Remuneration of Risk Capital 25% 33% of added value distributed to Company remuneration 24% 19% employees (+7%) and reduced the share of added value Remuneration of Loan Capital 6% 6% distributed to shareholders (-8%). Public Administration Remuneration -1% 3% In the comparison between the two years, important if compared with the percentage the Group shows a significant improvement of added value distributed to shareholders, (+7%) in the share of added value distributwhich in the comparison between 2018 and ed to employees. This figure is even more 2017 was reduced by about 8%. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 49 In addition to the above, the main balance sheet, profit and loss account, balance sheet, and financial indicators are compared in detail between 2018 and 2017. TABLE Comparison of financial 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 statement indexes Economic Indexes Net ROE 0.30 0.50 Gross ROE 0.34 0.62 ROI 0.08 0.14 ROS 0.10 0.14 Balance Sheet Ratios Equity to non current asset ratio 0.48 0.51 Equity plus non current liabilities to equity ratio 1.0 1.0 Financial indexes Primary liquidity 0.86 0.82 Secondary liquidity 1.05 1.05 Indebtedness 2.57 2,22 Equity-to-fixed-assets ratio 0.97 0.97 4 Responsibility to employees In this chapter: 52 Diversity and equal opportunity 56 Development and protection of human resources 58 Company welfare 64 Health and Safety in the Workplace 102-8 66 Shared company culture See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) 51 Key numbers 139 EMPLOYEES IN 2018 35% WOMEN IN RESPONSIBILITY 40 BICYCLES +4% COMPARED TO 2017 POSITIONS DELIVERED IN 2018 134 employees are hired on a Andriani intends to safeguard the Introduction of the Bike to work permanent basis. In 2018 the rate gender balance and recognise equal project aimed at promoting of new hires was 16% while the opportunity of access to resources sustainable mobility and care negative turnover was 12%. and organisational positions, and safeguarding health and the regardless of gender. environment. To date, 65 bikes have been delivered to employees. Hours of training of employees Technical Skills 105 IT 583 Legal 92 Languages 1,107 Quality 101 Soft Skills 240 Total 2,228hours 52 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 4.1 102-7 Diversity and equal 102-8 401-1 102-42 402-1 202-2 405-1 opportunity See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX The Andriani Group is committed to creatBoomers, Generation X, and Millennials) ing best practices aimed at improving comfind themselves in the same work environDiversity Management This term is used to refer to mitment, belonging, social cohesion, perment, diversity management is a necessiall recognition, leveraging, and sonal responsibility, and shared learning. ty. This term refers to all those strategies inclusion strategies within the organisation. One of these involves acting on the mantowards recognition, leveraging, and incluagement and leveraging of individual difsion of the differences inside the organiferences to prevent the occurrence of any sation in order to create a strong group type of prejudice that could be unproducidentity and motivation and psychological tive and destabilising for the organisation. and emotional well-being in the workplace, In a context in which increasingly varied allowing each individual to express his/her and heterogeneous human resources from potential based on Gardner’s multiple inat least three different generations (Baby telligences. Howard Gardner and the Theory of Multiple Intelligences American psychologist Howard Gardner oppartly the result of genetic factors and partly posed the concept of only one type of intelthe learning opportunities offered by a parligence that could be summed up in a single ticular cultural context. intelligence quotient number and introduced Gardner identified at least seven different the concept of Multiple Intelligences, or types of intelligence, each one assigned to a rather the existence of various types of indifferent area of human activity: telligence resulting from studies performed • logical-mathematical intelligence; on subjects suffering from injuries involving • linguistic intelligence; neuropsychology. • spatial intelligence; Therefore, there are numerous types of intel• musical intelligence; ligence or biological potential present from • kinaesthetic or procedural intelligence; birth that make each person’s intellectual • interpersonal intelligence; profile unique. • intrapersonal intelligence; The evolution of each type of intelligence Later he added naturalist intelligence and and achieving a more or less elevated level is existential intelligence. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 53 The Andriani Group believes in intergentality of its senior management comes from erational exchange and the reciprocal enits region (Puglia). Approximately 98% of richment of people who belong to different the total number of employees is covered age groups. by the National Collective Labor Agreement for employees of the small and meAs of 31 December 18, the Group had 139 dium food industry. Only three employees employees, an increase of 4% compared to in charge of private security are excluded. the previous year's figure of 134; 16% of the The minimum notice period for operational total workforce is represented by women. changes is specified in the National CollecThe average age is around 40. Moreover, tive Labor Agreement. the Andriani Group strongly believes in its 1 The total number of employees as on 31.12.2018 and the related breakdowns do not include the employees contribution to local employment: the toof the company “Amendola Center S.r.l.” TABLE Number of employees broken 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 down by gender and position Professional Men Women Total Men Women Total qualification Executives 3 3 (2%) 3 3 (2%) Middle 1 1 (1%) 2 2 (2%) Managers Clerical staff 27 18 45 (32%) 24 16 40 (30%) Labourers 86 4 90 (65%) 84 5 89 (66%) Total 117 (84%) 22 (16%) 139 (100%) 113 (84%) 21 (16%) 134 (100%) TABLE Employees divided by age range 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 and professional qualification Professional <30 30-50 >50 Total <30 30-50 >50 Total qualification Executives 0 3 0 3 (2%) 0 3 0 3 (2%) 139 Middle 0 1 0 1 (1%) 0 2 0 2 (2%) Managers Clerical staff 9 30 6 45 (32%) 6 27 7 40 (30%) Labourers 11 65 14 90 (65%) 11 64 14 89 (66%) EMPLOYEES IN Total 20 (14%) 99 (71%) 20 (14%) 139 (100%) 17 (13%) 96 (72%) 21 (16%) 134 (100%) 2018 +4% compared to 2017 The increase in staff by classification level in the comparison between 2018 and 2017 was a total of 5, largely determined by the addition of 5 employees, 4 of whom are men and one woman. 54 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT TABLE Average age of employees broken 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Change down by gender and position Professional Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total qualification Executives 39 39 37 37 2 2 40 Middle 32 32 36 36 4 4 Managers Clerical staff 42 36 40 45 35 41 3 1 1 Labourers 40 43 40 40 40 40 3 YEARS Total 41 37 40 41 36 40 1 AVERAGE AGE As shown in the table, the average age of the men is 41 years, while that of the women is 37. OF EMPLOYEES TABLE Number of employees broken down by gender and contract type 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Change Type of Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total 132 contract Temporary 5 2 7 2 2 4 3 3 Permanent 112 20 132 111 19 130 1 1 2 EMPLOYEES HIRED Total 117 22 139 113 21 134 4 1 5 ON A PERMANENT BASIS TABLE Number of employees divided by 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Change gender and job type Job type Men Women Total Men Women Total Men Women Total Full-time 114 22 136 110 21 131 4 1 5 Part-time 3 0 3 3 0 3 0 0 0 Total 117 22 139 113 21 134 4 1 5 TABLE Employee turnover details broken down by gender and age range New hires in 2018 Cessations in 2018 Gender <30 30-50 >50 Total <30 30-50 >50 Total Men 3 11 3 17 (15%) 1 8 4 13 (11%) Women 2 3 0 5 (23%) 1 3 0 4 (18%) Total 5 (25%) 14 (14%) 3 (15%) 22 (16%) 2 (10%) 11 (11%) 4 (20%) 17 (12%) In 2018 the rate of new hires was 16% while the negative turnover was 12%. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 55 4 October 2018 BARI JOB MEETING On 4 October 2018, Andriani took part in the 15th edition of the BARI Job Meeting, an event that offers university graduates a students in Puglia the opportunity to meet local, national, and international companies at stands and in workshops. 35% Since the beginning of 2018, 10 curricular and extra-curricular internships have been activated through partnerships with various public and private universiWOMEN IN ties, including the following: University of Bari, UniverRESPONSIBILITY POSITIONS sity of Parma, University of Urbino and University of Pisa (Faculty of Agricultural Sciences and Food Science and Technology), LUM of Bari and ITS Technical Institute in Organic Agriculture). GENDER EQUALITY Andriani intends to safeguard the gender balance and recognise equal opportunity of access to resources and organisational positions, regardless of gender. 35% of responsibility positions are held by women. 56 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 4.2 404-1 412-2 Development and protection See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX of human resources For Andriani, training, an activity aimed at velopment of skills and potential, but also contributing to and stimulating the growth for talent attraction and retention. Training For Andriani, it is a fundamental of the individual and the professionalism and strategic element for In order to make training structured and of teams and work organisations, is a funinternal growth and for effective, a linear process based on several leveraging and developing skills damental and strategic element for interdevelopment phases was followed: and potential. nal growth and the enhancement and de1 ANALYSIS OF 2 PLANNING 3 PERFORMING 4 EVALUATING TRAINING NEEDS TRAINING TRAINING SATISFACTION Between the end of 2017 Based on the results of The training activities As of today, the first evaland the beginning of 2018, the previous phase, varwere performed through uation step has been department heads were ious training activities classroom lessons and oncarried out based on the surveyed to understand were planning inside and the-job training in order participants' satisfaction the gap between the curoutside the company, into make the training itself through direct interviews, rent and expected levels cluding updates in quality, more incisive and effecwith positive results. of the employees’ hard the use of computer-based tive. and soft skills. tools, and proficiency in English for all levels. In 2018, there were 2,228 hours of training for a total of 69 employees, 16 of which were women and 49 men, both clerical staff and labourers, and equal to 50% of the total employees as of 31/12/2018. The Andriani Group is committed to providing training courses on human rights starting from the next reporting years. 188hours 458hours 1,582hours Total EXECUTIVE TRAINING TRAINING LABOURERS TRAINING CLERICAL STAFF 2,228hours TRAINING PROVIDED IN 2018 GRAPH Hours of employee training broken down by type Technical Skills 105 IT 583 Legal 92 Languages 1,107 Quality 101 Soft Skills 240 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 57 The following is a summary of the types of training provided to employees in 2018, broken down by gender. Type of training Type of training women Type of training men Technical Skills 5% Technical Skills 1.90% Technical Skills 6.26% IT 26% IT 25.87% IT 26.32% Legal 4% Legal 4.05% Legal 4.17% Languages 50% Languages 63.00% Languages 42.35% Quality 4% Quality 2.15% Quality 5.88% Soft Skills 11% Soft Skills 3.04% Soft Skills 15.02% Hours of employee training broken down by type Soft Skills Technical Skills IT Quality • M&A: Grow for external lines • Buhler Extruder • Arca Electronic invoicing • FCM: Food contact materials • Leadership Coaching • Advanced Arca • Facility Quality Updates • Corporate and financial communication as a value • Basic Arca • Equity Story and IPO Simulation Languages • Advanced Excel 1 • Fundraising options for the company • Basic English 1 • Advanced Excel 2 • Innovation as an asset for the company • Basic English 2 • Basic Excel 1 • Internalisation driver for growth • Intermediate English 1 • Risk Management and internal audit • Advanced English 1 Legal • Talent Management: Human Resources as a driver for growth • Advanced English 2 • Privacy Law GDPR Training average hours Training average hours women Training average hours men 16.0 35.9 12.3 Hours Average Hours Average Hours Average Executives 188 62.7 Executives 0 0 Executives 188 62.7 Middle Managers 0 0 Middle Managers 0 0 Middle Managers 0 0 Clerical staff 1,582 35.2 Clerical staff 791 43.9 Clerical staff 792 29.3 Labourers 458 5.1 Labourers 0 0 Labourers 458 5.3 58 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 4.3 401-1 402-1 Company welfare See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX For Andriani, the concept of well-being Among its many initiatives, Andriani’s Emrefers to its consumers, the people and powering People programme involves the Empowering People as a strategic asset for growth environment that surrounds us, but also optimisation of the corporate website with Campaign involving the and especially all of our employees, who the addition of the “careers” section; the leveraging and engagement of human resources to consolidate are the Company’s vital foundation. This is activation of communication through somotivation, increase idea why, on 23 January 2018, Andriani launched cial networks on topics such as perforsharing, and attract new talent. “Empowering People as a strategic asset mance, sustainability, awards, and idea for growth”, an internal campaign involving competitions; the organisation of educathe leveraging and engagement of human tional and Career Days as well as in-house resources to consolidate motivation, inevents; and the planning of outdoor traincrease idea sharing, and attract new talent. ing itineraries. We believe in the value of new ideas, in the contribution that everyone can offer to achieving objectives through active listening, dialogue, and leveraging diversity, with the aim of ensuring a working climate of cooperation and enthusiasm for innovation and growth. Mariangela Candido, Human Resources Manager at Andriani S.p.A. In fact, it is essential to be able to satisfy tion and engagement. For this reason, Anthe highest needs on the Maslow scale in driani decided to focus on various welfare order to obtain real motivation, satisfacinitiatives. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 59 Abraham Maslow and the needs pyramid Motivation can be defined as the set of factors behind a person’s behaviour to achieve a purpose. In order to explain the motivational levers determined by a state of need, psychologist Abraham Maslow introduced the concept of the “Pyramid of Needs”. This scale of needs is broken down into five levels, starting with the basic needs necessary for individual survival, and arriving at the most complex, which are found toward the top. Human beings, therefore, satisfy their needs from bottom to top, hence from the more elementary once to social ones. The Pyramid levels identified by Maslow are as follows: • Physiological needs; • Safety, security, and protection needs; • Belonging needs; • Esteem, prestige, and success needs; Maslow’s pyramid of • Self-actualisation needs. needs (1954) Morality Creativity Spontaneity SELF-ACTUALISATION Problem solving Acceptance Absence of prejudice Self-esteem ESTEEM Self-control Realisation Reciprocal respect BELONGING Friendship Family affection Sexual intimacy Safety: physical occupational moral SAFETY family health property PHYSIOLOGY Breathing Food Sex Sleep Homeostasis Company welfare not only considers what view of the company organisation. In this happens inside the organisation, but also perspective, the company takes on a social how work is part of the individual’s life, prorole, positioning itself not only as a simple moting the employees’ work-life balance. profit generator, but as a system that diWelfare aims to improve the climate in the rects its economic action towards a comworkplace, decrease turnover and absenmon good, where the focus is on both the teeism, and increase the “happy space” for person and the local area, recovering the human resources in an anthropocentric Olivetti sense of community. 60 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT With this in mind, Andriani created several welfare projects, which are discussed below. Bike to Work In 2018, the Andriani Group assigned 40 processes by safeguarding environmenand €40 per month (€70 gross), which pedal assist bikes to employees who retal resources and the health and safety is added to their paychecks. quested them, to be used to transport of its employees, in view of respecting The distance is calculated based on them between home and work, but also living beings and the local area. the shortest road path according to during their free time. This project, aimed To promote the use of the bicycle, emGoogle Maps using the GPS installed at promoting sustainable mobility and ployees are rewarded a prize based on the e-bike and the B-Track App that the care and safeguarding of health and on the km on the home-work journey. employees install on their own smartthe environment, falls under Andriani’s They receive 30 cents per km (gross phones, in compliance with privacy corporate social responsibility activities €0.60/km) for a maximum of €5 per day laws. based on the integration of business 14,747 2thousend 1,391kg 40bici KM TRAVELLED LITRES OF FUEL SAVED 2 CO2 NOT EMITTED 3 DELIVERED IN 2018 To date, 65 bikes have been delivered to employees. The main advantages of the initiative impact not only the employee, but due to traffic; also the company and the local area. These are: • increase in worker safety through a decrease in risk of injuries related • improvement in the worker’s psychophysical well-being those who ride to car use; a bike are on average healthier and less prone to illness, more resilient, • increase in the number of free parking spaces for customers; suppliers, arrive at work more awake and have greater concentration, are able or anyone who can only arrive at Andriani by car; to reduce obesity and get better muscle tone, have greater self-confi• positioning on a talent branding and retention strategy; dence, and also perceive a lower level of stress; • greater engagement of employees who become more enthusiastic about • savings for the employee: with less travel expenses, they have more the company; money available to use for better family well-being and for free time • promotion of the wellness of the local area, reducing both the level of activities; pollution (less CO2 emissions) and local traffic (less accidents and less • reduction in time to get to work or return home, avoiding loss of time noise pollution). 2 The data from the DatiOpen system on the average consumption per km, referred to the registrations made by car in the Puglia Region, were used to calculate the liters of fuel saved. 3 The data from the OpenData system of the Italian Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport were used to calculate the CO2 not emitted. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 61 Team Building Team Building, a combination of trainthe acceptance of different points of successful. ing, experience, and play activities view, switching from win-lose (one wins Therefore, Andriani committed to aimed at creating interaction within a at the expense of others) to win-win planning and implementing various group of people in order to improve (everyone benefits). team-building exercises, which will their ability to work in a team, fundaA group’s efficiency increases in more become an integral part of the commental for emphasizing that there is no complex situations and only if it is efpany's human resources management “I” in the word team. A team is collabficient can the entire organisation be policies. oration and sharing opinions through Company mixer with During the summer, a company mixer was held with interactive games and a final interactive games prize, which was a dinner for the most cohesive and performing team. Introduction of a Motivational A Motivational Bulletin Board was also introduced to encourage reflection on the Bulletin Board necessity of mutual trust, collaboration, overcoming conflicts and individualism, instilling good relationships, reciprocal aid, using effective forms of communication, always showing respect and loyalty, and abolishing any type of judgement. Collaboration and teamwork For 2019, other team building activities were planned, including an Escape Room, an interactive game in which a group of participants must count on collaboration and teamwork in order to escape a closed room by solving riddles that open key elements, one at a time. With the intention of pursuing new company welfare initiative, in 2019 Andriani will introduce ARTS ACADEMY. The project calls for expressive art courses for the children of Andriani employees, to guide those aged 4 to 18 towards the art forms they like the most. The purpose of these courses is mainly with positive repercussions in terms of fight against forms of discomfort, deto increase the well-being of employcultural enrichment and active citizenviance, and bullying. ees and their families and increase ship. In particular, art education helps the possibilities of artistic enjoyment young people greatly, promoting the 62 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT Family Day In 2018, Andriani organised its first Famiincluding children who had fun with the ly Day, an event in which the families and various forms of entertainment, including friends of employees participated in order inflatables, games, and events. Everyone 1,000 to create sharing, participation, a sense had the opportunity to visit the production of belonging, corporate identity, improvefacility to learn about the activities carried ATTENDANCE AT ment of the internal climate, and promoout there and to experience the company. FAMILY DAY 2018 tion of relationships and communication. It During the day there were also various enwas a major team building occasion. tertainment shows, tastings by Chef MassiThere were approximately 1000 present, mo Buono, music, and fun. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 63 Prizes received Andriani was the only Italian company through an incentive policy aimed at creatto ever receive a prestigious recognition ing a positive and stimulating climate, produring the tenth edition of Talent Brand moting the teamwork attitude, and encourClub at the Dublin European headquarters aging an optimal balance between private in March 2019. In fact, it was recognised by and working life. LinkedIn in an edition that brought togethThe LinkedIn platform has over 610 million er the problems, strategies, and needs of users, 12 million of which are in Italy. In 2016, different businesses and that saw more it was acquired by Microsoft for approxithan 100 companies from all over Europe mately $26 billion. The collaboration with compete in terms of employer branding. LinkedIn began in January 2019 through the The company's commitment was recimplementation of the Andriani Life page ognised by Linkedin's experts as a virtuous with content on Welfare, Employer Brandexample of corporate welfare, thanks to its ing, and Education, with the goal being to ability to effectively communicate its peocommunicate the company’s commitment ple empowering and environmental susin this direction to all stakeholders. tainability initiatives to all stakeholders. There were two primary goals: to identify the best professionalism in the business world and to leverage the value of the staff 64 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 4.4 403-2 Health and safety See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX in the workplace Andriani has always paid close attention before. Also, if we analyse the data on the to the health and safety in the workplace severity of the injuries, we can see that in of all its employees and partners in com2018 there was an improvement compared pliance with the standards set forth in the to 2017, with a lower number of absences Consolidated Safety Act (Italian Legislative from work. This shows that employees are Decree 81/08). Besides making the work armuch more careful than in the past when eas comfortable and safe over the years, performing normal and daily work activiAndriani also educated its employees in ties, implementing the standards set forth compliance with current health and safein the “Consolidated Safety Act, Italian Legty laws though the use of periodic training islative Decree 81/2008”. course covering, for example, the use of PPE (Personal Protective Equipment) that, -16.7% in many circumstances, helped to prevent injuries. The number of injuries decreased by 1 from 2018 to 2017, despite the fact that INJURIES IN 2018 the workforce increased by 5, as mentioned 2018 5 6 GRAPH Number of injuries broken 2017 down by gender Number of injuries 2018 4 1 2017 6 0 Men Women SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 65 TABLE 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Health and safety data details by gender Men Women Total Men Women Total Number of 4 1 5 6 0 6 Health and safety data details injuries The accident rate was calculated according to Days of the following formula: (workplace accidents / absence due to 31 5 36 158 0 158 hours worked) * 1,000,000. accidents The severity index was calculated according to the following formula: (days of absence Severity index 0.13 0.11 0.13 0.71 0.00 0.59 due to accidents and occupational disease / workable hours) * 1,000. The occupational disease rate was calculated Accident rate 17.1 26.1 18.4 27.4 0.00 23.3 according to the following formula: (recognized occupational diseases / hours worked) Total number of * 1,000,000. 456 776 1,232 268 551 819 days of absence The absenteeism rate was calculated according to the following formula: (days of absence Absenteeism 1.5% 13.8% 3.5% 1.0% 10.1% 2.5% / workable days)%. rate Furthermore, in 2018 no cases of occupational diseases were recorded. 66 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 4.5 406-1 Shared company culture See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX Internal Communication Effective communication Effective communication at all levels is esly, in a clear manner and consistent with the ability to express oneself sential for achieving high company perforone’s own state of mind, in accordance with in every situation with anyone, both verbally and nonmance and promoting an internal climate the communication axioms of Paul Watverbally, in a clear manner and based on the sharing of values, company zlawick, Andriani has introduced activities consistent with one’s own state culture and objectives. This refers to the and solutions to improve this form of comof mind. ability to express oneself in every situation munication. with anyone, both verbally and non-verbalPaul Watzlawick and the 5 axioms of communication Paul Watzlawick, an Austrian psychologist who later moved to the United States, was one of the leading exponents of the Palo Alto School, author of the famous text “Pragmatics of Human Communication”. Watzlawick illustrated the 5 Axioms of Communication, or the basic elements that make up any form of communication. 1 One cannot not communicate: in any type of relationship, people are always communication, even with only gestures, looking into someone’s eyes, or even through silence. 2 Content and relationship: in any act of communication there is a form of meta-communication that regulates the relationship between those communicating. 3 Punctuation and communication sequences: communication flows are regulated by the punctuation used by 4 those communication, which changes the meaning of the communication itself and the relationship. Digital and analogue: communication can be numerical, i.e. based on the lexicon and therefore on the use of words as arbitrary signs organised in a logical syntax, or analogue, i.e. based on non-verbal and paraverbal 5 aspects and on the use of images. Complementary and symmetrical interaction: interactions between those communicating can be symmetrical if they are on the same level or complementary if they are on different levels. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 67 Clear, comprehensive and relevant inforrules and procedures. mation within the organisation enables In fact, the purpose of internal communiInternal Communication employees to work efficiently and effecCommunication channels for cation is to: tively, and this is fundamental to a funcmultidirectional circulation of • provide employees and partners informaboth transversal knowledge, i.e. tional and consistent image and communiknowledge of general interest tion and clear, complete, and functional cation of the company to the outside world. for employees, and specific methods for performing their work; knowledge, consisting of This communication must therefore be • develop information and knowledge that information relating to specific sectors, rules and procedures. structured and aimed at distributing incan continuously improve actions toward formation that is consistent with the comthe preset goals; pany's aims and the values on which the • make the information to be circulated organisation is based. uniform and homogeneous; • spread a set of values throughout the Internal communication consists of the company that can reinforce the employorganisation's ability to create communiee’s sense of identity and belonging withcation channels for multidirectional circuin the company. lation of both transversal knowledge, i.e. knowledge of general interest for employAndriani basically uses three main types of ees, and specific knowledge, consisting of internal communications. information relating to specific sectors, Company A tool for promoting internal culture, the Company Newsletter is sent monthly Newsletter to employees with a company email address in order to involve them in the organisation and communicate news, events, and company successes and to update them on topics of interest. Idea Box In 2018 the Idea Box was introduced where employees can leave suggestions, ideas, opinions, and any critical situations to be resolved. Intended to stimulate active communication at all levels, not just top-down but also bottom-up, the box collected 19 letters whose content was taken into consideration for internal assessments and organisational decisions. Company The Bulletin Board is used to share information with all employees that can Bulletin be useful in their work and is continuously updated with news, service comBoard munications, company regulations, and publications of company events or initiatives. 5 Responsibilities regarding the product In this chapter: 70 Product safety and traceability 75 Customer satisfaction 78 Research, innovation, and product quality 85 Nutrition and well-being SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) Key numbers 11 PRODUCT 25 AUDITS INCURRED 3 MAJOR RESEARCH CERTIFICATIONS AND PASSED PROJECTS Through various voluntary During 2018, the company underwent The innovation of Andriani products certification programmes, the 25 audits by customers and often comes from research projects company aims to enhance its authorities, for a total of 28 days. All that define the most suitable culture, organisation, and special of the audits had positive results. characteristics that raw materials characteristics of its products. should have for use in pasta making. 20 PROJECTS DEVELOPED IN 2018 New product development projects Innovation 80% Improvement 20% Own brand 30% Private label 70% 70 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES RESPONSIBILITY REGARDING THE TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 5.1 Product safety and traceability Andriani S.p.A. has established, impleguided the choices made by company manmented, and documented its food quality agement. and safety management system to offer its The process approach and scrupulous risk consumers high quality products that are analysis have led the company to build, securely under the food safety profile and over time and with the experience gained, are especially good, with elevated organoan effective management system based on leptic and nutritional characteristics. continuous improvement, consolidation of Innovation, research, transparency, profesthe company's image, increased customer sionalism, accuracy, and attention to the satisfaction, and risk prevention (HACCP real needs of the consumers have always system). The HACCP team, organised into 9 departments, is comprised of 13 units. President Purchasing Manager Laboratory Manager internal analysis Production Manager Line QC Manager Maintenance Manager Mill Manager Quality Manager Sales Manager SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 71 In addition to the application of mandatory The search for increasingly higher stanregulations, there are numerous voluntary dards is also confirmed by the attention certification standards adopted by the Anand commitment to the needs of new condriani company. Through various voluntary sumers and the requirements linked to certification programmes, the company aims characteristics such as nutritional values, to enhance its culture, organisation, and the safety, organoleptic properties, and other special characteristics of its products. distinctive characteristics of the products. The primary product certifications are: Organic IFS and BRC Organic is a product certification whose regulatoThe BRC and IFS standards are international sysry focus is EC Reg. 834/2007 and 889/2008. It is a tems developed by large purchasing groups, with certification that ensures environmental sustainthe aim of harmonising the different standards ability, product quality, and guarantees regarding adopted by the large distribution sector. They are the origin of raw materials. the most requested product certifications in the food industry. They are voluntary, define a series of requirements aimed at proper hygiene control in all phases of the management, production, and Vegan ok and Label Veg distribution processes in the food processing in(European Vegetarian Union) dustry, and represent the world's reference stanThe most widespread ethical standards for certifidards in terms of hygiene and food safety. cation of vegan and vegetarian products. Kosher No GMO Verified Obtaining the Kosher certificate means having undergone and successfully passed the strict proProduct certification to guarantee the absence of cedures set forth for this certification. The word GMOs in the entire supply chain, from the raw makosher or kasher means conforming to the laws, terials used to the finished product. suitable, permitted. Kosher certified products are suitable for consumption and comply with Kosher food standards and therefore can be consumed by Jewish people as they are guaranteed to be in GFCO, GFCP Canada, Crossed Grain, Glucompliance with the rules of their religion. Today, ten <10ppm Kosher means more than just being suitable for These are the numerous certifications adopted consumption by members of the Jewish religion. by the company to ensure the “Gluten free” claim. These foods are also considered to be more reGluten free certifications are the tool used by the liable and scrutinised. In fact, kosher foods are company to demonstrate its due diligence toward increasingly becoming the ideal choice for vegconsumers. etarians, vegans, and those suffering from food intolerances. Besides these certifications, Andriani of sustainable and ethical businesses and S.p.A. has long since decided to take part all the components that are part of it. in the large Sedex platform, a worldwide Plus, every year an audit is performed to non-profit association that aims to dissemmonitor and evaluate the company’s perinate good practices for the development formance. 72 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES RESPONSIBILITY REGARDING THE TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT Andriani S.p.A.’s food quality and safety management system focuses on the following key points: CONSTANT The materials and products supplied and In 2018, 3 visits were made to raw materials QUALIFICATION AND the services provided influence the levsuppliers. The documentary assessment of MONITORING OF el of quality of the products produced by the suppliers for 2018 provided positive reSUPPLIERS Andriani. As a result, suppliers of goods sults, therefore, all the suppliers have been and services are essential not only for the reconfirmed. At present, the documentary high quality of the gluten free and allergen assessment of suppliers for 2019 is underfree products produced, but also for the way and the approved list of suppliers will safety of ensuring compliant products, assoon be re-issued in 2019. All nonconformipects that guarantee a range of products ties detected on raw materials were recordrecognised by the end consumer. In order ed. Raw materials that were nonconforming to allow this, Andriani defined and implefor food safety reasons were not accepted mented procedures for the selection and and were returned to the suppliers. monitoring of its suppliers, strict purchase specifications for raw materials, and accurate sampling and analysis plans. PRODUCT MANAGEMENT In the event of a nonconformity, Andribe nonconforming, in any phase of the proNONCONFORMITIES ani’s quality system calls for researching cess, are quickly identified and isolated. All the causes and implementing corrective nonconformities are also recorded and anactions for its removal. Products found to alysed during the review. PERFORMANCE OF The analytical control plan is continuously er to use only those raw materials that are ANALYTICAL CHECKS reviewed and updated as necessary. Each subject to rigorous monitoring activities. year, an accurate risk analysis is performed The analytical checks performed in 2018 on each raw material and on each supplifound 44 cases of nonconformities. STAFF TRAINING Raising the culture of quality in those who ulations, coeliac disease, claims, and nonwork at all levels of the organisation has conformities. In 2018, all employees in the always been one of Andriani’s objectives. production, packaging, warehouse, and Periodic informative and training sessions cleaning areas took part in these training are continuously organised so that all inactivities (101 total hours of training). In dividuals are aware of the importance of 2019, training in quality will be repeated for their role for collective growth. the employees, taking into account the new quality standards set forth by international Each year a new training plan is defined. protocols. All operators are periodically trained on allergens, food consumption, internal regSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 73 TRACEABILITY The traceability system adopted by the were completed in less than 2 hours. In company allows easy identification of 2018, two recall tests were also performed batches. The computer systems allow to check the withdrawal/recall procedure quick information recovery related to the in the event of a crisis. The validity of the product and all processing undergone up procedure was confirmed regarding the reto its distribution. The traceability system spect of time limits and the precision of the is periodically tested. In 2018, some tracemethods used. ability tests were conducted, all of which INTERNAL AUDITS Internal audits are planned annually and production department. Unplanned audits AND HYGIENE INSPECTIONS conducted within the production plant, may also be performed when required by based on an ad hoc procedure aimed at enspecial situations. The results of the ausuring that the activities related to quality dits are used for the production manageand the pertinent results are in accordance ment review. In 2018, hygiene inspections with what has been specified, also assesswere performed in the facility each week ing the effectiveness of the quality system by internal staff according to what is deadopted. An audit plan is defined annually fined in the procedure. Monthly hygiene to monitor all areas of the quality manageaudits were also performed by an external ment system. In 2018, 2 internal audits were consultant and any nonconformities found planned and performed for each company were promptly managed. GOOD Good Working Practices are a set of rules, The company also has plans for: pest conMANUFACTURING procedures, and guidelines that define the trol, control of foreign bodies (glass, metPRACTICE operating conditions and structural real, plastic, wood, lubricants, etc.), cleaning quirements necessary to ensure hygiene and sanitation of buildings and machinery, throughout all product processing phases. preventive maintenance, and calibration Applying good manufacturing practices control of instruments. (GMP) is essential to ensure the quality and Every phase of the production process safety of a product. To satisfy the GMP, Anis monitored. The staff is trained to work driani follows specific conditions such as: in compliance with all hygiene rules and • a cordon sanitaire that isolates the buildwears protective clothing. All GMP impleing from the surrounding area; mented encourage the various company • a fence to prevent entry of unauthorised departments to work to ensure that the individuals; products are created in safe environments, • screens on all building windows and doors in compliance with strict protocols, to minto keep out insects and small animals; imize errors and risks of contamination. • use of materials certified as suitable for contact with food, etc. 74 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES RESPONSIBILITY REGARDING THE TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT The food defence plan to prevent the risk ternal staff; of intentional product contamination, re• selection, checking, and monitoring of confirmed for 2019, includes the following suppliers at risk (transport and raw mateactivities; rials suppliers); • video surveillance of outdoor areas (espe• monitoring of computer data. cially points of entry); The annual evaluation of the effectiveness • contract with a security agency for 24 of the system was performed for 2018 by hour surveillance a guard at the door to checking the correctness and proper operthe facility; ation of the systems that were implement• restriction and control of access only to ed. Also, during 2018 there were no cases authorised staff: keypad and badge readof unauthorised access or violations of the ers; security system. During 2019, challenge • formalisation of check-in and check-out; tests were also performed to evaluate the • total traceability of information; effectiveness of the system. • selection, training, and monitoring of inFood fraud Management of plastic and glass A hazard analysis was done, performing bibThe entire facility was mapped in relation to liographic research in the industry and using hard plastics and glass (besides the list alspecific methodology, in compliance with IFS ready present, detailed maps were made for guidelines. The result of the analysis led to each line, indicating the position of the plasthe conclusion that Andriani products are not tic to be monitored). Checklists and maps subject to fraud activities. were prepared with the position of the various plastics to be monitored. Checks were performed regularly each month and from their results, as well as claims, no reports were received of findings related to plastics Pest control or glass from the factory. The annual evaluation was performed by a The glass is well managed and, therefore, the qualified expert from the supplier, Anticimex. monitoring frequency and method is reconBased on what is indicated, the 2018 Pest firmed. Control Plan was effective and has been proposed again for 2019. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 75 5.2 Customer satisfaction The attention the Andriani Group pays to ment, but also from the company’s intense its customers derives not only from the recording of reports that come from its level of quality of the company’s products, customers. through incessant research and developThe two company brands are: Felicia and Biorì. energy, strength, and vitality. ural, organic products, marked by clear and transparent labels. In order Colourful, tasty, and nutritious, Felicia to be able to communicate its speis the ideal pasta for anyone who has cial features to the customer, Felicia chosen to eat well to live well and is has always followed the clean label especially indicated for those looking philosophy, with clear labels on the to improve their physical wellness, packing and a legible and transparent Felicia is a brand owned by Andriani like athletes and anyone preferring ingredient list. S.p.A., a leading company in the field plant-derived protein to animal proof Food Innovation. tein. For a brand like Felicia, effective communication requires consistency, The ORGANIC is shown by the stylized One of the brand’s strengths is the valoyalty and transparency. Brand comleaf with the text “Pure pleasure, natriety of recipes and formats available munication is purely digital, because ural taste” to denote a pasta made to meet the various needs of the marit allows the establishment of a direct exclusively from organic and natukets in which we operate. Today, Feliand personalised dialogue with peorally gluten free raw materials, such cia is the largest assortment of gluten ple, stimulating their curiosity through as buckwheat, brown rice, quinoa, free and organic pasta available on editorial plans rich in content. A synand legumes produced according to the market. Not to mention the high ergistic collaboration was begun with high quality standards to promote a quality standard, guaranteed by 11 food bloggers and influencers who healthy lifestyle and well-being. product certifications and 3 company create innovative recipes to champion certifications. With widespread distriFelicia’s DNA is organic and green, good, healthy eating, perfectly in line bution, Felicia can be found in Italian which became one of its distinctive with our brand’s philosophy. Also, PR & and foreign large distribution, in phartraits on the market. Its mission is to Media Relations is increasingly strucmacies, specialty shops, and online promote a healthy, natural lifestyle tured, with activities planned in the through a dedicated e-shop. through a healthy diet and good habmain trade and consumer magazines its, which also include physical activThe target market is demanding and and with a focus on issues related to ity, inviting consumers to adopt the knowledgeable, carefully evaluates well-being, sustainability, and good “positive life” concept through new ingredients, and chooses simple, natliving. The Biorì brand was created to meet certain commercial needs. As of today, it does not have a supporting communications plan. The production activities are also focused on many other national and international brands. 76 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES RESPONSIBILITY REGARDING THE TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT In fact, the quality management system reThe 2018 improvement plan was completed Quality Management System quires the company to record all reports, and the 2019 improvement plan is under The company records all reports, complaints, and requests from customers development (management system and complaints, and requests from and consumers, through a customer care work environments). During 2018, there customers and consumers, through a customer care service service that processes and sends informawere also numerous visits from consolidatthat processes and sends tion and responses to complaints from final ed customers (more than twenty) and from information and responses to complaints from final consumers consumers of the Felicia and Biorì brands. new and potential customers. of the Felicia and Biorì brands. All requests and reports from customers All reports are analysed and sorted acfor whom Andriani produces private brands cording to type (quality, safety, etc.) of the are managed directly by quality assurance. comments. Reports received through three channels (email, social networks, teleDuring 2018, the company underwent 25 phone) are classified and monitored based audits by customers and authorities, for a on type (marketing or quality). total of 28 days. All of the audits had positive results. All nonconformities and observations were taken into consideration. Complaints and reports management All nonconformities and complaints reated with very rare cases of label printing ceived during 2018 were analysed. Recorderrors and damaged packages. These coming of the complaints and nonconformities plaints, reports and errors were promptly (both internal and external) was entrusted handled by quality control. to a new clerical worker in the quality asEven internal nonconformities are promptsurance office to improved data recording ly addressed by quality control, which and analysis. managed a total of 44 of them during 2018. The most recurring external complaints On the other hand, 172 reports were reconcern finding different formats, while, in ceived by customer care, which managed sporadic cases, the reports relate to findthem with the support of the various coming pieces of different formats and recipes pany departments. within some packages, which are associSUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 77 In 2018, the company recorded only 4 cases of external complaints due to labelling Information on the label errors. To protect the consumer, Andriani pays great attention to responsible labelThe label shows the logos with the certifications ling, respecting all provisions of EU regtied to the product, in a clear and legible manulation 1169/2011 and, in particular, the ner. The label gives a recipe suggestion to guide truthfulness of the information and claims the consumer in consumption of the product, inserted. In fact, product labels are created referring them also to all active communication in compliance with current legislation, enchannels (web, social networks). suring legibility and clarity. Each year, Andriani employees are trained and Before being approved, all labels are updated by the Legal Office regarding new dechecked by the various company departvelopments linked to labelling of gluten free ments to check their conformity with the products. reference standards. Nutritional and health claims and scrupulously verified before being inserted on the label by performing analyses on the pasta. Nutritional values are verified on both the raw and cooked product and subsequently compared to the reference values provided for by Regulation 1924/2006. Labels are sent to a Legal Office specialising in labelling, which also makes sure the information is communicated with extreme clarity to consumers, without ambiguous and/or untruthful communications. Consumer protection Andriani pays great attention to responsible labelling, respecting all provisions of EU regulation 1169/2011 and, in particular, the truthfulness of the information and claims inserted. 78 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES RESPONSIBILITY REGARDING THE TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 5.3 Research, innovation, and product quality Innovation, quality and continuous iminto pasta, using only legume flour for its provement are the pillars on which the production. R&D Division In 2018, it worked toward the Research and Development department A pasta with a high content of fibers and sustainable development of is constantly working to offer gluten-free proteins of vegetable origin, which comquality, nutritionally balanced products that are useful for propasta in line with current market needs. bines the pleasure of eating pasta with moting consumer well-being. Andriani's innovation lies primarily in a the nutritional benefits of legumes, whose pasta production that only uses ingredicultivation and subsequent consumption ents, such as water and flour, from naturalhelps to enrich the land and reduce CO2 ly gluten-free raw materials. emissions resulting from animal proteins. Water and flour are kneaded thanks to the The orientation towards more sustainable use of highly technological systems and, raw materials and products was consoliwith no added additives, pasta with an al dated during 2017 and 2018 with the use of Lines launched by Andriani dente texture is produced. In 2016, Andriani new legumes in the pasta production and under the launched a highly innovative pasta under the implementation of recipes with the use Felicia brand the Felicia brand: it transformed legumes of vegetables. 2016 2017/18 2019 LEGUME LINE LEGUME LINE LEGUME & VEGETABLE LINE Red lentils and peas Chickpeas, mung beans, The perfect combination to obtain proPure innovation in transforming legume and yellow lentils tein, fibre, and potassium; a good product pasta: a high protein pasta rich in fibre A new way to eat beans, an organic, vegan, as is and nutritious as is, which can be and low in carbohydrates, which proand naturally gluten free alternative for enjoyed even with only a little seasoning. motes the consumption of plant-based those who have chosen a tasty and natproteins instead of animal proteins. ural diet, ideal for the entire family. This OATMEAL LINE same direction includes the launch of Breakfast cereal turned into pasta with a 100% green mung beans, 100% chickpeas delicate flavour and al dente texture. and yellow lentils, rich in precious nutrients such as fibre, protein, iron, phosphorus, zinc, manganese, and potassium. Based on the Life Cycle Assessment (LCA) gume-based recipes because they are a of the raw materials and an objective, more ecological choice compared to grains discriminating element, in 2018 the R&D and because the processing waste can be division expanded the number of leused in the circular economy. Life Cycle Assessment The Life Cycle Assessment is one of the fundamental tools for implementing an Integrated Product Policy as well as the primary operating tool in Life Cycle Thinking. This is an objective method for the evaluation and quantification of energy and environmental loads and for the potential impact associated with a product/process/activity throughout the entire life cycle, from acquiring the raw material to the end of life. Source: http://www.isprambiente.gov.it 80 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES RESPONSIBILITY REGARDING THE TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT In 2018, the R&D division began 6 projects investing in them. The synergy with exterImprovement projects related to the development of legume and nal partners involved in research keeps They are reinforcing the vegetable pasta products. These are imthe knowledge base up-to-date and fuels actions aimed at the use of raw provement products because they are reinresearch creativity and innovation. The materials, such as vegetables, that are not only fundamental forcing the actions aimed at the use of raw result is an advantage in terms of shared for the daily needs of the materials, such as vegetables, that are not expertise and experience that is difficult to consumers, but that also have a low environmental impact. only fundamental for the daily needs of the estimate in economic terms. consumers, but that also have a low enviThe innovation of Andriani products often ronmental impact. Also, the use of vegetacomes from research projects that define ble flours allows the use and recovery of the most suitable characteristics that raw the vegetable quota that would otherwise materials should have for use in pasta be wasted in the fresh cycle. making. Relations with the scientific community To that end, in 2018, 3 major research projallow better targeting of Research and Deects were begun: velopment (R&D) activities and effectively ALTIS PROJECT Functional food based on Lens cuyield without jeopardising the stabilselected in order to obtain a suitable linaris, typically found in Puglia and ity and beneficial effects of the subform to ensure the correct dosage/ Innovative for Health. The project, fistances; day and preserve the chemical-physnanced through participation in the • protein integration during the formuical and nutritional characteristics of Innonetwork Puglia Region call for lation phase with completely innovathe original raw material. Specifically, tender, provided for the establishment tive active ingredients and, thanks to Andriani is involved in certain crucial of a Temporary Special Purpose Assothe concentration of vegetable matephases of the project, including: ciation through which companies from rial, it will have a remarkable health • quantitative and qualitative evaluaPuglia, including Andriani, and public and protein value. Also, traceabilition of the harvested product, in orand private research centres entered ty and trackability of the basic eleder to ensure the absence of gluten into a close collaboration in order to ments, guaranteed by the IGP mark and allergens in the lentils and deterdevelop a drink based on yellow lenheld by Altamura lentils, a basic elmine the quality of the flour tils. This is a highly innovative project ement of the new product to be sold, • study and creation of different proddue to its technological competitivegives the product a prospective value ucts from the processing and transness linked to the following aspects: because there are no protein food formation of IGP Altamura lentils to • use of sustainable technologies on supplements currently on the market identify which, among these, have the the environmental level for cultivatthat use the vegetable proteins conbest characteristics for obtaining the ing and grinding IGP lentils from Altained in the lentils. supplement. Particular attention will tamura without the use of chemical The product, which is the result of the be paid during this phase to find the compounds (e.g., glyphosates), which research activity for this project, will best compromise between the qualare toxic and/or harmful to human be supported by a wide range of sciity of the product obtained and enhealth, and subsequent protection of entific studies to ensure the product’s ergy consumption necessary in order the territory; effectiveness and high quality. The to ensure the environmental sustain• development of optimised transforproduct will be optimised based on ability of the production. mation methods that ensure a high the needs of the patients, who will be SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 81 Projects carried out in 2018 11 PROJECTS WITH LEGUMES 9 PROJECTS WITH GRAINS New product development projects RED MENDEL PROJECT Study conducted in partnership with Barilla, with the goal to improve red lentil pasta. Andriani’s scientific commitment was focused on defining the chemical and physical characteristics of the different varieties based on geographic varietal origin and then on the evaluation of the perInnovation 80% Own brand 30% formance of the different varieties during grinding and pasta production in order to Improvement 20% Private label 70% identify the one that best meets the technical requirements for pasta. Projects with the use of additives MAIZE VARIETAL SCREENING PROJECT The study aims to identify the variety of corn that best lends itself to the extrusion process, in order to make the use of flaked and extruded yellow maize interchangeable in different pasta mixtures. This project led to a collaboration with the Institute of Food Production Sciences of the CNR for Emulsifying agent 15% Bio 52% further scientific investigations on maize. No emulsifying agents 85% Conventional 48% 82 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES RESPONSIBILITY REGARDING THE TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT Multigrain Mill Entry of raw materials The incoming raw materials come Grinding Grinding is a physical operation that mostly from controlled supply chains consists of the passage of the grains that, in turn, are based on integrated through rolling mills, pairs of suitor organic agricultural production. ably spaced cast iron cylinders with The finished products, on the other a grooved surface that rotate in ophand, can be classified in two prodposite directions at different speeds uct lines: unaltered (native) flours to break them up. In order to pursue a process of sequential and pre-gelatinised flours. internalisation of the phases in the technological-productive chain that leads from Cleaning and hulling Breakage the field to the finished pasta products, in The mill has plants for cleaning (inThe breaking passages open, cut, 2016 Andriani created a multigrain milling cluding two optical sorting machines), and roll the grains, detaching the enplant designed for grinding grains, but also grinding, and sieving of the raw madosperm from the tegument, crushnaturally gluten free pseudo cereals and terials processed. Cleaning consists ing them, and leaving the outer teguof a series of operations aimed at ment, in the form of intact lamellas, legumes. removing impurities, foreign bodies, to allow easier removal. The mill, designed in co-partnership with and powders, carried out by exploiting the difference in size, shape, speBuhler S.p.A., primarily meets the needs to: cific weight, and colour of the mate• ensure maximum food safety; rial to be removed compared to the Sieving and storage • ensure qualitative and then quantitative grain being processed. The resulting flour is classified by consistency of the flours, a fundamental size (sieving) through plansichter factor of production; (tumblers), machines consisting of Hulling a series of flat sieves with a mesh • optimally manage the problems related to Some raw materials (e.g., lentils) can opening matching the grain size of product identification and traceability; require the hulling phase that conthe material being fed. This is then • avoid restriction and correct any possible sists of removing the external coateither stored in silos or packaged in market failures. ing (outer cuticle). big bags. Composition of the milling division 17 2 Roller mills 1 Extrusion line Raw materials storage silos 3 Cleaning lines 1 Hammer mill 3 Mixing lines SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 83 Pre-gelatinising The pre-gelatinising line has an extruder and a dryer. Pre-cooking and breaking Extrusion, drying, and grinding Products are pre-cooked, depending Mixing on the case and method, to improve Besides the grinding line, the mill is The water contained in the mixture their taste and shelf life and to stacomprised of plants that allow large is subjected to a high temperature bilise their technological characterscale mixing of the various ingredifor a short time HTST (high temperaistics. ents such as flours, starches, and ture/short time) but the operational requirements inside the extruder, i.e. emulsifying agents to obtain the The grains are first subjected to the high pressure, do not allow evapproper mixtures to then send to pasbreaking in a hammer mill, according oration. Upon exit from the die there ta making. to defined dimensional characteristics, then extruded. is a sudden drop in tension and the Once the formulation is selected, the mixture takes the form of a pellet different ingredients are first dosed Before being conveyed into the exfrom the holes of the die, cut by speby weight in the in-line mixers, then truder, which consists of a cylinder cial blades to the desired length. The mixed for a defined time, in order to inside of which there is a rotating pellet is then dried in order to reduce make the products homogeneous, twin screw and at the end of which its relative humidity and then sent to but of different specific weights, visthere is a die, the flours pass through grinding to obtain the final product. cosity and/or portion. a pre-conditioner, in which they are pre-moistened and pre-cooked, in The plough mixer with rotating reel order to improve the performance allows the rapid and complete disof the process and the quality of the charge of the mixed product, which final product. is then transferred to the production line dosing silos. 35 11 8 2 Flour storage silos Production supply Regrind storage silos Waste storage silos silos 4 12 5 Semi-finished (pellet) Ground storage Micro-ingredient storage silos cycles supply silos 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ANDRIANI SpA 85 5.4 Nutrition and wellness Aware of the importance of sustainable decompany has embraced the mission of velopment goals for the good of the planet, serving the well-being and health of the Andriani places goal 3 of the Sustainable population: the production of organic gluDevelopment Goals (SDGs) “Ensuring good ten free food to meet the needs of people health and wellness to anyone of any age” with coeliac disease. at the centre of its business idea. Regarding nutrition and well-being, in parIn this perspective, the company fully emticular, Andriani implemented several inibraces the three pillars provided for in the tiatives during 2018. In fact, the company document “Fixing food 2018 best prachas been collaborating for years with nutritice towards the sustainable development tionists to define proper menus to propose goals”, which are: to its consumers. 1. nutritional challenges; This section reports the primary events 2. sustainable agriculture; and initiatives carried out during the year 3. food loss and waste. with the goal being to promote a healthy Andriani’s commitment to the 3 pillars is and balanced lifestyle. related in this sustainability report, which includes the description of the company’s main activities to meet the new nutritionSustainable and circular al challenges through an intense activity economy to raise awareness of the territories and Andriani believes in an economy that combines communities it addresses on the one hand economic growth with and, on the other hand, to face the difficult protecting the environment and society in which, consistently challenge of sustainable agriculture that with the product, values such minimizes the use of resources through the as transparency, dialogue, cooperation, social relations careful use of waste, while also protecting and eco-sustainable behaviour biodiversity. are rediscovered. In fact, Andriani firmly believes in a sustainable and circular economy that comFor more information on the importance of the sustainable bines economic growth with protecting development goals, refer to Fixing the environment and society in which, confood 2018 best practice towards the sustainable development goals. sistently with the product, values such as transparency, dialogue, cooperation, social relations and eco-sustainable behaviour are rediscovered. Since its founding, the 86 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES RESPONSIBILITY REGARDING THE TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT March 9-11, 2018 “Leguminosa. Semi per il futuro” January 17-18, 2018 “Marca” Fair From March 9 to 11, 2018, Andriani participated in the third edition of the “Leguminosa. Semi per il futuro” project, held in Naples. Legumes April 2018 is the Slow Food Campania project created in 2012, and over time it has become the story “Felicia per lo Sport”: On January 17 and 18 2018, Andriani participatof the extraordinary biodiversity of legumes, a kick-off for the brand ed in the “Marca” fair, the international exhibition on branded products, organised by Boloproposed to the general public thanks to the experience in fitness & wellness gna Fiere in collaboration with the Association experiences, stories and products of Campancentres of Modern Distribution, the only Italian event ia, Italy and the world. “Legumes” is, therefore, entirely dedicated to private labelling, which an itinerary aimed at rediscovering the value is a key event for all professionals and market of seeds, the culture of the internal areas, and leaders in the food sector. forgotten and bygone flavours. March 2018 March 3-5, 2018 April 9, 2018 saw the beginning of the mar“Identità Golose”, Milan keting experience campaign, which combines sports, health, and well-being in major fitness centres in Northern Italy in collaboration with Wellink, a Technogym reference company. Through information corners installed in 15 selected centres in Lombardia, Piemonte, and Liguria, interactive itineraries were created to help discover the benefits of a healthy lifestyle Martina Criscio, the fencing athlete from the in line with the philosophy of Felicia, the referItalian national team is the new spokesperson ence brand for organic and gluten free pasta. for Felicia for Sports! The target audience is athletes looking to fill From March 3-5, 2018, Andriani actively particup with protein in a new and healthy manner. ipated in the 14th edition of the “Identità Golose” convention held in Milan. “Felicia for Sports” contains an interactive quiz, supported by a brand communication April 17, 2018 corner in each centre, to provide information Our intention during these three days was Felicia on TV on the Gambero about the brand and the Felicia legume pasta to focus on human relations, the chef and Rosso Channel in the “Salutare” line. The goal is to create a marketing experiall those around him on the job, from the programme ence that stimulates curiosity about the products in the assortment through an online quiz. kitchen to the dining room, to the relationship with customers, and with craftsmen and Anyone wishing to learn more receives a free suppliers beforehand. While not renouncing sample of legume pasta and suggestions for the enthusiasm for what is on the plate, it creating tasty recipes, or a discount code for is time to shift the focus on connections, on an online purchase at shop.glutenfreefelicia. what happens around the table, the meeting com. point of worlds. If there is one thing we can “Felicia per lo Sport” continues with the sponbe sure of, it is that even in ten years we will sorship of major sporting events including: not be able to purchase conviviality on the On April 17 at 17:00, Andriani was on the Gamthe “Trail of the 5 Oaks” foot race on May 20 internet. Food service will remain one of the bero Rosso Channel, Sky channel 412 in the in Gravina in Puglia and the stages of the Sumost important centres for the development programme “SALUTARE”!, in which Camilla perenduro Italian Enduro Series, scheduled of human relations. Monteduro created a truly special recipe with for April 22 in Sanremo, May 27 in Calestano Paolo Marchi our Organic Green Mung Bean Fusilli. Wellness (Parma), June 24 in Canazei, and September 2 Creator and curator of Culinary Identity is served! in Priero (Cuneo). SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 87 September 7-10, 2018 May 2018 Sana 2018 New partnership with Sergio Parisse April 19-20, 2018 September 7-10, 2018, Felicia was once again at Felicia at Fuori Salone del Mobile “Sana”, the leading trade fair for organic and in Milan natural products. In May 2018, the captain of the Italian National Rugby team chose Felicia, the athlete’s pasta. September 15, 2018 Felicia Happy Hour May 29-30, 2018 PLMA’s World of Private Label On April 19th and 20th 2018, Andriana was at the Fuori Salone del Mobile in Milan with a stand highlighting its Felicia brand. September 15, 2018 was the 1st stop on the Felicia Happy Hour tour with Massimo Buono, for an experience of taste and well-being. May 7-10, 2018 Felicia at CIBUS 2018 On May 29th and 30th, Andriani participated at September 17-20, 2018 the PLMA’s World of Private Label fair, the primary event for the Private Label sector that atFelicia at “World Food Moscow” tracts visitors from Europe and North America. The 2018 edition was held at the RAI exhibition centre in Amsterdam and there were approximately 2,600 exhibiting companies in 60 national and regional halls. On May 7-10 2018, Andriani was at the prestigious international CIBUS food fair, one of the most important in the food industry, with its 8 July 2018 Felicia brand: a new logo, new packaging, and Nicola Visci with Felicia at the new areas for its stand. Italian road championships Felicia presented its new identity: fresher and definitely more social. Bloggers and food On September 17-20 2018, Felicia was present lovers were hosted at the tables at the Felicia at the “World Food” event in Moscow. stand to taste a delicious dish of legume or buckwheat pasta and take fun selfies to share with the hashtag #iosonofelicia. September 23, 2018 Along with the impromptu moments of tasting and social sharing, there were also real events Zero Barriere (Bari) organised to introduce food lovers to Felicia through the skill of the following chefs: mercurial Massimo Buono with his strong inclination towards experimentation and innovation, genial Peppe Zullo, the “country cook” who is able to create real magic with legumes, and the Felicia team chef Daniele Caldarulo, cooking On July 8, 2018, Nicola Visci, A.S.D. Amicinbici star of the first blogger event, an exclusive Gravina Losacco Bike hopeful, represented cooking show for food bloggers most dear to Puglia in the students category at the Italian On September 23 2018, Felicia was a sponsor of Felicia. road championships at Comano Terme. the grand final IPS paratriathlon in Bari. 88 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES RESPONSIBILITY REGARDING THE TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT September 20-24, 2018 Salone del Gusto Turin From September 20-24 2018, Andriani was at “Terra Madre” the Salone del Gusto, the 12th edition of the international convention that Slow Food, the city of Turin, and the Piemonte region organised in Turin to represent good and sustainable food. As part of “Terra Madre” the Salone del Gusto, Andriani also organised “Sustainable Food Education”, an event aimed at a group of primary school children in Torino. The “Andriani Educational” project presentation workshop was led by Dr. Concetta Pepe, an expert in food education, with the participation of Peppe Zullo. The educational itinerary aims to enhance precious ingredients such as legumes through sustainable consumption methods capable of winning over children and families while respecting Mediterranean tradition, health, and Enhancement and the environment. promotion of legumes October 14-15, 2018 In fact, enhancing legumes is part of the recFelicia holds its 23rd event with ommendations of the FAO, WHO, and all inter“Daunia” national environmental and health authorities. But, today, the consumption of legumes is definitely lower than the quantities suggested by the experts, especially during childhood and adolescence. Therefore, it is indispensable to Participation at Terra Madre 2018 confirms promote them in order to encourage sustainthe will to continue our path towards able nutritional behaviour for both health and sustainability with determination, to hand the environment. In particular, thanks to its draw a path already begun some time ago, flavour and nutritional value, pasta made from with the goal being to protect and improve the legumes is a valid alternative to unaltered lelives of people and the planet. gumes in family menus, and go together well with other healthy and sustainable ingredients Michele Andriani, President of Andriani S.p.A. such as vegetables. Felicia was present at Daunia 2018, conceived by Peppe Zullo on food culture, which has been bringing poets, journalists, intellectuals, chefs, and manufacturers from throughout the world to Orsara di Puglia every year since October 4, 2018 1995. The theme for 2018 was “Universal Food”, which focused on the relationship between 12th Consumer & Retail Summit October 8, 2018 man, the environment, and food. 1st “Meet in Cucina” Puglia October 23, 2018 “Fabbrica Futuro” Bari Andriani and Felicia were sponsors of the 12th Consumer & Retail Summit 2018 organised by Felicia was present at the 1st edition of Meet “Il Sole 24 Ore” that focused on the analysis of in Cucina: the large meeting of cooks in Puglia the changes in consumer models and the new with the agricultural and food excellent and challenges in the industry in view of innovation expertise of the greatest chefs and professionOn October 23 2018, Andriani was present at and growth. als in the region. the “Fabbrica Futuro” event. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 89 October 21-25, 2018 SIAL Paris, International Food Exhibition November 2018 “La magia dei Legumi” project From October 21st through 25th 2018, Andriani participated at SIAL in Paris, the largest international fair dedicated to food innovation, at the Paris-Nord Villepinte exhibition centre. December 2018 The event saw key operators, producers and Andriani Educational. buyers confronting the global issues and chalDuring November 2018, Andriani promoted “La The success of the Foggia stage magia dei Legumi”, its new project to promote lenges that will characterize the agriculture sustainable foods in schools and a healthy and and food industry of tomorrow. balanced lifestyle. Presented at the 12th edition of Terra Madre, inside an educational workshop that involved October 25, 2018 some classes at the Alessandro MANZONI InHappy World Pasta Day by stitute in Turin, Andriani’s new project began in January by the Gravina elementary schools in Andriani Puglia, where the company has its headquarters, and then expanded to Italy and abroad. “The Magic of Beans” kicked off Andriani Our goal is to spread the principles of S.p.A.’s ambitious Educational project, presustainable nutrition for health and the senting the first food education programme environment through research-action and for elementary schools, to make the students workshops, which are not intended to impart more aware and knowledgeable of the themes of sustainability and the importance of adoptdogma and teach abstract lessons, but to ing a healthy and natural lifestyle, respecting actively involve all participants in stimulating themselves, others, and the surrounding area. and constructive experiences. The project involved the participation of Michele Andriani, President of Andriani S.p.A. On October 25, 2018, Andriani opened the teachers, students, and their families, creating doors of its facility to a representative of the an expanded work group on the theme of susDuring December 2018, the Andriani EducaAltamura-Gravina-Acquaviva Diocese Charity, tainable food. The programme includes cooktional programme continued with a new stop giving the community a significant amount of ing workshops, research and in-depth studies, in Foggia, at the Gabelli Elementary School, organic and gluten free pasta, with the aim of school gardens, and other concrete experiencand was welcomed enthusiastically by the being the spokesperson for good food, that is es that will also involve food industry experts. students, parents, and teachers. It was a funsustainable and accessible to everyone. Starting with seeds and particularly legumes, filled day in which experiences and concepts the opportunity was given to discover how to were shared in relation to healthy food that develop a more sustainable lifestyle, aimed at respects the health of our planet. well-being for both the individual and the enNovember 12-13, 2018 vironment, without sacrificing the pleasure of After the instructions from the educators who being together and enjoying good food. were able to entertain the audience of children, creating curiosity and fostering their Legumes play the leading role in the project. involvement, there was a cooking show by This ingredient from ancient traditions in the country cook Peppe Zullo who was assisted by Mediterranean diet and recommended by the mothers who wore aprons and hats, beexperts for its healthy virtues and positive coming cooks among the school desks of their effects of their consumption on the environchildren. ment, is not particularly appreciated today, especially by children and youth, so special All the children received “La magia dei Legumi”, attention is warranted. Also, other healthy a story to help children better understand the food from the Mediterranean culture, including highly important and complex concepts that grains, vegetables, and fruit are highlighted, all can be passed along through the fable, one of Andriani renewed its presence at the PLMA in of which are inserted in the context of healthy the best childhood educational tools. Chicago. and tasty nutritional habits. 6 Responsibility to suppliers In this chapter: 92 Sustainable management of the supply chain 93 Working conditions and human rights 94 Procurement of local suppliers SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) Key numbers 90% 37 1% PROPORTION OF EXPENSE TOTAL SUPPLIERS NON-EU SUPPLIERS TOWARDS ITALIAN SUPPLIERS -3 COMPARED TO 2017 -1% COMPARED TO 2017 +3% COMPARED TO 2017 Comparing 2018 and 2017, the Aware of the origin, albeit residual in Andriani Group has reduced the terms of volumes, of raw materials A comparison between 2018 and number of its suppliers overall, from countries that could be at risk 2017 of the data relating to the bringing them from 40 in 2017 to in terms of violation of human rights geographical location of suppliers 37 in 2018. and exploitation of child labor, the shows an increase of the percentage Group intends to strengthen its of Italian operators to the detriment country risk analysis measures. of EU and non-EU operators in 2018. Terre Bradaniche S.r.l. The promotion of local cultivation is one of Andriani S.p.A.’s objectives, which will allow it to meet its local legume procurement needs with a total of about 30% for 2019, 60% for 2020, and 85% for 2021. 92 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 6.1 102-9 102-10 302-5 204-1 Sustainable management See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX of the supply chain The Andriani Group’s commitment to find and immutable, so, in this continuous inthe ideal raw materials to create the many terweaving between the need for raw maIdentification of suppliers The Andriani Group collaborates innovative products proposed lead conterials procurement and their availability in with suppliers and sub-suppliers tinuously to the identification of suppliers various areas of the Planet, the daily purwho are also able to ensure due diligence in adequately and sub-suppliers that guarantee responchasing choices unfold. developing and applying the sible production that is attentive to promanagement systems, principles, Overall, between 2018 and 2017, the Andriand processes to effectively tecting the natural resources of the planet ani Group reduced its number of suppliers prevent and combat any type of and can ensure due diligence in adequately violation of human rights along from 40 in 2017 to 37 in 2018. developing and applying the management the supply chain. systems, principles, and processes to preBetween 2018 and 2017, the data related to vent and effectively combat any type of vithe geographical location of the suppliers olation of human rights along the lengthy shows an increase in 2018 in the percentsupply chain. age of Italian operators to the detriment of EU and non-EU operators. The yearly harvest situations and geopolitical scenarios are almost never certain GRAPH Expense proportion towards local suppliers Italy 90% 87% EU 9% 11% Non-EU 1% 2% 2018 2017 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 93 6.2 Working conditions and human rights The Andriani Group is very attentive to the materials, albeit residual in terms of volprotection and respect of human rights. umes, from countries particularly at risk in Protection and respect of This attention is also evident in how the terms of the violation of human rights and human rights In choosing responsible partners, Group selects its suppliers through a proexploitation of child labour and intends to the Group considers compliance cess of analysis and constant monitoring. strengthen its country risk analysis activwith the company's Code of The risk of a violation of human rights is, ities, monitoring aspects such as the HuEthics a priority, in addition to the quality of raw materials and however, an issue that does not have a parman Development Index and the rate of price and supply conditions. ticular impact on the Group, since it essengeopolitical, macroeconomic, climatic, and tially derives from suppliers over whom it is logistical development. possible to exercise an exclusively indirect On the topic of supply chains at risk, which influence. are present in some countries outside of the European Union, it should also be notIn choosing responsible partners, the ed that the Group uses the SMETA method Adherence to the parameters Group considers compliance with the comestablished by the for procurement selection. This method is Human Development Index pany's Code of Ethics a priority, in addition offered by the SEDEX Platform, whose regto the quality of raw materials and price istration is required by all suppliers of the and supply conditions. Group who must, as mentioned, adhere to The Group is also aware of the origin of raw the Andriani Code of Ethics. Ethical procurement Sedex (www.sedexglobal.com) is an international non-profit organisation that aims at the diffusion of ethical principles along the global supply chains and is the largest platform in Europe that collects and processes data on ethical conduct in supply chains. The Sedex method proposes a procedure (SMETA) for conducting supplier audits and collecting best practices regarding conducting audits in an ethical and social environment. 94 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 6.3 Procurement of local suppliers Andriani S.p.A. believes that the future of agriculture resides in the community in HEALTH which it operates because that is where 5 there is affection, which translates into 4 food safety, continuous relationships, and 3 innovation. WATER AIR 2 The areas in which Andriani operates tradi1 tionally produce legumes. This aspect convinced the Group’s management to acquire 0 control of the company “Terre Bradaniche S.r.l.”, a company that was tied to Andriani S.p.A. in 2018 through a participatory relationship. ENERGY SOIL In terms of a sustainable supply chain, the Group aims to activate collaborations with scientific partner plants through a BIODIVERSITY network of agronomists and with its own plants, based on the creation of an excluOrganic chickpeas Organic lentils Organic peas sively Italian legume supply chain moniConventional chickpeas Conventional lentils Conventional peas tored throughout all of its phases (sowing, Performance use of technical means. Data per tonne produced. harvesting, transport, and quality control). The units of nitrogen distributed per hectare are modest and normally no greater Today, this activity is carried out with the than 40 units per tonne harvested. The ratio of phosphorous per tonne harvested is support of the subsidiary Terre Bradanhigher, however (values between 8 and 70 units). With organic lentils, the ratios of iche S.r.l., whose mission is to create value organic fertilisers are particularly high. In conventional management, around 2-3 kg of plant protection products are used in the stages of the supply chain that also compared to values of less than 1 for organic management. The ratios of plant proare reflected in the production and sale of tection products are lower for peas compared to chickpeas and lentils. products with unique characteristics, withThe consumption of diesel per tonne harvested is higher and greater than 300 litres for lentils, around 150-200 litres for chickpeas, but less than 100 litres per tonne for peas. out neglecting the creation of value for the entire agricultural system in the area. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 95 A first materiality analysis immediately of the three plant species and subsequent revealed some challenges for Terre Brascreening of “crop protection” means. In daniche S.r.l. because the cultivation of lethe same year, process development studgumes in Italian areas calls for support to ies were also initiated to create an innoimplement: vative selection plant suitable for legumes. • genetic development and phenological Terre Bradaniche S.r.l. The promotion of studies; local cultivation is one of Andriani S.p.A.’s • improvement of the cultivation technique; objectives, which will allow it to meet its • development and improvement of prodlocal legume procurement needs with a Terre Bradaniche S.r.l. ucts for the nutrition and defence of the Its mission is to create value in total of about 30% for 2019, 60% for 2020, plant; the stages of the supply chain and 85% for 2021. There is a 3% reduction in that also are reflected in the • traceability; CO2 emissions associated with that aspect production and sale of products • ad-hoc selection and storage plants. with unique characteristics, (expressed per quintal of product threshed without neglecting the creation In 2018, through experimental fields, enand calculated through Yousustain.net®). of value for the entire agricultural system in the area. ergy was focused on phenological studies Membership to the SAI Platform On June 27, 2018, Andriani S.p.A. joined the SAI Platform is the leader in the collaboSAI (Sustainable Agriculture Initiative) Platration of the agricultural and food supply form, an international non-profit organisachain. It connects all parts of the value tion made up of more than 100 companies, chain (from agricultural cooperatives to SAI Platform cooperatives, and organisations in the distributors), allows the sharing of skills, Its mission is to develop, adopt, and implement sustainable agricultural and food supply chain, whose and creates tools that promote the impleagriculture practices through mission is the development of sustainable mentation of good agricultural practices. the collaboration of all parts of the agricultural and food supply agricultural practices. This year, as active members in the Crops chain. The mission of the SAI Platform is to deWorking Group, Andriani, like other compaFor more information: velop, adopt, and implement sustainable nies, manages critical issues linked to crop agriculture practices through the collaborotation. ration of all parts of the agricultural and food supply chain. 7 Responsibility towards the community In this chapter: 98 Involvement and support of local communities 101 Dialogue with associations and institutions SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) Key numbers 9 SPORTS EVENTS 2 WORLD CHAMPIONS € 12 thousand DONATIONS The Andriani Group promotes and OF SPORT FREE supports all types of sports and The Andriani Group is making itself In the 2017-2018 two year period, sports events at any level, with a spokesperson of a healthy and Andriani Group supported the goal to be a spokesperson of a balanced lifestyle and has chosen to international, national, and local healthy and balanced lifestyle. share this path with 2 world champion institutions and associations that athletes: Sergio Parisse captain operate in different areas. of the Italian National Rugby team, Martina Criscio fencing athlete on the Italian national team. Andriani Educational The project aims to “sow” the first seeds of a critical conscience in schools to help children and their families become aware and responsible and to cultivate well-being without depriving themselves of the pleasures of good food and togetherness, which has always been an integral part of our cultural tradition. 98 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 7.1 Involvement and support of local communities The Andriani Group promotes and supports with certain world champion athletes (Marall types of sports and sports events at any tina Criscio and Sergio Parisse). level, with the goal to be a spokesperson of The table below shows events sponsored a healthy and balanced lifestyle. by Andriani and the related amounts: This led to the choice to share our path TABLE Events sponsored by Andriani and the related amount Sponsored event Amount (Euro) 5 Oaks Trail 2,000 20 May Gravina Jump Game 200 July / December 2018 Superenduro SE 8,000 27 May Calestano FBC Gravina 88,000 2018 Juventus Femminile 3,300 Amici in bici 5° Medio Fondo Bosco Difesa grande 500 April 8, 2018 Play with no barriers 300 Football Team Sponsorship 1,000 Collegio Spallanzani December 2018 Bari Paediatric Oncology Hospital Solidarity A gesture of solidarity to give a smile to the children in the paediatric oncology ward at the Bari Hospital. Andriani’s gift for this Christmas: toys, plushes, and an interactive blackboard for the department playroom. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 99 Andriani Educational Food education programme aimed at children in local elementary schools and, on a national level, which intends to promote a healthy lifestyle, that respects health and the environment, at the table and in daily food choices. For Andriani, it is also essential to ensure tion, play, and direct experience. Andriani food safety and improve nutrition. For this Educational aims to “sow” the first seeds reason, in September 2018, during the Saof a critical conscience in schools to help lone del Gusto organised by Terra Madre, children and their families become aware the Andriani Educational food education and responsible and to cultivate well-beprogramme was launched, This programme ing without depriving themselves of the aimed at children in local elementary pleasures of good food and togetherness, schools and, on a national level, intends to which has always been an integral part of promote a healthy lifestyle, which respects our cultural tradition. In this way, food and health and the environment at the table nutrition become a way to build and reconand in daily food choices in order to create struct our story, the local story, and the “sustainable” habits to generate well-beinternational story of a sustainable future. ing, using innovative and effective tools Through this project, Andriani provides that can generate the students’ interest schools and families with its expertise and curiosity and that are easy to use and and specialists in the educational sector, stimulating for children and teachers. a Work Group that promotes the exchange In particular, the goal is to combine nuof experience between experts, teachers, trition education with the transmission students and their families, with the aim of of good practices through experimentapromoting the development of education 100 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT on sustainable nutrition. The team is In fact, the complexity of the food coordinated by Dr. Carla Barzanò, dietiworld often transmits contradictory cian and expert in nutritional informastimuli that are not in harmony with tion, with the support of Grillo Editore, our health and that of the planet. a company that has been operating for Therefore, we need strategies to create years in educational publishing and new daily habits, use new ingredients communication. The programme inand recipes, and to reconstruct the cludes cooking workshops, research, daily routine at home and at school and in-depth studies, gardens at in order to promote a balanced and schools, and other concrete experiknowledgeable relationship with food. ences that will also involve experts in In this scenario, Andriani represents the food industry. Starting with seeds Italian excellence. Committed for years and particularly legumes, participants to the production of gluten free flours will be able to discover how to develfood from the Mediterranean culture, and pastas, it has been committed to op a more sustainable lifestyle, aimed including grains, vegetables, and fruit sustainability from the very beginning. at well-being for both the individual are highlighted, all of which are insertThe company is attentive to the enviand the environment, without sacried in the context of healthy and tasty ronment and health through special ficing the pleasure of being together nutritional habits. Learning to apprecicare of the entire production chain, and enjoying good food. Legumes play ate a menu full of ingredients that are which rigorously and innovatively rethe leading role in the project. This infriendly to health, the environment, spects the criteria of organic farming. gredient from ancient traditions in the and the people who produce them is Andriani products also ensure maxMediterranean diet and recommended one of the goals shared by internationimum quality of raw materials and by experts for its healthy virtues and al authorities to promote the spread preserve the characteristics of the positive effects of their consumption of a sustainable diet, essential for starting ingredients: whole grains and on the environment, is not particuthe protection of well-being. This goal organic legumes for flours and paslarly appreciated today, especially by should be pursued from an early age ta rich in precious fibres and primary children and youth, so special attensince eating habits take root in early protective nutrients that reflect that tion is warranted. Also, other healthy childhood. But it is not easy to achieve. principles of a healthy diet disclosed in the scientific field. The project was presented in an elementary school in Foggia in December 2018 and begun in 2019 with the activation of 6 workshops in the 5th grade classes in 48 schools in the region, with the intent to extend it to the country. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 101 7.2 102-13 Dialogue with associations See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX and institutions The sharing of Andriani Group's principles Below is a breakdown of the donations and and values also takes the form of support related institutions that Group companies for local, national, and international assohave contributed to support in 2017-2018 ciations and institutions operating in varifor specific events. ous fields. Amount in Euro 31/12/2018 31/12/2017 Organisation Event Provider Colpi di Scena Theatre Company “Amattori” Grant Andriani S.p.A. 400 AIC Puglia NPO AIC Conference Grant Andriani S.p.A. 300 Aeroclub Sibari Fly ASD Voluntary Contribution Andriani S.p.A. 500 St. Michale Patron Saint Festival Patron Saint Festival Contribution Andriani S.p.A. 2,000 2,000 Committee Parish of Jesus the Good Shepherd “Good Shepherd” Festival Contribution Andriani S.p.A. 200 Bari BAR Association NPO Event Contribution Andriani S.p.A. 1,000 “TRENTATREGIRI” Cultural Musical Voluntary Contribution Andriani S.p.A. 1,500 Association AMARAM NPO Rare Diseases Day Voluntary Contribution Felicia S.r.l. 300 Paolo Colonna Athlete Contribution for sports activity Felicia S.r.l. 500 Our Lady of Grace Parish Voluntary Contribution Felicia S.r.l. 500 AMREF HEALTH AFRICA Africa sustainable agriculture donation Felicia S.r.l. 1,000 “ARCOBALENO” Cultural Musical “DUCATO D’ORO” event contribution Felicia S.r.l. 200 200 Association A.S.D. C.A.M.D. ARABESQUE Amateur Contribution for the Dance Theatre show, “La Bella Felicia S.r.l. 300 Sports Association Addormentata nel Bosco” Lions Club Puglia Voluntary Contribution Felicia S.r.l. 300 “NOI” Cultural Musical Association Voluntary Contribution Felicia S.r.l. 200 Others Andriani S.p.A. 620 Total 5,700 6,320 The following table shows the details of the grants disbursed by Andriani S.p.A. and Felicia S.r.l. in 2017-2018. GRAPH Details of grants awarded in 2017-2018 82% Andriani S.p.A. 60% 18% Felicia S.r.l. 40% 2018 2017 Felicia S.r.l. has been registered with the Confindustria trade association since 2019. 8 Responsibility towards the environment In this chapter: 104 Management of energy and resources in the atmosphere 109 Management of waste, recyclability, and reduction in food waste 110 Protection of the area and respect for biodiversity 115 Knowledgeable consumption of raw materials SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) Key numbers 6,989 -7.05% -12.82% TONNES OF CO2 CO2 EMISSIONS WASTE FOR PREVENTED PER KG OF PRODUCT DISPOSAL 2017-2018 Two-year period. The tonnes Emissions related to the production The production of waste is one were calculated in terms of electricity of one kilogram of product have of the company’s most important generated by renewable sources for been reduced by 7.05%. sustainability indicators. The company the emission factor concerning the pursues the goal of reducing impact In calculating this value, the CO2 national energy mix (AIB European emissions relating to the connection thanks to circular economy projects Residual Mixes 2018). tests of the new trigeneration plant were in which production waste can have not considered, but only the emissions a new life. directly linked to production, i.e. those from the pastry factory. Type of waste (year 2018) Dump Recovery Recovery 97.5% Non Hazardous 98.4% Non Hazardous 99.9% Dump 2.5% Hazardous 1.6% Hazardous 0.1% 104 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 8.1 302-1 302-5 Management of energy and 305-1 305-2 305-5 resources in the atmosphere See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX In general, every industrial activity has an means thinking ahead to future generaimpact on the environment due to the use tions. 100% Clean energy Dolomiti Energia of energy vectors and resources such as: Certification proving the In 2014, the Group already decided to acelectricity, gas, and water. renewable sources of the energy quire energy from renewable, green energy used, with origin guaranteed by One indicator of environmental benefits sources. the Electrical System Manager. from the use of electricity coming from the In this sense, the “100% energia pulita Douse of renewable sources rather than foslomiti Energia” used by Andriani S.p.A. consil fuels is the prevention of emissions into firms that the energy comes from renewthe environment. able sources, with its origin guaranteed by Since it began its operations, the Andrithe Electrical System Manager through OG ani Group has always aimed to reduce its (Origin Guarantee) titles that Dolomiti Enemissions with the knowledge that making ergia uses every year. sustainable choices for the environment TABLE Consumption and emissions Andriani S.p.A. 2018 2017 Change (%) total consumption Electricity 7,660,792 6,808,351 12.52% (kWh) total consumption Natural Gas 11,041,484 10,402,749 -6.14% (kWh) Electricity consumption per kg kWh/kg 0.21 0.24 -15.33% of product Consumption of natural gas kWh/kg 0.236 0.337 -30.06% per kg of product Scope 1 emissions are expressed in tons of CO 2 since the source used does not report the emission factors SCOPE 1 Direct emissions from total emissions of gases other than CO2. The source used to calculate 2,224 2,095 6.14% the Scope 1 emissions is the “Table of national stanconsumption of natural gas (tCO2) dard parameters for the monitoring and communication of greenhouse gases pursuant to the legislative Total emissions per kg of kgCO2/kg 0.048 0.052 -7.05% decree n.30 of 2013” of ISPRA (updated 2018). product SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 105 In the 2017-2018 two year period, this choice (estimating an average absorption of 15 kg made it possible to prevent emissions of of CO2/year and a lifetime of 30 years). 6,989 tonnes of CO2 calculated in terms of the product of electricity generated from Finally, to reduce environmental impact CO2 due to the use of methane, various streamrenewable sources for the emission factor lining solutions are being implemented. 6,989 indicated in the ABI document “European Residual Mixes 2018”. The 13% increase in energy used from 2017 to 2018 is due to the introduction of a new Again for the 2017-2018 period, in environmental terms, the choice is equivalent to production line, the startup of the milling tonnes plant, and technical tests for starting up planting 15,531 trees (source: ReteClima) the trigeneration plant. The increase does OF CO2 PREVENTED with these characteristics: not only concern electricity, but also the • tree species with tall trunks; volumetric consumption of methane gas, • planting in cities and temperate climates albeit to a lesser extent. However, emission (therefore in a context with higher envivalues per kg of product have decreased. ronmental stress compared to a natural context); • with a capacity to absorb approximately 450 kg of CO2 during the natural life cycle GRAPH Energy consumption 2018 2017 2018 2017 Electricity Pastry Factory and Mill (kWh) 40.96% 39.56% Methane Gas Pastry Factory and Mill Steam (kWh) 59.04% 60.44% 106 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT The concrete objective for 2020, in terms of erating in the energy efficiency sector listenergy efficiency, is to begin self-produced on the AIM Italia Market, which operates 2020 Goal In terms of energy efficiency, the tion from the 800 kWe trigeneration plant through its subsidiaries on several busigoal is to begin self-production designed by the Innovatec Group, an ESCO ness lines in the field of energy efficiency from the startup of the 800 kWe trigeneration plant. UNI CEI 11352 certified holding company opand renewable energy. This choice will allow us to achieve the following results: 96.4% 70% 37.3% 8.1% MEETING COOLING MEETING SALE OF ENERGY MEETING HEATING ENERGY NEEDS ELECTRICITY NEEDS PRODUCED IN THE NEEDS NETWORK Protection of natural resources and energy efficiency from self-production with the first trigenerator that prevents 201 tonnes of CO2 emissions per year, or 9% of the emissions from the previous configuration. These emissions can be compared to what is absorbed by 36 hectares of planted forest as well as what is emitted by 1,206 round-trip flights from Milan to Dusseldorf, or the average electricity consumption of 100 Italian families. +natural gas -CO2 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 107 Ecothermatik™ line of long pasta Of the 5 pasta-making lines (three for short pasta, with the The following are the instantaneous values of energy conlast one in operation since November 2018, one for spesumption for the production of an average of 1,350 kg/h cial formats, and one specifically for long pasta), the Bühler of long pasta from Ecothermatik™ and compared to the Group Ecothermatik™ dryer deserves special attention. Anvalues calculated for the line used up to 2015, the C-line, driani was the first in the world to use it inside its excluwith the subsequent energy savings obtained. sively Allergen Free facility. The Bühler Ecothermatik™ drying tunnel is a revolutionEcothermatik C-Line Energy savings ary system in the modern production of long pasta and its Calculated special features, specified below, offer clear and concrete Power Current Value Current Value Value advantages: Electric 168.6 kW 188.3 kW 10.5% • energy savings: thanks to the sophisticated control of the Heat drying air, there is a 40% reduction in the consumption of 258.9 kW 398.2 kW 35.0% energy thermal energy, 20% reduction in cooling energy, and 10% Cooling 54.0 kW 80.2 kW 32.6% reduction in electricity; energy • greater pasta quality: considerable improvement in the -10% appearance, firmness, tenacity and stabilisation of the product; • ease of use: the high level of engineering in its construction leads to greater safety when using the plant and easy maintenance. ELECTRICITY CONSUMED THANKS -40% The lower expenditure of thermal energy will also contribTO NEW ROTORS ute to a corresponding percentage increase in the environmental sustainability of pasta production. THERMAL ENERGY CONSUMED THANKS TO THE INTELLIGENT RECOVERY SYSTEM Water for Energy recovery Expulsion Water for heating system of hot air heating 108 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 109 8.2 306-2 302-5 Management of waste, See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX recyclability, and reduction in food waste +25.88% The Andriani Group has always been comprojects in which waste from production mitted to reducing the waste produced and can have a new life. adopting methods to recover rather than As shown in the table below, even followPRODUCTION OF dispose of it. ing a significant increase in total waste WASTE FROM Waste production is in fact considered one produced from 2017 to 2018 due to the RECOVERY of the most important indicators of the increased in the volumes of production company’s sustainability. It follows, there(+32.90%), the company sought to decrease fore, that the company pursues the goal of the fraction that was disposed of. reducing impact through circular economy GRAPH Type of waste (year 2018) Recovery 97.5% Dump 2.5% TABLE Details of waste produced 2018 (kg) 2017 (kg) Change (%) and its recovery Waste to dispose of 13,218 15,162 -12.82% Non Hazardous 13,000 14,780 -12.04% Hazardous 218 382 -42.93% Recovery waste 520,212 413,253 25.88% Non Hazardous 519,756 412,482 26.01% Hazardous 456 771 -40.86% 110 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT 8.3 Protection of the area and respect for biodiversity The theme of sustainable agriculture is one Cultivating them, especially in rotation of the fundamental pillars on which Andriwith other plants, such as grains, helps ferThe Sustainable Legumes Supply Chain ani's sustainable development strategy is tilise the soil and improve its yield, while The idea comes from practical based. Andriani increasingly feels the need preventing erosion. It also helps control inagricultural needs: to safeguard the soil and the environment, to base its business activities on themes festations and illnesses, reducing the need ensure food safety and quality, such as organic farming. to use pesticides. increase the profitability of all operators in the food chain, Compared to the intensive productions of Legumes have a very low water footprint and contribute directly to the development of biodiversity. wheat, the cultivation of legumes allows compared to other protein sources, can be water savings, produces less carbon dioxgrown in very poor soils, and help reduce ide, and therefore has less of an impact on the risk of soil erosion and depletion. the climate. Soils combat climate change Healthy soil is the primary carbon deposas carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions, which it on the planet. If managed sustainably, it contribute to exacerbating climate change. performs an essential function in mitigatThe most sustainable agricultural practices ing climate change since it can store carbon have multiple benefits: (through a process called carbon seques• they increase organic matter (carbon), tration), thus decreasing the emissions of making the soil more fertile; greenhouse gases in the atmosphere. • they keep the surface of the ground covOn the contrary, poor soil management ered with vegetation; and the use of unsustainable agricultural • they require less chemicals and promote practices, mean that the carbon present the rotation of cultivations and biodiverin the soil is released into the atmosphere sity. (source: FAO) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 111 The Sustainable Yousustain.net system Legumes Supply Chain On 1 February 2017, Andriani S.p.A.’s project for creating a controlled and sustainable HEALTH Italian legume supply chain was presented. The idea comes from practical agricultural needs: to safeguard the soil and the enviENERGY AIR ronment, ensure food safety and quality, increase the profitability of all operators in the food chain, and contribute directly to the development of biodiversity by alternating the intensive wheat productions of recent years with more sustainable legumes. BIODIVERSITY WATER Given the growing consumption of legumes, Andriani S.p.A. has made a goal to facilitate the rotations of cultivations in Italy, alterSOIL nating the production, especially of grains, and providing support for decisions such as the use of Legumi.net®, a system developed by Hort@. Yousustain.net® is a system that deterHealth Biodiversity mines the environmental impact of a prodHuman Tox Score (HTS) Biodiversity uct, analysing its entire production cycle Dose Area Index (DAI) Eco Tax Score (ETS) and expressing a sustainability score acTreatment Frequency cording to 6 parameters: water, soil, air quality, biodiversity, health, and energy. Index (TFI) Energy Fuel Use This service uses large databases that alAir Renewable Fuel low it to associate an environmental imCarbon Footprint (CF) Waste pact to every cultivation operation. Thanks Carbon Sequestration to the Register of Cultural Operations (ROC) in Legumi.net® that is compiled by the staff Water of Terre Bradaniche in collaboration with Soil Water Footprint farmers, it is possible to record all the inEcological Footprint (EF) Water Supply terventions that have been made in each Organic Substance (DAI) Water Use Technical production unit, that is, in each field of the Soil Coverage Efficiency supply chain. Erosion Acidification Soil Compaction Eutrophication 112 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT For each intervention, and therefore for Therefore, an agricultural company that is each cultivation operation, the system only composed of arable land is certainly The efficiency of the sustainable legumes chain associates an environmental impact exless sustainable than one that has wooded The cultivation of lentils, peas, pressed according to the parameters menareas, permanent meadows, waterways, or and chickpeas with Legumi.net® for the 2018 campaign ensures tioned above. At the end of a production any other aspect that promotes the devela production with an average unit’s process, all the environmental imopment and conservation of biodiversity, protein value of 24% (compared to 21.5% in the literature). pacts of each cultivation operation carried so the final score of each production unit out are added together, to create a definitakes into account the cultivation opertive score for the individual production lot ations and the intrinsic characteristics of of that precise production unit in the chain. each agricultural company involved in the Naturally, this is done for each production supply chain. unit in the chain and, therefore, for every Legumi.net® is an interactive web tool for production batch. sustainable cultivation of pulses, particPlus, agricultural companies are classified ularly chickpeas, lentils, and peas, and is from the point of view of sustainability, i.e. configured as a DSS, i.e. an expert decision the internal organisation of each of them support system. is analysed in order to give a sort of vote that then influences the final agricultural production score. DSS Legumi.net traceability production trackability contracts for cultivation disciplinary (conventional and Legumi.net operations organic) DSS/Decisions cultivations calculation registration indicators of indicators communication sustainability (ROC) sustainability SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 113 DSSs are computer platforms that collect support (4). Users use this information for For further information on the performance of the 2018 campaign, crop data in real time through sensors precision agronomic crop management (5). refer to the Scientific Report by and scouting tools (1), organise the data in Even the data related to cultivation operaHort@. cloud systems (2), interpret them by means tions are entered in the database (6) in orof advanced modelling techniques and big der to generate a continuous flow of infordata (3), and integrate them automatically, mation that is always up-to-date between producing information, alerts, and decision the crop, DSS, and the user. After having examined all the environmenthe protein content (in %) was subsequenttal indicators and their score from the point ly highlighted. of view of the sustainability of the various This value, being higher in legumes than in production units in the specific report for animal protein sources, is precisely what 2018, we wanted to go further in depth on determines that a lower quantity of prodthe theme of the impact of the water footuct is necessary to obtain the same quanprint in our supply chain. tity of proteins. The first part of the study compared the The following shows the effects of the provalues in the literature for the water foottein sources on the Water Footprint to obprint of different protein sources for which tain 1 tonnes (reference value) of protein: Water Footprint, TABLE Water Footprint, Protein source percentage variation Effects of protein sources (H2O m3/t) on the Water Footprint compared to legumes Source: Horta processing Legumes 18,856 Chicken 34,038 +81% Pork 57,006 +202% Sheep and goat meat 63,006 +234% Beef 111,759 +492% 114 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT As a last step, after showing that the adapted for Italy), the characteristic values Legumi.net® Water Footprint calculation is of the Andriani Supply Chain and Water not directly comparable with bibliographic Footprint were reported as calculated references (given that the method used is according to DSS Legumi.net®: TABLE Characteristic values of the supply chain according to DSS Legumi.net® Total surface area in hectares in Legumi.net® (ha) 3,508.9 Pulse produced with Legumi.net® (t) 2,955.6 Protein (%) 24 Total protein produced (t) 709 Water Footprint per tonne produced (H2O m3/t) 3,264.9 In conclusion, for the environmental inLegumi.net® for the 2018 campaign, guardicator under study, the efficiency of the anteed a production with an average prosustainable legume production chain was tein value of 24% (compared to 21.5% in the analysed, taking into account how the culliterature): tivation of lentils, peas, and chickpeas with GRAPH Water Footprint (H2O m3) 13,378,558 +11.6% 11,984,958 For further information on the performance of the supply chain in terms of the Water Footprint, refer to the Scientific Report by Hort@. Legumes from Legumi.net® Standard legumes (protein 24%) (protein 21.5%) SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 115 8.4 301-1 302-5 301-2 Knowledgeable See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX consumption of raw materials Andriani has been involved in the producthe characteristics of the starting ingredition of gluten-free flour and pasta for years ents: whole grains and organic legumes for Raw materials used and is attentive to the environment and flours and pasta rich in precious fibres and in 2018 broken down by type health through special care of the entire primary protective nutrients that reflect production chain, which rigorously and inthat principles of a healthy diet. The annual novatively respects the criteria of organic quantities of raw materials used by AndriGrains 73% farming. Andriani products ensure maxiani are shown to the side. Legumes 20% mum quality of raw materials and preserve Pseudo cereals 7% Packaging is subject to laws that regulate For 2017, the difference is -10% and -15%, Reduction in packaging its relationship with the environment, compared to 2018, the values can be deAndriani has undertaken a therefore the reduction of the use of retailed as follows for each department: packaging reduction policy, sources at the time of design and their making it increasingly • corrugated cardboard crates are made of sustainable by using thicknesses recovery in the post-consumer phase are 65% kraft paper (virgin fibre and stronand weights suitable for fundamentally important aspects that Anpreventing waste. ger) and 35% recycled fibres so the whole driani scrupulously checks in advance. thing is 100% recyclable; To that end, Andriani has undertaken a • folding carton is 100% recyclable, of which packaging reduction policy, making it in95% is virgin fibre and 5% recycled fibre; creasingly sustainable by using thicknesses 95% is virgin fibre, 2% is FSC certified (Forand weights suitable for preventing waste. est Stewardship Council, a non-profit NGO Packaging must be suitable, economical, that has created an internationally recand designed for packaging systems that ognised forest certification system), while contribute to the rationalisation of the 5% is recycled fibre, 70% is pre-consumer production cycle. In fact, distribution asks (processing waste) and 30% is post-conPackaging used in for packaging the prolongs the shelf life sumer (disposed of, recycled and recov2018, broken down of the product to facilitate movement and ered). by type promote commercial success, while con• flexible film is 99% recyclable. sumers want packaging that ensures the quality of the food, asking for practicality, In the near future, the goal is to only use Corrugated 70% Technical paper 25% convenience, and attention to safeguarding renewable or recyclable resources for proFlexible film 5% the environment. duction. A Annexes Contents: 117 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 124 Global Compact Principles and GRI 127 Independent Auditor's Report SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 117 Global Reporting Initiative 102-55 Content Index See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX The following is a summary of the main required by the GRI Sustainability Reportcontent of the Andriani Group’s 2018 Susing Standards published in 2016 by the GRI. tainability Report according to the outline Universal Standards GRI Standard Page no. Omission Disclosure GRI 102: General Disclosures Organizational profile 102-1 22 Name of the organization. 102-2 22-23 Activities, brands, products, and services. 102-3 23 Location of headquarters. 102-4 24-25, 29 Location of operations. 102-5 23-25 Ownership and legal form. 102-6 22, 26-27, 29 Markets served. 102-7 43-44; 53-54 Scale of the organization. 102-8 53-54 Information on employees and other workers. 102-9 29, 92 Supply Chain. During 2018 there were no significant 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain. changes recording in the supply chain. 102-11 39 Precautionary Principle or approach. 102-12 14-19 External initiatives. 102-13 101 Membership of associations. Strategy 102-14 6 Statement from senior decision-maker. 102-15 39, 110-111 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities. Ethics and Integrity 102-16 19 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior. Governance 102-18 36 Governance structure. Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social 102-21 30 topics. 102-22 36-37 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees. 102-23 37 Chair of the highest governance body. Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social 102-29 36-37 impacts. 102-32 37 Highest governance body's role in sustainability reporting. 102-33 39 Communicating critical concerns. 118 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT Stakeholder engagement 102-40 12, 32 List of stakeholder groups. 102-41 53 Collective bargaining agreements. 102-42 12 Identifying and selecting stakeholders. 102-43 12, 33 Approach to stakeholder engagement. 102-44 10-12, 32 Key topics and concerns raised. Reporting practice 102-45 9 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements. 102-46 13 Defining report content and topic Boundaries. 102-47 13 List of material topics. This is the Andriani Group’s first 102-48 Restatements of information. Sustainability Report This is the Andriani Group’s first 102-49 Changes in reporting. Sustainability Report 102-50 8 Reporting period. This is the Andriani Group’s first 102-51 Date of most recent report. Sustainability Report 102-52 9 Reporting cycle. 102-53 9 Contact point for questions regarding the report. 102-54 9 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards. 102-55 117-123 GRI content index. 102-56 128-130 External assurance. Topic-specific Standards GRI Standard Page no. Omission Information GRI 200: ECONOMIC SERIES (2016) Material topic: ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 44-45 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 44-45 The management approach and its components. 103-3 44-45 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 201: Economic performance (2016) 201-1 46-49 Direct economic value generated and distributed. Material topic: MARKET PRESENCE GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 37 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 37 The management approach and its components. 103-3 37 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 202: Market presence (2016) 202-2 37 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 119 Material topic: PROCUREMENT PRACTICES GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 92 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 92 The management approach and its components. 103-3 92 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 204: Procurement practices (2016) 204-1 92 Proportion of spending on local suppliers. Material topic: ANTI-CORRUPTION GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 40 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 40 The management approach and its components. 103-3 40 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 205: Anti-corruption (2016) There were no confirmed incidents of 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken. corruption during 2018. Material topic: ANTI-COMPETITIVE BEHAVIOUR GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 39 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 39 The management approach and its components. 103-3 39 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 206: Anti-competitive behaviour (2016) In 2018, there were no legal actions pending or completed during the reporting period regarding anti-competitive behavior and Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and 206-1 violations of anti-trust and monopoly monopoly practices. legislation in which the organization has been identified as a participant. GRI 300: ENVIRONMENTAL SERIES (2016) Material topic: MATERIALS GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 115 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 115 The management approach and its components. 103-3 115 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 301: Materials (2016) 301-1 115 Materials used by weight or volume. 301-2 115 Recycled input materials used. Material topic: ENERGY GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 104-107 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 104-107 The management approach and its components. 103-3 104-107 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 302: Energy (2016) 302-1 104-105 Energy consumption within the organization. The data are expressed 302-5 106-107 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services. in KWh 120 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT Material topic: BIODIVERSITY GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 110-114 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 110-114 The management approach and its components. 103-3 110-114 Evaluation of the management approach. Material topic: EMISSIONS GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 104-106 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 104-106 The management approach and its components. 103-3 104-106 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 305: Emissions (2016) 305-1 104-105 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions. 305-2 104-105 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions. 305-5 104-106 Reduction of GHG emissions. Material topic: EFFLUENTS AND WASTE GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 109 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 109 The management approach and its components. 103-3 109 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 306: Effluents and waste (2016) 306-2 109 Waste by type and disposal method. Material topic: ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 104-105 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 104-105 The management approach and its components. 103-3 104-105 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 307: Environmental compliance (2016) There were no significant fines and nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations. with environmental laws and/or regulations during 2018. GRI 400: SOCIAL SERIES (2016) Material topic: EMPLOYMENT GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 53-54 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 52-54 The management approach and its components. 103-3 52-54 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 401: Employment (2016) 401-1 52-54 New employee hires and employee turnover. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 121 Material topic: LABOR/MANAGEMENT RELATIONS GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 53 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 53 The management approach and its components. 103-3 53 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 402: Labor/management relations (2016) 402-1 53 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes. Material topic: OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 64-65 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 64-65 The management approach and its components. 103-3 64-65 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety (2016) Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, 403-2 64-65 and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities. Material topic: TRAINING AND EDUCATION GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 56-57 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 56-57 The management approach and its components. 103-3 56-57 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 404: Training and education (2016) 404-1 57 Average hours of training per year per employee. Material topic: DIVERSITY AND EQUAL OPPORTUNITY GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 53-55 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 53-55 The management approach and its components. 103-3 53-55 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 405: Diversity and equal opportunity (2016) 405-1 54-55 Diversity of governance bodies and employees. Material topic: NON-DISCRIMINATION GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 40 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 40 The management approach and its components. 103-3 40 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 406: Non-discrimination (2016) There were no incidents of discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken. during 2018. 122 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT Material topic: CHILD LABOR GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 93 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 93 The management approach and its components. 103-3 93 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 408: Child labor (2016) The activities of the Andriani Group are not subject to a high risk of child labor. Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child 408-1 The Group is committed to subjecting its labor. operations to assessments on human rights starting with the next reporting periods. Material topic: FORCED OR COMPULSORY LABOR GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 93 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 93 The management approach and its components. 103-3 93 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 409: Forced or compulsory labor (2016) The activities of the Andriani Group are not subject to a high risk of forced or compulsory labor. The Group is committed to subjecting Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced 409-1 its operations to assessments on human or compulsory labor. rights starting with the next reporting periods. Material topic: HUMAN RIGHTS ASSESSMENT GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 56 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 56 The management approach and its components. 103-3 56 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment (2016) The Andriani Group is committed to 412-2 providing training related to human rights Employee training on human rights policies or procedures. starting with the next reporting periods. Material topic: LOCAL COMMUNITIES GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 98-101 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 98-101 The management approach and its components. 103-3 98-101 Evaluation of the management approach. Material topic: PUBLIC POLICY GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 46-49 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 46-49 The management approach and its components. 103-3 46-49 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 415: Public policy (2016) The activities of the Andriani Group do not 415-1 Political contributions. include political contributions. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 123 Material topic: CUSTOMER HEALTH AND SAFETY GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 70-74 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 70-74 The management approach and its components. 103-3 70-74 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety (2016) During 2018, there were no incidents of nonIncidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety of 416-2 compliance concerning the health and safety products and services. impacts of products and services. Material topic: MARKETING AND LABELING GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 77 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 77 The management approach and its components. 103-3 77 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 417: Marketing and labeling (2016) During 2018, there were four incidents of Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service 417-2 non-compliance concerning product and information and labeling. service information and labeling. Material topic: CUSTOMER PRIVACY GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 39 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 39 The management approach and its components. 103-3 39 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 418: Customer Privacy (2016) During 2018, no substantiated complaints Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy 418-1 concerning breaches of customer privacy and and losses of customer data. losses of customer data were received. Material topic: SOCIOECONOMIC COMPLIANCE GRI 103: Management Approach (2016) 103-1 10-11; 13; 39 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundaries. 103-2 39 The management approach and its components. 103-3 39 Evaluation of the management approach. GRI 419: Socioeconomic compliance (2016) During 2018 there were no significant fines or non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the social and 419-1 with laws and/or regulations in the social economic area. and economic area. 124 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT Global Compact Principles and GRI The table shows the relationship between the specific disclosure set forth in the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and the 10 principles of the Global Compact in the 4 categories according to the breakdown reported in the paragraph “The Andriani Group for Sustainable Development” (page 14 of this Report). GRI disclosure number GRI Disclosure Title Global Compact Principles Categories 102-1 Name of the organization 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 102-3 Location of headquarters 102-4 Location of operations 102-5 Ownership and legal form 102-6 Markets served 102-7 Scale of the organization The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Principle 6 Labour and occupation 102-9 Supply Chain Significant changes to the organization and its 102-10 supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 102-12 External initiatives 102-13 Membership of associations 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Values, principles, standards, and norms of Business should work against corruption in all its forms, Fight against 102-16 Principle 10 behavior including extortion and bribery corruption 102-18 Governance structure Consulting stakeholders on economic, 102-21 environmental, and social topics Composition of the highest governance body and 102-22 its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Identifying and managing economic, 102-29 environmental, and social impacts Highest governance body's role in sustainability 102-32 reporting 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Business should uphold the freedom of association and the 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Principle 3 Labour effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Entities included in the consolidated financial 102-45 statements SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 125 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 102-47 List of material topics 102-48 Restatements of information 102-49 Changes in reporting 102-50 Reporting period 102-51 Date of most recent report 102-52 Reporting cycle 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI 102-54 Standards 102-55 GRI content index 102-56 External assurance Business should support a precautionary approach to 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Principle 7 Environment environmental challenges Proportion of senior management hired from the The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 202-2 Principle 6 Labour local community and occupation 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions Business should work against corruption in all its forms, Fight against 205-3 Principle 10 taken including extortion and bribery corruption Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti206-1 trust, and monopoly practices Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Principle 8 responsibility 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Environment Business should support a precautionary approach to Principle 7 environmental challenges Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 301-2 Recycled input materials used Principle 8 Environment responsibility Business should support a precautionary approach to Principle 7 environmental challenges 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environment Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Principle 8 responsibility Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Principle 8 Reductions in energy requirements of products responsibility 302-5 Environment and services Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Principle 9 friendly technologies Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Principle 8 responsibility 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environment Business should support a precautionary approach to Principle 7 environmental challenges Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Principle 8 responsibility 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environment Business should support a precautionary approach to Principle 7 environmental challenges Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Principle 8 responsibility 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Environment Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally Principle 9 friendly technologies 126 THE ANDRIANI GROUP GOVERNANCE AND COMPLIANCE ECONOMIC RESPONSIBILITY RESPONSIBILITY TO EMPLOYEES RESPONSIBILITIES REGARDING THE RESPONSIBILITY TO SUPPLIERS RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE RESPONSIBILITY TOWARDS THE PRODUCT COMMUNITY ENVIRONMENT Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Principle 8 Environment responsibility Non-compliance with environmental laws and Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental 307-1 Principle 8 Environment regulations responsibility The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Principle 6 Labour and occupation Minimum notice periods regarding operational Business should uphold the freedom of association and the 402-1 Principle 3 Labour changes effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational 403-2 diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work-related fatalities The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee Principle 6 Labour and occupation The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Principle 6 Labour and occupation Incidents of discrimination and corrective The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment 406-1 Principle 6 Labour actions taken and occupation Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 408-1 Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labour Labour incidents of child labor Operations and suppliers at significant risk for 409-1 Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour Labour incidents of forced or compulsory labor Employee training on human rights policies or Businesses should support and respect the protection of 412-2 Principle 1 Human Rights procedures internationally proclaimed human rights Business should work against corruption in all its forms, Fight against 415-1 Political contributions Principle 10 including extortion and bribery corruption Incidents of non-compliance concerning the 416-2 health and safety of products and services Incidents of non-compliance concerning product 417-2 and service information and labeling Substantiated complaints concerning breaches 418-1 of customer privacy and losses of customer data Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the 419-1 social and economic area 128 Independent Auditor’s Report 102-56 302-5 See Attachment to the Report GRI CONTENT INDEX SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 ANDRIANI SpA 129
