Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) Sustainability report 2018 CEO STATEMENT In 2018, the Board of Directors peris to reduce organizational complexity These dimensions are in line with our formed a strategic review of the NNE and – to an increasing extent – ensure continued commitment to the 10 prinGroup. Consequently, it was decided profitability and competitiveness in ciples on UN Global Compact regardto divest the operations in China, these core markets. ing human rights, labour standards, Switzerland, France, Belgium and environment and anti-corruption, and Germany (discontinuing operations), We still build our company on the our support to the fulfilment of the and focus future efforts on operations belief that to be a sustainable business Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). in Denmark, the US and India. we must balance three bottom lines – financial, social and environmental, NNE will continue to execute on the i.e. the triple bottom line (TBL) business strategy launched in 2015 delivering principle. focused pharma engineering to our strategic customers, however with an Simultaneously, the TBL affects how we intensified geographical focus on Denmanage our business with an ambiJesper Kløve mark, the US and India. The intention tion to be sustainable and account for Chief Executive Officer and President with the intensified geographical focus performance in all three dimensions. June 2019 2 3 NNE at a glance People development NNE is an international company describes our customers’ needs, our we do things, and provide a means to specialized in pharma engineering. We expertise areas and how we deliver reach our goals. At NNE, our greatest assets are our ers. In 2018, we continued the focus Across all NNE management teams, help pharmaceutical companies bring expert pharma engineering throughout people and their minds. Therefore, we on developing our project managers’ we aim for a distribution equivalent to products to market by providing flexthe entire manufacturing and project Our passion for pharma engineering continue to strengthen our core comleadership skills through our internal NNE’s overall gender distribution, while ible, compliant and future-proof solulifecycle. We call this focused pharma began in the 1930s when we started as petencies and develop our people. program LEAD. LEAD strengthens taking local cultures and circumstances tions. In 2019 we have close to 1,000 engineering. In a year of strategic a group of in-house engineers for Novo To strengthen our core competencies project managers’ ability to set direcinto account. professionals delivering global knowtransformation, the continuing busiNordisk. Today, we are an indepenand build best-in-class pharma engition, motivate their teams and drive ledge and best practices, all dedicated ness realized a satisfactory result with dent organization working for leading neers, our global competency develperformance to ensure that both the The gender split was 30% female and to supporting our customers globally a turnover of DKK 1,437 million, an pharma companies. Everything we do opment programme PEAK (Pharma project and their team members are 70% male in 2018. Across all line manand on local sites. Through focused operating profit of DKK 75 million and is based on our in-depth understanding Engineering Advanced Know-how) successful. In 2018, we conducted five agement positions, 24% were held by pharma engineering we enable our an operating profit margin of 5%. of GMP. has high priority. PEAK’s focus areas are LEAD sessions for seventy participants women. customers to deliver on demand. defined based on a thorough analysis from around the globe. Four more sesNNE is currently in the process of Trust and respect for each other are of customer needs, market demands sions are expected for 2019. To balance the gender distribution At NNE, we focus solely on the GMPdefining the strategy for the coming at our core, and we believe that we and industry trends. In 2018, we have within management teams with the regulated pharma industry. Our mission three years towards 2021. The key perform at our best when we embrace continued our focus on core techno3.1 GENDER DIVERSITY organization’s overall gender distribuis to help pharmaceutical companies driver behind the strategic focus for the our diversity and play on our different logy competencies, offering courses In 2018, the Board consisted of six tion, NNE strives to include female bring products to market by delivering next period is an increasing need for strengths. within e.g. biotechnology, GMP complimembers, where two of them were candidates in the recruitment process agile and flexible operations, seamless our key customers to be operational ance, consultative engineering and females, one of them being employeesfor management positions and as GMP compliance and future-proof soexcellent in their investment projects NNE takes responsibility for the impact automation and IT. The PEAK program elected. The gender diversity at Board successors for management positions lutions, while ensuring reliable project and operations within pharmaceutical our business has on people, communiprovided over forty different course level according to Section §99B of wherever possible. We also try to mainexecution. production. ties and the environment and we strive offerings in 2018. the Danish financial statements act tain the general gender distribution in to make a positive contribution to is achieved. NNE has obtained equal our talent development programs. Our expertise is tailored specifically 2.1 OUR VALUES society and human well-being. We continuously strive to enhance our representation on its Board of Directors These initiatives are an integral part towards the highly GMP-regulated Our values are the cultural foundation competencies at all levels of the organiin accordance with the guidance from of the annual organizational audit industry. The pharma engineering cube for NNE. They reflect who we are, how For more information on NNE please zation, including those of our managthe Danish Business Authority. process. refer to: www.nne.com/ 4 5 Managing sustainability NNE has been a member of the UN well-being and responsible sourcing. our customer, we conducted a customGlobal Compact since 2008, and Our policies, systems and the way we Some progress highlights are increased Many of NNEs employees in Denmark er project in 2018, where more than In 2018, NNE calculated its direct therefore committed to adhere to the work with competences, sharing of cooperation with local educational and abroad have voiced their expecta120 sustainable techniques/technoloenvironmental footprint from power 10 principles regarding human rights, best practices through communities of institutions, e.g. engaging in a Ph.D. tions for the company to partner up gies, were identified, primarily water consumption at our offices and translabor standards, environment and interests (COI) as well as people and research project “Brightline” at the with relevant NGOs to contribute to and energy optimization. More than portation in company cars. In 2018 anti-corruption, as well as supporting process development are essentially to Danish Technical University about risk society. SOS Children’s villages is now 70 were implemented in the design, our carbon footprint from transportathe fulfilment of the 17 sustainable meet the challenges. management and frequently visiting our global partner. It makes sense to resulting in substantial savings comtion increased by 18% compared to development goals (SDGs) (1) . the universities’ job fairs and giving support basic needs for children and pared to a baseline of good engineer2017, and the carbon footprint from 4.1 OPERATIONALIZING THE GOALS lectures in pharma engineering. especially education of children in areas ing practice, 20% for water and 35% power consumption reached 1,028 Our TBL approach is aligned with the 10 The SDGs and the UN guiding prinFurthermore, we invited 25 Danish high where NNE is present. These children are for CO2, respectively. A multidisciplinary tons CO2 which, in comparison, is the principles and SDGs. In 2018, each NNE ciples on business and human rights school students from Roskilde Handelstomorrow’s colleague. Employees and and iterative approach generating ideas same as about 90 average European subsidiary established concrete goals set out goals and guidelines for how gymnasium to visit NNE in China. The NNE donated a total of DKK 196,800 in and assessing feasibility were amongst households. The increased emission within diversity, working environment, businesses can tackle global sustainstudents were on a ten-day excursion 2018. In 2018, we specifically supported the prerequisites for the result. Bringing from company cars is mainly due to an education, profit, environment and phiability challenges. At NNE, we strive to in China to learn how Danish compathe SOS Village in Chennai, India. competences from GMP, process/utility/ increase in projects located near our lanthropy to match the targets for NNE’s balance these challenges by advising nies interact in the Chinese culture. building services and sustainability from local office in Belgium. global goals (see figure 2). our customers with environmentally In 2018 NNE has started a cooperation the customer and NNE together, and safe and sound solutions that improve In the environmental area, NNE in with the organization E2B (Engineer To having a strong mutual understandIn 2018, NNE registered 2 lost time We integrate sustainability into our productivity, fulfil GMP requirements, Denmark is planning on installing solar Be). E2B is a Danish organization focusing of the material aspects and drivers, incidents (LTI) and 9 no LTIs, which is a business on strategic, tactical and and respect human rights (see figure panels in 2019 on the roof of the office ing on creating awareness of what it were important success factors as well. significant improvement compared to operational levels (see figure 1). 2). building to support a reduction in our means to be an engineer – especially 2017, where we had 7 LTI and 9 no LTI, electrical power sourcing. In India, we among socially marginalized young 4.2 OUR DIRECT ENVIRONMENTAL respectively. NNE’s executive manageThrough our global policies, sysOur aim is to enable our customers to have been reaching the goal of estabpeople and people with another ethnic FOOTPRINT AND WORKING ENVIRONment reviews all lost time incidents, tems and goals, we ensure that our excel through our design, which means lishing a fitness centre in their new background than Danish. The cooperaMENT and line of business continuously monicompany develops sustainably. The that the SDGs most relevant for NNE renovated office building, to improve tion has resulted in two events where tors and evaluates incidents to learn solutions we provide for our customers are to ensure decent work and ecohealth. 60 students from nearby elementary Our indirect carbon and water footprint and mitigate recurrence. must support the realization of their nomic growth (no. 8), and responsible schools visited NNE’s headquarters to associated with our advice to customsocial and environmental commitconsumption and production (no. 12), learn about the life of an engineer. ers remain our most important enviments, goals, challenges and basic and indirectly promoting healthy life ronmental impact. The same applies to compliance aspects, such as the SDGs, and well-being (no. 3) through state-of1 https://sustainabledevelopment. As an example to illustrate how we working environment. circular economy, employee safety and the art design of facilities (see figure 3). un.org/?menu=1300 operationalize the responsibility with Figure 2. : NNE’s triple bottom line NNE supports environment-friendly solutions when sourcing supplies and vendors Sourcing NNE supports CO2 reduction by commuting together, Resource skype meetings when possible to limit transportation, OUR POLICIES efficiency sustainable fuelled company cars and low energy • Triple bottom line policy office buildings (environmental, social and STR financial policy) NNE supports education of engineers in AT EG • Quality policy terms of close corporation with universities, IC • Working environment “PhD” positions and internal education NNE supports development of market leading policy Competencies • People and communication policy HSE competencies for best HSE practices to be Education applied in proposed solutions for our customers Environmental NNE supports the physical and mental environment for Working TA MANAGEMENT PROCEDURES our employees to have a healthy and a less stressful life environment CT SYSTEMS • Business ethics ICA • ISO 9001 • Responsilbe sourcing L • ISO 14001 • Whisteblower option • OHSAS 18001 NNE supports equal opportunities and acknowledge Figure 3 diversity in terms of age, gender and nationality for our employees to have the same conditions for Diversity development and to set the strongest team Social Financial GOVERNANCE BEST PRACTICE PEOPLE DEVELOPMENT • Our Model • Community of Interest • Leading Performance • Executive Committee (COI) Health, Safety and • Employee Survey OP NNE is an active part of supporting communities ER • Working Environmental Environment and COIs for • PEAK (internal course and social work related to children in order AT Council processes and products program) Philanthropy ION • Our Wiki to build a foundation for education NNE is delivering sustainable AL Operating profit and competitive financial results margin of 8% in operating profit margin Figure 1. Integration of sustainability in our business 6 Corporate governance and risk management NNE is managed according to four representatives from the parent comNNE’s global compliance program principles called ‘Our Values’. Additiopany, two external members and two includes an e-learning program and nal guidance and commitments include employees elected by NNE employees certification known as ‘Doing business our business ethics, quality managefor a term of four years. the right way’. This program is mandament system and triple bottom line tory for all employees and internal commitment to continuously improve We assess short-term risks monthly, consultants to complete once a year. our financial, environmental and social particularly project and business risks. performance. Long-term, we protect the reputaOther activities to support compliance tion of our company to maintain and include audits and general awareness NNE complies with the same principles grow our business. To reduce the risk training. of corporate governance as our parent of NNE employees violating business company, Novo Nordisk A/S. Because ethics, laws and regulations, we have For major projects, a governance NNE A/S is 100 percent owned by Novo established a compliance program to structure and risk assessment are Nordisk A/S, we are included in the ensure proper training, guidance and established during the proposal process consolidated financial statements of reporting facilities for our employees and maintained throughout project deNovo Nordisk A/S. Our ultimate parent and business partners. NNE employees livery. Project steering committees and company is the Novo Nordisk Foundaare obliged and committed to comply management representatives ensure tion. with the business ethics principles in continuous focus on project perfortheir day-to-day business, and we also mance and risk mitigation. NNE’s Board of Directors is elected expect sub-consultants, suppliers, subevery year at the annual general meetsuppliers and other business partners ing. The six members consist of two and representatives to comply with these principles. CONTACT Lis Thodberg, Director, Health, Safety & Environment ljpt@nne.com T: +45 3075 0750
