COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From:18-4-2019 To:18-4-2020 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) 2. Please use the box below to include the statement of continued support signed by your company’s chief executive EXAMPLE 23-04-2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that De Angelus reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Ms. Francesca Fondse CEO De Angelus Estates 3. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of human rights. Examples include: • We ensure workers are provided safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities • We protect workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats • We take measures to eliminate ingredients, designs, defects or side-effects that could harm or threaten human life and health during manufacturing, usage or disposal of products Labour Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of labour. Examples include: • We ensure that the company does not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour • We comply with minimum wage standards • We ensure that employment-related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria Environment Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of environment. Examples include: • We avoid environmental damage via regular maintenance of production processes and environmental protection system (air pollution control, waste, water treatment systems, etc.) • We ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health • We minimize the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances when applicable Anti-Corruption Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken to fight corruption. Examples include: • We assess the risk of corruption when doing business • We mention “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behavior” in contracts with business partners • We ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment 4. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to measure outcomes. Examples include: • Demographics of management and employees broken down by diversity factors (e.g., gender, ethnicity, age, etc.) We work with men and women, black, white and colored. We work with different age groups in our team from 25 till 60. • Rate of occupational diseases, injuries, and absenteeism NA • Percentage of recycled materials NA In the last year we initiated the EIA. The EIA is live now. All agreements with Energy Providers and Parastatals was initiated in 2018. These agreements contain the following green technology outcomes: a. Estimated emission reductions (tCO2eq) achieved through the project 15610 metric Tons b. Long-term estimate: Estimated emission reductions (tCO2eq) achieved within 5 years of the start of the project 62440 metric Tons a. Capacity (MW) created through the project e.g. from renewable energy system(s) installed and/or products sold 2.52 MW @ Diversified Value b. Long-term estimate: Capacity (MW) created within 5 years of the start of the project 10.0 MW over first five years a. Energy saved (MWh/year) through installation of energy efficient technologies 22075 MWh/year b. Long-term estimate: Energy saved (MWh/year) within 5 years of the start of the project 88300 MWh/year over the first five years Methods of the expected achievements, and assumptions with regards to target emissionss applied Wind Generation 800 kVA wind generation component is envisaged for the facility The total wind generation efficiency is based on the surface wind performance in the Drakensberg area. A factor of 0.6 has been applied over a day period. Therefore, the expected wind electrical generation is estimated at approximately 480 kVA Trigen Generation 1000 kVA Tri-generation gas plant component is envisaged for the facility The total wind generation efficiency is based on the surface wind performance in the Drakensberg area. A factor of 0.8 has been applied based of overall efficiency. Therefore, the expected Tri-gen electrical generation is estimated at approximately 800 kVA Gas Charge Assumed at Bulk rate of R 114.00 per GJ (Gas charge already deducted from overall income in NPV) Green house Gas calculator was used Reference: https://www.epa.gov/energy/greenhouse-gas-equivalencies-calculator Geothermal heating and cooling reduction 2800 kW would be used in applying standard type air-cooled heating and cooling. The use of GSHP would improve the COP by more than double. The total energy saving using geothermal would be 1700 kW, therefore, only 1100 kW would be needed for the GSHP system.
