CONFIDENTIAL Section – 1: SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH ABOUT THE REPORT CCI’s 11th sustainability report shares our practices and performance results obtained during the period between January 1 and December 31, 2018 for six of the ten operating countries: Turkey, Jordan, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Pakistan and Kyrgyzstan. Please note that ‘CCI Operating Geography’, ‘Summary of Financials’ and ‘Key Financial and Operating Indicators’ include all operating countries. The coverage of the report reached 89% of CCI’s total production volume and 86% of CCI’s employees as of December 31, 2018. Standards Used The three principles of the AA1000 Assurance Standard, namely materiality, inclusiveness and responsiveness, guide the content development process of this report. In addition, we measure and report our social, environmental and ethical performance using leading principles, standards and methodologies such as those adopted by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, CDP Programs, the International Labor Organization (ILO), the United Nations Convention Against Corruption (UNCAC) and the Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Protocol developed by the World Resources Institute (WRI). The contents of this report have been prepared in accordance with the “core” option of the GRI Standards. The report also serves as our Communication on Progress (COP) to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) as well as our progress report on how we incorporate the United Nations Women Empowerment Principles (WEPs). Verification Same as in the last seven years, selected data in this report were independently audited for the eighth year. For 2018, the GHG emissions of CCI Turkey Operations’ manufacturing, sales and distribution operations were audited by a third-party organization, and verified to meet the requirements of ISO 14064-1, according to the International Organization for Standardization’s ISO 14064-3 2006 Standard. CCI Turkey Operations successfully passed the audits. As defined in the Independent Limited Assurance Report in the Performance Indicators section of this report, the selected information received limited assurance for our operations in Turkey from Ernst & Young. As described in the CCI Reporting Guidance, included in the “Performance Indicators” section of this report, the selected information consists of total energy data, energy use per product, total water withdrawal and consumption data, water usage per product and waste data. Within the context of this audit, data from CCI’s Turkey plants for 2018 were assessed and received Limited Assurance according to ISAE 3000 Revised (International Standard Assurance Engagements) other than Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information. Structure We prepared three full sections to address and respond to different expectations of our stakeholders . The first section, “Sustainability Approach”, includes general information about CCI, our sustainability governance and approach. In the second section, “Sustainability in Review”, we summarize our programs and efforts to create value for our stakeholders by classifying them in three main groups: Customers & Consumers, People, and Community. Finally, the third section, “Performance Indicators”, provides supplementary technical and numerical information about our operations for relevant stakeholders. Feedback Receiving feedback from our stakeholders is vital to help us improve both our practices and reporting processes. We evaluate every feedback and use them to continuously improve our practices. We invite our stakeholders to share their opinions, suggestions or complaints by sending an e-mail to corporate.affairs@cci.com.tr, or by calling the Corporate Affairs Department at +90 216 528 40 00, or through the ‘Contact Us’ tab on our website cci.com.tr MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Dear Stakeholders, It gives me great pleasure to report that 2018 has been another successful year for CCI with continued focus on quality growth, successful portfolio strategy and increased market share in almost all our markets. As a multinational beverage company with operations in 10 countries and 26 plants, and employing approximately 8,500 employees, as CCI, we are delighted to present our 11th Sustainability Report covering our 2018 performance. Having been ranked as the second-largest bottler in 2018 in terms of the consumer base, we are serving a population of 400 million people in a geography of emerging markets with high growth potential and many opportunities for our business. Being the sixth-largest bottler in the Coca-Cola System and one of the fastest growing bottlers with our operations in Turkey, the Middle East, Central Asia and Pakistan. Our sales volume went up by 6.3%, reaching 1.3 billion-unit cases, while our net sales revenue increased by 27% to ₺10.6 billion and our EBITDA by 36% to ₺1.9 billion. By way of our growth, we are increasing both our direct and indirect economic impact each year. According to a recent economic review, each Turkish Lira generated by the Coca-Cola System in Turkey produces 9.7 Turkish Liras for the local economy, besides the indirect impact of income on 160,000 local farmers. We aim to become the best FMCG company across our markets and we are committed to delivering sustainable and quality growth. All along our value chain, our pledge is to create value and transfer this value by being a good corporate citizen for our communities, being a great place to work for employees, being the preferred partner for our customers and offering choice to consumers. To bring about the world in our vision, we are conscious that we need to internalize our sustainability approach and embed it into our principles for all our processes hence maximizing the value that we create. To this end, within the context of our sustainability report, we declare our goals, commitments and our practices in realizing this vision. In order to amplify our positive impact, we place great emphasis on strategic partnerships such as UNGC, ILO, TUSIAD, ÇEVKO, Associaton. Moreover, embracing and empowering cultural and gender diversity as well as strengthening the youngsters are other key pillars for our community development initiatives. Unleashing women’s entrepreneurial potential is an excellent way for communities to embrace gender diversity and prosperity. Our efforts focus on providing women in our geographies with more access to training courses, community programs, financial services and facilitate more connections with peers and mentors, for their development of business and generic skills. Consequently, become a greater part of the global community and the labor force. As an indication of our pledge for this cause, we signed the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) initiative in 2015. We believe that a more sustainable future is only possible through involvement of the youth. With this vision, we continued our youth programs and reached more than 440,000 youngsters in 2018. In order to realize our goal towards minimizing our environmental footprint, via our effective water management practices, we saved 434,527 m³ of water within our operating geography. Besides, our water replenishment rate reached to 159%, which is equivalent of 11,032 million liters of water. Sustainable packaging programs such as the lightweight and short neck applications as well as the use of bio-resin in our PlantBottle projects and returnable bottle practices are of utmost importance to CCI for reducing environmental footprint. We are pledged to increase our post-consumer recycling rate, which is 56% in Turkey, for upcoming years via our strategic partnerships. We saved a total of 1,111 tons of resin and more than 98,000 tons of glass with the help of these practices in 6 countries of operation, hence decreased our GHG emission intensity. Through the improvements in our logistics operations, cooler emission reduction activities, use of smart technologies and our returnable glass bottle practice, we avoided 223,176 tons of CO2 which is equivalent to the amount absorbed by 18.6 million trees. On behalf of all my colleagues at CCI, I would like to thank you for your feedback, contribution and support in making CCI’s journey towards sustainability more successful. Burak Başarır Coca-Cola İçecek, CEO CCI AT A GLANCE CCI is a multinational beverage company which operates in Turkey, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan, Turkmenistan, Jordan, Iraq, Syria and Tajikistan. As one of the key bottlers of The Coca-Cola System (TCCS), CCI produces, distributes and sells sparkling and still beverages of The Coca-Cola Company. CCI employs close to 8,500 people and has a total of 26 plants in 10 countries, offering a wide range of beverages to a consumer base of 400 million people. In addition to sparkling beverages, the product portfolio includes juices, waters, sports and energy drinks, teas and iced teas. CCI's shares are traded on the Istanbul Stock Exchange (BIST) under the symbol CCOLA.IS , and Eurobond is traded in the Irish Stock Exchange, under the symbol CCOLAT . Our Vision Be the best FMCG company across our markets. Our Values Passion We put our hearts and mind into what we do. Accountability We act with high sense of responsibility and hold ourselves accountable. Teamwork We collaborate for our collective success Integrity We are open, honest, ethical and we trust and respect each other Key Financial and Operational Indicators Financial Highlights Brands CCI Operating Geography Operating in 10 Countries with 26 plants, around 8,500 employees and 920,000 sales points serving 400 million consumers with more than 25 brands. Source: (1,2) IMF World Economic Outlook (3) CCI and TCCC estimates (4) Nielsen, Canadean OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE Sustainability Highlights We pledge to create value across our value chain and the highlights of our 2018 Sustainability Performance is as follows: CONSUMER WELL-BEING  Zero unconformities were found in the food safety and quality audits.  Following the third-party external audits on compliance with the Food Safety System Certification FSSC 22000 Standard, all plants obtained the certificate. CUSTOMER VALUE  CCI Turkey’s 2018 distributor satisfaction survey score was up by five points from 2017, reaching 91%  With its traditional channel applications, CCINext Red Box module won the “Most Successful Retail Channel” award given by TCCC at the Global Customer & Commercial Leadership (GCCL) Awards.  Third CCI Innovation Day was held with the concept of “Women and Innovation”. HUMAN RIGHTS  CCI published its first Human Rights Policy, a continuation of the existing CCI Workplace Rights Policy.  The number of accidents reduced by 20% compared to 2017.  CCI improved its H&S performance in terms of the Safety Maturity Index (SMI) score by + 5%. HUMAN CAPITAL  We provided 87 training sessions with 1,009 participants to our customers and distributors in Turkey to support their sales capability development. COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT  16 volunteer activities have been realized in 23 different cities under the program targeting disadvantaged women, children and families, people with disabilities, refugee children and the elderly, with the participation of 838 CCI volunteers in Turkey and Pakistan.  My Sister Project is a part of the 5By20 initiative launched by The Coca-Cola Company with the goal to economically empower 5 million women entrepreneurs around the world by 2020. As of end of 2018, the project has reached over 10,000 women, including refugees and women from a variety of backgrounds, including housewives, engineers, entrepreneurs and university students in Turkey.  The 3.2.1 Move! Program supported 152 Physical Education teachers from 131 public schools and engaged more than 150,000 young people in sports and group activities in 15 cities of Turkey.  Within the scope of the Successful Woman Successful Future, 312 women are trained to participate in Azerbaijan’s tourism industry. ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT Natural Resources  We successfully implemented 152 new projects to improve efficient use of the natural resources. Our efforts resulted in an approximate annual saving of USD 3.88 million with 152 projects. Energy & GHG Emissions  We achieved 212,411 tons of CO2 emissions reductions in Turkey across our value chain as a result of our logistics improvements, cooler emission reductions, smarter use of technology, returnable glass bottles practices and pallet re-use practices.  We avoided 115,355 tons of CO2 emissions through our returnable glass bottle practices in Turkey, which is equal to the amount of CO2 that 9.6 million trees annually extract from the atmosphere.  With our Energy Management Device (EMD) equipped Cold Drink Equipments, we saved approximately 511.5 million kWh electricity in 6 countries of operation. We achieved 86,550 tons of CO2 emissions reduction which is equal to the amount of CO2 that 7.2 million trees annually extract from the atmosphere. Water  We saved 434,527 m3 of water in the 6 countries of operation.  Through our water replenishment programs, we replenished 11,032 million liters of water in the six countries of operation.  The water replenishment rate for Turkey reached 159%, approximately equivalent to 4,885 million liters of water. Sustainable Packaging  We saved a total of 1,111 tons of resin in 6 countries of operation with our sustainable packaging program.  24% of our total resin consists of PlantBottle, our renewable plastic substitute that is 30% plant-based.  The total waste recycling throughout all our plants was 98.70% in Turkey, 90.90% in Jordan, 88.03% in Kazakhstan, 93.38% in Azerbaijan, 95.48% in Pakistan and 98.58% in Kyrgyzstan.  We reached a 56% post-consumer recycling rate for plastics, glass, metal and aluminumpackaging waste in Turkey. Awards Received Over The Past 10 Years 2010  CCI İzmir Plant won the “Best Performing Plant for the Environment Award” at TCCC EAG President’s Environment Awards.  CCI Turkey Operations won the “Best Country Bottling Operation Grand Prize” by the TCCC EAG President’s Environment Awards. 2012  CCI Ankara Plant was awarded the EFQM’s (European Foundation for Quality Management) “Taking Responsibility for a Sustainable Future Prize”.  At TCCC EAG President’s Sustainability Awards, CCI Turkey Operations won the “Best Country Bottling Operation Grand Prize”. CCI Ankara Plant was recognized as the “Best Performing Plant for Quality” and CCI İzmir Plant was recognized as the “Best Performing Plant for the Environment”. 2013  CCI received an “Ethics Award” from the Ethical Values Center Association.  CCI won three prizes in the TCCC EAG President’s Sustainability Awards: The Grand Prize for “Best Country Bottling Operation”, “Best Performing Plant for Quality”, and the “Best Performing Plant for the Environment”. 2014  CCI was the first and only company from Turkey and TCCS to be included in the UNGC 100 Index.  CCI İzmir Plant was awarded in the “Water Management” category by Green Business Platform.  CCI received the second highest score in the transparency category of “CDP Turkey Climate Leadership Awards”.  CCI was awarded the Grand Prize in the “ÇEVKO Green Dot Industry Awards”, which recognizes companies with environmentally sustainable practices.  CCI Ankara Plant was awarded the “Best Performing Plant for Quality” and CCI İzmir Plant the “Best Performing Plant for the Environment” at TCCC EAG President’s Sustainability Awards.  CCI Bursa and Mahmudiye Plants received “National Quality Excellence Awards”. 2015  The “3.2.1. Move! Program” was awarded a “Bronze Stevie Award” in the 12th Annual International Business Awards.  CCI Turkey Operations received three awards including the Grand Prize of “Best Country Bottling Operation” of TCCC EAG President’s Sustainability Awards. CCI Turkey Operations also received the “Excellence Award” in the individual well-being category and İzmir Plant received the “Best Performing Plant for the Environment” award.  CCI Bursa Plant received the “EFQM Excellence Award in the Developing Organizational Capability” category.  CCI Mahmudiye Plant was awarded the “National Quality Excellence Grand Prize”. 2016  CCI was listed among CDP Turkey Climate Change Leaders and received once again the “Climate Leadership Award”.  CCI was rewarded by “Pakistan Red Crescent” on the occasion of Presidential visit with a plate of appreciation for CCI’s cooperative approach during the times of crisis and natural disasters. 2017  CCI Turkey Operations received “Recycling Award” from the Turkish Ministry of Environment and Urbanization for its efforts to recycle product packages to reach waste management targets for the FMCG sector in Turkey.  CCI received the grand prize in “Water Efficiency” category at the 4 th Sustainable Business Awards in Turkey organized by the Sustainability Academy.  CCI Kyrgyzstan received “Kyrgyzstan’s Best Tax Payer Award” for its contribution to the economic growth of the Kyrgyz Republic and conscientious execution of tax legislation.  CCI Turkey Operations received an “International Safety Award” from British Safety Council.  CCI Mersin Plant received the second prize in the Midsize Enterprises category with its “Tetra Lines Automatic Pallet Truck System Project” at the Efficiency Projects Competition organized by the Turkish Ministry of Science, Industry and Technology. 2018 CCI Plants Recognized for Energy and Water Efficiency by TCCC Based on 2017 performance, Köyceğiz and Sapanca Plants were recognized for energy efficiency, while Elazığ Plant was recognized for water efficiency initiatives by TCCC Turkey, Caucasus & Central Asia Business Unit. Outstanding performance on energy efficiency and its alignment with Coca-Cola's global commitments on reducing the environmental footprint are highly appreciated in the system. Silver Award for CCI’s 10th Sustainability Report by the League of American Communications Professionals (LACP) CCI’s 10th Sustainability Report won the Silver Award at “LACP Inspire Awards Competition”, organized by LACP. The Inspire Awards is considered as one of the most distinguished corporate publishing competitions. Our report scored 97 over 100 with its first impression, content, art design, and innovation along with its clarity in conveying the message. CCI’s Dudullu HQ receives LEED Gold Certificate. Within the scope of CCI’s efforts on energy management, CCI’s Headquarters (HQ) were deemed worthy to receive LEED Gold Certificate. In addition to the energy saving measures taken at the HQ, GHG emissions that amount to 1,400 tons CO2-e released within two years were offset by the Gold Standard. CCINext Won the GCCL Award CCINext Red Box is and internally created tool for our Customer Development Program that we use as a means to provide value to our customers. With its traditional channel applications, CCINext Red Box module won the “Most Successful Retail Channel” award given by TCCC at the Global Customer & Commercial Leadership (GCCL) Awards. CCI Turkey Operations’ Yerim Salıyı Project Received Three Awards CCI Turkey operations’ Yerim Salıyı project received 3 awards from the Direct Marketing Communicators Association. A total of 326 projects in 27 categories were submitted . CCI’s project competed in 3 categories and marked a great success by winning the second prize in the Direct Mailing category and the first prize in Sales Point Interior Promotional Activities and Locally Focused Sales Point Interior Promotional Activities categories. CCI Kazakhstan Awarded the Prestigious “PARYZ” State CCI Kazakhstan became the recipient of Kazakhstan’s prestigious “PARYZ” award, the country’s highest state-bestowed honor. It is the only award handed out personally by Kazakhstan President to commercial enterprises. CCI Kazakhstan received this award in recognition of its overall contributions to the country’s sustainable development. Kyrgyz Republic Ministry of Economy Awarded CCI Kyrgyzstan In September, the Kyrgyz Republic Ministry of Economy awarded CCI Kyrgyzstan a certificate of honor for its efforts in contributing to the country’s national economy. OUR SUSTAINABILITY JOURNEY Sustainability Milestones 2002  1st Environmental Policy 2009  1st Rank in Turkey’s Accountability Rating  Signatory to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)  1st Sustainability Report published 2010  Announcement of “2020 Vision and Strategic Framework” 2011  1st independent external assurance for ISAE 3000  Charter member of the Climate Change Leaders Group  Turkey’s 1st food and beverage company in CDP Global Disclosure Leaders  Signatory to the “20C Communiqué” 2012  Top 2 in Turkey’s CDP Carbon Performance Leaders  İzmir and Mersin Plants completed the “Top 10 Energy-Saving Challenge Program” of TCCC and the WWF (World Wildlife Fund)  Among in Turkey and Representation of Turkey in the Rio+20 innovation competition with best sustainable development practices 2013  CCI Turkey Operations became the first multi-plant country operation in TCCS: all plants in all operating countries completed the “Top 10 Energy-Saving Challenge Program” and  1st and only company from Turkey and within TCCS in the UNGC 100 Index  New “Code of Ethics”, “Workplace Rights Policy” and “Ethics Service”  1st ISO 14064-3 Certificate in Turkey for its GHG inventory  Among Carbon Disclosure and Performance Leaders in CDP Turkey 100 Climate Change Report  CCI Turkey Operations received “Gender Equality Certification” from KAGIDER 2014  1st and only company from Turkey and within TCCS in the UNGC 100 Index  2nd highest score in the disclosure category of CDP Turkey Climate Leadership Awards  1st and only company from Turkey in the CDP Global Water Program  CCI Corporate Governance Rating increased from 8.8 to 9.25 2015  Only company from Turkey in the UNGC 100 Index (as of May 2016)  “2025 Vision and Strategic Framework” announced  Joined the “BIST 50 Sustainability Index”  Joined the “Euronext Vigeo Emerging 70 Index”  Signatory to the “UN Women’s Empowerment Principles”  CCI Corporate Governance Rating increased from 9.25 to 9.40 2016  Joined the “BIST 100 Sustainability Index”  Joined “MSCI Global Sustainability Index”  Joined “FTSE4Good Emerging Index”  Among “Turkey’s CDP Climate Change Leaders” 2017  Joined the “ECPI Emerging Markets ESG Equity index”  Joined the “Vigeo Eiris Best Emerging Markets Performers Ranking”  Joined the “30% Club’s Turkey Chapter”, initated by Sabancı University’s Corporate Governance Forum and the Capital Markets Board of Turkey as part of the Independent Women Directors Project 2018  CCI Corporate Governance Rating confirmed as 9.45  CCI Turkey Operations’ waste data externally assured  “Workplace Rights Policy” updated as “Human Rights Policy” Sustainability Reporting Our objective is to make CCI the leader of sustainability, accountability and transparency. Thus, communicating our sustainability performance to our stakeholders is an integral part of our corporate citizenship. CCI’s Sustainability Report is the most significant tool for this communication. As our sustainability reporting evolved, we have realized various benefits, such as our inclusion in global sustainability indices, positive relationships with stakeholder groups who appreciate transparency on environmental and social matters as well as an enhancement corporate reputation. External Recognition Our sustainable business practices and communication of our sustainability vision through transparent means paid off, and CCI is distinguished by national and global sustainability indices. CCI Sustainability Reports in Reporting Matters by WBCSD World Business Council for Sustainable Development (WBCSD) included CCI’s Sustainability Report in the “Reporting Matters” program since 2017. As part of the program, member companies’ sustainability reports are analyzed against a set of 18 comprehensive indicators in three main categories: principles, content and experience. CCI Sustainability Report is regarded as best practice in the Balanced Content category, emphazising our success in transparent communication of achievements as well as improvement areas. CCI is the 1st and Only Turkish Company in the UNGC 100 Index Since its launch by the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in 2013, CCI continues to be the 1st and only company in Turkey that was included in the UNGC 100 Index. Companies listed in the index are selected from among the eligible UNGC members around the world. The eligible members are required to demonstrate their executive commitment to 10 UNGC principles, and continuously improve and disclose their sustainability performance and maintain consistent base-line profitability. CCI Listed in the BIST Sustainability Index Based on the evaluation of our sustainability practice and performance in 2017-2018, CCI was included in Borsa Istanbul (BIST) Sustainability Index for the period between November 2018 and October 2019. In 2015, CCI had became one of the first 29 companies to be included in the BIST Sustainability Index. CCI Listed in the MSCI ESG Leaders Index Upon evaluation of our environmental, social and corporate governance performance for 2017-2018 by Morgan Stanley Capital International, CCI was included in the 2018 MSCI ESG Leaders Index with score A. CCI joined the MSCI Global Sustainability Index in 2016. CCI Listed in the FTSE4Good Emerging Index In 2016, CCI joined FTSE4Good Emerging Index owing to its high performance in the environmental, social and corporate governance matters and sustained its position in the 2018 list as well. The FTSE4Good Emerging Index was launched in 2016 by FTSE Russell, a global leader in indices and data, globally used by investors. CCI in CDP Turkey Climate Change and Water Programs CCI participates in CDP Climate Change and Water Programs. CCI was honored with the Climate Leadership Award by CDP Turkey in performance and transparency categories three times. CCI Joined the ECPI Emerging Markets ESG Equity Index As of December 2017, CCI became a constituent of ECPI Emerging Markets ESG Equity index. ECPI is a leading rating and index company dedicated to environmental, social and governance performance research. CCI Included in Vigeo Eiris Best Emerging Markets Performers Ranking In June 2018, CCI was once again included in Vigeo Eiris Best Emerging Markets Performers Ranking, selected as one of the 100 most advanced companies within the Equities Emerging Markets Universe that consists of 813 companies from 31 countries. Companies included in this index achieve the highest scores, as determined by a review based on 38 criteria, divided into 6 key areas of corporate environmental, social and governance matters, assessed by Vigeo Eiris. OUR OPERATING ENVIRONMENT Operating Context and Implications for Value Sustainable Packaging Across CCI geography, there is an increasing awareness with regards to packaging, hence related regulations. Coupled with consumers’ awareness on packaging waste pollution and our own aspiration to reduce our environmental impact, we strive to increase our recycling rates and transition to a circular economy as a priority focus area. Economic and Political Environment CCI’s geography is affected by political instabilities and macroeconomic challenges, as well as security issues. Economic growth in the Middle East markets have slowed down due to recent political instabilities and security concerns, which created a challenging operating environment causing increased price sensitivity amongst consumers. Major currency devaluations in Pakistan since 2018 puts a lot of pressure on private consumption. In Turkey, political fluctuations and Turkish Lira’s continuing devaluation against the dollar caused macroeconomic instability. Meanwhile, in Central Asia we were pleased to witness a rather favorable economic environment in 2018, where many governments went on implementing development strategies to increase global connectivity, diversify their economies and improve citizen welfare. Digital Transformation Digital transformation is continuously gaining speed and is significant to survive in today’s commercial environment. As part of our digital strategy, we focus on running our business more efficiently and we constantly seek new ways to strengthen and expand our business by developing new operating models, products and services by utilizing digital technologies. We reorganized our digital technology department in 2018 to develop CCI’s capacity. To see how CCI creates value for its stakeholders, please watch our video. http://esgturkey.com/cciSR18/our-operating-environment.html#value-chain Value Chain (1) Includes all CCI Countries (10 countries) (2) Lost Time Incident per 1,000,000 hours of working (3) Includes CCI Countries in the reporting scope unless otherwise is stated (6 countries) (4) Average number of employees calculated OUR GOVERNANCE CCI’s strong corporate governance structure plays a vital role in achieving our strategic goals. CCI conducts all its operations within the framework of established regulations in operating countries and the Corporate Governance Principles as outlined by Turkey’s Capital Markets Board. To transparently inform stakeholders, we publish the annual Corporate Governance Principles Compliance Report that includes information on Corporate Governance Principles. Corporate governance is managed and represented by the Board of Directors, under which Audit, Corporate Governance and Risk Detection Committees operate. Until the establishment of the Nomination Committee and the Remuneration Committee, the Corporate Governance Committee exercises the functions of these committees. For more details on the Board Committees, you may visit https://www.cci.com.tr/en/investorrelations/corporate-governance/management-and-bod/board-committees Sustainability Organization The CCI Board of Directors is actively engaged with the Company’s sustainability strategy and its commitment to integrate sustainability into the business strategy. The CCI Board of Directors’ Corporate Governance Committee has the ultimate responsibility in determining and implementing the sustainability strategy. This responsibility is undertaken by the CCI Executive Committee, which is steered by the CEO, as wells as the Sustainable Operations Steering Committee (SOSC). The CCI Executive Committee is comprised of representative from senior management, and the SOSC is composed of CCI’s Finance, Corporate Affairs, Legal, Human Resources and Supply Chain Directors. Since 2015, CCI Corporate Affairs Director has also been serving as the Deputy Chairman of UNGC Turkey Network. The Corporate Affairs Department is responsible for the disclosure, reporting and communication of sustainability targets and performance results. Needless to mention; our employees are the key for the integration of sustainability strategy into our overall business processes. OUR SUSTAINABILITY APPROACH Stakeholder Engagement Building an effective and strong stakeholder dialogue is at the foundation of keeping our business sustainable and engaging them into our sustainability strategy. Since 2013, we have been prioritizing our stakeholders and the means of communication through a comprehensive stakeholder mapping study pursuant to AccountAbility’s AA1000 SES Standard and the EFQM Business Excellence Model. We engage with each stakeholder group on a regular basis not only to share our sustainability efforts but also to evaluate both our material issues and to consolidate their opinions and feedbacks. The various means of communication with different stakeholder groups and how we respond to their questions and concerns are provided on the following table. Engagement with Stakeholders Stakeholders Dialog Platform Frequency of Key Topics engagement Employees Employee Engagement and Regular Business results, environmental Satisfaction Survey, Workplace, performance, community CokePort, Digital Info Boards, projects, awards and Townhall Meetings, press recognitions, compensation and reports, CCIdea Platform and benefits topics. Innovation Day, CCI training programs, leadership development trainings, sales incentive programs, Reputation Surveys, volunteer programs. Distributors/Sellers Distributor meetings, Process Periodic Business performance, improvement studies, regular commercial plans, satisfaction visits, training programs, plant scores. visits, distributor satisfaction questionnaire, Distributor portal, CCI Call Center Shareholders General Assemblies, website, Regular Financial and operational Public Disclosure Platform (PDP) performance and reporting. Customers Trainings, support programs, Periodic Business performance, regular visits, plant visits, Cocacommercial plans, products, Cola Customer Road Show, marketing plans. Customer Satisfaction Survey, CCI Call Center, Focus group studies, business planning meetings Suppliers Training programs, improvement Regular Quality of materials and services, audits, plant visits, supplier days, future plans, strategic initiatives, supplier performance scores, business performance, supplier surveys, cooperation sustainability, workplace rights, portal, industrial development innovation in cooling equipment. and pilot activities. Investors Annual report, investor Every year CCI’s financial, operational and conferences, analyst meetings, sustainability performance; investor presentations, future investment plans. Sustainability Report, website, social media accounts, webcast, Investor Relations department, e-mail distributions, special case announcements, Public Disclosure Platform, direct feedback forms through CCI’s corporate website, CDP Climate Change Report, CDP Water Report, Sustainability Index Assessment. Public Institutions Reputation Surveys, Regular CCI’s operational, and Organizations Conferences, Industry Meetings environmental, quality and community-related performance; compliance with regulations. NGOs Project partnerships, corporate Regular CCI’s operational, environmental, and individual employee quality and community-related memberships, participation in performance; transparency and conferences and presentations, reporting. Reputation Surveys, Stakeholder Day Union Union representation, collective Regular Human and workplace rights. labor agreements, representative meetings, plant visits Media Periodical information, regular Regular Products, marketing and updated statements, support promotion campaigns, product programs, regular visits, website, ingredients, sustainability plant visits, Reputation Surveys performance, community development projects. Consumers Coca-Cola Call Center, Coca-Cola Regular Product quality, consumer Open to Curiosity Platform, Cocasatisfaction, low-and no-calorie Cola Social Interaction Center, product alternatives, nutritional website, informative labeling, product ingredients. publications, plant visits, product labels Sector Groups Corporate memberships, joint Regular Industry-wide issues, regulations, projects, participation in legal compliance, speaking meetings and conferences. engagements at conferences, benchmark visits to plants. Society Coca-Cola Open to Curiosity Regular Product quality, product Platform, Donations, website, ingredients, marketing and plant visits, support programs, promotion campaigns, sports voluntary practices, Coca-Cola tournaments. Call Center, information through mass communication, product labels, advertisement and marketing activities, environmental training sessions, social engagement projects, field studies, meetings, survey and eliciting opinions, Reputation Surveys, Annual report, Sustainability Report Stakeholder Day Series CCI and TCCC envisioned the Stakeholder Day series as a local engagement platform to further improve relations with key local stakeholders, and to raise awareness for economic and social influence, sustainability efforts, and manufacturing capabilities in CCI’s operating regions. Stakeholder Day series started in 2017, when CCI and TCCC representatives had the opportunity to come together with the local stakeholders and share information on the operations in the region, CSR efforts and the sustainability vision. Two Stakeholder Days were organized in 2018, in Elazığ and Çorlu. Four Stakeholder Days are planned for 2019. TCCC Reputation Research Within TCCS, we value feedback and opinions; we plan and implement our actions with the insight we gain from our internal and external stakeholders, including our consumers. For this purpose; we conduct periodic corporate reputation research with our stakeholders. In 2018, via a third party institution, we conducted monthly reputation research, in compliance with EFQM and AA1000 standards, on a sample to represent Turkish urban population. The research aimed at tracking consumers’ perceptions and attitude towards Coca-Cola Turkey on issues such as transparency, accountability, financial durability, corporate social responsibility, product and service quality, working conditions, campaigns / commercials, communication, innovation, environmental issues and company performance. Strategic Partnerships TUSİAD – UNGC CCI is a member of Turkish Industry and Business Association (TUSIAD) and CCI Corporate Affairs Director is a Board Member of UNGC Turkey. In line with our commitment to the Sustainable Development Goals, CCI is an active participant of the Climate Change and Women Empowerment workgroups. ÇEVKO (Green Dot) CCI is a founding member of ÇEVKO and CCI Corporate Affairs Manager is a Board Member. By means of our strategic cooperation with ÇEVKO, we achieve a steadily increasing rate of post-consumer packaging waste collection as well as raising consumer awareness on recycling. Habitat Association Per CCI sustainability strategy, women empowerment is a priority focus. To this end, Coca-Cola Turkey cooperated with Habitat Association for “My Sister” Project. The project aims to empower women, by equipping them with the necessary information and knowledge to take active role in the regional economic development, to improve their economic and social position and participate in economy. More information can be found at https://habitatassociation.org/projects/my-sister/ United Nations Development Programme (UNDP) As a responsible corporate citizen, Coca-Cola Turkey invests in community projects to tackle waste pollution and recycling. This year, in cooperation with UNDP, a Recycling Program in the Mediterranean District of Turkey kickstarted with the goal of enhancing the waste management capacity for recycling. International Labor Organization (ILO) The project on Technical Assistance for Improving Social Dialogue in Working Life, run by the ILO Office in Turkey, prioritizes increasing the capacity of social partners, relevant public institutions and awareness-raising on social dialogue at all levels through a holistic approach. CCI contributed to the project along with other FMCG companies. Our Memberships  ÇEVKO (Packaging Recovery Organization – Green Dot)  TÜSİAD (Turkish Industry and Business Association)  YASED (International Investors Association)  MEDER (Beverage Industry Association)  KALDER (Turkish Quality Association)  DEİK (Foreign Economic Relations Board)  SUDER (Bottled Water Manufacturers Association)  MEYED (Turkish Fruit Juice Industry Association)  TEİD (Turkish Ethics and Reputation Society)  TÜYİD (Turkish Investor Relations Society)  TOBB (Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey)  TGDF (Federation of Food and Drink Industry Associations of Turkey)  UNGC Network Turkey (United Nations Global Compact Network Turkey)  Brand Protection Group  30% Club Turkey Chapter Initiatives to which we are Signatories  CDP Climate Change Program  CDP Water Program  Equality at Work Platform  United Nations Global Compact (UNGC)  Turkish Climate Change Platform  United Nations Women’s Empowerment Principles Our Materiality Analysis The analysis of material topics plays a crucial role in laying out a roadmap for sustainable business outcomes in all three main pillars of corporate governance: economic, environmental and social. While we determine material issues, we consider the broader social, economic and environmental impact on both our business and along our value chain. We also consider relevant risks, opportunities and stakeholder expectations with regards to specific issues. The materiality analysis is a continuous process for us and is significant to review our progress and assess the results every year. In 2018, our Sustainability Organization inspected our materiality universe in the light of our risk and opportunity management practices, stakeholder expectations and feedback, as well as CCI’s and TCCC’s priorities. The topics on the top right are the focal issues for this report. Materiality Analysis Chart OUR SUSTAINABILITY FOCUS We envision being the best FMCG company across our markets, and sustainably grow our business by focusing on our product portfolio and package innovations, thus assuring that we act responsibly as a corporate citizen. Consequently, we believe in sustainable growth we strive to create sustainable value for our diverse group of stakeholders along the value chain.We developed our sustainability vision and framework to materialize this commitment. As we move closer towards our targets, we put our sustainability principles into practice in all our processes. “Create Value” is at the heart of our vision surrounded by our ‘Customers & Consumers’, ‘People’ and ‘Community’. We deliver the value we generate to our stakeholders under 6 major titles: Consumer Well-Being, Customer Value, Human Rights, Human Capital, Community Development and Environmental Footprint. Our Sustainability Focus and SDGs For more detailed information on our contributions to SDG's you may visit https://www.anadolugrubu.com.tr/document/pdf/Anadoludan-Yarinlara.pdf The Way Forward Aligned with TCCC, we identified the areas where we can create value based on our performance. To broaden the scope of the positive impact accompanied by our company goals, we linked them with the UN Sustainable Development Goals. While one of our sustainability agenda items is the Science Based Target initiative (https://sciencebasedtargets.org/ ), another is to disseminate our sustainability performance with an Integrated Report that will align our strategy, financial and extra-financial goals. RISK MANAGEMENT AND ETHICS Priority Areas 2018 Goals Performance in 2018 Status 2019 Goals Continue to update ERM website has been Achieved  To revise and update the approach for and further develop updated. Transfer of ERM establishing the consolidated risk the ERM website. website to new portal is dashboard at the Group Level Risk ongoing. Management  Utilizing Videoconferencing as a tool for some internal audits to save time and be more environment-friendly Risk Management at CCI CCI Board’s Risk Committee oversees the risk management. Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Team, directly reporting to the CEO and the Risk Committee, acts as the facilitator and conducts risk assessments. ERM team members are the CEO, the Strategy and Business Development Director, and the Regional Directors. ERM conducts risk assessment on country and group levels using the input from the World Economic Forum, global surveys and The Coca Cola System. The risks are prioritized based on their general likelihood, and the probability of occurence in the short-term and impact. CCI Country Operation Managers are responsible for risk management and mitigation. They identify the critical threats and opportunities based on the risk assessment results, integrate them into their Strategic Business Plans and prepare the mitigation action plans. High-priority risks are reported to the Board’s Risk Committee along with mitigation action plans. Internal Audits are performed to track the risk mitigation plans and the results are reported to the Audit Committee. Global Risks Landscape 2018 Source. World Economic Forum 2008–2018, Global Risks Reports CCI country management uses the pillars in the company’s strategic business plan to evaluate business risks. CCI’s principal risks and key mitigations are given below: Risk Pillar Principal Risk Key Mitigations Community &  Implement locally relevant projects with local and international project partners. Stakeholder Relations  Drive stakeholder perception through transparency and reporting practices.  Water reduction activities at plants. Water Scarcity  Continue local replenishment and access to water program.  Sustainable sourcing.  Wastewater treatment systems. Wastewater  Periodic analysis.  ISO 14001 EMS and KORE Audits. Energy  OE Projects, Behavioral Energy Program. Environmental  Improve energy efficiency (achieve energy use ratio targets)  Energy efficiency and GHG emission reduction programs at plants, logistics and cooling operations. Climate Change  Post-consumer packaging recovery programs to reduce packaging materials and GHG emissions.  Policy making and engagement with NGOs and legal authorities.  Investigate alternative clean energy sources.  Conduct SVA studies. Water  Follow-up of Source Water Protection Plan.  Implementation of water efficiency projects.  Improvement of WUR (water use ratio). Food Safety  Implementation KORE audits and International Standards.  Implementation of sustainable packaging and waste solutions. Maintaining Packaging packaging innovation, Lightweight, PlantPet, recycling activities. Coordination Supply Chain with local authorities for waste collection and recycling. Supplier  Follow-up of SGP audit findings. Management Quality  KORE audits and International Standards.  Establish an early warning mechanism for critical draft and recent regulations. Compliance Risks  Lobby as an industry against unfavorable regulatory and tax initiatives of Legal & Compliance the government. Ethics-Bribery &  Train employees on the Code of Ethics. Corruption  Encourage effective use of Ethic Hotline.  Implement ethics program. Human &  SGP Audits. Work Life Workplace Rights  Follow-up SGP audit results.  Ethics Hotline.  Hand in Hand Safety Program.  KORE Compliance Implementations. Health & Safety  Distributor safety process implementations.  Contractor safety process implementations.  Driving Safety Program. Sustainable Talent  Continue with talent development forum. Capability  Effective cooperation with respected universities to build employer branding. Cyber-attacks that  Security program, may cause data  cyber resilience, Cybersecurity leakage or service  cyber risk insurance. interruptions In 2018, risk assessments were conducted three times; in January, June and in August following the devaluation of Turkish Lira. CCI’s top risks for 2018 were instability in international politics and security, economic volatility, and corporate acceptance. Followed by these were capability building, regulatory taxes and changing consumer preferences. CCI’s principal environmental risks were assessed as post-consumer packaging, water scarcity and climate change. CCI employees are regularly trained on risk management and informed via the ERM website, that is accessible through the CCI internal Portal. The website provides an ERM tool along with guidelines, leading articles, useful links and an awareness training presentation on ERM . Outlook for 2019:  Understanding technology’s impact on strategy, business models and cybersecurity  Anticipating and planning for geopolitical and regulatory changes  Overseeing the culture and talent in an era of innovation and transformation  Engaging with the stakeholders on long-term governance, environmental and social issues Information Security and Privacy Priority Areas 2018 Goals Performance in 2018 Status 2019 Goals Information Security monitoring systems  Implement «secure-by-design» «privacy-by-design» approach in  To increase and additional initiatives (such as 2FA) were implemented over all CCI countries product development and Information security Achieved to increase security maturity. Employees lifecycle management for Security monitoring were informed about modern sustainable security culture. capabilities.  To add more information security threats and topics  Extend cybersecurity focus to OT/IoT to increase visibility with topics to the through Security awareness trainings. OT intrusion detection systems awareness and effectively protect program. production systems in our plants.  Implement early and accurate threat detection systems by leveraging advanced deception technologies to ensure postbreach defense, contain cyber attacks, mitigate the damages thus increase cyber resilience.  Challenge CCI’s security maturity and resilience to sophisticated attacks by emulating attackers who use advanced tactics, techniques and procedures. According to the Global Risk Report by the World Economic Forum; cyber risk is one of the major and rising risks around the globe. To address this challenge and mitigate risks, CCI owns a robust information security and privacy program with the following key elements to secure its information assets: Information Security Governance: CCI runs company-wide information security governance structure that enables the effective management of potential risks and incorporates security and privacy controls into our information systems and services. Information Security Steering Committee, which consists of the Executive Committee and the security management team, acts as the governing body since 2009. CCI has implemented a comprehensive Information Security Management System (ISMS) based on the ISO 27001 ISMS standard to achieve its security objectives. CCI complies and was certified with ISO 27001 standardsin 2016 and completed the surveillance audit in 2017 and 2018. Security Awareness: CCI has been running a mandatory cybersecurity awareness program for all employees since 2014, thereby promoting cybersecurity awareness across the company. The awareness program reports are submitted to top management to inform them of any risk. This awareness program includes online training, awareness posters on display at CCI work places, as well as email notifications on diverse topics such as phishing, travel security, URL security, email security, physical security. Regulatory Compliance: CCI designed and implemented many initiatives aimed at ensuring compliance with the requirements of:  Turkish Personal Data Protection Law no. 6698 (KVKK)  Communiques published by Capital Markets Board of Turkey  Authorized Economic Operator program of Turkish Ministry of Customs and Trade  The Law of the Republic of Kazakhstan on Personal Data and Their Protection Privacy and Data Protection: CCI takes precautionary measures to secure the personal information of its employees and customers. Our IT environment, security measures, policies and cyber security awareness program support compliancewith the privacy and data protection requirements. Cyber Risk Insurance: CCI possesses cyber risk insurance to mitigate cyber-related security breach or events. Cyber risk insurance covers the cost of restoring the loss in terms of business income or reputation owing to the damage of computers and computer networks. Business continuity CCI implements TCCC’s Incident Management and Crisis Resolution (IMCR) program, which is designed to create and maintain an efficient,integrated structure for preventing and managing incidents. Implementation of the IMCR program is a key management activity and is everyone’s responsibility at CCI. To ensure that we prevent or reduce the impact of incidents on our business, we have incident management teams in each country of operation. Each team joins our annual training sessions, and collectively work on simulations of complex incidents. As part of the IMCR program, each country conducts the IMCR Validation program every three years, which aims to create readiness for crisis situations, build awareness, identify gaps and develop action plans for improvements. In 2019, we plan to conduct the IMCR Validation Program in Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and in Pakistan. Ethics Priority Areas 2018 Goals Performance in 2018 Status 2019 Goals To continue to give our training on Code of Ethics and anti-bribery policy to all To continue to give our employees in all CCI countries and to use training on Code of Ethics and other communication channels like digital Training has been anti-bribery policy to all boards, internal social media platform to given to all management teams and all Ongoing raise awareness. Business newcomers as part newcomers in all CCI To co-operate with EBRD to run an ethics Ethics of the orientation countries. and compliance training program which program. will be initiated in CCI's distributors with the aim of reducing the third party risks. To continue to review and update Code of Ethics and anti-bribery policy in line with To continue to review and It will be completed in TCCC practices. update Code of Ethics and Ongoing 2019. To prepare policies about third party anti-bribery policy in line relationships, gift and entertainment, with TCCC practices. conflict of interest. Integrity and honesty are fundamental virtues for CCI. It is our whole-hearted obligation to protect our most valuable asset; the Coca-Cola brand and Coca-Cola İçecek. The CCI Code of Ethics guides our employees to live by our values and “do the right thing”. The scope applies to all CCI operating geographies. Our CCI Code of Ethics and Code of Ethics Handbook are publicly available for everyone on CCI corporate website: www.cci.com.tr/en/investor-relations/corporategovernance/code-of-ethics .https://www.cci.com.tr/Portals/3/Documents/PDF/CCI_code_of_ethics_main.pdf CCI’s Corporate Governance Committee ensures full implementation and enforcement of the Code of Ethics. Implementation of the Code is under the responsibility of the CCI Ethics and Compliance Officer and the Local Ethics and Compliance Officers. CCI Ethics and Compliance Committee, consists of the CFO, the Human Resources Director, the General Counsel, the Corporate Affairs Director and the Chief Audit Executive. The Corporate Governance Committee also developed necessary mechanisms for stakeholders to report any illegal or unethical practice within the company to the Corporate Governance Committee or the Audit Committee. There are several channels available for our employees to express their concerns on ethical issues. They can direct their concerns to their managers or Local Ethics and Compliance Officers, or use the CCI Ethics Service, which is run by a completely independent third party that is available 24/7 to all employees. There are translators providing translation services online in Arabic, English, Georgian, Russian and Turkish. CCI Ethics Service communication channels are: 1. E-mail: employee’s name and e-mail address are kept confidential 2. CCI Ethics and Compliance websites www.ccietikhat.com (in Turkish) and www.cciethicsline.com (in English, Russian and Arabic): employees can login to the page anonymously and enter their message. 3. A dedicated phone number. CCI Ethics and Compliance Officer keep records of all incidents across CCI and monitors the review processes and ensures they are completed. CCI Internal Audit Department handles investigations concerning Code of Ethics violations and the CCI Ethics and Compliance Committee makes decisions based on the findings of the investigations. Certain categories of decision-making authority may be delegated to Local Ethics and Compliance Committees in accordance with the Guidelines for Handling Code of Ethics Matters. We impose disciplinary measures that fit the nature and circumstances of each Code violation. Letters of reprimand are issued for less significant, first-time offenses. Violations of a more serious nature may result in suspension without pay, loss of progress payments and bonuses or termination of employment. All newly recruited employees must sign an acknowledgement form confirming that they have read the Code of Ethics and agree to abide by its provisions. All employees are required to periodically make this acknowledgement. The Code of Ethics Handbook and Guidelines for Handling Code of Ethics Matters are shared with our employees. Representatives and consultants assigned by CCI and third parties doing work on behalf of CCI may also obtain a copy of the Code and learn therein about their obligations. Since 2013, our employees are trained on the revised Code of Ethics, the Code of Ethics Handbook and procedural provisions. In addition, digital in-office screens and internal social media are used in order to increase awareness and to refresh the information about ethics rules. This year for the first time with the participation of all countries, CCI celebrated Global Ethics Day. In this scope, 624 human-hours of training and approximately 50 informative posts were provided for the countries in the reporting period. SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SECTION-2: Sustainability in Review OUR MATERIAL SUSTAINABILITY TOPICS OF 2018 Through the aforementioned materiality analysis for 2018, we determined the material sustainability topics of 2018 which are focal issues as they have relatively higher impact on the value generation during the course of our operations. Six major areas that are material for our stakeholders in line with our vision and strategy are: Consumer Well-Being, Customer Value, Human Rights, Human Capital, Community Development and Environmental Footprint. For Consumer Well-Being; offering a wide beverage portfolio to our consumers at high product quality and safety standards has crucial importance in our business model. For Customer Value; we are determined to go for higher customer satisfaction with our customer-centric approach. We strive for Operational Excellence across our geographies with our innovation culture, and put best effort to spread this along our supply chain. On the other hand; following a Superior Execution approach, we focus on ensuring the best customer experience by contributing to the sustainable development of our distributors and by interacting actively with our customers. We are committed to creating value and positive impact for our People in our operating geographies. To create a great place to work, we pioneer in Human Rights policies and practices. Furthermore, invest in the development of our Human Capital, hence we bring about a positive change and share with people. By prioritizing Health & Safety, we aim to foster a safe, and equal opportunity workplace, where all our employees feel appreciated and involved regardless of their gender, nationality, age, language and religion. These Diversity & Inclusion policies not only boost the synergy within CCI, but also enlighten the society for positive transformational change. To spread about these policies throughout the value chain; Human Rights Policy and Supplier Guiding Principles are our main tools. The source of the power that creates and delivers sustainable value is our employees, and their skill sets and expertise. Therefore, we manage this precious Human Capital through Employee Engagement and Talent Development programs. We proudly serve a great Community consisting of a population of more than 400 million people across 10 countries and we are pledged to be a good corporate citizen. While growing our business, we also work to ensure that we create value for each and every member of these communities. Our community investment focuses on three areas, which are youth, women empowerment and water. On the other hand; minimizing our Environmental Footprint by using fewer natural resources, operating efficiently and generating less waste are our priorities. This is essential not only for a sustainable business, but also for the sustainable welfare of the communities that we operate in. Consequently, we intensively focus on ‘water and energy management’, ‘climate change’ and ‘sustainable packaging’ practices. The following section of this report focuses on our actions, performance,goals and commitments for the 2018 material topics. CREATING VALUE FOR OUR CUSTOMERS & CONSUMERS CONSUMER WELL-BEING While we offer our consumers a wide range of products fit for every lifestyle and occasion, product safety and quality remain our priority. We aim at meeting the ever-evolving preferences of our consumers to provide more choices in our beverage portfolio with a “total beverage” mindset. We provide affordable, ready, innovative products for all occasions. Product Safety and Quality Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2018 Goals Performance in 2018 Status 2019 Goals Product safety To continue to have zero major Zero unconformity in food Achieved To continue to have zero major and quality findings in food safety and quality safety and quality audits. findings in food safety and quality audits. audits. At CCI, we conduct bottling operations in 26 plants in 10 countries. The sustainability of our business lies first and foremost in the excellence of these operations. KORE (The Coca-Cola Operating Requirements), the set of operating requirements in The Coca-Cola System (TCCS), forms our main reference point in managing food safety and quality, environment, and health and safety performance in our plants. Annual KORE audits and assessments are carried out in each plant by TCCC’s internal auditors to ensure our compliance with the requirements as well as attainment of relevant certifications and engagement with approved excellence programs. Please refer to “Management Systems Standards and Principles” in Performance Indicators section of the report for an explanation of compliance with regards to internal policies, external standards and principles. External Audits External audits conducted in our plants verify our compliance with the necessary standards. Our upto-date list of standards’ compliance and verification by the end of reporting period is as follows: Quality, Environment, Health & Safety and Food Quality All our plants in 10 operating countries have ISO 9001, ISO 14001, OHSAS 18001 and FSSC 22000 certification. Energy and GHG All our plants, sales operations facilities and offices in Turkey are certified with ISO 50001 Energy Management and ISO 14064 Greenhouse Gases Standards. Our HQ Building in Turkey has the LEED Gold Certificate. Our Burundai Plant in Kazakhstan, Bishkek in Kyrgyzstan and Lahore in Pakistan also have the ISO 50001 certification. Food Packaging All our plants that produce preforms hold PAS 223 Packaging certificates. KORE Audits Compliance with product safety and quality requirements by both by our suppliers and our own plants are regularly monitored through unanticipated audits by TCCC. Thus and so, during the reporting period, 5 CCI plants were audited. All plants passed the audit without unconformities. Furthermore, third-party external audits on compliance with the FSSC 22000 Standard were carried out, resulting in either re-certification or follow-up. By the end of the reporting period, all plants obtained FSSC 22000 certificates. The sustainability of our business lies first and foremost in the excellence of our operations. Total Beverage Portfolio Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2018 Goals Performance in 2018 Status 2019 Goals Consumer To continue with the Open In 2018; 643,472 users Achieved To continue with the Open Well-being to Curiosity platform as a made 756,886 visits to Curiosity platform as a means of communicating and 862,038 page means of communicating with our consumers. were viewed in total with our consumers. during the visit sessions. We grow by offering more than 25 “consumer-centric” brands to our consumers. In order to meet the ever-changing preferences of our consumers and to build a stronger business, we offer a spectrum of choice across our beverage portfolio that includes low or zero calories beverage options. Our team dedicated on our portfolio growth and mix, focus on providing the best blend to present the highest satisfaction to our consumers. We strengthen our strategy through lean production and transformation into the digital enterprise. The key driver of this new strategy will be the agile operations, which analyzes the processes, tools and training that is being used, and in return leads us to quickly respond to customer needs and market changes. Open to Curiosity (merakettim) As part of our efforts for a more transparent relationship with our consumers, the online Open to Curiosity Platform in Turkey provides a direct forum for our consumers to address their concerns regarding our products. Besides, we cater our consumers with clear, understandable and scientific information about our products. Furthermore, stakeholders who are interested in seeing our production processes can easily attend our plant tours – in person or virtually – to learn about the production stages of Coca-Cola products. Our stakeholders can visit https://merakettim.coca-colaturkiye.com/ and https://www.cocacolafabrikasi.com/ for more information. Responsible Marketing At the core of our efforts to transparently inform our consumers lies comprehensive and clear nutritional information, allowing them to make choices that fit best to their lifestyles. Most minimum, our labels provide basic nutritional information about the beverage, such as the amount of energy (kilocalories, calories, kilojoules), protein, carbohydrates, fats, total sugars and sodium. Responsible advertising and marketing are other important means of how we engage with our consumers. In line with TCCC’s Global School Beverage Guidelines, we do not sell our sparkling beverages in elementary schools. Specifically, to honor the rights of parents and caregivers to make the appropriate choice for their children, we do not engage in advertising or marketing activities targeting those under the age of 12. Our stakeholders can reach further information regarding our responsible marketing policy at https://www.coca-colacompany.com/content/dam/journey/us/en/private/fileassets/pdf/ourcompany/responsible-marketing-policy.pdf CUSTOMER VALUE In line with our vision, we aim to build a company that creates value and delivers sustainable longterm growth as a preferred partner for our customers. To deliver these value, we put in practice the best-in-class commercial strategies and solutions to create the perfect shopper experience every time they visit our sales points. Our key motivation is “winning with the customer” whilst delivering joint initiatives and superior execution. Across our operating geography, we have almost 400 million consumers and we work with approximately 920,000 sales points, including supermarkets, restaurants, convenience stores, hotels, and other retail outlets. We deliver products from 26 plants ensuring the highest quality products to our customers. We keep on investing in coolers to ensure our consumers access cold products. Superior Execution To provide the best experience for our business partners; customers and distributors and win with the customer, we are investing in developing our people and technologies we use. Customer Satisfaction Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2018 Goals Performance in 2018 Status 2019 Goals Customer We aim to conduct the study for We conducted customer satisfaction studies in Partially To conduct the studies in Satisfaction Kyrgyzstan, Pakistan, Kazakhstan, Turkey and Kyrgyzstan. Total of 2,739 Kazakhstan, Pakistan and Turkey and Jordan. customers have been interviewed. Iraq It is crucial to understand the key drivers of satisfaction of our customers to “Win with the customer”. Understanding the dynamics and taking necessary steps for a stronger and sustainable relationship, we are conducting Customer Satisfaction Studies in all of our operating geography. These studies enable us to focus on the gap between our customers' expectations and our current service levels. We have been conducting customer satisfaction surveys in Turkey since 2005 and in other operations since 2012. The customer satisfaction scores increased significantly compared to the last year. This was the result of our actions to increase in the timely product order delivery as well as relationship health tracking: a measure of customer relationship management. Customer Satisfaction Survey (Turkey) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Customer Satisfaction Score 61 68 64 60 54 63 CCI Customer Interaction Center CCI Customer Interaction Center’s mission is to understand and satisfy customers' and distributors’ requirements across CCI geography and exceed their expectations with the best service methods.  We satisfy the customers, distributors and create new customer opportunities through various and flexible work flows that we develop.  We conduct issue-based customer satisfactions surveys and take proactive actions.  We call back most of our incoming callers about their service requests to ensure their satisfaction with the solution provided.  We analyze all our calls instantly and make issue-based reporting.  We monitor our service and quality level daily and take actions when necessary. In 2018, we received 340,000 service requests for different issues regarding customers (both existing and new), distributors, fleet and finance, with a 24% increase compared to the last year. Moreover, our Customer Interaction Center performed 125,000 outbound calls to check the satisfaction with service levels. Customer Training In Turkey, 14 customer development training sessions for 250 participants were organized. Joint Business Plan Meetings In Turkey, to increase customer collaboration, Modern Channel Joint Business Plan (JBP) meetings are held every year with a joint agenda that constitutes top local and nationalaccounts’ priorities and annual marketing plans. Every year, cross-functional teams from both the customer and CCI get together to ensure co-marketing and the alignment of operational plans of both parties. Customer Focus Groups As a reflection of the emphasis we place on our customers; we occasionally organize Customer Focus Groups for the benefit of our Local Key Accounts (LKA). The main purpose is to create value for our LKA by helping them better internalize their own identity, capability and value. Distributor Satisfaction Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2018 Goals Performance in 2018 Status 2019 Goals Distributor To continue providing We provided 73 training sessions with Achieved To continue providing Trainings trainings to our 759 participants to our distributors in trainings to our distributors. Turkey. distributors. Every year, we conduct Distributor Satisfaction Surveys via a third-party service provider to evaluate the satisfaction level of our distributors. As an measure of our company reputation, surveys inform us of our strengths and weaknesses about our partnerships with our distributors and our ability to manage the distributor network. CCI Turkey’s 2018 survey score was up by 5 points from its 2017 score, reaching 91%. Distributor Satisfaction Survey (Turkey) 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Distributor Satisfaction Score 84.0 84.9 84.5 84.3 86.0 91 Distributor Supervisor and Pre-Seller Training In order to accompany the sustainable development of our distributors in Turkey, we support their sales capability developments. To this end, we provided the supervisors and presellers of our distributors in Turkey around 70 training sessions on various sales and professional development topics with approximately 750 participants. Distributor Pre-Seller Online Training In addition to the above-mentioned trainings, an online training system was launcehd for our sales representatives. This is intended to enable the new-comers to understand the business processes better, to get to know TCCS and CCI better and a better understanding of their responsibilities. The online training includes modules such as “Basics of Coca-Cola system”, “A day of a preseller”, “Merchandising and RED”, “Trade Math” and “Dealing with Complaints”. A total of 178 distributors from Turkey, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan, and Pakistan participated in Distributor Pre-Seller Online Training in 2018. 504 pre-sellers were assigned training. Distributor In-Class Training In-class trainings are provided to our distributors so as to equip them with in-depth knowledge through high interaction. Across all CCI countries; 404 training sessions were held and 7,210 attendees were trained in 2018. Right Execution Daily (RED) Practices The Right Execution Daily (RED) system helps us offer products to our customers and consumers in the optimal way. We switched to a one level higher monitoring in our RED project in Turkey by introducing image recognition technology in 2016. This new technology enebales us to cover all of our traditional sales points. It allows our sales teams to follow their own customers’ merchandising standards and practices through photography. Following Turkey’s successful implementation in 2016, we started to use this technology in Iraq in 2017 and in Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, and Kyrgyzstan during 2018. The image recognition technology will be further rolled out to the onpremise channel in Turkey as well as Jordan and Tajikistan operations in 2019. Route to Market (RTM) We aim to offer a sustainable Route to Market (RTM) model for delivering superior customer service through perfect commercial execution. CCI Turkey’s indirect RTM model serves the “Best in Class Customer Service”. CCI constantly checks and improves customer satisfaction levels by supervising each distributor and investing in their operational capabilities. All these efforts enable an effective, efficient and sustainable RTM model. Among our RTM sustainability actions are optimizing the number of vehicle movements per day, the daily mileage and the time spent in the field. In line with our vision to be the best FMCG company, we track all potential customers every 2 to 3 years via our Every Outlet Survey (EOS). “One Number Score” is our monthly commercial KPI that helps us track our ‘Customer Successful Visit’ performance. Commercial Excellence CCI NEXT and RED BOX MODULE Within the scope of the Customer Engagement Program, CCI Turkey has an online sales channel, namely CCINext, that enables customers to receive online orders 24/7, and to follow discounts and promotions special for their channel, to track orders and gain/redeem points as well as access training videos. CCINext, launched in 2017, introduced another sales channel in our system with its online ordering module which was live on the 3rd quarter of 2018. At a pilot trial at 5 distributors in İzmir City Center, 6 thousand customers were reached. In the last quarter of the year, İzmir and Ankara Sales Centers put CCINext in use for their customers CCINext Red Box is our Customer Development Program which allows us to add value to our customers. With its traditional channel applications, CCINext Red Box module won the “Most Successful Retail Channel” award given by TCCC at the Global Customer & Commercial Leadership (GCCL) Awards. 2018 Retail Channel Winner Coca-Cola Store Now Open Launched in 2017 in a bid to respond to evolving consumer habits and to offer better service to customers, the Coca-Cola Store began selling products through our business partners on Turkey’s leading e-commerce websites such as hepsiburada.com, trendyol.com, amazon.com.tr, çiçeksepeti.com, n11. com, and gittigidiyor.com in 2018, in addition to its own website at the address www.cocacoladukkani.com. Products are offered through our business partners with the marketing support of our company at times of the highest online shopping traffic such as the Black Friday and the Longest Night. Thanks to the powerful reach of digital media to consumers, Coca-Cola Store is an effective tool that we utilize during new product launches. In this context, sales to our business partners increased eight folds in 2018 over the previous year. Excellence in Supply Chain Owing to our far-reaching regional presence, we have to manage a large value chain resulting in significant social, environmental and economic impacts. Thus, we see it as our responsibility to diligently follow our sustainable methodology, and remain unlimited in our sustainability policies and practices in our own operations, and implement them within all stages of our value chain. A Case of Success In Turkey In OE Projects Throughout our organization, we strive to incorporate a culture of Operational Excellence (OE) with the long-term intention of meticulously improving our business processes and systems. The OE Model is based on Lean Six Sigma methodologies and applied to all company functions. While the model focuses on maximizing quality and efficiency and minimizing failure, it also aims to decrease the environmental impacts that arise from our bottling operations. OE-Wave 11 completed. OE-Wave 12 studies are progressing with 11 green belt candidates. TURKEY Since Implementation In 2018 (as of end of OE -Wave11) (2008 to 2018 Cumulative) 828 624 $62,5 70 14 $ 1.5 0 14 OE projects certifications millions saving OE projects certifications millions saving blackbelts greenbelts Note: OE-Wave 12 in progress not included. CCI COUNTRIES (Excluding Turkey) * Implementation In 2018 (2008 to 2018 Cumulative) 690 157 $ 8.62 82 0 $2.38 0 26 OE projects certifications millions saving OE projects certifications millions saving blackbelts greenbelts * CCI countries excluding Turkey in the reporting scope are: Jordan, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Pakistan, Kyrgyzstan. CCI COUNTRIES (Including Turkey) ** Implementation In 2018 (2008 to 2018 Cumulative) 1,518 781 $ 71.12 152 14 $3.88 0 40 OE projects certifications millions saving OE projects certifications millions saving blackbelts greenbelts ** CCI countries in the reporting scope are: Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Pakistan, Kyrgyzstan CCI Turkey Operations Innovation Day EFQM Model’s fundamental goal, “harnessing creativity and innovation” along with our vision to become the best FMCG company were our inspirations to the establish CCI Turkey Operations Innovation Day. It provides an opportunity to all employees for sharing their ideas and fostering the innovation culture within CCI. This dynamic event offers us an opportunity to recognize and reward innovation and stimulate new ideas that can lead to a positive impact on our communities and business operations. The Innovation Day brings together CCIdea, OE projects and the Innovation Competition within a single framework. Third CCI Innovation Day was held in September 2018 with the concept of “Women and Innovation”. 7 finalist projects in OE category and 11 finalist projects in Innovation Category were presented. The first three projects in each category were selected by televoting and rewarded. 14 employees were nominated for green-belt certificates. We received 3,105 ideas from our employees within the scope of CCIdea between 2014 and 2018 (404 ideas in 2018) Anadolu Group’s Bi’ Fikir Festivali (An Idea Festival) is open for participation by Group companies and it rewards companies that are successful in innovation. Among our 2018 innovation projects; three were selected as semi-finalists in ‘Explorer’ and ‘Inventor’ categories. One project, named SPARC was presented as best practice in “Digital Transformation Category” on the final day. CREATING VALUE FOR PEOPLE HUMAN RIGHTS Respect for human rights is one of CCI’s core values. We value our relationships with our employees and we achieve success through the contributions that each and every individual makes. We are committed to having open and participatory workplace in which universal human rights are respected. We value every employee and encourage all to do their best. In December 2018, CCI published its first Human Rights Policy, a continuation of the existing CCI Workplace Rights Policy. This new policy is based on international standards of human rights as set forth in the United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor Organization Declaration of Basic Work Principles and Rights, and the United Nations Global Compact. Supported by these sound foundations, we integrate human rights and workplace rights into all of our practices, corporate values, and sustainability strategy. The CCI Human Rights Policy is one of the fundamentals of our Vision and it is communicated continuously and consistently throughout our entire procurement chain The CCI Human Rights Policy addresses the following issues: • Community and stakeholder engagement • Diversity and inclusion • Zero tolerance to arbitrary discrimination • Freedom of association and collective bargaining • Safe and healthy workplaces • Workplace security • Prohibition of forced labor and human trafficking • Prohibition of child labor • Fair work hours, wages, and benefits • Protection of land and water resource use In order to determine the degree that our operations comply with the CCI’s Human Rights Policy and TCCC’s Supplier Guiding Principles (SGP), audits were conducted by an independent auditing firm in 2018. Five CCI plants in Jordan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, and Turkey passed these audits successfully. Supplier Guiding Principles Our local procurement policy supports the sustainable development of local economies and we support our suppliers to improve their sustainability performance with effective supplier development practices. As part of our supplier agreements since 2002, the Supplier Guiding Principles (SGP) determine the social, environmental, ethical and economic minimals, which TCCS expect from their suppliers. The latest human rights advancements from Ruggie, OECD and UNGC standards, as well as guidance provided by the Danish Institute for Human Rights study of TCCC policies and practices are reflected to SGP standards. At a minimum, our suppliers are required to meet these standards with respect to their operations. You can access the SGP from the TCCC corporate website: https://www.coca-colacompany.com/our-company/supplier-guiding-principles Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2018 Goals Performance in 2018 Status 2019 Goals Sustainability of our To attain a success rate of 85% for The success rate was Underachieved To attain a success rate of 75% for Suppliers the SGP audits in all countries of realized as 73%. the SGP audits in all countries of operation. operation. We consistently cultivate effective communication and conduct audits and constructive practices in order to ensure that our suppliers adhere to our principles. Our suppliers receive a copy of our SGP at the beginning of the business relationship and are expected to transfer these principles to their stakeholders, in particular, to their workforce. We attach the SGP Policy to our supplier contracts when applicable, with the expectation that they will develop and implement appropriate internal business processes to guarantee their compliance with the SGP requirements. Supplier audits are conducted by TCCC and CCI’s trained personnel internally as well as by third parties. For our direct material and cooler suppliers, it is obligatory to undergo SGP audit and comply with SGP standards before signing contracts. Third-party audits include confidential interviews both with employees and on-site contract workers. A supplier who fails to meet any aspect of the SGP requirements is expected to implement corrective actions. If a supplier fails to adhere to our principles, sanctions that include termination of the contract are applicable. During the reporting period, with enlarged scope of SGP by trademarked Tertiary Packaging suppliers like crates, pallets, printed shrink and the like, 73% of our suppliers passed the audits and assured compliance with SGP without any major issues. Since this was below our target set as 85%, we put effort to work closely with these suppliers so that we could resolve their issues and bring them back to SGP compliance. We have revised our target for 2019 as 75%, with the inclusion of the aforementioned enlarged scope. As a result of the SGP audit, a remediation action plan that covers specific matters such as working hours (especially night shifts), rest day violation, overtime and health and safety, were sent to the relevant suppliers and supplementary audits were organized. In the last three years, TCCC audited all of CCI’s ingredient and packaging suppliers. SGP Audit Targets for Years 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 Target Target 88% 91% 92% 93% 73% 75% 85% Local Procurement Local procurement is a significant means for us to contribute to local economies. The proportion of our spending on raw materials from local suppliers (within the same country) is provided in the table below. Local Procurement (%) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Turkey* 98 95 95 99 99 Jordan 65 55 95 95 94 Azerbaijan** 54 47 47 49 35 Pakistan 98 95 97 97 90 * Concentrate is not included. ** There are no approved suppliers in these local markets for some product and service categories. (There are no local suppliers available for some of the product categories with high spend. Suppliers are selected and approved by TCCC.) Diversity and Inclusion We embrace differences and consider them significant for the synergy created in our workplace and for our sustainable growth. As a result, we aim at an inclusive culture where all employees feel confident in speaking their mind, sharing their opinions. Since 2015, Diversity and Inclusion Steering Committee, comprised of representatives from various branches of our organization, is led by our Human Resources Department . Meeting every 6 months, the Committee’s main objective is to advise senior leaders on how to achieve the diversity and inclusion goals and to pioneer in creating an inclusive culture throughout our organization. CCI Women’s Clubs are platforms for women employees to interact and organize various activities focusing on networking, capability development, leadership skills and empowerment in the workplace and in the community. The Women’s Club is an example of CCI’s commitment to women to facilitate new job opportunities, increase capacities, create network and inspire the next generation women leaders. As of 2018, with the establishment of Women’s Clubs in Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan, all CCI countries are now part of the CCI Women Network. CCI’s equal-opportunity employment pledge is now being published in all extramural recruitment ads and principles such as posting gender-neutral vacancy announcements were also adopted. Our Performance in 2018 Employees New Employee Hires Senior Managers 12% 24% 24% 88% 77% 76% Female Male Female Male Female Male Employees 4% 43% 53% Millenials (20-35) Gen X (36-51) Gen X (52-71) To enable CCI women to further unleash their leadership potential, a “Women in Leadership” program has also been developed. It is planned to be launched in 2019. “Leaders in the Field” is a series of meetings aimed at increasing intergenerational dialogue. This program continued in 2018 with the participation of CCI’s CEO, CFO, and General Counsel in sessions that were attended by more than 500 employees, and were held in all operating countries. One of the most important diversity and inclusiveness initiatives undertaken at CCI in 2018 was the U30 Strategy Camp. The idea behind this program is to invite young CCI employees at the age of thirty or below to take part in a three-day camp during which they worked with CCI’s CEO in formulating CCI’s future strategies. This was the first initiative of this kind at CCI and more than 500 applications were received. The participants’ involvement in shaping the future strategy goes beyond the camp and they collectively work to produce the execution plans for the ideas generated during the camp. Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2018 Goals Performance in 2018 Status 2019 Goals To define our D&I constitution. Our D&I constitution Achieved Launch the Program defined Diversity and Launch Women in Leadership Launch was postponed Delayed Inclusion(D&I) Program for CCI. to 2019 to expand the participation to ourour CEO. Design and content Achieved Continue efforts to broaden the Design pilot project to build completed. external talent pipeline to external talent pipeline to increase women hiring in increase women hiring in Supply Supply Chain and Commercial Chain (plant) & Commercial (field) functions. functions. To review diversity friendly D&I recruitment Achieved  D&I awareness campaign policies and implement in principles launched selected countries as a pilot.  Education series on “Inclusion”  D&I task force To start cultural D&I programs Cultural D&I programs Achieved Establish Diversity Cafe concept are planned and ready to launch Health and Safety Main Objective It is our primary responsibility to provide our employees a safe and healthy working environment. By doing so, we can improve our employees’ work-life balance, and positively impact their motivation, henceour productivity and business performance.  Protect the most valuable and important resource of our company – our human capital – from any occupational health and safety risks or hazards.  Ensure that OHS is an integral part of our business and is actively supported through management, leadership and commitment.  Protect the Company from any legal challenges by complying with at least the local legal requirements and by applying industry best practices to set higher standards than these legal requirements.  Protect all other resources and assets from any losses that may arise from work-related risks and hazards. Location based cross-functional H&S committees meet on a monthly basis and report to the Country Health and Safety (H&S) committees on a quarterly basis. Group H&S Manager coordinate H&S matters in collaboration with the Country Committees throughout all CCI countries and report to the Health & Safety Steering Committee, which meets every 6 months. The CEO is highest rank executive with the ultimate responsibility and the HR Director is at the top in the chain of command for H&S. Health and safety issues are managed through the Coca-Cola Operating Requirements (KORE). All our operating plants had been certified with OHSAS 18001 Management System certification by 2017. Furthermore, OHS issues are handled within the context of collective bargaining agreements signed with labor unions. In 2019, CCI plants that need to be audited will be certified with ISO 45001 (the replacement of OHSAS 18001). To expand and strengthen our occupational health and safety culture, we provide targeted and periodic OHS trainings to our employees and our contractors that conduct work on behalf of CCI. Our Performance in 2018 In 2018, we simplified and standardized our occupational health and safety practices. In such a year when we strengthened our stand as a workplace safety leader and made it a focal point of attention, we improved our performance in dealing with such issues measured against each benchmark. Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2018 Goals Performance in 2018 Status 2019 Goals OHS policy, To have no major findings from In 2018, we have successfully passed Achieved Continue to have no fail status procedures and KORE and local legal audits. from 4 unannounced KORE audits from all types of external audits. systems that took place in Gujranwala, Karachi, Dushanbe and Çorlu. Safe Driving To apply the online system in Alert driving has been applied in Achieved Continue to have alertdriving and Jordan. Jordan. The vehicle crash rates were other driving trainings to improved by 37%. continue to improve the vehicle crash rates at least by 30%. To apply the telematics system Azerbaijan and Kyrgyzstan have Ongoing To have telematics system in for the countries with high implemented the telematics. Jordan operations. Vehicle Crash Rates. OHS Reduce the last year’s overall LTIR score was reduced by 21.5% Achieved To reduce the LTIR score by 20%. performance LTIR score by 20%. OHS Along the To improve supervision system The permit to work system has been Ongoing To reduce the contractor Supply Chain for contractors. revised. Contractor risks have been incidents by 30% in 2019. identified and added in CCI risk management. To spread reporting to all All countries now have their country Achieved N/A remaining countries in the level detailed reporting. scope, which are Jordan, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan. In 2018: • There was no lost time due to accidents in 15 of our 26 plants. • The total number of accidents decreased by 20% compared with 2017. • There was a 30% increase in workplace safety training time provided to employees compared with 2017. • In 2018, we provided about 53,200 human-hours of OHS training to our employees throughout our operations. The main topics of the training sessions were first aid, confined space, working at height, emergency response, CCI’s Golden Rules, defensive driving and forklift safety. • Through our internal digital social media application “Workplace” by Facebook, we established a group dedicated to H&S. Hand in Hand Safety Program Progress In 2016, we had established the Hand in Hand Occupational Safety System in order to standardize occupational health and safety practices at CCI. Below are some examples of the progress that were made in 2018 to support our targets:  The number of accidents reduced by 20%  CCI improved its H&S performance in terms of the Safety Maturity Index (SMI) score by + 5%. In 2019, the focus will be on the safety culture and awareness, thus CCI will work on the action plan to implement a Behavioral Safety Program. The program will target to change or transform the hazardous behavior into safe acts. CCI will also invest on H&S digitalization and H&S applications such as CCI Trivia will be in use as an educational tool. TCCC Health & Safety Culture Program The program focuses on the people and unsafe behavior that are frequently observed in the routine and non-routine operations. In a typical production environment, majority of the incidents happen as a result of risky employees behavior. The culture transformation program first identifies the most common unsafe practices. The second step is to build a corrective and preventive action plan to transform the unsafe practices into safe behavior. The program uses both conventional methods like reward and recognition procedures, disciplinary actions, trainings and some other new tools like safety olympics (H&S awareness competition), dramas with safety themes. To expand and strengthen our occupational health and safety culture, we provide targeted and periodic OHS trainings to our employees and contractors conducting work on behalf of CCI. In 2018, we provided 53,229 person-hours of OHS training to our employees throughout our operations. The main topics of the training sessions included first aid, confined space, working at height, emergency response, CCI’s Golden Rules, defensive driving and forklift safety. OHS Training (Human-hour) Our Performance in 2018 Trend in LTIR 0.96 0.73 0.72 0.38 0.34 0.28 0.22 0.17 0.16 0.16 0 0.11 0.16 0 TURKEY JORDAN KAZAKHSTAN AZERBAIJAN PAKISTAN KYRGYZSTAN OVERALL 2017 2018 Trend in LTISR For more details on our 2018 OHS Performance, please refer to Section 3: Performance Indicators. HUMAN CAPITAL We see ourselves as one, diverse, engaged and inclusive team and consider it our Human Capital. With this in mind, we believe it is our responsibility to provide our employees with a workplace that is productive, happy and safe. We established systems and programs that offer support to our employees, so that they are able to improve their skills, knowledge, competence, and raise their life and work standards. Detailed data on our employee demographics are provided in the Performance Indicators section of the report. CCI values CCI leadership behaviors • Passion • Influence & Impact • Accountability • Motivate & Inspire • Teamwork • Partner with customer • Integrity • Appreciate others • Continuously raise the bar • Think about tomorrow Talent Management CCI Talent management strategy ensures that it has “objectively identified and diversified talents” to contribute when achieving business results. In order to support the employees and the managers involved and to ensure that the process is standardized throughout CCI, we make use of CCI Talent Management Principles, which are communicated to all employees, via the company’s intranet. Our talent management approach, accompanied by our Performance Management System, ensures that we remain well-equipped and maintain equality and transparency. The CCI Performance Management Process facilitates smart goals that are aligned with CCI’s vision and secures that our organization delivers successful results by improving the skills and performance of the teams and the individuals. At CCI, performance assessment processes are implemented for all employees regardless of the position or seniority. “My Career Platform” provides end-to-end information and is a one-stop solution to a career at CCI. This platform helps CCI employees identify their career goals, establish a plan for pursuing them and take personal responsibility for achieving those goals. “CCI Career Navigation Framework”, a structured tool created to support employees and managers in career planning and development, is a resource for thinking through “Critical Experiences” and “Opportunities” that an employee should pursue in lieu of their career aspirations. This framework covers all senior management roles, as well as all country -and regionbased critical roles and serves as an essential career compass for employees by indicating what roles lead to what positions and for what position an employee’s former role qualifies. We strengthen employee experience by integrating human resources processes into our SuccessFactors technology platform and by supporting it with mobile and interactive applications. In 2019, we will be  piloting a new Performance System model based on continuous objective settings and feedback.  revisiting our Talent Development Forum process by focusing on different talent dimensions and an integrated and an objective Future Leader and succession planning for a healthy and sustainable CCI. Our Performance in 2018 Goals and Commitments Priority 2018 Goals Performance in 2018 Status 2019 Goals Areas To raise the Talent Readiness Index Talent Readiness Index (TRI) Partially To raise the Talent Readiness (TRI) from 46% to 55%. has risen from 46% to 53%. achieved Index (TRI) from 53% to 60% at least. *In order to have a more realistic picture of the 2019 Talent Development succession pipeline, the Forum (TDF) planned. methodology for TRI calculation has changed in 2018. Talent Management To actualize E-TM Project; managing E-TM project is actualized. Achieved To have a more integrated the TDF process with an automated Talent Management process online system. with Performance Management, Leadership Development and International Assignments. IDP’s are prepared for To create Individual Development critical position holders and To renew the process which Plans (IDP) for critical position successors. enables to focus on different holders and successors. talent dimensions, and a single Future Leader understanding. Focus on tailor made IDP’s for critical position holders and successors enabling them to realize their career aspirations in line with TDF plans. Performance To have a standardized process A new stage for Performance Achieved To manage the process more Management throughout CCI with the same Management Cycle (Midintegrated with other HR system process steps, same Year Review) is introduced systems including Learning and evaluation form for everyone to the system for all Development, Compensation irrespective from the countries. and Benefits, etc. title/level/country. One single evaluation form is To start the pilot studies for used for all employees in all transforming our performance levels and title. management system into a more innovative, up to date 2018 Execution is finalized in process. December 2018. At CCI we define “talent” as high performing, committed to CCI values, willingness to undertake a variety of functional roles and/or responsibilities in different countries, having good command of English and tech-savvy. Accordingly our talent pool consists of three components identified as “Core Talent”, “Extending Talent”, and “Future Leader”. In 2018, we continued to conduct and review our Talent Development Forum (TDF) to identify our talent pools, create bench strength and fill positions with the right people accordingly. Talent Readiness Index (TRI), which was introduced in 2017, is a customized index to show the usage of internal talent pool ratio, and to trace and track the overall succession readiness (indexing bench strength) across CCI. In 2018, we changed the calculation methodology of TRI in order to have a more realistic picture of the succession pipeline. This year, we counted 1 successor in 1 pipeline only; rather than counting him/her in multiple pipelines; which yielded a TRI of 32% at for critical positions and for all successors across CCI, the index was 46% for the critical positions. For next year; we target 45% and 60% respectively. In 2018, we encouraged all our critical position holders and successors to create their Individual Development Plans (IDP) through our E-Talent Management Platform, within our ‘Talent Management Process’. Another e-talent source in CCI is the Talent Profile, where our employees create their own personal career pages including their educational background, CCI and external work experiences, critical assignments/projects, language skills, key achievements, career aspirations and mobility preferences. Talent acquisition To upgrade our standardized talent acquisition process, we launched workshops across CCI. During these workshops, global trends were reviewed. The key focus was to leverage technology in all processes and automating end to end talent acquisition process across CCI. In addition, various social media channels were used more effectively to extend our reach to young external talents. Campus recruitment and holding career fairs at key universities continued in 2018 as well. Action @ field In 2018, we organized the third Action @ Field project for university students in Turkey. With this project, we established a candidate pool of new college graduates and further strengthened our employer brand. The project participants, consisting of senior students, went through a special selection process, followed by a 3-day company orientation program.They were then asked to develop team projects and present them to our Senior Management competing for awards. At end of the project, 4 participants joined the CCI family as trainees, 2 as Sales Representatives, 1 as Assistant Product Manager and 1 as E-Commerce Specialist. Learning and Leadership Development Our goal is to build critical capabilities and strengthen leadership skills to enable business continuity and future growth. We carry out our learning and development activities under the main headings of Commercial Development, Leadership Development and Functional Development. We believe that the biggest responsibility for identifying future leaders and determining areas for improvement lies with the managers, who supervise the employees. Once consensus is reached among all the managers, final-stage results are calibrated in a process that involves the participation of the CEO. The CCI talent pool is then determined along with countryand function-based backup plans. Our Performance in 2018 Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2018 Goals Performance in 2018 Status 2019 Goals Leadership To implement leadership Accelerate was successfully rolled out and all Achieved Launch Accelerate Development development programs for ExCom and GM members in two cohorts 2.0 for all country LT ExCom, general manager, went through it. Six months post the team and ELT for country leadership teams program, accelerate homecoming was also Group, Kazakhstan, and extended leadership organized during which all participants Pakistan & Turkey teams. shared how beneficial and impactful the program was for their personal leadership growth. Achieved To design programs for GM Covered in Accelerate pipeline and future leader development. To design CCI coaching Program designed Achieved Implement CCI program. Coaching Program Achieved To design leadership Covered in Accelerate development program for mid-level manager and create CCI internal trainers pool. In 2018 we launched “Accelerate – the leadership program for the executives”, CCI’s own, in-house signature leadership development program. The program was launched for all ExCom and GMs. “Accelerate 2.0 – the leadership program for the next level” is scheduled for implementation in 2019 for leadership teams in all CCI countries and extended leadership teams of Group office, Kazakhstan, Pakistan and Turkey. Another outcome from Accelerate is “Building Coaching Culture at CCI”. CCI Coaching Framework was established with ExCom and GM’s input, external trends and benchmarks. This program is also scheduled for launch in 2019. CCI leadership levels were re-branded as IMPACT in 2018. Workshops were conducted in all CCI countries to define IMPACT behavior indicators. These indicators will be used in all HR processes starting with theselection to assessment and performance. With this vision, 2019 outlook suggests the continuation of U30 Strategy Camp, launch of Accelerate 2.0 for country LTs, Women in Leadership program for women successors and future leaders, lay foundations to build a coaching culture across CCI that enables organizational and leadership capability building. Employee Engagement We are advancing decisively towards our goal of making CCI “A Great Place To Work”. Since people are one of the key pillars of our vision, employee engagement is a fundamental focus area to effectively manage our human capital and create value. Therefore, we conduct focus groups and biennial employee loyalty surveys in order to solicit employees’ ideas about and suggestions for their CCI experience. Through these surveys we are able to determine our weaknesses and opportunities for improvement and to take measures as needed to support our company’s sustainable development. Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2018 Goals Performance in 2018 Status 2019 Goals To execute the Pakistan Dipstick Survey 2019 CCI Employee To execute 2019 CCI Employee Pakistan was executed with an Engagement Survey is Engagement Survey within all CCI Employee Dipstick engagement level of 83%. being planned. countries. Engagement Survey. To acquire and pilot a pulse check survey tool for the immediate needs in addition to the engagement surveys done in two years time. Through our “Leadership in Field” program, we support open and transparent communication that is crucial for employee loyalty by creating opportunities for our employees to observe and ask questions to CCI leaders. The “Value Play Shop” program, introduced for Pakistan team in 2017, focused on our company culture and values. As of the end of 2018, 2,528 of our employees in Pakistan completed this program. CCI Iraq was the 2nd country to follow by October 2018. The interactions among employees increased the level of motivation, and the aim is to keep the involvement of employees alive. With the actions taken during this period, we’re planning to launch 2019 Engagement Survey. CREATING VALUE FOR COMMUNITY COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT As a company operating in 10 countries with 920,000 sales points and serving 400,000 million consumers, CCI has a significant footprint across its communities. CCI creates a positive impact both directly and indirectly through investing a certain ratio of its annual pre-tax profit in local economies and communities. CCI’s main goal is to be recognized as one of the most responsible corporate citizens by all stakeholders. To reach this objective, CCI helps build stronger communities, focusing primarily on women empowerment, youth development and water related initiatives. In so doing, CCI collaborates with local and international NGOs and encourages its employees to take active roles through volunteering. Economic Impact Our products are produced, sourced (where possible), distributed and sold locally. A bottle of CocaCola creates added value for multiple sectors during its journey from the production line to the consumer. Many industries, including agriculture, energy, production, transportation, distribution, retail, cooling, advertising, media and packaging have roles in the production of a single bottle of Coke. Our business stimulates job creation throughout the value chain. We contribute to the economic welfare of each community by employing local people, paying tax to governments, paying suppliers for goods, services and capital equipment, and supporting community investment programs. Our operations enable 4.1 billion TL of added value in retail business and generate income for 160,000 farmers. In addition, an independent economic impact study conducted in 2017 for CCI Pakistan and CCI Turkey Operations focused on calculating the output multiplier factor: How many units of output is generated for the country’s economy as a result of CCI’s injecting 1 unit of input. The Economic Impact of Coca-Cola in Pakistan  An injection of Rs. 1 by CCI Pakistan yields almost Rs. 5 in the economy.  For every Rs. 1 tax paid by CCI Pakistan, almost Rs. 2 are generated for the government. The Economic Impact of Coca-Cola in Turkey  Every 1 TL generated by the Coca-Cola System (TCCS) in Turkey yields 9.7 TL in the national economy.  4.1 billion TL of added value in the retail business, and income generationfor 160,000 farmers.  TCCS enables direct and indirect employment impact for 30,000 people. Community Investment While expanding our business, we strive to assure value is created for each and every member of these communities. Our goal is to be recognized as a good corporate citizen by all stakeholders. Consistent with our value creation model; our community investment focuses on three areas: volunteerism, youth & women empowerment and water. Goals and Commitments Priority Areas 2018 Goals Performance in 2018 Status 2019 Goals Women Empowerment To train at least 2,000 We trained 2,000 Achieved To train 500 women on women and provide 10 women and allocated business development, applicants with grants in grant to 10 projects. effective communication Belestery Program will and presentation skills cover 3 regions in within UN WEP in Kazakhstan. Azerbaijan. Youth Empowerment To reach 140,000 Within Grassroots Achieved Within Olympic Moves students in 18 cities in Football Tournament program; to reach out 150 schools for them to Program; we reached additional 75,000 develop an active 160,000 children in 6,100 youngsters in Azerbaijan lifestyle schools in Kazakhstan to develop more active and 180,000 children in communities. 1,700 schools in Azerbaijan. To include 60 We received 80 Achieved To include 100 youngsters, aged applications from all youngsters, aged between 18 and 29, in over Kazakhstan and the between 18 and 29, in the social best 10 participants the social entrepreneurship were deemed worthy to entrepreneurship program and train the participate trainings. program and train the best 10 participants in best 10 participants. Kazakhstan. Water To provide clean drinking Clean drinking water Achieved To establish additional 4 water to additional provided to additional filtration plants and 50,000 people and bring 50,000 people and the provide clean drinking the total number of total number of people water to additional people reached to benefited has reached to 50,000 people and bring 900,000. 900,000. the total number of people reached to 950,000. Volunteerism Encouraging and supporting employee volunteerism is one of the building blocks of CCI’s organizational culture. In 2013, to encourage employee volunteering, CCI launched the CCI Volunteers initiative and established employee volunteering clubs along with its operations. These clubs guided employees to organize and jointly engage in social projects. Every year, CCI employees coordinate and actively participate in voluntary programs that serve their communities in a wide range of issues from environmental cleanups and planting trees to visiting orphans or children at hospitals, distributing food to needy families and renovating school facilities, to name but a few. In 2017, CCI took a very important step and established the CCI Volunteering Program to systematically encourage and support volunteering activities for all its employees. Launched first in Turkey, the program is gradually expanding to other CCI countries. As part of the program, CCI collaborates with NGOs including The Anadolu Foundation as well as the Ministry of Education, universities and local governments. CCI employees can apply to join the Volunteering Program through the company’s intranet platform, indicating their preferred fields foractivity. 2018 Volunteerism by numbers in CCI Turkey Operations Since 2017 in CCI Turkey,  over 235,000 beneficiaries attended to 24 activities organized in different cities of Turkey.  1,700 volunteers participated to the programs and over 5,100 hours were spent in volunteering activities. In 2018, CCI Volunteering Program expanded to Pakistan with four projects in 13 different cities. 138 volunteers and 203 beneficiaries participated in the program in the first year in Pakistan. 2018 Volunteerism by numbers in CCI Pakistan Thousands of trees are planted in Azerbaijan and Kyrgyzstan With in the community development programs conducted by CCI, more than 53,500 trees were planted in Baku until the end of 2018. In 2018, it was planned to plant 4,000 trees, but the target is almost doubled and more than 7,500 saplings are planted. Over the last two years, CCI Kyrgyzstan facilitated to the plantation of more than two hundred trees. During the project, about a hundred CCI employees and their children took part in tree planting activities in April. The Central Asia Corporate Social Responsibility Committee cited CCI for its proactive efforts on behalf of “greening” the urban landscape and creating environmental value. The Anadolu Foundation In 1979, the founders of the Anadolu Group established the Anadolu Foundation with the aim of creating longlasting solutions for social needs. The foundation’s mission is to make a difference by improving people’s quality of life through supporting development in education, health and social issues. Through the Foundation’s Young Social Entrepreneurs project, which received funding from the Istanbul Development Agency’s Financial Support for Children and Youth program, young entrepreneurs have the possibility to improve their capacities and develop joint projects with universities, local governments and NGOs. The My Dear Teacher project, conducted by the Foundation on a national scale, offers opportunities for youth and teachers to develop sustainable solutions for their communities. For more information and to see the Annual Report of the Anadolu Foundation: http://www.anadoluvakfi.org.tr/en Youth Empowerment Almost 60% of the population where CCI operates is below 29 years of age. Investing in our geographical regions’ young and growing population is critical to the sustainable development of our communities. We reached almost 350,000 young people with our projects in 2018. 3.2.1. Move! Coca-Cola İçecek’s award-winning legacy program 3.2.1 Move! has revived enthusiasm for the development of thousands of young people since its inception in 2013 in Turkey. 3.2.1 Move! Initially set out to transform public schools into habitats that effectively foster students’ physical and personal development through local projects developed and executed by Physical Education (PE) teachers. Until 2018, the project supported 152 PE teachers from 131 public schools in 15 provinces in Turkey, especially by establishing and renovating sports facilities and providing sports equipment for students. The projects reached more than 125,000 young people through sports and group activities. Within the new framework of the 3.2.1 – Move! Project; youngsters receive substantial help in implementing socially meaningful projects through entrepreneurial activities. With this project; youth initiatives, specifically focusing to solve specific social and environmental problems, receive mentorship and financial support. The program expanded to Kazakhstan and Iraq, in 2014 and 2015 respectively. 3.2.1. Move! in Kazakhstan In 2018, 142 applications were received from all over Kazakhstan and the best 10 applications were selected for finalists’ training on business planning, online sales, marketing and PR strategies, financial literacy and presentation skills. Top 2 projects were granted. Coca-Cola Football Tournaments With its strategic partners in each hosting country for the project; Coca-Cola reached hundreds of thousands of students from various schools in the context of a football tournament. Until now, the project was conducted in cooperation with Kazakhstan, Turkmenistan, Azerbaijan, Iraq Football Federations, Ministries of Youth and Support. Ministry of Education in each of these countries is a strategic partner of the project. Coca-Cola Bylgary Dop in Kazakhstan Coca-Cola Bylgary Dop is the most mass and popular youth football tournament in Kazakhstan. The project has been carried out since 2006 and students between the ages of 14 and 15 took part in the tournament. 160,000 children from 6,100 schools from across the country participated in the tournament in 2018. Coca-Cola Azerbaijan Grassroots Football Tournament Jointly organized by Coca-Cola, the Football Federation of Azerbaijan, the Ministry of Education of Azerbaijan; 180,000 children from 1,700 schools from all over the country participated in the tournament in 2018. Copa Coca-Cola Football Tournament (Iraq) The 5th season of Copa Coca-Cola grassroots football tournament took place in Iraq. The tournament brought together more than 300 schools from seven provinces and more than 2,400 students. The Olympic Moves Program The Program was launched in December 2015 in Azerbaijan with the collaboration of Coca-Cola, the National Olympic Committee of Azerbaijan, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Youth and Sport, comissioned to increase sports participation among youth and foster healthier, happier and more active communities. Until now, 100,000 youngsters participated in the program in 4 cities and in 4 branches of sports:athletics, biking, swimming and basketball. Within the scope of the project, we are planning to reach out to additional 75,000 youngsters in 2019. Schools Renovation Project Iraq CCI Iraq collaborated with the Ministry of Education to renovate and upgrade the conditions of schools (W.C., water problems, gardens, classrooms and school chairs). So far 5 schools in Hilla with more than 5,000 students were renovated. Renovations in 6 more schools in Karbala and Baghdad are planned for 2019. Recycling to the Future To reward young people who are creative and sensitive to their environment and support them to find solutions for global problems that affect their future, we implemented the “CCI Youth Fund: Recycling to the Future Project” at Isparta Süleyman Demirel University. We have interviewed 51 project teams (150 students) during the project application period open to Süleyman Demirel University students on “Waste Reduction”, “Recycling” and “Reuse of Waste” subjects. We had received 33 applications. 31 projects qualified for Jury Review and 7 projects qualified for project support as the result of the jury evaluation consisting of 5 people. In November 2018, we organized a Training Camp for the seven winning project teams; and they were trained for two days under the mentorship of CCI managers on how to implement their projects. Women Empowerment To foster women’s entrepreneurial potential is an excellent way for communities to prosper. Yet, women still constitute a fraction of the global labor force. Our efforts focus on offering women access to business skills training courses, financial services and connections with peers and mentors. As a sign of our commitment to this cause, we have been a signatory to the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEP) since March 2015. My Sister Program My Sister Project, which has made a considerable difference in the lives of participants, is a part of the global 5By20 initiative launched by The Coca-Cola Company with the goal to economically empower 5 million women entrepreneurs by 2020. This project, in Turkey, where women labor force participation is in a decline, offers women the platforms where they can improve their business skills and gain competence via training and consultancy programs. TCCC cooperates with Habitat Association and the Union of Chambers and Commodity Exchanges of Turkey. As of end of 2018, 5by20 has reached to 3.2 million women and My Sister Project has trained over 10,000 women from a variety of backgrounds; including housewives, engineers, entrepreneurs and university students as well as 500 refugees in Turkey. The Coca-Cola Belestery Program Launched in 2013, The Coca-Cola Belestery Program in Kazakhstan partners with the Coalition for Green Economy and Development of G-global, and the Social Dynamics Public Fund and aims to develop entrepreneurship among women in Kazakhstan. The program provides business skills training and technical support to women in Almaty and Astana on how to start and effectively run a business specifically using green technologies. Women living in different regions of Kazakhstan were trained on management and they presented their business ideas on cultivation of agricultural and bakery products and furniture manufacturing. In 2018, 2,000 women were trained within the program, 10 of which were granted. UNDP Women’s Empowerment Program CCI Azerbaijan has partnered with the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) Azerbaijan since 2014 to sponsor the economic and social empowerment of young women. The project aims to create opportunities for women and youth to participate in economic and social life. The program offers trainings like business development, effective communication and presentation skills as well as awareness raising activities to help reduce gender stereotyping. The program also provides support to disabled women who are ambitious to start their own businesses. As part of the program, Women’s Resource Centers have been established in Neftchala and Salyan. With the training of 600 additional women in 2018, a total of 1,300 women have been trained since 2017. Successful Woman Successful Future Successful woman successful future program aims at women empowerment in Azerbaijan and increasing their active participation in a professional career. This program was mainly implemented in the touristic regions of Azerbaijan with the aim to enhance women’s involvement in country’s tourism industry. The program is conducted jointly with Coca-Cola and ASAN Volunteers Organization. Total of number of women trained in 2018 was 312. The Zarya Project CCI Pakistan initiated the project Zarya with the objective of empowering women in the workplace and society. As the first phase of Zarya, the Zeenat Gari project was launched to provide microfinance opportunities to disadvantaged women in Pakistan. CCI Pakistan initiated the third phase of the project in 2017, called Tabeer Stores. Tabeer Stores provide microfinance to disadvantaged women to set up and run small grocery stores. A total of 13 stores have been set up as part of the project. Water Stewardship Access to clean drinking water is a major problem in today’s world. We attach particular importance to water related issues, since water problems directly affect the welfare of the communities where we operate and the sustainability of our business. Clean Irrigation Canal As an effort of CCI Iraq to contribute to improving the reality of social and economic life in the country, this project was conducted under the supervision and assistance of Ministry of Water Resources. A canal with a dimension of 9 kilometers long that can irrigate about 3,000 acres, which is equivalent to 7.5 million square meters in Hilla plant, is constructed. Paani – Safe Water Initiative Access to clean drinking water is a significant health concern in our geography. In Pakistan, we have been running our Paani Clean Water project in collaboration with the Clean Water Trust, the World Wildlife Fund (WWF), and the Rotary International Pakistan. A report by Pakistan Council of Research in Water Resources (PCRWR) reveals that 44% of the total population in Pakistan has no access to safe drinking water. Another publication by Pakistan’s Waters at Risk states that 33% of deaths are due to water borne diseases typhoid, cholera, dysentery and hepatitis. Addressing the safe drinking water needs of our communities, CCI Pakistan set up its first filtration plant in Malir, Karachi in collaboration with Rotary International Pakistan. Following plants were set up in Lahore and in Rahimyar Khan in collaboration with the Clean Water Trust. Each plant has the capacity to produce over 2,000 liters per hour and serve a population of over 20,000 people every day. Holding on to our objective to provide safe drinking water, CCI Pakistan launched the Paani – Safe Water Initiative in 2015 and until now, provided clean water to more than 900,000 people across Pakistan. The project was launched and implemented in collaboration with WWF Pakistan. A total of 25 plants were set up over the course of three years. Additional 4 plants were launched in 2019 and provided clean water to 50,000 more people as a result. Extensive community outreach and mobilization activities were conducted in the target areas informing communities about the importance of safe drinking water and its appropriate usage. OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT In today’s world, climate change has a direct impact on environmental sustainability and the continuity of our business. When combined with the global concerns such as the increasing population, our environmental impact plays an even more vital role in our success in a responsible manner. Our primary goal is to continuously seek ways to produce more by using less resources. Our environmental approach includes an in-depth focus on three key areas: Energy Efficiency & Climate Protection, Water Stewardship, and Sustainable Packaging & Waste. Our Environment Policy is available at https://cci.com.tr/portals/3/CCI_Environment_Policy.pdf We consistently comply with local legal requirements, international standards and TCCC KORE requirements. All our plants in Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Pakistan, Kyrgyzstan, Iraq, Turkmenistan and Tajikistan hold the ISO 14001 standard certificates. In Turkey specifically, all plants, sales operations and offices are certified according to ISO 50001 Energy Management System and ISO 14064-1 GHG Standards. CCI’s sustainability governance structure is organized to support and manage comprehensive key environmental concerns. The CCI Group Supply Chain Director has the ultimate responsibility for environmental management and is diligently monitoring our adherence to our sustainability goals. For further details, you may refer to “Corporate Governance” in the Sustainability Approach section of this report. To improve our performance and create environmental awareness, we provided 6,529 humanhours of environmental training to our employees in Turkey, Jordan, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Pakistan and Kyrgyzstan in 2018. COUNTRY YEAR Key Performance Indicators Energy Use Ratio GHG Emissions Water Use Total Waste (MJ/L) Ratio(L/L) Recycling Rate (%) Ratio (g CO2e/L) Turkey 2018 0.26* 28.82** 1.55* 98,70 2020 Target 0.28 28.54 1.35 98.00 Jordan 2018 0,27 32,73 1.52 90.90 2020 Target 0.23 50.00 1.41 94.00 Kazakhstan 2018 0.68*** 57,42 1.54 88.03 2020 Target 0.644*** 45.00 1.55 92.00 Azerbaijan 2018 0.35 59,93 1.64 93.38 2020 Target 0.35 55.00 1.70 98.00 Pakistan 2018 0.36 32,95 2.05 95.48 2020 Target 0.37 Tbd 1.78 98.60 Kyrgyzstan 2018 0.46 27,32 1.64 98.58 2020 Target 0.45 27 1.57 98.50 *Figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. ** Figure has been verified by BV. *** Kazakhstan figure is Total EUR value. Goals and Commitments Performance in Priority Areas Country 2018 Goals Status 2019 Goals 2018 Energy To achieve the Efficiency following energy use ratios: Turkey 0.299 MJ/L – total 0.296 MJ/L – total Achieved 0.30 MJ/L – total energy energy energy 0.262 MJ/L – core 0.261 MJ/L – core Achieved 0.265 MJ/L – core operations operations operations Jordan 0.24 MJ/L – total and 0.27 MJ/L total and Underachieved 0.265 MJ/L – total energy core energy core energy 0.265 MJ/L – core operations Kazakhstan 0.58 MJ/L – total 0.68 MJ/L – total Underachieved 0.66 MJ/L – total energy energy energy 0.43 MJ/L – core 0.36 MJ/L – core 0.45MJ/L – core Underachieved operations operations operations? Azerbaijan 0.67 MJ/L – total 0.68 MJ/L – total Partially 0.68MJ/L – total energy energy energy achieved 0.35 MJ/L – core 0.37 MJ/L – core 0.35 MJ/L – core Achieved operations operations operations Pakistan 0.39 MJ/L – total 0.38 MJ/L – total Achieved 0.33 MJ/L – total energy energy energy 0.32 MJ/L – core 0.38 MJ/L – core 0.36 MJ/L – core Achieved operations operations operations 0.66 MJ/L – total 0.68MJ/L – total Underachieved 0.66 MJ/L – total energy Kyrgyzstan energy energy 0.46 MJ/L – core 0.47 MJ/L – core 0.46 MJ/L – core Achieved operations operations operations Climate Our target is to Protection achieve a carbon emissions ratio In parallel with EUR Our aim was to Achieved In parallel with EUR Turkey decrease our core EUR to 0.262 MJ/L, it is resulted as 0.261 MJ/L. In parallel with EUR Our aim was to Underachieved In parallel with EUR Jordan decrease our core EUR to 0.24 MJ/L, it is resulted as 0.27 MJ/L. In parallel with EUR Our aim was to Underachieved In parallel with EUR Kazakhstan decrease our core EUR to 0.36 MJ/L, it is resulted as 0.45 MJ/L. In parallel with EUR Our aim was to Achieved In parallel with EUR Azerbaijan decrease our core EUR to 0.37 MJ/L, it is resulted as 0.35 MJ/L. In parallel with EUR Our aim was to Achieved In parallel with EUR Pakistan decrease our core EUR to 0.38 MJ/L, it is resulted as 0.35 MJ/L. In parallel with EUR Our aim was to Achieved In parallel with EUR Kyrgyzstan decrease our core EUR to 0.47 MJ/L, it is resulted as 0.46 MJ/L. To ensure that 95 % 98 % of newly Achieved To maintain 98% of newly of newly purchased purchased cold drink purchased cold drink cold drink equipment equipment is HFCequipment as HFC-Free. is HFC-free by the free. end of 2018. To increase our EMDWe increased our Partially To maintain 90% of our cold equipped cold drink EMD-equipped cold achieved drink equipment with EMD. equipment to 90.5 % drink equipment to of the total in Turkey. 90 % of the total in Turkey. Water To achieve a Water We achieved: Management Use Ratio of: and Turkey: 1.48 L/L Turkey: 1.55 L/L Underachieved Turkey: 1.52 L/L Stewardship Jordan: 1.43 L/L Jordan: 1.52 L/L Underachieved Jordan: 1.51 L/L Kazakhstan: 1.57 L/L Kazakhstan: 1.54 L/L Achieved Kazakhstan: 1.54 L/L Azerbaijan: 1.72 L/L Azerbaijan: 1.64 L/L Achieved Azerbaijan: 1.63 L/L Pakistan: 1.86 L/L Pakistan: 2.05 L/L Underachieved Pakistan: 1.80 L/L Kyrgyzstan: 1.64 L/L Kyrgyzstan: 1.64 L/L Achieved Kyrgyzstan: 1.63 L/L To conduct SVA study SVA study is Partially To conduct SVA studies in in our Hazar, conducted in our Achieved our Hilla, Karbala, Astana Ashgabat plants. Hazar plant. plants. Packaging and To achieve a total We achieved: Waste waste ratio of: Turkey: 4.31 g/L Turkey: 4.41g/L Achieved Turkey: 4.25 g/L Jordan: 1.35 g/L Jordan: 1.37 g/L Underachieved Jordan: 1.36 g/L Kazakhstan: 1.56 g/L Kazakhstan: 1.63 g/L Underachieved Kazakhstan: 1.63 g/L Azerbaijan: 1.00 g/L Azerbaijan: 0.98 g/L Achieved Azerbaijan: 0.97 g/L Pakistan: 11.48 g/L Pakistan: 8.92 g/L Achieved Pakistan: 10.01 g/L Kyrgyzstan: 2.90 g/L Kyrgyzstan: 3.10 g/L Underachieved Kyrgyzstan: 3.00 g/L To continue assessing 1,111 tons of resin Achieved To continue opportunities to and 2,532 tons of implementing reduce resin and glass are saved with lightweight opportunities glass used in the our lightweight to reduce resin and glass packaging we use. practices. used in the packaging we use. To use 4% of We used 4% of Achieved Use 6% of recycled plastic recycled plastic recycled plastic content content content. Environmental 100% compliance We were fully Achieved 100% compliance with Compliance with legal complied with legal environmental environmental limits environmental limits and TCCC’s and TCCC’s legislation and TCCC standards. standards. standards. Note: Fines of USD 200,000 are deemed significant by CCI. Sustainable Sourcing Sustainable agriculture is critical for us to meet the expectations of our consumers, customers and other stakeholders and to enable the continued growth of our business. Sourcing of CCI’s raw materials accounts for a large portion of our economic, social and environmental footprint. Sustainable sourcing is purchasing ingredients from farm locations and suppliers that meet TCCCapproved standards, most preferably adhering to TCCC’s Sustainable Agriculture Guiding Principles (SAGP), which among other things, also set standards to be met by farm suppliers for human and workplace rights, environmental protection and responsible farming management. TCCC’s approach to sustainable agriculture is founded on principles that protect the environment, uphold workplace rights and help build more sustainable communities. Coca-Cola is addressing the challenges of agriculture availability, quality and safety in the mean time addressing the improvement of the and the well-being of farming communities. TCCC set its target on sustainably sourcing key agricultural ingredients by 2020 and developed Sustainable Agriculture Guiding Principles. Compliance with SAGP is verified according to international third-party standards such as Bonsucro, Rainforest Alliance, Sustainable Agriculture Initiative Platform (SAI) and Fairtrade International or equivalent. In line with TCCC’s strategy, CCI set a goal to investigate sustainable sourcing opportunities for sugar and sweeteners, engage with stakeholders and conduct a feasibility study for sustainable sugar sourcing in Turkey in 2016. We established a study group formed by TCCC and CCI PAC, Technical and Procurement responsible for understanding how to comply with SAGP Related information regarding the validation process, compliance standards and expectations were discussed. In May 2017, a workshop was organized on the SAGP compliance program for suppliers. CCI’s sweetener suppliers were invited to the meeting. Sustainable Agriculture Guiding Principles Workplace and Human Rights  Freedom of association and collective bargaining  Prohibit child labor  Eliminate discrimination  Work hours and wages  Safe and healthy workplaces  Community and traditional rights Environment  Water management  Energy management and climate protection  Conservation of natural habitats and ecosystems  Soil management  Crop protection Farm Management Systems  Harvest and postharvest handling  Reproductive material identity, selection and handling  Management systems, record keeping and transparency  Business integrity Energy Management and Climate Protection Climate change is one of the biggest threats to the world’s ecosystems and humanity. With its responsible business practices, CCI joins the global business community in implementing the necessary changes to combat these risks. Energy efficiency and climate protection are among the three priorities in reducing our environmental footprint. We recognize that climate change may have medium term direct and indirect implications for our business, supply chain and communities. These potential effects raise the need for immediate action. The focus areas of our energy efficiency and climate protection strategy are: 1. Reducing energy use and GHG emissions in our manufacturing operations, manufacturing and sales offices by implementing energy efficiency programs; 2. Reducing logistics-based direct emissions with effective fleet and fuel management and optimization practices; 3. Reducing indirect emissions by concentrating on our climate friendly refrigeration programs; 4. Increasing awareness on climate protection by collaborating with our distributors, dealers, suppliers and other stakeholders; 5. Calculating, verifying and reporting accurate carbon footprint of our operations; 6. Promoting climate change awareness by engaging with our stakeholders in relevant platforms; 7. Calculating the carbon footprint of our products in line with a life-cycle approach; 8. Researching clean and renewable energy and investing in, where possible; 9. Investigating opportunities and conducting a feasibility study to supply sustainable sources. These efforts require both national and international coordination as we aim to work in collaboration by adhering to the global efforts for climate change initiative. In 2018, we saved 8.82 Million MJ of energy and reduced 1,006 tons of CO 2 by means of our efficiency projects and the OE Program conducted in CCI Turkey Operations.  We supply energy needs of lighting and our post mix line in our İzmir Plant from 100% clean energy resources.  90% of the total cold drink equipment in Turkey is equipped with Energy Management Device (EMD) which provides energy saving.  With our EMD program, we saved 511.5 million kWh electricity in six countries of operation. We achieved 86,550 tons of CO2 savings that is equivalent to the amount that 7.2 million trees annually extract from the atmosphere.  We saved approximately 42.1 Million MJ energy and reduced 3,850 tons of CO2 by efficiency projects in our plants in six countries of operation. Energy Management Figures Core Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L) 2006 2016 2017 2018 1.12 0.72 0.67 0.55 0.48 0.46 0.44 0.45 0.44 0.37 0.38 0.4 0.38 0.36 0.35 0.3 0.26 0.25 0.27 0.26 0.25 0.27 TURKEY JORDAN KAZAKHSTAN AZERBAIJAN PAKISTAN KYRGYZSTAN *2006 is the baseline year for TCCC, Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan operations. Similarly, 2016 is for Pakistan and Kyrgyzstan Improvements in Core EURs between 2006 and 2018 (MJ/L) * Pakistan and Kyrgyzstan data were included in the sustainability report in 2015 and 2016 respectively. Our Carbon Footprint To decrease the GHG emissions released during our processes, we employ several practices. Transport and Distribution We transport millions of products from our suppliers to our plants and from our plants to our customers and distributors. Our business success is dependent on a widespread, but efficient logistics network that reduces emissions. The optimization of distribution is crucial to our business performance, since transportation accounts for around 17.6% of the total GHG emissions of our value chain in Turkey. The significance of the issue is twofold; as the number of vehicles in transit and the mileage covered also need to be optimized. We choose vehicles that consume less fuel and emit less carbon. Our “Route Optimization Project” is in line with this specific objective. To date, 65 distributors and 5 direct distribution points in Turkey used the “Road Net” platform that had been developed for our Turkey operations in 2013. In 2016, we continued to use our Road Net program, which reduced mileage travelled by 1.35 million kilometers, leading approximately to 1,400 tons of less GHG emissions and a fuel savings of $650,000 every year. Cooling Practices Refrigeration greatly improves our consumers’ enjoyment of our products. Yet again, with regards to protecting the environment, we need to find the balance between our efforts to please our customers and our responsibility to decrease our environmental footprint. As of 2018 year-end, we had approximately 400,000 cold drink equipment in Turkey and they accounted for about 40% of the total number of coolers. To reduce our impact on climate change, we apply different practices. For new cold drink equipment purchases, we switched to HFC-free equipment that contains refrigerant gases with low global warming potential. We upgraded existing equipment to the energy efficient technology, and we continue to work with suppliers to innovate and develop climate-friendly cooling technologies. Within this reporting period alone, we collected and disposed of 48,887 old cooling equipment. With our climate-friendly actions in 6 countries of operations, we avoided 1,189,373 tons of CO2 emissions since 2009 which is equivalent to the amount that 99.1 million trees absorb from the atmosphere. HFC-free Cold Drink Equipments The use of HFCs as refrigerants in cold drink equipment has an impact on climate change. Together with its bottling partners, TCCC set the goal to have 100% of its new cold drink equipment HFC-free. Where a commercial HFC-free solution is not currently available, we collaborate with our suppliers to develop alternative HFC-free solutions. This effort is vital: HFC-free coolers when compared to their HFC counterparts have at least 1,000 times less effect on global warming. Refrigerants in cold drink equipment may slowly leak into the atmosphere during use or may leak completely if the equipment is not properly disposed of at the end of its life cycle. CCI always ensures that coolers are properly degased. By the end of 2018, 70% of all cold drink equipment and 98% of newly purchased cold drink equipment in Turkey were HFC-free. Owing to our use of HFC-free cooling equipment, we managed to reduce our total fugitive CO2 emissions by 24,112 tons between 2009 and 2018. Cold Drink Equipment with Energy Management Device (EMD) Effective since 2009, Energy Management Device (EMD) is another tool by which we are able to tune our cold drink equipment’s environmental footprint. By using EMD equipped coolers, we are able to reduce energy consumption by 42%. For this reason, new cold drink equipment (larger than 250-liter capacity) with EMD were purchased as part of the initiative. By 2018 year-end we had 90% EMD ratio in our Turkey operations (please see the Performance Indicators section of the report for detailed data on EMD ratios for 6 countries within the reporting scope). In 2018, this program allowed us to save approximately 490 million kWh of electricity in Turkey, which means a reduction of 82,759 tons of CO2. Between 2009 and 2018 our EMD program in Turkey yielded a total energy savings of about 2,930 Million kWh (equal to the annual energy consumption of 504,358 Turkish households) and a total CO2 emission reduction of 1,165,261 tons (equal to the amount of CO2 extracted from the atmosphere annually by 97.1 million trees). With EMD program across CCI countries in the reporting scope, we achieved 86,550 tons of CO2 emission reduction, equivalent to the amount of CO2 that can be extracted from the atmosphere annually by 7,2 million trees. We aim to prevent the emission of 1.75 million tons of CO2 with the EMD program between 2010-2020 across CCI. Cold Drink Equipments with LED Lights At CCI Turkey operations, we have been purchasing coolers with LED lights since 2012. With the purchasing of all new coolers equipped with LED lights, overall ratio of our coolers with LED lights went up from 11% in 2012 to 56% in 2018.With this strategy, we will keep increasing our ratio and minimizing our energy consumption. The Behavioral Energy Efficiency Program Searching for new means and promoting effective change are fundamental to TCCC’s Behavioral Energy Efficiency Program (Energy Excellence). Our individual relationship with the systems, technology, procedures, and our perceptions of this relationship have direct impacts on productivity, collaborative efforts and success. This program is designed with staff awareness and culture at its core. Our goal is to extend the Energy Efficiency Top 10 by promoting a company roadmap that provides a holistic aproach to “Energy Excellence”. It also helps to spread a sense of ownership and accountability for this issue. In 2017, the program was replicated in all 21 CCI plants in 10 countries. Emissions by Regions Our absolute CO2 emissions in six countries of operation decreased from 779,028 tons to 714,017 tons in 2018. In addition to monitoring the total emission for each country of operation, we also monitor our GHG emissions ratio, which represents grams of CO2e per liter of product produced. A table providing the detailed overview of our GHG emissions for the six countries of operation is provided in the “Performance Indicators” section. Reduce the CO2 Emissions Embedded in the Drink in Your Hand by 25% by 2020* TCCS launched a global initiative called “Reduce the CO2 emissions embedded in the drink in your hand by 25% by 2020” in 2013 and aimed at reducing GHG emissions across its entire value chain. In CCI, we align our climate change mitigation goal with this overall target in order to achieve comprehensive carbon footprint reductions across our value chain. In 2018, it is estimated that we reduced the CO2 embedded in the Coca-Cola “drink in your hand” by 21%, which is below 2010 levels (Baseline: 2010). 2018 Emissions by Scope and Region Scope 1; Total 92,605 tCO2-e Scope 2; Total 143,408 tCO2-e 2,158; 560; Kyrgyzstan Kyrgyzstan 20,093; 46,578; Pakistan Pakistan 67,964; 48,197; Turkey 4,309; Azerbaijan Turkey 17,495; Kazakhstan 16,327; Kazakhstan 9,218; Azerbaijan 353; Jordan 2,761; Jordan Scope 3*; Total 478,003 tCO2-e Scope (1+2+3); Total 714,016 tCO2-e 2,444; 5,162; Kyrgyzstan Kyrgyzstan 136,179; 252,340; Turkey Turkey 295,637; 4,644; 362,308; 7,758; Pakistan Jordan Pakistan Jordan 26,831; Kazakhstan 60,653; 12,268; Kazakhstan Azerbaijan 25,795; Azerbaijan *For Scope 3; only emissions from coolers are incluced. 2018 Total Emissions Percentage (Scope 1+2+3) by Region Kyrgyzstan; 0.8% Pakistan; 50.6% Turkey; 35.3% Azerbaijan; Kazakhstan; Jordan; 3.6% 8.5% 1.3% Our GHG Emissions in Turkey Operations (tons of COe) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Stationary combustion emissions 14,283 16,218 14,896 17,045 17,965 Scope Fleet emissions 16,012 9,378 8,241 7,687 6,496 1 Fugitive emissions 17,123 26,566 20,634 26,869 23,737 TOTAL 47,418 52,162 43,770 51,602 48,197 Emissions (electricity) 61,359 60,370 64,291 63,346 67,964 Scope 2 TOTAL 61,359 60,370 64,291 63,346 67,964 299,26 Cold Drink Equipment Emissions 321,162 369,679 126,734 136,179 4 Employee commuting 1,157 1,621 1,130 177 159 Scope Business travel 4,733 5,241 4,321 1,347 1,660 3 Downstream transportation 33,385 38,533 39,240 48,128 46,293 344,65 TOTAL 360,437 414,37 176,386 184,291 9 457,19 OVERALL TOTAL 469,214 522,431 291,334 300,452 1 This year in CCI Turkey Operations; our total Scope 1 emissions decreased from 51,602 tons of CO2 to 48,197 tons compared to 2017. Even though the stationary combustion emissions increased, the fleet and fugitive emissions significantly decreased in Scope 1 emissions. Yet, Scope 2 emissions increased due to increase in electricity use. In Scope 3 emissions, thanks to our climate change mitigation activities, downstream transportation emissions declined. Emissions from cold drink equipment and employee commuting increased with respect to last year. Consequently, our absolute emissions in Turkey increased from 291,334 tons to 300,452 tons. However, our absolute emissions in six countries of operation decreased from 779,028 to 762,129 tons of CO2 in 2018. On the other hand, our production volume increased by 6% and our EBITDA increased by 36%. This is solid proof that we produce more by using less. Hence, Scope 2 and 3 electricity emission factors were updated for 2018, but our emission calculation methodology does not change with respect to last year. Tables providing updated emission factors and the detailed overview of our GHG emissions for the six countries of operation is provided in the “Performance Indicators” section. In addition to reducing the absolute emissions, we optimized to increase savings. In 2018, we achieved a GHG emission reduction of 212,411 tons of CO2 in Turkey as a result of emission reducing actions taken in production, cooling and distribution, which is equal to the amount of CO2 that approximately 18 million trees annually extract from the atmosphere Emission savings in Turkey (t CO2-e) Scope 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Product distribution fleet improvement Scope 1 366 2,075 0 0 65 Fugitive emission reductions of coolers Scope 1 299 145 2,651 7,782 8,346 Energy efficiency and low-carbon Scope 1+2 2,030 1,402 80,289 661 1,006 projects in plants Route optimization Scope 3 1,050 1,050 1,050 1,400 1,400 Cooler EMD improvement Scope 3 175,000 172,315 217,915 77,156 82,759 Video Call Communication Tool Scope 2 840 2,986 Returnable Glass Bottles Scope 3 115,355 Reuse & Share of Wooden Pallets Scope 3 494 TOTAL Scope 178,745 176,987 301,905 87,839 212,411 1+2+3 Water Management Water is one of the most critical natural resources. It is as well the main ingredient of our products and a sine qua non element of our production. Water scarcity became a global issue that needs to be managed consciously, otherwisewill harm communities, businesses and the life as a whole. There is a direct link between sustainable use of water and the sustainability of our business. Therefore, minimizing our negative impacts on water and sustaining water efficient operations is of utmost priority and we fully support TCCC’s ultimate goal “replenish every drop of water we use.” Our strategies in water management are summarized below: ● Improving the overall water-use efficiency in our plants; ● Implementing Source Vulnerability Assessment (SVA) and Source Water Protection (SWP) studies to protect water catchment basins in the regions where our plants are located; ● Managing wastewater and storm water discharge in our plants (achieving 100% compliance in wastewater treatment); ● Mitigating risk for communities and for our business, by partnering with governments, NGOs and communities to assess, understand and generate effective, long-term water stress solutions, and implement source water protection plans; ● Replenishing the water we use back to the nature by implementing locally relevant programs; ● Researching and investing in new technologies to reduce water consumption; ● Investigating opportunities and conducting feasibility study to supply sustainable sources. Our water use and management related figures for 6 countries of operation are as follows: Our Total Water Withdrawal Our overall water withdrawal is 10,217,674 m3 of water. Volume of Water Recycled and Reused (m3) We recycle and reuse 329,508 m3 of the water in our production processes. Our Water Use Ratio We consistently decrease the amount of water used for producing one liter of product: 1.55 L/L Water Replenishment Rate (%) We replenish the amount of water equivalent to our product volume. Global 155%, Turkey 159%, TCCS 2020 Objective 100%. Plant Water Use and Minimization According to a study conducted by Turkey’s State Hydraulic Works, industry accounts for 4.5% of the total amount of annual usable water in Turkey (Source: State Hydraulic Works) and CCI Turkey Operations’ total water withdrawal accounts for only 0.08% of Turkey’s industrial water usage. Our total water withdrawal amounted to 10,217,674 m³ in six countries of operation in the reporting period. Detailed data on the total water withdrawal is provided in Performance Indicators section of the report. Another important indicator we monitor is the amount of water used for producing one liter of product: Water usage ratio (WUR). In 2018, CCI Turkey’s water usage ratio is realized as 1.55 L/L, which was formerly 1.56 L/L. Our 2020 goal for CCI Turkey Operations is to achieve a water usage ratio of 1.48 liter of water per liter of product. Since water reduction activities started in CCI Operations in 2006, there has been a 26.2% improvement in Coca-Cola’s water efficiency on a global basis until 2018. We continuously analyze, evaluate and spread best practices among CCI plants to reduce WUR. During the period between 2006 and 2018; we improved our water efficiency by 10.9% in CCI Turkey Operations, 55.8% in Jordan, 26.7% in Kazakhstan, 21.9% in Azerbaijan and during 2016-2018 period 12.8% reduction was achieved in Kyrgyzstan on account of the efficiency projects put in practice in our plants. During 2015-2018; 1% increase was observed in water efficiency in Pakistan. Improvements between 2006 and 2018 for operations within the reporting scope are presented below. Improvements in WURs between 2006 and 2018 (L/L) * Pakistan and Kyrgyzstan data were included in the sustainability report in 2015 and 2016 respectively In all CCI plants, we develop, invest and implement water saving programs every year in line with OE Culture. Some of the top water saving programs in 2018 include yield increase in boilers and production lines in Kazakhstan; reject water reutilization; improvement in water recovery and cooling systems, and reduction in backwash timing in Pakistan; installation of recycling system in Kyrgyzstan; re-use of rinser and backwash water as well as ion exchanger wash water for regeneration in Turkey; re-use of discharged water and optimization of water consumption during CIP in Azerbaijan. In support of our commitment to water sustainability, the “Top 10 Water Saving Program” is designed to reduce water usage in production facilities and to support continuous improvement of water use ratio in manufacturing plants . All CCI plants completed the program. Source Water Vulnerability Assessment The water we use in our products and our production processes is drawn from local sources. As part of our water stewardship program, we conduct a local source vulnerability assessment (SVA) and develop Source Water Protection Plan (SWPP) to use water responsibly, mitigate water-related risks to our System and to the communities we serve. SVAs allow us to assess vulnerabilities to community sources of water and help us determine potential impacts of our water usage and wastewater discharge. This assessment is conducted every five years in all CCI plants. As of December 31, 2016, all CCI plants had completed their SVA studies in all countries of operation. The second cycle of SVA studies began in 2016 and will keep on until the cycle will be completed for all CCI operations by 2020. In 2019, our goal is to conduct SVA studies in our Hilla, Karbala, Astana plants. During any SVA study, an analysis of water basins and sub-basins around our plants is conducted, and it includes the topographical, geological, hydro-geological and hydrological assessment of the study areas as well as identification of any risks to the sustainability of water resources within these areas. SVA studies include processes such as field surveys, interviews with plant authorities or site representatives, interviews with local and national authorities as well as desktop studies. These assessments file an inventory of the social, environmental and political risks to the water sources supplying our facilities and surrounding communities. We evaluate the results of these studies with a SWPP and act on a plant-by-plant basis. Replenish Every Drop of Water We Used In 2018, we established a committee to maximize our potential to reduce our WUR and EUR values. This committee conducted a current state assessment and gap analysis among the plants followed by an action plan. With this methodology, CCI reviews and evaluates itsperformance every three months. Water Map Our plants have created water map in order to follow water consumption on a daily basis. Water Saving Projects CCI Turkey Operations plants minimize their water consumption by projects in Operational Excellence Culture. 223,546 m3 of water saving in Turkey Operations in 2018 434,527 m3 of saving in the six countries of operation in 2018 Over 1 Million m3 of saving in the six countries of operation over the last three years Replenish Programs TCCC began water replenishment programs in 2005, and since then have been working with communities, governments and respected third-parties to commission and support projects that address local water needs from safe water access to watershed protection and water for productive use. These programs have been developed considerate of the following objectives: ● to improve safe access to water and sanitation; ● to protect watersheds; ● to provide water for productive use; ● to educate and raise awareness about water issues, including engagement on water policy. TCCC’s Replenishment Goal TCCS aimed for “water neutrality” is defined as: 1. Returning the water we use back to the communities we serve by treating all wastewater and returning it to the environment at a level of purity that supports aquatic life. 2. Replenishing the amount of water equivalent to our product volume through locally-relevant water and sanitation projects. TCCS globally replenished an estimated 100% of the equivalent amount of water used in their finished beverages in 2015. The water replenishment rate for Turkey has reached 159%, almost equivalent to 4,885 million liters of water in the same year. In TCCC’s global replenishment rate increased to 155%. We will continue replenishment programs in 2019 in local regions through community water projects in line with the results of source water vulnerability assessments (SVA) conducted for each of plants. Turkey is considered a “nearly water scarce” country, with an average allowance of only 1,520 m³ of water per person, and more than 70% of the country’s fresh water is being used in agriculture. In this sense, The Life Plus Environment Program was initiated with the aim to foster a new approach to land and water management in line with adaptation to climate change and decreasing water resources. Two projects have been conducted under the Life Plus Environment Program: Agriculture of the Future and Harran Night Irrigation. The Program has so far saved 6.7 billion liters of water on 50 million m2 of agricultural land. Some 200,000 saplings were also planted as windbreakers in the Konya basin, and the program reached 2,500 people, including farmers, NGO representatives, academicians and the local community. Agriculture of the Future Project Agriculture of the Future Project has two objectives. The first is to improve the water-holding capacity of soil, ensuring efficient use of land and water. The second is to increase the capacity to use “ecosystem services” in agriculture through direct seeding and windbreaks. The Project was realized in partnership with The CocaCola Life Plus Foundation, the Ministry of Food, Agriculture and Livestock, and the Nature Conservation Centre. The Agriculture of the Future Project aims to promote the “ecosystem services” approach in agricultural practices to conserve agricultural ecosystems and biodiversity without reducing the prosperity of the communities. The project’s ecosystem services and biodiversity monitoring activities are summarized below. Harran Night Irrigation Project Harran Plain is one of the agricultural production centers in Turkey. During summer months, irrigation is done at high temperatures, which increases evaporation. In order to reduce the amount of water lost by evaporation, it is important to do irrigation in the early hours of the day, in the evening or at night, rather than during the daytime. Reducing water loss will also minimize environmental problems caused by overirrigation, such as salination, fungal diseases and pollution. With the implementation of this project, 4.5 billion liters of water were saved in Harran. In addition, farmers achieved a 15% yield increase. Furthermore, an irrigation management scheme is developed in Geographical Information Systems (GIS) environment for an irrigation union, which is first of its kind. GIS-based water management and night irrigation is now promoted by the Regulation on Water Usage Control in Irrigation Systems and Reduction of Water Losses. Wastewater Management At CCI, we have high standards around wastewater discharge. “Zero wastewater generation and reclamation” defines our wastewater management approach. Not only do we comply with local laws regulating wastewater treatment and discharge in all the countries in which we operate, but we also act in accordance with TCCC standards that determine the wastewater pollutant limits for our operations. In many cases, the allowed discharge limits set by TCCC are much lower than the limits established by the local authorities. TCCC requirements for Treated Wastewater Quality are given in the Performance Indicators section. All CCI operations are regularly audited in detail in this scope, in addition to ISO 14001 Environment Management System Audits by third parties. We monitor our wastewater parameters by periodic analyses and reduce our environmental impact by treating wastewater prior to discharge. We also develop projects to reduce wastewater generated as a result of our activities. In 2018, we discharged a total of about 4.05 million m³ of wastewater in six countries of operation. Of this amount, we discharged 1,978,446 m³ to municipal sewage system, 1,253,708 m³ to organized industrial zone treatment facilities, and 814,827 m³ was discharged to surface water after treatment. To monitor and manage the quality of the wastewater we discharge, we also measure the amount of wastewater discharged per liter of product for their compliance with the program. Detailed information can be found in the Performance Indicators section. Sustainable Packaging Packaging is an essential aspect of the quality of our products and ensures safe delivery of our products to our customers and consumers. We are determined to pack our products in the most sustainable way possible. With our sustainable packaging efforts to conserve resources and use less energy, we not only contribute to the circular economy, but also reduce our carbon footprint. Our Sustainable Packaging Strategy Using less resource for packaging is one of the key elements of our strategy and design lies beneath that goal. We continuously work to develop lighter packaging by using less material and conduct lightweight projects on both glass and resin side. Additionally, we focus our efforts on reusing our glass bottles, collecting back the packaging we put on the market and increasing the recycled content in our packaging. Our Sustainable Packaging Strategy ● REDUCE PET and Glass Lightweight ● REUSE Returnable Glass Bottles ● RENEW PlantBottle ● RECYCLE Post-Consumer Material Collection Lightweight As defined in our strategy, we put several practices into action to reduce the amount of natural resources used in packaging while paying close attention to not compromising the safety of our products. Our efforts began in 2008 when we reduced the length of the bottleneck for the lightweight PET bottle. In 2015, we conducted a benchmark study covering all CCI countries of operations to map the amount of resin used for all sizes of bottles and to share best practices of lightweight applications among the plants. Reduction by Lightweight Implementations in Turkey With our lightweight practices; we not only save materials, but also reduce GHG emissions released during production. We are implementing lightweight programs since 2010 in CCI Turkey Operations, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan and Kyrgyzstan operations. With the help of lightweight and shortneck practices; 1,111 tons of resin and 2,532 tons of glass is saved in six countries of operation in 2018. PlantBottle Developed by TCCC, PlantBottle packaging replaces the traditional fossil-based ingredients used to make PET plastic with renewable substitutes made from plants. PlantBottle packaging uses materials that are up to 30% plant-based. After obtaining legal permits in 2014, we started production with PlantBottle. In six countries of CCI operations, PlantBottle resin makes up 24% of our total resin used in production in 2018. Detailed information about PlantBottle can be found at: https://www.coca-colacompany.com/stories/great-things-come-in-innovative-packaging-an-introductionto-plantbottle-packaging r-PET (Recycled PET) A great emphasis is placed on circular economy at CCI. We focus on the entire packaging life cycle through a renewed perspective. We spend continuous effort to increase the amount of recycled material in our packaging. CCI determines its sustainable packaging goals taking into account the packaging materials and the recycling related regulations in the countries of operation. Besides the mandatory regulations on the use of recycled PET up to 4% in beverage packaging, we have been long working on the use of recycled materials while ensuring not to compromise on product safety and consumer health. In the upcoming years, we plan to continue our extensive efforts to further increase the r-PET content, going beyond the mandatory requirements. Returnable Glass Bottle Use in Turkey With returnable bottle practices, glass bottles can be used up to eight times. With this practice, not only less energy is used for the bottle production, but also lesser of the resources are consumed. In 2018, 115,355 tons of CO2e was avoided via returnable glass bottle practices. It equals to the amount absorbed by 9.6 million trees. Recycling Recycling is the process of collecting materials that would otherwise be thrown away and converting them into new products. Post-Consumer Packaging Waste Recycling We believe, every packaging has a life beyond its initial value. For this reason, CCI places a high priority to recycling. Our efforts include encouraging our customers and consumers to use returnable bottles and increase our recycling rates in cooperation with our authorized business partner. To sustain a holistic approach, CCI established a cross-functional Sustainable Packaging Task Force with the aim of shaping CCI’s long-term recycling strategy and laying out the roadmap to reach a circular economy. The Recycling Task Force conducted an analysis of the waste infrastructure, legal background, and stakeholder expectations regarding “recycling of packaging material” in our countries of operation. In Kazakhstan, one of CCI’s priority countries to establish a recycling scheme, we commenced stakeholder engagement efforts to create a common vision for recycling in the country. In Turkey, the current system is based on the concept of extended producer’s liability. In 2018, the recycling rate of CCI in Turkey for plastics, glass, metal and aluminum-packaging waste was 56% . We achieved this rate with the help of our authorized business partner, Çevko (Green Dot) Foundation. Post-consumer packaging recycling rate by years in Turkey 2020 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Target 37% 38% 40% 42% 44% 48% 52% 54% 56% 60% Partnering helps us improve recycling rates and achieve our collection goals. We will continue to team up with TCCC, local communities, NGOs, industry peers and consumers to help make recycling easier and more accessible for everyone by improving local recycling systems and driving policy change that supports a truly circular economy. Zero Waste to Landfill We work to minimize our environmental footprint by minimizing the amount of waste that is disposed of safely and in compliance with legislation. Our main strategy is based on preventing, reducing, reusing, recycling and recovering the waste. To do so, we employ the ISO 14001 environmental management system and carry out related operations in accordance with CCI’s environmental policy, legislations and TCCC’s KOREEOSH requirements. At our production sites, we segregate our waste as reusable, recyclable, hazardous, landfill and nonrecyclable wastes. All waste that can be reused is reused, and that which can be recycled and recovered is delivered to licensed companies in all CCI operations. Waste that cannot be recycled or recovered is sorted according to specific, legally defined categories and delivered to licensed disposal facilities or municipalities to be used as landfill or to be incinerated. According to our waste management standards, all waste disposal sites are evaluated before use, and periodically thereafter, to verify and document site acceptability. In line with our approach to produce more while consuming less, achieving zero waste production is our ultimate goal. We investigate alternative methods and strive to reuse,recycle and recover 100% of total waste generated from our operations. Since 2006, we managed to improve our performance in all countries of operation. Hazar, Elazığ, Ankara and Çorlu plants in CCI Turkey currently operate as “Zero Waste” facilities and the roll-out for the remaining facilities is in progress. Detailed information can be found in the Performance Indicators section. Improvements in Total Waste Recycling Rate between 2006 and 2018 * Pakistan and Kyrgyzstan data were included in the sustainability report in 2015 and 2016 respectively SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2018 SECTION-3: Performance Indicators 1. CCI REPORTING GUIDANCE This document provides guidance on the indicators included in the 2018 CCI sustainability report, some of which have been externally assured for the current or a prior period. Indicators that have been externally assured for this year’s report are marked with an asterisk in the report and the assurance statement is provided at Independent Assurance Statement title of this section. Indicators covered in this sustainability report are reported in line with the;  GRI Standards of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and are listed at the GRI Content Index title of this section,  United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Communication on Progress (COP) of the UNGC and are listed at the UNGC Standards Content Index title of this section.  United Nations Women Empowerment Programme (UNWEP) and are listed at the UNWEP Standards Content Index title of this section. The data within the scope of this guidance document is for the financial year ending on December 31, 2018 and concerns the relevant operations in Turkey, Jordan, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Pakistan and Kyrgyzstan. Referral to “The Company” covers these six countries, unless otherwise stated. Legal entities covered fully by this report include:  Coca-Cola İçecek AŞ, Turkey  Coca-Cola Satış ve Dağıtım AŞ, Turkey  Mahmudiye Kaynak Suyu Ltd. Şti., Turkey  J.V. Coca-Cola Almaty Bottlers LLP, Kazakhstan  Azerbaijan Coca-Cola Bottlers Limited LLC., Azerbaijan  The Coca-Cola Bottling Company of Jordan Ltd., Jordan  Coca-Cola Beverages Pakistan Ltd., Pakistan  Coca-Cola Bishkek Bottlers CJSC., Kyrgyzstan For a full list of entities included in CCI’s financial statements, please see page 102 of the CCI 2018 Annual Report, available on: https://www.cci.com.tr/Portals/3/CCI%202018%20ENG%20final.pdf General Reporting Principles In preparing this guidance document, consideration has been given to the following principles: • Information Preparation – to highlight the primary principles of relevance and reliability of information; and • Information Reporting – to highlight the primary principles of comparability, consistency (especially with regards to other data, including that of previous years), understandability and transparency in order to provide clarity to users. Key Definitions For the purpose of this report, the following definitions apply: TCCC: The abbreviation TCCC refers to “The Coca-Cola Company”. TCCS: The abbreviation TCCS refers to “The Coca-Cola System”. PLANT: All on-site facilities, including production buildings, water treatment units, wastewater treatment units, warehouses, laboratories, administration buildings and technical service operations. ENERGY: Electricity, natural gas, diesel, gasoline, fuel oil, liquefied petroleum gas (LPG) and steam. For the purpose of this report, energy does not include alternative forms of fuel, such as bio-waste, biomass, bio-diesel, or renewable sources of energy such as wind or solar energy, which collectively represent an insignificant share of total energy consumption and carbon emissions. ENERGY CONSUMPTION: The energy consumed during the reporting year (January 1 to December 31). Energy consumption data covers energy used in the operation of on-site industrial facilities and manufacturing processes, including electrical systems, heating, lighting, on-site transportation, air circulation and air conditioning (HVAC system). Manufacturing processes refer to the energy consumed in the core bottling (filling) operation. Total energy consumption also includes preform injection for those plants that use this energy-intensive process as well as energy used for CO2 production processes in our plants in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan. ENERGY USE RATIO (EUR, MJ): MJ of energy consumed per liter of product produced, calculated as the sum of all individual energy sources from the filling (core) production processes (in MJ) divided by production volume (in liters). To allow comparability between different CCI plants: • Energy consumption during preform injection, an energy-intensive process, is excluded from the EUR since only a few sites employ this process. Of those CCI operations that fall within the scope of this RG, only the Turkish bottling facilities in Ankara and Çorlu, the international operations in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan, and the bottling facility in Lahore, Pakistan employed an operational preform injection process during the reporting period. • Energy consumption for CO2 production processes in our plants in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan is also excluded from the EUR calculation. • Beginning in 2013, the electricity producing process, which is present in Kazakhstan, is included in EUR calculations. GHG EMISSIONS (TON): Emissions during the reporting year (January 1 to December 31). The GHGs reported are those currently required by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change and the Kyoto Protocol. These GHGs are currently: carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), Sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and nitrogen trifluoride (NF3). Other GHGs, including those regulated by the Montreal Protocol, are excluded from GHG emissions and analyzed separately. “GHG emissions” refers to emissions from all production processes, such as bottling and preform injection, arising from The Company’s plants in Jordan, Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan and Pakistan. In Turkey, CCI has been reporting its GHG emissions more extensively since 2012 in accordance with the ISO 14064-1 Standard for quantifying and reporting GHG emissions at the organization level. Consequently, GHG emissions reported for Turkey also include CCI’s GHG emissions from its non-plant buildings, e.g. offices, fleet transport and fugitive emissions. Where a plant generates energy on-site, the related energy consumption is defined as the energy of the fuel used for generation (e.g. for onsite, diesel-fired electricity generators, the energy consumption would be the diesel used rather than the electricity output of the generator). WASTE (TON): Waste generated at a given site includes waste due to production, construction, food services or any other activity. Examples of the types of solid waste generated by The Company include paper, plastic, corrugated cardboard, metal, glass, sludge from water, waste oils, fleet waste (tires, batteries, coolants, oils, etc.) and damaged ingredients or products, plus all hazardous waste such as solvents, inks and lab waste. Liquid waste disposed of through the wastewater system is not included in the calculations as such waste is accounted for in wastewater discharge volume and wastewater sludge. TOTAL WASTE RATIO (g/L): Grams of total waste generated per liter of product produced. WASTE RECYCLING RATE (%): Tons of waste recovered, re-used or recycled divided by total waste generated (in tons), i.e. the Waste Recycling Rate represents the portion of waste that is not disposed to a landfill or incinerated. In the six countries covered by the 2018 CCI sustainability report, accredited waste contractors collected tons of waste for recycling and re-use. WASTE DISPOSAL (TON): Waste disposal has followed the GRI Standards 306-1 classification. To determine the method of disposal, CCI has used the legal categories laid out in the disposal documentation provided by its accredited waste contractors. Based on the disposal documentation, the categories of waste generated by CCI during the reporting period were recycling, re-use, recovery, incineration and landfill. Some hazardous waste is sold for use as fuel in processes such as cement manufacturing. In accordance with the legal categories of accredited waste documentation, this waste is classified as recovery rather than incineration. REUSED WASTE (TON): Waste used again for the same or different purposes without re-processing, e.g., wood. RECYCLED WASTE (TON): Waste that is broken down into raw materials, changed and reprocessed for use and used for new products. Recyclable materials include many kinds of glass, paper, metal, plastic, textiles, and electronics. The composting or other reuse of biodegradable waste – such as food or garden waste – is also considered recycling. Materials to be recycled are brought to a collection center, or picked up from the curbside, then sorted, cleaned and reprocessed into new materials bound for manufacturing. RECOVERED WASTE (TON): Non-recyclable waste materials and the extraction therefrom of heat, electricity or energy through a variety of processes, including combustion, gasification, pyrolyzation and anaerobic digestion. For example, if waste is incinerated in an incineration plant to generate energy, then the waste is “recovered.” If there is no use of energy during the process, then the waste is incinerated. There are several ways to recover energy from waste. Anaerobic digestion is a process of decomposition that occurs naturally whereby organic matter is reduced to a simpler chemical component in the absence of oxygen. “Recovery” also refers to incineration or directly controlled burning of municipal solid waste in order to reduce waste and create energy. Secondary recovered fuel is energy recovered from waste that cannot be reused or recycled through mechanical and biological treatment activities. Since most of the waste is recovered for energy in licensed facilities before storage, hazardous waste in Turkey is categorized as “recovery.” WASTE STORED ON SITE (TON): Waste stored initially before the final treatment. Wood waste is treated in different ways, and the final treatment method is confirmed with suppliers and categorized by operations. Methods for reuse, recycle and recovery of hazardous waste are confirmed with CCI’s service providers for waste management. For our Turkey operations, disposal and treatment methods are decided according to the waste disposal codes defined in the Turkish Hazardous Waste Control Regulation. The amount of waste from coolers and two-way bottles generated by the market is measured either by weighing it directly or by calculations using waste factors recorded after measuring the exact weight of each part of the equipment. LANDFILLED WASTE (TON): Waste sent to landfills (of either a municipality or an accredited company) and disposed of by burial. WATER: Includes water from all sources, including wells, spring water, municipality and collected rainwater. WATER CONSUMPTION (LITER): All water used during the reporting year (January 1 to December 31). Water consumption data includes water used for production, water treatment, boiler makeup, cooling (contact and non-contact), cleaning and sanitation, backwashing filters, irrigation, washing trucks and other vehicles, kitchen or canteen, toilets and sinks, and fire control. WATER USE RATIO (L/L): Liters of water used per liter of product produced, calculated as total water use (in liters) divided by production volume (in liters). WATER WITHDRAWAL (L): Total volume of water withdrawn from any source during the reporting year (January 1 to December 31), including ground water, municipality water and collected rainwater. WASTE EFFLUENT (L): The total volume of water discharges during the reporting period by discharge and quality, including treatment method. This indicator is aligned with GRI’s Standards 306-1 disclosure. ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE: The monetary value of significant fines (over $200,000) and the total number of nonmonetary sanctions for non-compliance with national Environmental Laws and Regulations. This indicator is aligned with GRI’s Standards 307-1 disclosure. EMPLOYEE NUMBERS: CCI employees working in The Company’s headquarters, plants and sales offices. Employee figures are categorized as permanent, temporary and contractor workers, and these data are recorded as year-end figures. Turkey operations include Turkey factories and Turkey sales offices. This indicator is aligned with GRI’s Standards 108-2 disclosure. INJURIES AND LOST DAYS: Type of injury, rates of injury, lost days and total number of work-related fatalities, by region. This indicator is aligned with GRI’s Standards 403-2 disclosure. CCI’s main injury metric is the Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR), which is number of lost time incidents/occupational illnesses multiplied by 200,000 and then divided by the total number of hours worked during the reporting period. TRAINING (Hr): Average hours of training carried out during the reporting period per employee, categorized in terms of OHS training, environmental training and total training. This indicator is aligned with GRI’s Standards 404-1 disclosure. Scope of Reporting The following tables summarize the activities that are currently reported within the scope of this sustainability report for energy consumption, GHG emissions, water consumption and solid waste. Total Energy Consumption Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan Industrial sites where bottling processes are conducted, together Except Except preform with secondary operations such as  preform    production preform injection*, bottle blowing and production lift truck operations Technical service operations (e.g.       repairing of coolers, etc.) Administrative buildings located at       industrial sites Own transportation of materials and products within industrial plant sites       (e.g., forklift operations) Data adjustment for preform Only CO2 production Only injection, CO2 production and Only CO2 preform None and preform  preform electricity generation processes for process process processes process energy consumption figures* *Adjustment is made to the EUR (core) to allow comparability between plants by removing certain energy-intensive processes from the EUR, but not from total energy consumption. As explained in the RG, an adjustment is made to the EUR for energy consumption for preform injection processes, electricity generation processes (present only in our Kazakhstan plant) and CO2 production processes (present only in our plants in Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan). From 2013 onwards, energy use for electricity generation is included in the EUR data. DATA PREPARATION Energy Consumption Energy consumption data are reported for electricity and primary fuel sources, including natural gas, diesel, LPG, heavy fuel oil and steam. Electricity and natural gas data are obtained from supplier meters and reconciled with internal meters (when available) and/or service provider invoices. Diesel, LPG, steam and fuel oil consumption data are obtained from supplier invoices. CCI Operations used the following published conversion factors: • For electricity, the unit of supply is invoiced in kWh. To calculate energy use ratio, kWh is converted to megajoules (MJ) at a factor of 3.6. • For natural gas, the unit of supply for most suppliers is invoiced in m 3. To calculate the energy use ratio, cubic meters is converted to MJ with a conversion factor of 37.3, except for in Kazakhstan, where a factor of 34.4 is used based on the 2016 analysis conducted by an accredited local laboratory on the natural gas used on site. • For fuels other than natural gas (diesel and heavy fuel oil), energy conversion factors (from liters or kilograms to MJ) are obtained from the calculation tool provided by TCCC Default Factors. • For LPG (MJ/kg) a conversion factor (net calorific value) of 50.0 was used as part of the GHG verification process in accordance with the requirements of ISO 14064-1. • For diesel (MJ/L) a conversion factor of 39.0 was used. • For steam (MJ), a conversion factor of (GKAL): 4,186.8 was used (Kazakhstan operations only). GHG Emissions GHG emissions are calculated by CCI using published conversion factors. Conversion factors enable an estimate of the amount of GHGs released into the atmosphere per unit of energy consumed. Different types of energy sources have different conversion factors that reflect their carbon dioxide intensity. In future periods, conversion factors may be updated to reflect changes to, and/or improvements in, published data. During the current period, the following conversion factors were used: For fuels such as natural gas, diesel and LPG, conversion factors are derived from calculation tools based on the May 2015 version of the GHG Protocol Standards found on the GHG Protocol website (www.ghgprotocol.org). The Global Warming Potentials (GWPs) used to calculate the emissions of different GHGs in terms of CO 2-equivalents are taken from the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change’s Fifth Assessment Report. In 2014, we began using the “GHG emissions from transport or mobile sources” tool, version 2.6 of May 2015, from the GHG Protocol of the World Resources Institute and World Business Council for Sustainable Development to calculate the emission values for employee commuting and business categories. GHG emissions of Turkey are taken from the report verified by the auditing firm in line with the ISO 14064-1 Standard. Since 2017, we have been using DEFRA emission factors for diesel, managed vans class 3. Extrapolation Method Used for Energy Use Calculation and Total Energy Consumption Since the period covered by invoices may not always fully align with The Company’s reporting period, adjustments are made where necessary in order to align the consumption data from the invoices with the reporting period as agreed with The Company’s verifiers. TCCC Default Factors for CO2 Emissions Natural gas (MJ): 0.05039 kg CO2 LPG (MJ): 0.0568 kg CO2 Diesel (MJ, light fuel oil): 0.0706 kg CO2 Heavy Fuel Oil (MJ): 0.0737 kg CO2 (Azerbaijan operations only) Electricity (kWh): For electricity, conversion factors for GHG emissions are obtained from the International Energy Agency (IEA) and shared by TCCC with the entire CocaCola system. In this year’s report, we used IEA factors of the year 2016 (as there is a two-year time gap for IEA publish the factors for a certain year). Combined factors are used for all operations in the sustainability report. This information is available in the internal document entitled “SDW Fuel Conversion Factors”, which is updated every year by TCCC. For our Kazakhstan operations, since electricity is generated by a co-generation plant at the site, local laboratory analysis results are used for the calculation of GHG emissions in these operations. The average value of external laboratory analysis results is used to determine the chemical composition of samples of the natural gas used in the plant. 2012 IEA Factors 2013 IEA Factors 2014 IEA Factors 2015 IEA Factors 2016 IEA Factors kg CO2 /kWh (Used for the 2014 (Used for the (Used for the 2016 (Used for the 2017 (Used for the 2018 electricity Report) 2015 Report) Report) Report) Report) Turkey 0.4591454 0.42868 0.497 0.441 0.465 Jordan 0.6356158 0.6393961 0.656 0.588 0.497 Kazakhstan 0.4608749 0.4324272 0.515 0.416 0.505 Azerbaijan 0.4936623 0.4687942 0.477 0.487 0.479 Pakistan 0.417622 0.4161746 0.425 0.410 0.397 Kyrgyzstan 0.050 0.092 0.074 Water Consumption Water consumption data is obtained from internal meters where ground water is utilized. Moreover, separate data on water consumption is obtained from supplier meters and then reconciled with internal meters (when available) and/or service provider invoices where the water is supplied by the network. Restatements The measuring and reporting of assured environmental data inevitably involves a degree of estimation. In exceptional circumstances, restatements of data reported in a prior year may be required. Restatements are considered where the data differs by more than 5% at The Company level. 2. MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS STANDARDS AND PRINCIPLES Related External Standards and Issue Internal Policies Principles Environmental management CCI Health, Safety & Environment (HSE) ISO 14001 Policy TCCC HSE Policy KORE EOSH* Requirements Water management KORE – EOSH Requirements ISO 14001 Energy management & carbon KORE EOSH Requirements ISO 14001, ISO 50001, ISO 14064-1, GHG emissions Protocol Production Sustainable packaging & waste KORE EOSH Requirements ISO 14001, PAS223 management Quality management (Production KORE OE ISO 9001, EFQM Business Excellence process) Model, Lean Six Sigma Product quality & safety KORE ISO 9001, ISO 22000, FSSC 22000, GFSI** Occupational health & safety KORE EOSH Requirements OHSAS 18001 Sustainable supply chain Supplier Guiding Principles UNGC, GRI Marketing responsibly TCCC Responsible Marketing Policy, TCCC Global School Beverage Guideline Human and workplace rights Workplace Rights Policy UN Guiding Principles on Business and Other Human Rights Anti-corruption CCI Ethics Code, Workplace Rights Policy UNGC Community involvement TCCC’s Policy UNGC Overall Code of Business Conduct, KORE UNGC, GRI * EOSH: Environmental and Occupational Safety and Health ** GFSI: Global Food Safety Initiative 3. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE 2018 Assurance Scope The Reporting Guidance (RG) document covers The Company’s data-gathering and reporting obligations for the indicators listed below. It is the responsibility of The Company management to ensure that appropriate procedures are in place to prepare data related to the below mentioned indicators in line with the RG in all material respects. • The total energy consumption, energy usage ratio (EUR), total water withdrawal and water usage ratio (WUR) of The Company’s Turkey operations, in year 2018, were audited according to the ISAE 3000 Standard (Revised).1 • GHG emissions of Turkey operations were verified in line with the ISO 14064-3 Standard. INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT 2018 Assurance Scope The Reporting Guidance (RG) document covers The Company’s data-gathering and reporting obligations for the indicators listed below. It is the responsibility of The Company management to ensure that appropriate procedures are in place to prepare data related to the below mentioned indicators in line with the RG in all material respects. • The total energy consumption, energy usage ratio (EUR), total water withdrawal and water usage ratio (WUR) of The Company’s Turkey operations, in year 2018, were audited according to the ISAE 3000 Standard (Revised).1 • GHG emissions of Turkey operations were verified in line with the ISO 14064-3 Standard. Statement can be found at CCI 2018 Sustainability Report. http://www.esgturkey.com/cciSR18/ghg-emissions-verification-statement.html 4. GREENHOUSE GAS VERIFICATION VERIFICATION SCOPE FOR TURKEY GHG Emissions GHG Emissions Included Industrial sites comprising bottling facilities together with secondary operations such as lift truck operations  Technical service operations  Preform manufacturing, bottle blowing processes  Administrative buildings located at industrial sites  Administrative buildings located away from industrial sites and headquarters  Own transportation of materials and products within industrial plant sites (e.g. forklift operations)  Own transportation of materials and products out of industrial plant sites  Employees commuting with CCI-owned vehicles and sales fleet operations  Energy used in the cooling of products (off site)  Fugitive emissions from the cooling of products (off site)  Fugitive emissions from the cooling system (on site)  Fugitive emissions from fire extinguishers  Fugitive emissions of CO2 filling process  Fugitive emissions from off-site coolers  Fugitive emissions from on-site coolers  Water Water Consumption Water Consumption Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan Industrial sites comprising bottle facilities       Technical service operations at the site       Administrative buildings located at industrial sites       Waste Waste Generation Waste Generation Turkey Jordan Azerbaijan Kazakhstan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan Industrial sites comprising bottle facilities       Technical service operations at the site       Administrative buildings located at industrial sites       GHG EMISSIONS VERIFICATION STATEMENT Verification can be found at CCI 2018 Sustainability Report. http://www.esgturkey.com/cciSR18/ghg-emissions-verification-statement.html 5. PERFORMANCE INDICATORS This section contains additional data on CCI’s sustainability performance. SUSTAINABILITY ACROSS VALUE CHAIN Materials Ingredients Concentrate & Materials Used in Products (tons) Sugar CO2 beverage base 2014 42.169 217.892 23.508 2015 44.095 227.812 27.072 Turkey 2016 37.613 255.703 24.727 2017 32.308 220.520 26.399 2018 17.442 163.783 19.024 2014 213 8.032 1.151 2015 229 8.744 1.094 Jordan 2016 215 9.463 987 2017 257 8.988 905 2018 260 8.376 1.065 2014 4.672 66.914 4.815 2015 458 49.885 5.518 Kazakhstan 2016 2.481 42.739 4.268 2017 3.845 46.920 5.390 2018 4.871 64.507 5.469 2014 1.878 18.954 2.954 2015 152 17.085 2.565 Azerbaijan 2016 636 11.054 1.312 2017 832 14.149 1.633 2018 1.016 17.804 2.129 2015 6.350 158.838 16.069 2016 5.413 180.611 19.934 Pakistan 2017 5.489 187.339 21.925 2018 5.577 195.594 25.430 2016 274 8.641 941 Kyrgyzstan 2017 294 8.960 890 2018 494 9.207 997 2014 48.932 311.792 32.428 2015 51.284 462.364 52.318 All Countries 2016 46.632 508.211 52.169 2017 43.025 486.876 57.142 2018 29.660 459.271 54.114 Packaging Materials PET Aseptic Aluminum Plastic PE preform Packaging Materials Used (tons) Steel Crown Glass Carton Carton Cans & Shrink & Closure and Packaging Cans end Stretch resin 2014 987 3,419 43,168 27,941 4,958 7,692 11,304 5,853 2015 1,259 3,986 46,274 39,414 5,131 9,742 12,533 6,689 Turkey 2016 1,385 3,966 4,758 45,844 4,825 8,924 12,008 7,082 2017 1,552 3,970 44,585 54,433 4,668 19,276 13,926 6,976 2018 1,674 4,174 50,215 60,536 4,624 13,008 14,086 8,317 2014 49 121 1,247 4,942 0 317 1,293 274 2015 45 129 1,234 1,272 0 220 1,719 289 Jordan 2016 28 151 1,362 200 0 417 1,874 379 2017 29 126 1,984 242 0 309 1,733 370 2018 6 96 1,404 311 0 234 1,696 569 2014 32 1,411 17,418 3,974 663 1,685 361 1,889 2015 44 1,367 17,464 3,674 581 1,696 325 205 Kazakhstan 2016 49 1,175 14,098 4,537 650 1,245 194 1,536 2017 50 1,475 18,234 4,638 571 1,518 160 2,169 2018 51 1,789 21,392 4,496 645 1,736 198 2,535 2014 0 896 7,171 0 0 570 0 855 2015 0 528 6,776 0 0 384 0 737 Azerbaijan 2016 0 375 4,276 0 0 275 0 465 2017 0 474 5,518 0 0 295 0 577 2018 0 607 14,662 0 52 544 0 755 2015 21 237 43,783 21,762 n/a 4,263 571 4,161 2016 2,182 2,951 56,817 3,304 n/a 6,042 907 5,178 Pakistan 2017 2,066 2,525 59,082 10,431 n/a 446 1,052 5,473 2018 1,923 3,290 59,618 14,242 72 54 1,077 5,848 2016 0 250 2,932 0 0 192 0 266 Kyrgyzstan 2017 0 254 3,068 0 0 244 0 269 2018 0 245 3,143 0 0 230 0 293 Packaging Material Savings Resin Saving Glass Saving 2019 Resin Saving (tons) 2019 Glass Saving (tons) Turkey 51.00 Turkey 2,148.00 Jordan 11.50 Jordan 0 Kazakhstan 0 Kazakhstan 9,30 Azerbaijan 549.00 Azerbaijan 0 Pakistan 276.36 Pakistan 384.26 Kyrgyzstan 223.00 Kyrgyzstan 0 TOTAL 1,110.86 TOTAL 2,532.26 HUMAN RESOURCES Employee Profile Number of Employees Number of Employees 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Turkey Group Office 166 143 132 125 136 Turkey Operations 2,342 2,219 2,241 2,200 2,151 Jordan 397 404 398 377 349 Kazakhstan 845 950 717 651 627 Azerbaijan 390 352 296 295 307 Pakistan 4,175 3,564 3,356 2,955 2,901 Kyrgyzstan 384 355 307 308 299 Number of employees by gender Number of employees 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 by gender Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Turkey – Group Office 98 68 80 63 69 63 66 59 65 71 Turkey – Operations 1,993 351 1,908 311 1,923 318 1,879 321 1,835 316 Jordan 377 20 382 22 376 22 355 22 331 18 Kazakhstan 728 117 814 136 600 117 536 115 509 118 Azerbaijan 342 48 308 44 254 42 253 42 264 43 Pakistan 3,874 162 3,365 199 3,137 219 2,772 183 2,713 188 Kyrgzystan 249 58 248 60 248 51 TOTAL 7,412 766 6,857 775 6,608 839 6,109 802 5,965 805 Percentage of employees by gender Percentage of 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 employees by gender (%) Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Turkey – Group Office 59.0 41.0 55.9 44.1 52.3 47.7 52.8 47.2 47.8 52.2 Turkey – Operations 85.0 15.0 85.9 14.1 85.8 14.2 85.4 14.6 85.3 14.7 Jordan 95.0 5.0 94.5 5.4 94.5 5.5 94.2 5.8 94.8 5.2 Kazakhstan 86.2 13.8 85.7 14.3 83.7 16.3 82.3 17.7 81.2 18.8 Azerbaijan 87.7 12.3 87.5 12.5 85.8 14.2 85.8 14.2 86.0 14.0 Pakistan 96.0 4.0 94.4 5.6 93.5 6.5 93.8 6.2 93.5 6.5 Kyrgzystan 81.1 18.9 80.5 19.5 82.9 17.1 TOTAL 90.6 9.4 89.9 10.1 88.7 11.3 88.4 11.6 88.1 11.9 Number of employees per employee category Number of employees per employee category 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Turkey Group Office 9 10 11 10 10 Turkey Operations 7 8 8 7 5 Jordan 6 6 5 5 3 Senior Kazakhstan 25 8 8 6 8 Management Azerbaijan 6 6 3 5 5 Pakistan 10 10 9 9 Kygrzystan 6 5 5 Turkey Group Office 157 133 121 115 126 Turkey Operations 2,335 2,211 2,233 2,193 2,146 Jordan 391 398 393 372 346 Other Kazakhstan 820 942 709 645 619 Employees Azerbaijan 384 346 293 290 302 Pakistan 3,554 3,346 2,946 2,892 Kyrgzystan 301 303 294 Employees by Gender, Employment Type Employees by Gender, Male Female Employment Type (%) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Turkey – Group 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Office Turkey – 98.5 98.5 98.5 98.0 97.6 1.5 1.5 1.5 2.0 2.4 Operations Jordan 99.5 100.0 100.0 100.0 100 0.5 0 0 0 0 Blue Collar Kazakhstan 98.8 99.2 99.1 99.0 100 1.2 0.8 0.9 1.0 0 Azerbaijan 97.4 97.1 97.0 97.0 96.6 2.6 2.9 3.0 3.0 3.4 Pakistan* 99.1 99.1 98.3 98.0 97.9 0.9 0.9 1.7 2.0 2.1 Kyrgyzstan 94.7 93.0 98.9 5.3 7.0 1.1 Turkey – Group 58.4 55.9 52.3 52.8 47.8 41.6 44.1 47.7 47.2 52.2 Office Turkey – 77.1 78.3 78.2 77.5 77.8 22.9 21.7 21.8 22.5 22.2 Operations Jordan 90.4 89.4 89.3 89.2 91.7 9.6 10.6 10.7 10.8 8.3 White Collar Kazakhstan 77.7 76.7 70.7 67.6 65.6 22.3 23.3 29.3 32.4 34.4 Azerbaijan 78.2 81.1 80.2 79.9 81.7 21.8 18.9 19.8 20.1 18.3 Pakistan* 93.2 90.8 90.4 90.8 90.5 6.8 9.2 9.6 9.2 9.5 Kyrgyzstan 64.2 64.7 75.7 35.8 35.3 24.3 * The blue-collar/white-collar distinction is based on permanent employees since Pakistan does not have this information for its temporary workers. Outsourced Employees Number of Outsource-Core jobs (*) Outsource-Auxiliary jobs (**) Outsourced Employees 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Turkey – Group 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Office Turkey – Operations 896 857 929 890 648 0 227 261 350 266 Jordan 0 0 0 0 0 55 48 50 50 42 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 106 108 122 122 126 Azerbaijan 153 0 0 0 0 42 44 37 38 34 Pakistan 806 409 271 294 295 865 885 579 528 619 Kyrgyzstan 0 0 2 49 64 65 * Outsource-Core Jobs: Employees who are on the payroll of a third-party company and whose jobs are directly related to our own business (e.g., jobs in merchandising, sales, warehouse operations, production etc.) ** Outsource-Auxiliary Jobs: Employees who are on the payroll of a third-party company and whose jobs are not directly related to our own business (e.g., jobs in security, gardening, health services etc.) Employees by Gender, Employment Type and Contract Employees by Gender, Male Female Total Employment Type and Contract (Number) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Turkey – 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Group Office Turkey – 851 830 829 829 799 13 13 13 17 20 864 843 842 846 819 Operations Jordan 199 197 192 173 131 1 0 0 0 0 200 197 192 173 131 Blue Collar Kazakhstan 335 376 325 302 284 4 3 3 3 0 339 379 328 305 284 Azerbaijan 188 136 96 98 86 5 4 3 3 3 193 140 99 101 89 Pakistan 2,002 1,535 1,289 1,219 1,162 18 14 22 25 25 2,020 1,549 1,311 1,244 1,187 Kyrgyzstan 161 160 92 9 12 1 170 172 93 Turkey – 97 80 69 66 65 69 63 63 59 71 166 143 132 125 136 Group Office Turkey – 1,140 1,078 1,094 1,050 1036 338 298 305 304 296 1,478 1,376 1,399 1,354 1,332 Operations Jordan 178 185 184 182 200 19 22 22 22 18 197 207 206 204 218 White Collar Kazakhstan 393 438 275 234 225 113 133 114 112 118 506 571 389 346 343 Azerbaijan 154 172 158 155 178 43 40 39 39 40 197 212 197 194 218 Pakistan 2,008 1,830 1,848 1,553 1551 147 185 197 158 163 2,155 2,015 2,045 1,711 1,714 Kyrgyzstan 88 88 156 49 48 50 137 136 206 Turkey – 97 80 69 66 65 69 63 63 59 70 166 143 132 125 135 Group Office Turkey – 1,990 1,908 1,921 1,879 1,828 347 309 316 314 314 2,337 2,217 2,237 2,193 2,142 Operations Jordan 349 377 376 355 268 19 22 22 22 18 368 399 398 377 286 Permanent Kazakhstan 726 814 600 536 509 117 136 117 115 118 843 950 717 651 627 Azerbaijan 342 307 253 253 264 48 44 42 42 43 390 351 295 295 307 Pakistan 3,874 3,287 3,015 2,686 2624 162 198 206 174 175 4,036 3,485 3,221 2,860 2,799 Kyrgyzstan 249 248 248 58 60 51 307 308 299 Turkey – 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 0 0 0 0 1 Group Office Turkey – 1 0 2 0 7 4 2 2 7 2 5 2 4 7 9 Operations Jordan 28 5 0 0 63 1 0 0 0 0 29 5 0 0 63 Temporary Kazakhstan 2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 1 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 1 1 0 0 Pakistan* 136 78 122 86 89 3 1 13 9 13 139 79 135 95 102 Kyrgyzstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 * The blue-collar/white-collar distinction is based on permanent employees since Pakistan does not have this information for its temporary workers. Percentage of Employees by Age Percentage of Employees by Under 30 Between 30-50 Above 50 Age (%) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Turkey – 0 0 0 0 0 77.8 60.0 54.5 60.0 70.0 22.2 40 45.5 40.0 30.0 Group Office Turkey – 0 0 0 0 0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 0 0 0 0 0 Operations Senior Jordan 0 0 0 0 0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 100.0 0 0 0 0 0 Management Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 76 75.0 87.5 83.3 87.5 24.0 25 12.5 16.7 12.5 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 0 100.0 100.0 100.0 80.0 80.0 0 0 0 20.0 20.0 Pakistan 0 0 0 0 90.0 90.0 100.0 100.0 10 10 0 0 Kyrgyzstan 16.7 20 0 83.3 80.0 100.0 0 0 0 Turkey – 9.6 11.9 13.2 16.5 7.9 87.3 81.8 80.2 74.8 77.0 3.2 6.3 6.6 8.7 15.1 Group Office Turkey – 23.5 23.3 23.9 25.9 24.5 74.6 75.1 75.0 72.5 73.8 1.8 1.6 1.1 1.6 1.7 Operations Jordan 30.9 38.2 42.5 41.1 28.3 62.4 56.0 53.2 54.6 65.9 6.7 5.8 4.3 4.3 5.8 Other Employees Kazakhstan 40.4 36.3 30.3 29.5 26.5 52.1 56.5 61.5 60.6 61.2 7.5 7.2 8.2 9.9 12.3 Azerbaijan 40.3 36.1 34.8 32.1 25.5 48.7 53.2 55.6 57.2 63.2 11 10.7 9.6 10.7 11.3 Pakistan 33.3 27.0 31.3 23.5 62.7 69.3 65.7 72.4 4 3.7 3.0 4.1 Kyrgyzstan 62.1 59.7 50.0 30.2 33.3 43.5 7.6 6.9 6.5 Number and Percentage of Employees by Gender Male Female Number and Percentage of Employees by Gender 2018 2018 2018 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2014 2015 2016 2017 (Number) (Rate) (Number) (Rate) Turkey – Group 7 8 9 8 7 70.0% 2 2 2 2 3 30.0% Office Turkey – 5 7 7 5 3 60.0% 2 1 1 2 2 40.0% Operations Senior Jordan 5 6 3 3 3 100.0% 1 0 2 2 0 0% Management Kazakhstan 18 4 4 4 5 62.5% 7 4 4 2 3 37.5% Azerbaijan 3 3 1 3 3 60.0% 3 3 2 2 2 40.0% Pakistan 7 10 9 9 100.0% 3 0 0 0 0% Kyrgyzstan 5 4 4 80.0% 1 1 1 20.0% Turkey – Group 91 72 60 58 58 45.6% 66 61 61 57 68 54.4% Office Turkey – 1,986 1,901 1,916 1,874 1,832 85.4% 349 310 317 319 314 14.6% Operations Jordan 372 376 373 352 328 94.8% 19 22 20 20 18 5.2% Other Employees Kazakhstan 710 810 596 532 504 81.4% 110 132 113 113 115 18.6% Azerbaijan 339 305 253 250 261 86.4% 45 41 40 40 41 13.6% Pakistan 3,358 3,127 2,763 2,704 93.5% 196 219 183 188 6.5% Kyrgyzstan 244 244 244 83.0% 57 59 50 17.0% Employee Breakdown by Seniority Employee Breakdown by Seniority (%) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (by years of service) Turkey – Group Office 54.0 54.0 47.0 36.0 29.4 Turkey – Operations 43.3 40.0 42.6 37.2 34.3 Jordan 53.2 55.0 57.0 56.2 48.7 0 – 5 Years Kazakhstan 60.0 63.0 56.0 50.8 48.0 Azerbaijan 55.1 56.0 47.0 47.5 41.0 Pakistan 54.0 42.0 40.6 30.9 Kyrgyzstan 67.0 60.4 57.2 Turkey – Group Office 32.0 31.0 25.0 25.6 28.7 Turkey – Operations 32.4 31.0 29.1 29.7 28.1 Jordan 15.9 16.0 15.0 13.3 14.9 6 – 10 Years Kazakhstan 26.6 23.0 25.0 22.4 17.1 Azerbaijan 32.3 28.0 35.0 23.1 26.1 Pakistan 33.0 40.0 40.1 43.1 Kyrgyzstan 21.0 25.0 27.4 Turkey – Group Office 4.0 3.0 8.0 15.2 19.1 Turkey – Operations 6.9 11.0 11.3 16.0 20.8 Jordan 14.6 11.0 9.0 9.8 12.3 11 – 15 Years Kazakhstan 7.9 8.0 12.0 18.9 24.9 Azerbaijan 3.3 5.0 7.0 19.3 22.8 Pakistan 5.0 8.0 11.6 16.6 Kyrgyzstan 5.0 7.1 7.0 Turkey – Group Office 5.0 6.0 7.0 8.8 5.1 Turkey – Operations 13.9 13.0 11.8 10.2 7.7 Jordan 10.6 12.0 14.0 13.3 14.6 16 – 20 Years Kazakhstan 4.7 5.0 5.0 3.5 5.6 Azerbaijan 10.5 10.0 10.0 4.1 2.9 Pakistan 8.0 8.0 6.8 7.4 Kyrgyzstan 7.0 4.2 3.0 Turkey – Group Office 6.0 6.0 14.0 14.4 17.6 Turkey – Operations 3.5 5.0 5.2 6.8 9.1 Jordan 5.8 5.0 5.0 7.4 9.5 20+ Years Kazakhstan 0.7 1.0 2.0 4.3 4.5 Azerbaijan 0 1.0 1.0 6.1 7.2 Pakistan 0 2.0 1.9 2.0 Kyrgyzstan 1.0 3.2 5.4 Collective Bargaining Agreements Employees covered by 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 collective bargaining agreements Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Turkey Group Office 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Turkey Operations 41 4.30 52 6.20 761 90.38 770 91.02 768 93.80 Jordan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Pakistan 1,881 100 1,470 100 1,229 100 1,182 100 1,187 100 Kyrgyzstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 Benefits Provided to Full-time Employees Benefits Provided to Full-time Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan Kyrgzystan Employees Private health insurance Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Private life insurance Yes Yes No No Yes No Individual pension funds Yes No No No No No Company products Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Seniority service awards Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Yes Training Training per Employee Average Hours of Training 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Per Employee (Hour) Turkey – Group Office 37.7 9.7 12.4 2.4 9.4 Turkey – Operations 8.3 4.3 4.0 5.4 6.6 Jordan 35.1 64.8 13.3 1.4 9.2 Kazakhstan 29.3 27.0 23.12 29.7 25.4 Azerbaijan 14.1 37.5 30.6 35.9 43.6 Pakistan 65.6 27.8 7.7 7.9 Kyrgyzstan 27.8 23.4 24.2 Training by Countries Total number of hours of Average hours of Total Number of Training by Countries Years training training per year per Employee (Employee*Hour) employee (Hour) 2014 6,255 166 37.7 2015 1,384 143 9.7 Turkey Group Office 2016 1,633 132 12.4 2017 306 125 2.4 2018 1,280 136 9.4 2014 19,540 2,342 8.3 2015 9,596 2,219 4.3 Turkey Operations 2016 8,976 2,241 4.0 2017 11,960 2,200 5.4 2018 14,138 2,151 6.6 2014 13,916 397 35.1 2015 26,160 404 64.8 Jordan 2016 5,297 398 13.3 2017 544 377 1.4 2018 3,201 349 9.2 2014 24,757 845 29.3 2015 25,642 950 27.0 Kazakhstan 2016 16,606 717 23.2 2017 19,306 651 29.7 2018 15,905 627 25.4 2014 5,481 390 14.1 Azerbaijan 2015 13,198 352 37.5 2016 9,051 296 30.6 2017 10,592 295 35.9 2018 13,399 307 43.6 2015 233,862 3,564 65.6 2016 93,256 3,356 27.8 Pakistan 2017 22,750 2,955 7.7 2018 23,003 2,901 7.9 2016 8,546 307 27.8 Kyrgzystan 2017 7,222 308 23.4 2018 7,246 299 24.2 2014 69,949 4,140 16.9 2015 309,842 7,632 40.6 TOTAL 2016 143,365 7,447 19.3 2017 72,680 6,911 10.5 2018 78,172 6,770 11.5 New Employee Hires New Employee Hires Total Number and Rate of New Employee Male Female Hires Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Turkey – Group Office 1 1.0 1 1.5 Turkey – Operations 135 6.8 44 12.5 Jordan 49 13.0 6 30.0 2014 Kazakhstan 206 28.3 29 24.8 Azerbaijan 43 12.6 8 16.7 Kyrgyzstan Turkey – Group Office 4 5.0 3 4.8 Turkey – Operations 172 9.0 32 10.3 Jordan 156 40.8 6 27.3 2015 Kazakhstan 241 29.6 41 30.1 Azerbaijan 41 13.3 6 13.6 Pakistan 79 2.3 49 24.6 Kyrgyzstan Turkey – Group Office 3 4.3 5 7.9 Turkey – Operations 144 7.5 38 12.0 Jordan 148 39.4 6 27.3 2016 Kazakhstan 120 20.0 15 12.8 Azerbaijan 15 5.9 3 7.1 Pakistan 137 4.5 37 18.0 Kyrgyzstan 30 12.0 4 6.9 Turkey – Group Office 6 9.1 5 8.5 Turkey – Operations 96 5.1 36 11.5 Jordan 82 23.1 2 9.1 2017 Kazakhstan 74 13.8 13 11.3 Azerbaijan 26 10.3 5 11.9 Pakistan 80 3.0 16 9.2 Kyrgyzstan 38 15.3 10 16.7 Turkey – Group Office 13 20.0 14 19.7 Turkey – Operations 122 6.6 48 15.2 Jordan 59 17.8 1 5.6 2018 Kazakhstan 70 13.8 27 22.9 Azerbaijan 17 6.4 7 16.3 Pakistan 90 3.3 18 9.6 Kyrgyzstan 33 13.3 9 17.6 Employee Turnover Employee Turnover Total Number and Rates of Employee Male Female Total Turnover Number Rate (%) Number Rate (%) Turnover (%) Turkey – Group Office 11 11.3 10 14.5 12.7 Turkey – Operations 342 17.2 64 18.2 17.3 Jordan 49 13.0 6 30.0 13.9 2014 Kazakhstan 109 15.0 18 15.4 15.0 Azerbaijan 30 8.8 4 8.3 8.7 Kyrgyzstan Turkey – Group Office 13 16.3 4 6.3 11.9 Turkey – Operations 270 14.2 73 23.5 15.5 Jordan 53 13.9 3 13.6 13.9 2015 Kazakhstan 145 17.8 24 17.6 17.8 Azerbaijan 26 8.4 6 13.6 9.1 Pakistan 163 4.8 42 21.1 5.8 Kyrgyzstan Turkey – Group Office 15 21.6 5 7.9 15.2 Turkey – Operations 157 8.2 45 14.2 9.0 Jordan 66 17.5 4 18.2 17.6 2016 Kazakhstan 334 55.6 34 29.1 51.3 Azerbaijan 59 23.3 4 9.5 21.4 Pakistan 417 13.8 37 18.0 14.1 Kyrgyzstan 68 27.3 11 19.0 25.7 Turkey – Group Office 16 24.2 7 11.9 18.4 Turkey – Operations 133 7.1 36 11.5 7.7 Jordan 48 13.5 3 13.6 13.5 2017 Kazakhstan 147 27.4 16 13.9 25.0 Azerbaijan 26 10.3 5 11.9 10.5 Pakistan 438 16.3 52 29.9 17.1 Kyrgyzstan 41 16.5 8 13.3 15.9 Turkey – Group Office 13 20.0 8 11.3 15.4 Turkey – Operations 133 7.2 39 12.3 8.0 Jordan 83 25.1 5 27.8 25.2 2018 Kazakhstan 105 20.6 18 15.3 19.6 Azerbaijan 6 2.3 5 11.6 3.6 Pakistan 147 5.4 24 12.8 5.9 Kyrgyzstan 33 13.3 10 19.6 14.4 Local Employment Local Employment Local Employment in International Local Senior Local White Collar Local Blue Collar Operations Management Employment Rate (%) Employment Rate (%) Employment Rate (%) Turkey – Group Office 100.0 97 0 Turkey – Operations 90.0 99.8 100.0 Jordan 67.0 100.0 100.0 2014 Azerbaijan 16.7 96.0 100.0 Kazakhstan 50.0 99.2 100.0 Kyrgyzstan Turkey – Group Office 100.0 89.5 0 Turkey – Operations 87.5 99.9 100.0 Jordan 33.3 100.0 100.0 2015 Azerbaijan 16.7 97.2 100.0 Kazakhstan 62.5 99.5 100.0 Pakistan 90.0 100.0 100.0 Kyrgyzstan Turkey – Group Office 100.0 89.4 0 Turkey – Operations 100.0 99.9 100.0 Jordan 80.0 99.5 100.0 2016 Azerbaijan 50 99.0 100.0 Kazakhstan 50.0 98.5 100.0 Pakistan 70.0 99.8 100.0 Kyrgyzstan 50.0 97.1 100.0 Turkey – Group Office 100.0 100.0 0 Turkey – Operations 100.0 99.3 100.0 Jordan 80.0 97.5 100.0 2017 Azerbaijan 40 98.5 100.0 Kazakhstan 33.3 96.8 100.0 Pakistan 66.7 99.7 100.0 Kyrgyzstan 60.0 97.8 100.0 Turkey – Group Office 100.0 100.0 0 Turkey – Operations 100.0 99.7 100.0 Jordan 66.7 100.0 100.0 2018 Azerbaijan 40.0 98.2 100.0 Kazakhstan 37.5 97.1 100.0 Pakistan 66.7 99.5 100.0 Kyrgyzstan 60.0 98.8 100.0 Note: “Local” means from the country in question. OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY (OHS) OHS Performance Indicators I OHS Performance Lost Time Incidents (workdays lost) Lost Time Incidents (Number) Number of Fatalities Indicators Employee Contractor Total Employee Contractor Total Employee Contractor Turkey 648 94 742 30 7 37 0 0 Jordan 146 0 146 9 0 9 0 0 2014 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 OVERALL 794 94 888 39 7 46 0 0 Turkey 146 292 438 15 15 30 0 0 Jordan 118 0 118 8 0 8 0 0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 2015 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Pakistan* 174 0 174 7 10 17 0 0 OVERALL 438 292 730 30 25 55 0 0 Turkey 141 109 250 19 11 30 0 0 Jordan 296 0 296 18 0 18 0 0 Kazakhstan 32 16 48 2 1 3 0 0 2016 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Pakistan 220 4 224 4 1 5 1 0 Kyrgyzstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 OVERALL 689 129 818 43 13 56 1 0 Turkey 217 6 223 15 3 18 0 0 Jordan 47 0 47 4 0 4 0 0 Kazakhstan 10 0 10 1 0 1 0 0 2017 Azerbaijan 180 0 180 1 0 1 0 0 Pakistan 8 33 41 1 3 4 0 0 Kyrgyzstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 OVERALL 462 39 501 22 6 28 0 0 Turkey 173 51 224 3 5 8 0 0 Jordan 60 0 60 5 0 5 0 0 Kazakhstan 18 0 18 1 0 1 0 0 2018 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Pakistan 38 44 82 4 2 6 0 0 Kyrgyzstan 29 0 29 2 0 2 0 0 OVERALL 318 95 413 15 7 22 0 0 * 2015 vehicle accident data for Pakistan was not prepared on a consistent basis between plants. OHS Performance Indicators II Total Vehicle Vehicle OHS Performance Indicators LTIR LTISR Accident Accident Rate Turkey 0.67 8.83 164.00 14.22 Jordan 1.54 24.91 50.00 22.02 2014 Kazakhstan 0 0 27.00 9.89 Azerbaijan 0 0 8.00 4.28 OVERALL 0.62 3.15 249.00 13.68 Turkey 0.68 9.50 101.00 10.44 Jordan 1.42 20.93 74.00 32.60 Kazakhstan 0 0 2.00 0.73 2015 Azerbaijan 0 0 3.00 1.74 Pakistan 0.37 3.77 13.00 2.51 OVERALL 0.49 6.63 193.00 8.97 Turkey 0.68 5.69 100.00 10.88 Jordan 3.42 56.28 65.00 28.63 Kazakhstan 0.43 6.91 0 0 2016 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 Pakistan 0.13 5.98 13.00 2.16 Kyrgyzstan 0 0 0 0 OVERALL 0.57 8.35 178.00 8.59 Turkey 0.38 4.70 95 10.70 Jordan 0.73 8.63 39 17.18 Kazakhstan 0.16 1.55 5 3.31 2017 Azerbaijan 0.34 60.96 0 0 Pakistan 0.11 1.15 5 0.83 Kyrgyzstan 0 0 8 9.20 OVERALL 0.28 5.17 152 7.22 Turkey 0.17 4.85 92 9.88 Jordan 0.96 11.5 23 10.8 Kazakhstan 0.16 2.88 0 0 2018 Azerbaijan 0 0 0 0 Pakistan 0.16 2.13 11 1.83 Kyrgyzstan 0.72 10.47 4 4.2 OVERALL 0.22 4.12 130 6.18 Worker Health Promotion of Worker Health Non Occupational Benefits Yes/ No Vaccinations Hep-B / Hep-B Yes Flu Vaccination Yes Free doctor consultations Yes Health Campaigns Free eye Check-ups Yes Free BMI Measurements Yes Free Blood check-ups Yes Promoting Healthy Lifestyle/ Contribution in providing sports Weight loss program Yes Gym facility Yes Discounts on Gym facilities Yes Football Yes Other Sports Activities Yes Presence of Sports room/ area Yes Specific to Women Health Breast cancer awareness Yes ENVIRONMENT Environmental Training Environment Training Total Hours of Environment 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Training (human-hours) Turkey 3,342 2,590 2,818 5,043 2,819 Jordan 34 56 95 66 80 Kazakhstan 98 344 295 446 885 Azerbaijan 224 224 188 834 1,058 Pakistan 1,971 1,072 1,901 1,474 Kyrgyzstan 434 284 213 TOTAL 3,698 5,185 4,902 8,574 6,529 Energy Management and Climate Protection Energy Use in Core Operations Energy Use in Core Operations Fuel Plant Purchased Energy TOT (Million MJ) * Heavy fuel oil Diesel LPG Natural gas Electricity Steam 2014 0 1.75 55.69 269.10 385.69 0 712 2015 0 4.07 51.95 281.96 404.47 0 742 Turkey 2016 0 2.88 35.63 263.24 400.74 0 702 2017 0 3.91 25.68 306.77 422.59 0 758 2018 0 2.74 14.15 330.17 425.87 0 772 2014 5.28 3.41 4.00 0 22.60 0 35. 2015 4.22 1.01 2.81 0 23.41 0 31. Jordan 2016 3.97 0.61 3.00 0 23.93 0 31. 2017 2.47 0.39 2.35 0 21.06 0 26. 2018 2.65 0.50 2.15 0 20.00 0 25 2014 0 0.41 16.49 93.06 61.08 63.59 234 2015 0 0.38 14.15 82.36 71.62 60.74 229 Kazakhstan 2016 0 82.30 13.39 60.69 92.38 49.97 298 2017 0 55.21 13.37 57.13 101.15 53.65 280 2018 0 60,50 15.65 74.08 111,00 63.41 324 2014 0 0.71 7.34 29.30 60.49 0 97. 2015 0 0.39 7.25 21.70 48.27 0 77. Azerbaijan 2016 0 0 8.75 15.70 30.52 0 54. 2017 0 0 5.69 24.19 37.27 0 67. 2018 0 0.71 7.11 24.26 47.19 0 79. 2014 0 180.20 21.50 11.00 85.50 0 298 2015 0 345.83 50.08 46.39 229.22 0 671 Pakistan 2016 0 188.70 26.80 132.60 296.30 0 644 2017 0 192.13 44.63 125.93 313.57 0 676 2018 167.03 50.45 111.39 339.67 668 2016 0 0.93 0.92 16.12 22.75 0 40. Kyrgyzstan 2017 0 0.4 1.39 16.7 21.2 0 39. 2018 0.85 1.67 17.30 25.85 45. 2014 5.28 186.48 105.03 402.46 615.36 63.59 1,37 2015 4.22 351.68 126.24 432.41 776.99 60.74 1,75 TOTAL 2016 3.97 275.42 88.49 488.35 866.62 49.97 1,77 2017 2.47 252.04 93.11 530.72 916.84 53.65 1,84 2018 2.65 232.33 91.18 557.20 969.58 63.41 1,91 Note: These figures exclude energy use for preform injection and CO2 production processes in plants in Turkey, Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Kyrgyzstan operations and Pakistan (Lahore Plant). Energy use for the electricity generation process in our Kazakhstan plant is included in dataKazakhstan Core EUR has increased in 2016 since a new plant (Astana) has started operation in 2016. * The figures for 2012 and 2013 in Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan operations, the figures for 2014 and 2015 in Turkey and Pakistan and the figures for 2016 in Turkey have received limited assurance and figures for 2017, 2018 have received reasonable assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. Total Energy Use Fuel Plant Purchased Energy Total Energy Use (Million MJ) * TOT Heavy fuel oil Diesel LPG Natural gas Electricity Steam 2014 0 1.75 55.69 269.1 385.69 0 712 2015 0 4.07 51.95 281.96 404.47 0 742 Turkey 2016 0 2.88 35.63 263.24 400.74 0 702 2017 0 3.91 25.68 321.21 504.73 0 855 2018 0 2.79 14.15 344.12 516.48 0 877 2014 5.28 3.41 4.00 0 22.60 0 35. 2015 4.22 1.01 2.81 0 23.41 0 31. Jordan 2016 3.97 0.61 3.00 0 23.93 0 31. 2017 2.47 0.39 2.35 0 21.06 0 26. 2018 2.65 0.50 2.15 0 20.00 0 25. 2014 0 0.41 16.49 188.45 110.62 63.59 379 2015 0 0.38 14.15 172.11 111.72 60.74 359 Kazakhstan 2016 0 96.83 13.39 134.45 119.23 49.97 413 2017 0 75.6 13.37 129.37 142.94 53.65 414 2018 0 87.06 15.65 161.15 156.36 63.41 483 2014 0 54.7 7.34 29.3 88.9 0 180 2015 0 0.39 7.25 75.58 71.61 0 154 Azerbaijan 2016 0 0 8.75 32.65 82.74 0 124 2017 0 0 5.69 60.19 54.27 0 120 2018 0 0.71 7.11 76.28 69.28 0 153 2014 0 434.9 45.8 57.8 233.6 0 772 2015 0 366.5 50.1 46.4 268.4 0 731 Pakistan 2016 0 195.6 46.5 132.6 338.6 0 713 2017 0 198.88 44.63 125.93 354.13 0 723 2018 0 173.45 50.45 111.39 375.39 0 710 2016 0 1.15 1.01 38.60 23.80 0 64. Kyrgyzstan 2017 0 0.40 1.39 17.94 21.28 0 41. 2018 0 0.85 1.67 39.64 27.16 0 69. 2014 5.28 495.38 129.33 559.67 922.52 63.59 2,17 2015 4.22 372.41 126.24 591.61 968.05 60.74 2,12 TOTAL 2016 3.97 297.31 108.27 615.46 1,080.58 49.97 2,15 2017 2.47 279.18 93.11 654.64 1,098.41 53.65 2,18 2018 2.65 265.36 91.18 732.58 1,164.67 63.41 2,31 Note: This table includes data on energy use for all processes in the plants. * The figures for 2012 and 2013 in Turkey, Jordan, Kazakhstan and Azerbaijan operations and the figures of 2014, 2015 and 2016 in Turkey have received limited assurance and figures for 2017, 2018 have received reasonable assurance from the independent auditing firm EY. CCI uses two main KPIs to measure energy intensity: 1. Core Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L), which relate only to the core process (includes filling, excludes preform injection and CO2 production), so that the energy efficiency of the core process can be compared between plants. (For more information please see the Reporting Guidance section of the report.) 2. Total Energy Use Ratio (MJ/L), which is the total absolute energy consumption (in MJ) from the plant divided by total production (in liters). Total Energy Use Ratio Total Energy Use Ratio 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (MJ/L) Turkey 0.30* 0.30* 0.29* 0.30* 0.30* Jordan 0.41 0.33 0.30 0.25 0.27 Kazakhstan 0.64 0.65 0.76 0.65 0.68 Azerbaijan 0.72 0.74 0.70 0.68 0.68 Pakistan 0.59* 0.52* 0.43 0.41 0.38 Kyrgyzstan 0.76 0.69 0.69 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm Ernst & Young. Core Energy Use Ratio Energy Use 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Ratio (MJ/L) Turkey 0.26 0.27* 0.25* 0.27* 0.26* Jordan 0.41 0.33 0.30 0.25 0.27 Kazakhstan 0.40 0.41 0.55 0.44 0.45 Azerbaijan 0.39 0.37 0.37 0.38 0.35 Pakistan 0.52 0.48* 0.40 0.38 0.36 Kyrgyzstan 0.48 0.44 0.46 * These figures have received limited assurance from the independent auditing firm Ernst & Young . GHG Emissions GHG Emissions (tons of CO2 -e) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Turkey Scope 1* 47,418 52,162 44,247 51,602 48,197 Scope 2* 61,359 60,397 69,697 63,346 67,964 Scope 3** 321,162 299,264 414,372 176,386 184,291 Total 429,939 411,823 528,316 291,334 300,452 Jordan Scope 1 866 535 331 218 353 Scope 2 3,990 4,673 4,464 3,738 2,761 Scope 3*** 27,202 28,062 22,550 17,943 4,644 Total 32,058 33,270 27,345 21,898 7,758 Kazakhstan Scope 1 18,734 13,942 18,009 14,053 17,495 Scope 2 10,133 13,420 14,271 22,717 16,327 Scope 3*** 42,998 36,902 41,694 43,800 26,831 Total 71,865 64,264 73,974 80,570 60,653 Azerbaijan Scope 1 9,215 6,797 6,231 3,038 4,309 Scope 2 8,817 6,789 5,985 6,694 9,218 Scope 3*** 14,092 14,438 12,578 12,068 12,268 Total 32,124 28,024 24,794 21,800 25,796 Pakistan Scope 1 35,554 31,199 21,009 22,682 20,093 Scope 2 27,095 30,653 39,270 48,562 46,578 Scope 3*** 237,843 251,636 284,649 295,637 Total 62,649 299,695 311,915 355,893 362,309 Kyrgyzstan Scope 1 2,090 2,024 2,158 Scope 2 3,271 2,866 560 Scope 3*** 2,249 2,643 2,444 Total 7,610 7,533 5,162 TOTAL Scope 1 111,787 104,635 91,917 93,617 92,606 Scope 2 111,394 115,932 136,958 147,923 143,409 Scope 3*** 405,454 616,509 745,079 537,489 526,115 OVERALL TOTAL 628,635 837,076 973,954 779,028 762,129 * Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions from Turkey for 2013 – 2018 are verified by a third-party verifier according to the requirements of ISO 14064-1. **Scope 3 emissions for Turkey operations include energy consumption of coolers by distributors and customers, employee commuting, business travels by air, downstream transport. *** Scope 3 emissions include emissions resulting from energy consumption of coolers by distributors. Note: Scope 1 and Scope 2 data in the table above include emissions from all processes, including filling, preform injection, CO2 production and electricity production (only in Kazakhstan) in our plants. In all CCI countries except Turkey, emissions from fleet and fugitive emissions are excluded. Emissions Savings in Turkey Emissions Savings in AMOUNT Scope Turkey (tons of Co2-e) 2015 2016 2017 2018 Product distribution fleet Scope 1 2,075 0 0 65 improvement Fugitive emissions Scope 1 145 2,651 7,782 8,346 reductions in coolers Energy efficiency and low Scope 1+2 1,402 80,289 661 1,006 carbon projects in plants Route optimization Scope 3 1,050 1,050 1,400 1,400 EMD equipped Coolers Scope3 172,315 201,317 77,156* 82,759 Savings via Video Scope 3 840 2,986 Conference Calls Returnable Glass Bottles Scope 3 115,336 Reuse of Wooden Pallets Scope 3 493.41 TOTAL 176,987 285,307 87,839 212,411 * Since 2017, ‘Cooler EMD Improvement’ saving is started to be calculated by Scope 3 Electricity Emission Factor, which was 0.168 kgCO2e/kWh; instead of Scope 2 Electricity Emission factor, which is 0.441 kgCO2e/kWh. Energy and Emission Savings by Countries Energy Saved and GHG 2015 2016 2017 2018 Emissions Reduced due Energy GHG Monetary Energy GHG Monetary Energy GHG Monetary Energy GHG to Efficiency Projects in (Million Emissions Saving (Million Emissions Saving (Million Emissions Saving (Million Emissions Plants MJ) (tCO2-e) (USD) MJ) (tCO2-e) (USD) MJ) (tCO2-e) (USD) MJ) (tCO2-e) Turkey 11.7 1.402 247.886 1,591.89 4,417.11 269.938 4.57 660.94 196,168 8.815 1,006 Jordan 2.5 200 40.869 2.87 372.85 95.100 0.13 20.19 325,806 0.564 42 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 0 0 19.60 2,265.30 7780130 7.78 536.53 Azerbaijan 0.2 28 2.655 0.39 53.82 4.403 0.18 23.70 2,576 0.046 6.16 Pakistan 12.8 1.168 387.455 16.34 1.699 19.163 3.01 281.37 372,603 24.88 2,259 Kyrgyzstan 9.09 431.07 83,831.06 3.38 86.47 30,586 TOTAL 27.2 2.798 678.865 1,620.58 6,973.85 472,435.06 30.87 3,337.96 1,127,253 42.086 3,849 EMD Ratio EMD Ratio 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (%) Turkey 84 87 88 90 90.0 Jordan 5 5 5 60 24.7 Kazakhstan 29 39 41 70 85.0 Azerbaijan 50 50 50 87 79.6 Pakistan 0.15 1.4 Kyrgyzstan 72.5 76 65.0 EMD Savings in Turkey Energy and Emission Energy Saving GHG Emissions Avoided Annual CO2 Extraction Reductions due to EMD (million kWh) (ton CO2) (tree)** Program in Turkey. 2014 381 175.000 14.6 million 2015 402 172.315 14.4 million 2016 438 217.915 16.8 million 2017* 459 77.156 6.4 million 2018 490 82.759 6.9 million * For more proper GHG inventory calculation for coolers, Scope 3 electricity emission factor is started to be used since 2017, as our coolers are run at our downstream supply chain. In the year of methodology change, the electricity emission factor for Turkey in Scope 2 was 0.441 kgCO2e/kWh, whereas Scope 3 was 0.168 kgCO2e/kWh. **Assumption was made for a tree to extract 12 kg CO2 gas annually. EMD Savings Energy and Emission Reductions due to Energy Saving GHG Emissions Annual CO2 EMD Program in the 6 Countries of (million kWh) Avoided (ton CO2) Extraction (tree)** Operation. 2014 402 185,000 15.4 million 2015 428 184,000 15.3 million 2016 475 231,000 19.2 million 2017* 468 78,711 6.6 million 2018 511 86,550 7.2 million * For more proper GHG inventory calculation for coolers, Scope 3 electricity emission factor started to be used since 2017, as our coolers are run at our downstream supply chain. In 2017, the year of methodology change, the electricity emission factors for countries are as follows in kgCO2e / kWh; for Turkey Scope 2 was 0.441, whereas Scope 3 was 0.168; for Jordan Scope 2 was 0.588, whereas Scope 3 was 0.209; Kazakhstan Scope 2 was 0.416, whereas Scope 3 was 0.196; Pakistan Scope 2 was 0.410, whereas Scope 3 was 0.192; Kyrgyzstan Scope 2 was 0.092, whereas Scope 3 was 0.054. **Assumption was made for a tree to extract 12 kg CO2 gas annually. GHG Emissions Ratio GHG Emissions 2010 2014 2015 2016 2017* 2018** Ratio (g/L) Turkey 28.95 27.92 27.68 29.09 40.43 28.71 Jordan 72.44 55.89 49.31 48.00 38.78 32.35 Kazakhstan 56.90 49.85 49.44 59.86 58.62 57,42 Azerbaijan 53.54 71.82 64.58 60.24 55.67 59.69 Pakistan 41.82 36.37 40.47 32.95 Kyrgyzstan 33.52 54.2 27.32 * Calculated based on emissions from plants, fleet and fugitive emissions ** Based on emissions from plants only, including preform injection and CO2 production processes Water Management Water Use Ratio Water Use 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Ratio (L/L) Turkey 1.41* 1.44* 1.47* 1.56* 1.55* Jordan 2.04 1.89 1.71 1.44 1.52 Kazakhstan 1.55 1.47 1.67 1.59 1.54 Azerbaijan 1.82 1.85 1.82 1.73 1.64 Pakistan 2.40* 2.03* 2.00 1.93 2.05 Kyrgyzstan 1.88 1.65 1.64 * WUR figures for Turkey are assured by Ernst & Young. Water Withdrawal Total Water Withdrawal by 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Region (m3) Turkey 3,832,252* 4,000,719* 4,130,826* 4,439,083* 4,599,993* Jordan 177,081 180,232 177,137 153,807 146,145 Kazakhstan 896,218 816,221 911,071 1,005,964 1,099,998 Azerbaijan 457,873 388,103 251,715 304,544 371,174 Pakistan 3,138,972* 2,829,952* 3,161,737 3,418,428 3,836,782 Kyrgyzstan 160,373 148,610 163,582 TOTAL 8,502,396 8,215,227 8,792,859 9,470,436 10,217,674 * Total water withdrawal figures for Turkey are assured by Ernst & Young. Recycled and Reused Water (Volume) Volume of Water 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Recycled and Reused (m3) Turkey 40,337 80,000 341,973 345,551 129,178 Jordan 0 0 0 0 29,229 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 26,701 Azerbaijan 5,942 5,191 5,236 5,771 11,991 Pakistan 68,216 129,005 183,499 131,829 Kyrgyzstan 720 2,660 580 TOTAL 46,279 153,407 476,934 537,481 329,508 Recycled and Reused Water (Percentage) Percentage of Water 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Recycled and Reused (%) Turkey 1.1 2.0 7.4 7.8 2.8 Jordan 0 0 0 0 20.0 Kazakhstan 0 0 0 0 2.4 Azerbaijan 1.3 1.3 2.08 1.9 3.2 Pakistan 2.4 4 5.4 3.4 Kyrgyzstan 0.5 1.8 0.4 AVERAGE 0.5 1.9 5.4 5.8 3.3 Wastewater Management TCCC Wastewater Quality Parameters Water Quality Parameters Maximum Allowable Limit Values 5-Day Biological Oxygen Demand < 50 mg/l pH Level 6.5-8** Total Suspended Solids < 50 mg/l Total Dissolved Solids < 2,000 mg/l Total Nitrogen < 5 mg/l Total Phosphorus < 2 mg/l These values indicate the maximum allowable limit values unless applicable legal requirements are more stringent. * These are 6 of the 20 water quality parameters established for TCCS. ** Depends on receiving stream water conditions. Water Discharge Water Discharge (L/L) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Turkey 0.41 0.39 0.47 0.35 0.50 Jordan 1.04 0.89 0.71 0.44 0.47 Kazakhstan 0.42 0.36 1.69 0.55 0.55 Azerbaijan 0.94 0.97 0.96 0.84 0.78 Pakistan 1.35 1.01 0.82 0.87 1.00 Kyrgyzstan 0.95 0.71 0.70 Water Discharge (Destination) Water Discharge by Destination 2015 2016 2017 2018 Destination (m3) Surface water 421,941 530,676 677,174 590,849 Turkey Organized Industrial Zone 181,205 505,514 196,624 769,882 Municipal sewage system 489,190 191,590 121,795 120,791 Surface water 0 0 0 0 Jordan Municipal sewage system 84,771 73,125 46,685 44,818 Surface water 0 0 0 0 Kazakhstan Municipal sewage system 198,552 303,110 348,530 400,743 Surface water 0 0 0 0 Azerbaijan Municipal sewage system 204,397 132,284 118,654 177,691 Surface water 156,553 147,484 157,141 223,978 Pakistan Organized Industrial Zone 519,763 168,036 629,581 483,826 Municipal sewage system 735,906 1,066,204 748,482 1,164,540 Surface water 0 0 0 Kyrgyzstan Organized Industrial Zone 0 0 0 Municipal sewage system 80,893 64,284 69,863 Surface water 578,494 678,160 834,315 814,827 TOTAL Organized Industrial Zone 700,968 673,550 826,205 1,253,708 Municipal sewage system 1,712,816 1,847,206 1,448,430 1,978,446 Sustainable Packaging and Waste Waste Ratio Total Waste Ratio (g/L) 2006 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Turkey 3.74 4.99* 4.77* 5.09 4.99 4.77 4.31 Jordan 15.72 6.44* 3.29 2.46 3.07 1.35 1.37 Kazakhstan 4.14 1.59* 1.82* 1.96 2.08 1.60 1.63 Azerbaijan 0.65 1.28* 2.06 1.23 0.96 1.17 0.97 Pakistan 9.66 8.90 10.77 8.92 Kyrgyzstan 3.81 2.93 3.10 Waste Recycling Rate Total Waste Recycling Rate (%) 2006 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Turkey 90.99 96.12 96.66 95.57 94.79 96.00 98.7 Jordan 81.60 94.70 90.45 94.10 90.30 91.90 90.90 Kazakhstan 94.67 90.30 91.70 93.00 91.20 90.00 88.03 Azerbaijan 75.55 99.60 94.00 95.60 96.30 97.80 93.38 Pakistan 70.54 93.00 94.44 95.48 Kyrgyzstan 98.10 97.70 98.58 Waste Weight and Disposal Method Total Weight of Waste by Type and Turkey Jordan Kazakhstan Azerbaijan Pakistan Kyrgyzstan Disposal Method (Tons) Reuse 2.4 0 0 0 4.0 Recycle 69.4 0 1.5 0 2.6 Landfill 5.9 0 0 0 28.0 Hazardous Incineration 8.2 0 0.4 0 122.8 Recovery 415.8 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 501.7 0 1.9 0 157.4 2014 Reuse 0 0 204.9 0 6.221 Recycle 12,032.5 260.3 757.8 486.0 10.630 Non-Hazardous Landfill 407.6 0 89.2 31.0 422.0 Recovery 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 12,440.1 260.3 1,051.9 517.0 17,273.0 OVERALL 12,941.8 260.3 1,053.8 517.0 17,430.4 TOTAL Reuse 0 0 0 0 0 Recycle 18.7 0 17.1 0 0 Landfill 4.3 0 0 13.5 24.1 Hazardous Incineration 18.6 0 0.4 0 324.0 Recovery 2.0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 43.6 0 17.5 13.5 348.1 2015 Reuse 0 0 173.5 0 3,303.7 Recycle 7,661.7 225.3 823.6 241.1 9,511.9 Non-Hazardous Landfill 283.0 0 71.6 17.4 320.7 Recovery 144.8 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 8,089.5 225.3 1,068.7 258.5 13,136.3 OVERALL 8,133.1 225.3 1,086.2 272.0 13,484.4 TOTAL Reuse 78.3 0 0 0 0 Recycle 243.7 0 9.4 19.6 0 Landfill 7.7 0 0 0 0.35 Hazardous Incineration 33.5 0 0.52 0 148.52 2016 Recovery 0.4 0 0 0 0 2.8 TOTAL 363.6 0 9.9 19.6 148.87 2.8 Reuse 2,025.2 0 123.1 0 1.95 317.6 Non-Hazardous Recycle 10,722.1 289.0 903.2 129.5 133 0 Landfill 696.8 0 100.5 4.6 326.2 3.5 Recovery 115.0 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 13,559.1 289.0 1,126.8 134.1 341.49 321.1 OVERALL 13,922.7 289.0 1,136.7 153.7 490.36 323.9 TOTAL Reuse 0.8 0 0 0 0 0 Recycle 28.1 0 6.9 0 0 0 Landfill 13.7 1.9 0 18.0 0 0 Hazardous Incineration 273.3 0 0.45 0 280.4 0 Recovery 116.8 0 0 0 0 2.3 TOTAL 431.9 1.9 7.3 18.0 280.4 2.3 2017 Reuse 1361.8 0 160.5 7.0 668.6 258.78 Recycle 10,859.65 157.70 742.40 166.80 17,327.20 0 Non-Hazardous Landfill 677.73 12.00 105.50 0 779.20 3.76 Recovery 107.00 0 0 10.00 0 0 TOTAL 13,006.20 169.70 1,008.40 183.80 18,775.00 262.54 OVERALL TOTAL 13,438.10 171.60 1,015.70 201.80 19,055.37 264.84 Reuse 0 0 0 0 0 0 Recycle 285.91 0 11.09 0 0 0 Landfill 50.18 0 0 14.50 0 0 Hazardous Incineration 116.97 0 0.35 0 171.00 0.66 Recovery 0.52 0 0 0 0 14.40 Other* 0.36 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 453.94 0 11.44 14.50 171.00 15.1 Reuse 0 0 215.00 19.00 0 290.67 2018 Recycle 12,256 119.82 803.71 185.50 15,917.00 0 Landfill 272.03 12.00 139.69 0 582.00 3.73 Non-Hazardous Incineration** 11.34 0 0 0 0 0 Recovery 9.10 0 0 0 0 0 Other*** 24.32 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 12,579.18 131.82 1,158.40 204.50 16,499.00 294.40 OVERALL TOTAL 13,033.1 131.82 1,169.84 219.00 16,670.00 309.5 *In 2018 Turkey operations, Köyceğiz sterilize its medical wastes. **Çorlu incinarets cigarette butts, toilet papers, dirty sugars etc. ***Elazığ and Hazar’s municipal wastes are used for methane production. 6. CONTENT INDICES GRI CONTENT INDEX For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102-1 Name of the organization CCI at a Glance 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services CCI at a Glance 102-3 Location of headquarters Contact 102-4 Location of operations CCI at a Glance 102-5 Ownership and legal form CCI Annual Report 2018 102-6 Markets served CCI at a Glance Organizational Profile 102-7 Scale of the organization CCI at a Glance 102-8 Information on employees and other workers Human Resources 102-9 Supply chain Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its Corporate Website, http://cci.com.tr/en/investor-relations supply chain 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach Our Governance; Risk Management and Ethics 102-12 External initiatives External Recognition 102-13 Membership of associations Strategic Partnerships; Our Memberships Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Message from the CEO 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of Ethics and integrity Our Governance; Risk Management and Ethics behavior 102-18 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about Governance Our Governance; Risk Management and Ethics ethics Stakeholder Engagement; 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Stakeholder Day Series 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Human Rights Stakeholder Engagement; Stakeholder Engagement 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Stakeholder Day Series Stakeholder Engagement; 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Stakeholder Day Series 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Stakeholder Day Series 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial About the Report; CCI at a Glance statements About the Report; Our Materiality Analysis; Our Sustainability 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries Focus and SDGs 102-47 List of material topics Our Materiality Analysis 102-48 Restatements of information About the Report Reporting Practice Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018, Materiality 102-49 Changes in reporting Analysis 102-50 Reporting period About the Report 102-51 Date of most recent report 2018 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the About the Report report 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI GRI Standards Standards: Core option. 102-55 GRI content index GRI Content Index 102-56 External assurance About the Report; Independent Assurance Statement GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 200: Economic Series Material Topics Disclosure Economic Performance 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Materiality Analysis: Our Material Sustainability Topics of Boundaries 2018 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The Management Approach and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Components 103-3 Evaluation of the Management Approach Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 201-1 Direct economic value generated and CCI at a Glance distributed GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Energy Management and Climate Protection opportunities due to climate change 201-4 Financial assistance received from government CCI Annual Report 2018 Indirect Economic Impact Materiality Analysis; Our Material Sustainability Topics of 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its 2018 Boundaries Economic Impact GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The Management Approach and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Components 103-3 Evaluation of the Management Approach Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Water Stewardship 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services Water Management supported GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 Volunteerism 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Economic Impact GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Commercial Excellence, Human Rights Business Ethics Materiality Analysis: Our Material Sustainability Topics of 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its 2018 Boundaries Our Governance; Ethics GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The Management Approach and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Components 103-3 Evaluation of the Management Approach Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to All CCI operations are assessed for risks related to corruption. corruption GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 205-2 Communication and training about antiEthics corruption policies and procedures During the reporting period, there were no legal actions 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior 2016 against us for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust or anti-trust, and monopoly practices monopoly practices. GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 300: Environmental Series Material Topics Disclosure Packaging and Waste Materiality Analysis 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Boundaries Sustainable Packaging Sustainable Sourcing 103-2 The Management Approach and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Components 103-3 Evaluation of the Management Approach Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 301-2 Materials used by weight or volume Sustainable Packaging, Performance Indicators GRI 301: Materials 2016 301-3 Reclaimed products and their packaging Sustainability Accross Value Chain materials GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Environment Energy Efficiency and Carbon Reduction Materiality Analysis 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Energy Management and Climate Protection 103-2 The Management Approach and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Components 103-3 Evaluation of the Management Approach Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization Environment 302-2 Energy consumption outside of the Environment organization GRI 302: Energy 2016 302-3 Energy intensity Environment 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Environment 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products Environment and services 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environment; Our Carbon Footprint 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions Environment; Our Carbon Footprint GRI 305: Emissions 2016 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions Environment; Our Carbon Footprint 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Environment Environment; Our Carbon Footprint; Energy Management and 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Climate Protection Water Use Materiality Analysis 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Boundaries Water Management GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 103-2 The Management Approach and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Components 103-3 Evaluation of the Management Approach Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 303-1 Interactions with water as a shared resource Environment 303-2 Management of water discharge related GRI 303: Water and Effluents 2018 Water Management impacts 303-3 Water withdrawal Environment Wastewater Materiality Analysis Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries Waste Water Management GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Sustainable Sourcing 103-2 The Management Approach and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Components 103-3 Evaluation of the Management Approach Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination Performance Indicators Compliance Materiality Analysis 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Boundaries GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Risk Management and Ethics 103-2 The Management Approach and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Components 103-3 Evaluation of the Management Approach Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 During the reporting period, no significant fines (over 200,000 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 USD) were paid for non-compliance with environmental laws regulations and regulations. Supplier and Distributor Assessment Materiality Analysis Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries Excellence in Supply Chain GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Superior Execution 103-2 The Management Approach and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Components 103-3 Evaluation of the Management Approach Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using Sustainable Sourcing 2016 environmental criteria GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 400: Social Series Material Topics Disclosure Diversity and Inclusion (incl. women empowerment) Materiality Analysis Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries Diversity and Inclusion GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Women’s Empowerment 103-2 The Management Approach and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Components 103-3 Evaluation of the Management Approach Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Human Resources 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that GRI 401: Employment 2016 are not provided to temporary or part-time Human Resources employees 401-3 Parental leave Diversity and Inclusion 404-1 Average hours of training per year per GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 Human Capital employee Human Resources 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees Diversity and Inclusion GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 As CCI “equal pay for equal work” is adopted as per Pay Policy 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of principles in order to reward our employees in accordance women to men with their valuable contributions to our company regardless of gender bias. 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective During the reporting period, there have been no incidents of GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 actions taken discrimination at CCI operations. Labour / Management Relations Materiality Analysis 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Boundaries GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Health and Safety; Human Rights; Sustainable Sourcing 103-2 The Management Approach and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Components 103-3 Evaluation of the Management Approach Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 CCI Annual Report 2018 changes 407-1 Operations and suppliers in which the right to GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective freedom of association and collective bargaining may Health and Safety; Human Resources Bargaining 2016 be at risk 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for GRI 408: Child Labor 2016 Human Rights incidents of child labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for GRI 409: Forced or Compulsory Labor 2016 Human Rights incidents of forced or compulsory labor 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human GRI 412: Human Rights Assessment 2016 Human Rights; Sustainable Sourcing rights reviews or impact assessments Occupational Health and Safety Materiality Analysis 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Boundaries GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Health and Safety 103-2 The Management Approach and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Components 103-3 Evaluation of the Management Approach Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 403-1 Occupational health and safety management Health and Safety system 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and Occupational Health and Safety incident investigation 403-3 Workers with high incidence or high risk of Occupational Health and Safety diseases related to their occupation 403-4 Health and safety topics covered in formal Health and Safety agreements with trade unions 403-5 Worker training on occupational health and Health and Safety safety GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018 403-6 Promotion of worker health Health and Safety 403-7 Prevention and mitigation of occupational health and safety impacts Health and Safety directly linked by business relationships 403-8 Workers covered by an occupational health and safety management Health and Safety system 403-9 Work-related injuries Occupational Health and Safety 403-10 Work-related ill health Occupational Health and Safety Security Practices Materiality Analysis 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Boundaries GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Health and Safety 103-2 The Management Approach and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Components 103-3 Evaluation of the Management Approach Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights All security personnel working in CCI operations are trained in GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 policies or procedures human rights policies and procedures. Community Engagement Materiality Analysis 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Boundaries GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Community Development 103-2 The Management Approach and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Components 103-3 Evaluation of the Management Approach Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 Community Development impact assessments, and development programs Consumer Health Well-Being GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Materiality Analysis Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries Product Safety and Quality Consumer Well-Being 103-2 The Management Approach and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Components 103-3 Evaluation of the Management Approach Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of Consumer Well-being product and service categories GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 During the reporting period, there have been no incidents of 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of health and safety impacts of products and services products and services. 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning During the reporting period, there have been no incidents of GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 marketing communications non-compliance concerning marketing communications. Product Quality and Labeling Materiality Analysis Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 103-1 Explanation of the Material Topic and its Boundaries Product Safety and Quality GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Consumer Well-Being 103-2 The Management Approach and its Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 Components 103-3 Evaluation of the Management Approach Our Material Sustainability Topics of 2018 417-1 Requirements for product and service Consumer Well-Being information and labeling GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 During the reporting period, there have been no incidents of 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning non-compliance concerning product and service information product and service information and labeling and labeling UNGC CONTENT INDEX UNGC CONTENT INDEX Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of Human Rights; internationally proclaimed human rights; and Community Development Human Rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights Human Rights; abuses. Community Development Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and Human Rights the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory Human Rights labour; Labour Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Human Rights Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment Human Rights; and occupation Diversity and Inclusion Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach and Energy Efficiency and environmental challenges; Climate Protection Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Our Environmental Environment responsibility; and Footprint Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of Our Environmental environmentally friendly technologies. Footprint AntiPrinciple 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, Risk Management and Corruption including extortion and bribery Ethics UNWEP CONTENT INDEX UN Women's Empowerment Principles Our Material Sustainability Principle 1: Establish high-level corporate leadership for gender equality Topics of 2018 Women Empowerment Our Material Sustainability Principle 2: Treat all women and men fairly at work – respect and support human Topics of 2018 rights and nondiscrimination Women Empowerment Diversity and Inclusion Our Material Sustainability Principle 3: Ensure health, safety and well-being of all workers, regardless of Topics of 2018 gender Occupational Health & Safety Principle 4: Promote women’s education, training and professional development Women Empowerment Principle 5: Implement enterprise development, supply chain and marketing Women Empowerment practices that empower women Diversity and Inclusion Principle 6: Promote equality through community initiatives and advocacy Women Empowerment Women Empowerment Principle 7: Measure and publicly report on progress to achieve gender equality Community Development CONTACT CCI Servet Yıldırım Group Corporate Affairs Director corporate.affairs@cci.com.tr OSB Mah. Deniz Feneri Sokak No: 4 34776 Dudullu Ümraniye İstanbul Tel: +90 216 528 40 00 Fax: +90 216 510 70 12 www.cci.com.tr REPORTING and DESIGN CONSULTANT www.esgturkey.com LEGAL DISCLAIMER This sustainability report (the Report) was prepared by CCI within the principles of GRI (Global Reporting Initiative), the United Nations Global Compact, and United Nations Women Empowerment Program. This report has been prepared solely for informative purposes and does not aim to form the basis for any investment decision. No information in this report constitutes a proposal or part of a proposal relating to the sale of CCI shares, or an invitation to this kind of sales process, and the publishing of this report does not mean that a legal relationship of this kind has been established. All featured information and related documents are believed to be accurate at the time of this report’s preparation, and all information has been provided in good faith and relies on trustworthy sources. However, CCI does not make any kind of declaration, guarantee or promise in relation to this information.
