GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) Orient Occident is helping its customer to succeed by offering innovative solutions and hig quality interior products for public interiors and residential applications. The company was founded in 1919 and is a well-known, family owned Finnish company. Our core values are creating value to customers through innovative services and products and operating in a responsible and sustainable way towards our stakeholders, and the environment. Since 2014, we are participant in the United Nations Global compact, the largest corporate responsibility initiative in the world. Oy Orient–Occident Ltd Ruukinkuja 2, 02330 Espoo — Finland (09) 260 660 — orientoccident.fi Period covered by Communication on Progress (COP): 1.4.2018 to 31.3.2019 Statement of continued support 29.3.2019 I am pleased to confirm that Oy Orient-Occident Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Mikko Puputti CEO, Oy Orient-Occident Ltd Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses ASSESMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Our goal is to influence that our employees and all our business partners respect the Universal Declaration of Human rights. We have set up a code of conduct to make our position clear for our employees and business partners. The code of conduct is also published on our web site. We require our employees and business partners to adhere to our Code of Conduct. IMPLEMENTATION All of our employees and suppliers have signed the Code of Conduct. We have also signed the Code of Conduct of several business partners and customers. We are monitoring, investigating and acting upon any violation of the Code of Conduct in regard to human rights that comes to our knowledge. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES There are no reported or known cases of violation of human rights in our value chain in the period of 1.4.2018 to 31.3.2019. We have ensured our workers are provided with modern safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities. We have strict rules to protect our workers from workplace harassment, including physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats. Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation ASSESMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Our goal is to influence that all parties in our value chain respect the ILO Core Conventions. We have set up a code of conduct to make our position clear for our employees and business partners. The code of conduct is also published on our web site. We require our employees and business partners to adhere to our Code of Conduct. IMPLEMENTATION All our employees and suppliers have signed the Code of Conduct. We have also signed the Code of Conduct of several business partners and customers. We are monitoring, investigating and acting upon any violation of the Code of Conduct in regard to labor rights that comes to our knowledge. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES There are no reported or known cases of violation of labor principles in our value chain in the period of 1.4.2018 to 31.3.2019. We have ensured that employment related decisions are based on relevant and objective criteria by using well defined HR policies and processes. We have assessed the training needs of all employees, and set up equal possibility for all to take part in tailored training programmes. Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. ASSESMENT, POLICY AND GOALS Our goal is to influence that all parties in our value chain are operating in an environmentally responsible way. We have set up a code of conduct to make our position clear for our employees and business partners. The code of conduct is also published on our web site. We require our employees and business partners to adhere to our Code of Conduct. We have evaluated that by working with suppliers and manufacturers who implement and develop environmentally friendly technologies and promote the use of recycled raw materials, we can have the most significant impact on environment. In addition we can improve the environmental effect of the logistical value chain by optimizing transportation. In addition to reducing the carbon footprint of products, we can have a positive effect on creating healthier working and living environments through choosing to market products with low emissions and non-hazardous composition. IMPLEMENTATION All our employees and suppliers have signed the Code of Conduct. We have also signed the Code of Conduct of several business partners and customers. We increase the awareness of our customers and stakeholders of the environmental effect of our products in their total life cycle. We take part in voluntary developments to reduce our direct carbon footprint and waste. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES There are no reported or known cases of violation of Environmental principles in our value chain in the period of 1.4.2018 to 31.3.2019. We have ensured that all our products comply with legislative environmental standards and fulfill a multitude of voluntary standards and certification schemes. We have continued to increase the share of sales of environmentally sustainable products consisting of recycled raw materials with low emissions. The products are made to last heavy use in commercial and residential settings and thus are supporting a resilient building infrastructure. We have created new services to increase the longevity of ready interiors, eg. by training maintenance service providers and auditing the properties in regular intervals. We have implemented significant changes to our heating, ventilation and air conditioning technologies to minimize the energy consumption in our building properties. We are using real time sensors to track the use of electricity, water and district heating. We have also carried out a modernization of lighting in large part of our properties to use energy efficient LED lighting, and succeeded to reduce electricity consumption while improving working ergonomics at the same time. We have taken steps to reduce the waste of product materials in our deliveries by optimizing the production and installation planningWe are member of The Environmental Register of Packaging PYR Ltd using their solutions for recycling of packaging We are in partnerships with environmentally certified transportation companies who are using modern vehicles in transportation of our goods. We have increased the share of direct deliveries to constructions sites, minimizing the carbon foot print of last mile deliveries. We enforce an environmental policy for company cars, enforcing a maximum CO2 g/km emission threshold. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. ASSESMENT, POLICY AND GOALS We are committed to fair competition and have a policy of zero-tolerance for corruption. All of our employees must avoid any kind of corruptive behavior or anti-competitive agreements with representatives of customers, competitors, business partners or any other parties. In addition, we have set up a code of conduct to make our position clear for our employees and business partners. The code of conduct is also published on our web site. We require our employees and business partners to adhere to our Code of Conduct. IMPLEMENTATION All our employees and suppliers have signed the Code of Conduct. We have also signed the Code of Conduct of several business partners and customers. All employees of Orient Occident have in addition signed a written agreement to follow our detailed internal anti-corruptive guideline. We are monitoring, investigating and acting upon any violation of the Code of Conduct in regard to Anti-Corruption that comes to our knowledge. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES There are no reported or known cases of violation of Anti-Corruption principles in our value chain in the period of 1.4.2018 to 31.3.2019.
