KMD CSR report 2018 (01.01.2018-31.03.2019) KMD CSR REPORT 2018 This report is a part of the management review and constitutes KMD Holding ApS’s statutory reporting on corporate social responsibility pursuant to section 99(a) of the Danish Financial Statements Act and on gender distribution in the executive board pursuant to section 99(b). The report also constitutes KMD’s Communication on Progress in relation to implementing the principles of the UN Global Compact. 2 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 Contents Foreword and strategy: A transformational world 3 Theme: Business ethics 6 Theme: Cyber and information security 10 Theme: Data protection and privacy 11 Theme: Employees and managers 12 Theme: Climate and environment 16 Solutions for society: We are making a difference 18 SDG 3: Good heath and well-being 20 SDG 4: Quality Education 20 SDG 7: Affordable and clean energy 21 SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth 21 SDG 16: Peace, justice, and strong institutions 22 SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals 22 READERS GUIDE: Following the acquisition by NEC, KMD is adjusting its fiscal year. Hence, this report covers the fiscal year 01.01.2018-31.03.2019. This means that in the following, any figure referring to 2018, actually refers to the fiscal period 01.01.2018-31.03.2019 unless otherwise stated. 3 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 FOREWORD AND STRATEGY: A transformational world Digital technology is changing our world. These are not small changes, but rather the basic ways in which we work and interact with each other. Technology gives us new opportunities and it has the potential to help us cope with everyday tasks faster and easier than before. The digitization changes and transforms the way we work and organize ourselves on both micro and macro levels – and it brings new opportunities to address the global challenges that we cannot imagine today are possible solutions. The impact of digital technologies and data also brings forth new issues and concerns. As citizens, customers and professionals, we must pay attention to and relate to its consequences. More technology is not the answer to everything. Therefore, KMD is committed to utilizing the digital technologies in a responsible manner. The difference we make, therefore, is based on understanding the users’ needs and integrating security and people’s right to privacy in our solutions for public and private customers. Our core values state: We understand your business – We create value – We act responsibly. And this is becoming more relevant than ever. Clear strategy and ambitions In times of change, a clear line of sight is crucial to one’s progress and success. At KMD we have established a strategic journey towards 2022. KMD will continue to be the most important and most relevant IT supplier to the municipal and regional market for both administrative solutions and citizen-based services, as well as the maintenance and development of new products. Both data and digital services as well as data analysis will drive this development. Our commitment to the public sector continued at a very high level over the years. Across ministries and governments, we are developing complex projects and creating administrative and social solutions. For private companies, KMD continues to develop, design and operate digital solutions across industries. The digital transformation has left its mark. Among the most important sectors are the energy and utilities sector and the financial sector. In particular, KMD invests in and delivers to the financial sector with pension companies and financial institutions. Our purpose is to deliver the benefits of technology to help our customers succeed and make a difference in society, business, and everyday life. 4 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 KMD has ambitions. We aspire to be the key Nordic supplier of business-critical digital solutions. The strategic goal is to become a preferred partner in the public sector and financial sector – and with great ambitions comes great responsibility. We are highly aware of that. In the following, you can read the report about KMD’s Corporate Social Responsibility, which is also our communication on progress concerning human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. The report is divided into five major CSR themes which according to our materiality assessment are business critical to KMD. The reporting on the themes comprises relevant selected policies, actions and results from 2018 (01.01.2019). The themes are: Business ethics KMD has a fundamental goal to contribute positively to society, including operating responsibly and on fair and equitable terms. We therefore have clear policies, frameworks and processes to ensure that we address the risks that we are faced with. The Business ethics theme describes the initiatives we have launched, especially in relation to anti-corruption, competition law, tax and responsible supplier management. Cyber and information security Handling and storing of customers’ data entail a risk of hacking of central registers as well as personal and company data. Our cyber and information security is therefore of paramount importance for withstanding attacks and preventing security breaches. Data protection and privacy The use and sharing of data can give good value for our public and private customers. At the same time, we are aware of citizens’ rights to privacy, which we must protect, as a human right. Employees and managers KMD’s employees and managers are the platform for our ongoing success and growth. The digital transformation is changing the nature of competency requirements. KMD is therefore focused on being a workplace that can attract, retain and develop the right competencies. This is also our report on gender distribution in the executive board. Environment and climate KMD’s persistent work with the climate and environment has meant that we are able to reduce our energy and resource consumption relative to our economic growth. Areas which make particular demands on our resources are powering datacenters, offices and transport. 5 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 THEME Business ethics At KMD, we continuously focus on making sure that our activities are in line with our ethical values. Our managers and employees are our most important assets in this context – and integrity is our anchor. KMD’s work with business ethics is risk based with a particular focus on information security, data protection, anti-corruption and competition law. In total, we have 7 areas covered by one joint Corporate Compliance Program. Our culture and conduct are supported by policies within the 7 areas and ownership and prioritization is embedded in our top management. Corporate compliance programs include policies within these areas: __ Anti-corruption __ Competition law __ Intellectual property (IP) rights __ Document management and storage __ Information security __ Contractual risk management __ Chart of Authority Business Ethics in NEC Group In connection with NEC Group’s acquisition of KMD, we have experienced alignment between what NEC Group expects from us as a subsidiary in the group on compliance initiatives and what we at KMD are already doing. In NEC Group, business ethics is a component in “The NEC Way”, which is NEC Group’s framework on social value creation. Read more here. Competition law Compliance with competition laws is an integral part of how we do business in KMD. This is why we, as an example, continuously train our employees in competition law to ensure awareness and understanding across the organization of how the principles affect our business activities. 6 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 Anti-corruption In recent years, the media has put the spotlight on several large corruption scandals in Denmark, also in the IT-industry. KMD has for many years maintained an anticorruption program, and we have a zero-tolerance policy on corruption, bribery and facilitation payments. We continuously adapt and develop our program to ensure that it gives the necessary defense against relevant risks. One of the areas we focus on and have a specific framework for is when KMD may give or receive gifts or pay for or allow others to pay for meals and entertainment when dealing with external parties. Whistleblower program It is essential to KMD that people can report breaches and violations easily and without having to worry. We encourage speaking to one’s manager or contact in KMD – or to report anonymously via the whistleblower system – if one becomes aware of conduct which is not in compliance with our Code of Conduct or policies. The whistleblower system is available to employees, business partners, IT professionals and ordinary citizens. Handling of whistleblower cases: 2017: 2 cases, 2018 and Q1 2019: 5 cases What we have done __ Evaluated KMD’s risks in relation to corruption on an ongoing basis __ Trained all new employees in corporate compliance __ Trained more than 500 relevant employees in anti-corruption __ Ran an internal campaign to maintain awareness of our rules on gifts __ Acceded to the Danish ICT Industry Association’s Code for Reporting of Security Flaws __ Obtained external counsel on the maturity of KMD’s anti-corruption program in relation to ISO 37001 __ Carried out regular checks to ensure compliance with internal policies and legislation In 2019 and 2020, we will focus on implementing relevant policies and processes in connection with our integration with NEC Group. Furthermore, we will ensure that there is a continuous assessment of KMD’s corruption risks, strengthen KMD’s control register on anti-corruption and further develop training programs within corporate compliance, anti-corruption and competition law adapted to role-based needs. 7 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 Tax All Danish Group companies’ taxation is subject to Danish taxation and joint taxation rules, and it is KMD’s policy to comply with these rules. KMD’s policy for Danish corporation tax is thus independent of our ownership. For the past five financial years, KMD has made total tax payments of DKK 316.6 million. Thus, KMD pays significantly more in corporation tax now than under the local government ownership – up to three times as much. And that is with a lower corporation tax rate. KMD has a transfer pricing policy that accords with the arm’s length principle as described in the OECD Transfer Pricing Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises and this should ensure that the KMD Group’s internal trading complies with applicable rules. Given the above, profits or losses are thus not moved across borders to minimize tax payments. KMD pays corporation tax in the countries where we have companies. Supplier management Our Supplier Code of Conduct sets out the requirements that we expect to be met in our supplier chain. The coderepresents an important element of our procurement agreements. We expect our suppliers to meet our requirements within: __ Human and labor rights __ Health and safety __ Environmental protection __ Business ethics We carry out an annual risk-based screening of our suppliers and conduct on-site audit visits. This ensures that our suppliers meet our minimum requirements for corporate social responsibility. The majority of KMD’s purchases are from Danish companies, and we generally experience a high level of CSR compliance with our suppliers. If there are inconsistencies between our code and the supplier’s ability to comply, we first try to work with the supplier to resolve the issue. In principle, there may be cases where we then have to reject or cancel an agreement if we cannot accept a risk inherent in such an inconsistency. In 2020, we will further strengthen our supplier screening procedure and adapt procedures in connection with our integration with the NEC Group. What we have done __ Updated our Supplier Code of Conduct __ Continuously screened our suppliers __ Performed on-site audit visit 8 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 9 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 THEME Cyber and information security The digital transformation cannot currently succeed without authorities, companies and citizens addressing the issue of cyber and information security. Access to and protection of information have always been a challenge. The growing digitalization increases that need. Hacker attacks are being professionalized, with criminals using increasingly sophisticated methods. And the threat is not just coming from outside; increasingly, it is also coming through employees acting carelessly and in violation of security policies. In order to protect information and systems belonging to our customers, business partners, and ourselves, we have a sharpened focus on secure IT at KMD. Security is a part of our DNA, and it is a prerequisite for our ability to function and be competitive as a company. KMD handles a large amount of confidential and personal data for citizens, companies and authorities. Our customers trust us to handle this data in a correct and safe manner. We therefore have strict internal security requirements and policies. No one can guarantee 100% total information security, and that includes KMD. However, our goal is to protect all the data that we process and for which we are responsible against cyberattacks and hacking. We recognize and take very seriously that it is our responsibility to help protect the data of companies, authorities and citizens in the very best way. We all depend on digital solutions round the clock. We therefore work with customers to create a balance between threats, risks, user-friendliness and costs. 2018 certainly was the year of the GDPR with its heavy impact on information security. With security being a tool to ensure privacy, our cooperation flourished; awareness increased through multiple training sessions. Our awareness campaigns and required training sessions for each KMD employee increased interest in security and privacy by design rules. The ISO 27001 standard on information security is a guideline for our work. Since 2014, KMD has been certified in accordance with that standard and it remains the focal point for our risk-based work with information security. What we have done __ Implemented additional tools to improve security, including tools to improve governance risk and compliance. __ Improved IT security awareness via phishing campaigns and awareness campaigns __ Took part in the Strategic Collaboration Forum for Cyber Security organized by the Centre for Cyber Security __ Conducted a training program for customers in information security management in relation to control and governance based on a business perspective __ Our cooperation with IBM allows us to use a hybrid model for SAC, allowing KMD to leverage its own strengths and resources while at the same time utilizing the knowledge and experience of IBM professionals with a global perspective. With IBM’s support, KMD is more flexible and can offer more suitable solutions. 10 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 THEME Data protection and privacy As a data processor for public authorities and private companies, KMD has a tremendous responsibility in protecting the personal information of a vast amount of data subjects. We see data protection and privacy as part of basic human rights. It is our goal to safeguard citizens’ rights in our work with digital solutions. KMD works hard to protect the privacy of citizens. At the same time, we are working for increased use of data to create better cohesion, enhanced user experiences and an improved decision-making platform for the benefit of citizens and users. We are making every effort to handle this occasional ambivalence as well as possible – and always in compliance with the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). On May 25th 2018, the GDPR finally came into effect after years of intense work on adjusting KMD processes and solutions and implementing new controls across the entire organization to comply with the new requirements. Our first external ISAE 3000 audit report on compliance with the GDPR document an overall successful implementation, but it also points out gaps which we are now working on closing. Similarly, the transition to the operating stage has been successful, but as anticipated, we see the need for minor adjustments in selected areas. This reflect KMD’s overall approach to compliance – it involves a continuous focus to ensure ongoing improvements. What we have done __ Successful transition to daily mode of operation with our Data Protection Compliance Program __ Scoping KMD’s new general ISAE 3000 audit report on compliance with the GDPR on the basis of KMD’s standard Data Processing Agreements, ensuring that the vast majority of our general services are covered by our general audit report. __ Conducted mandatory training of 3000+ employees in GDPR and data protection with a special focus on our role as data processor __ Handled all data subject requests within 30 days. 11 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 THEME Employees and managers The rapid advance of new technologies and the ongoing responsibility for large parts of Denmark’s critical digital infrastructure make the professional development of employees and managers a top priority. In recent years, the technological development has accelerated, and customers have come to expect innovative solutions deploying the latest technology. This creates a need for KMD to develop the competencies of its employees and managers. At the same time, the company operates and develops a large part of Denmark’s critical digital infrastructure – which is based on older technologies. This means that there is a need for diverse competencies. We are addressing this challenge in part through our transparent career model for upskilling and retaining capable employees to undertake the various development tasks. Our career model has three ‘families’ – delivery, sales and business support, all in a framework that clearly supports development, career progression and manageremployee expectation setting. KMD has a uniquely broad use of technology given that we develop our own products and run major implementation projects within a large number of areas. We can therefore offer a perfect “playground” for employees and managers with a passion for digitalization and technology who want to make a difference for society. We work actively to onboard the smartest, best-qualified new graduates from Danish and international universities. It is our goal to ensure the right competencies for the tasks of both today and tomorrow. KMD is a diverse and attractive workplace, and it is important for us that all employees – regardless of gender, ethnicity, age, religion and sexual orientation – are treated equally and have the same conditions to do their job. We strive to make employees and managers feel well and thrive at work. KMD supports the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor, the effective abolition of child labor and the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. KMD commits to ensuring a safe and comfortable working environment. In accordance with the Danish Working Environment Act, KMD also conducts a workplace assessment every three years. 12 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 What we have done __ Ran the KMD Microsoft Academy – a special training and recruitment program for new graduates with a particular focus on Microsoft’s .NET __ Ran KMD Graduate – a two-year program in which new graduates develop their talent through assignments, instruction, mentor meetings and a new graduate network Facilitated professional communities – networking, inspiration and professional sparring across the organization within selected technologies and domains __ Used continuous measuring of employee satisfaction and well-being through quarterly satisfaction surveys __ Implemented our Leadership Development Program at all levels __ Collaborated with Welcome Home on mentoring schemes __ Turned the spotlight on health and well-being, including via a number of wellfunctioning social and sports clubs and via participation in big events such as We cycle to work, KMD IRONMAN, and KMD 4:18:4 __ Conducted STEAM – an internal education and inspiration conference with more than 1000 employees participating __ Implemented KOMPIS – a health app that helps employees improve health and well-being with different exercises __ Maintained KMD’s health scheme in which employees can benefit from free health treatments at work, for example using trained “stress spotters” who are able to make an early intervention against stress __ Created a diversity task force __ Supported the internal women’s network initiative By providing a healthy working environment and implementing a range of healthpromoting initiatives, we are continually working to reduce sickness absence and prevent stress-related illness. In 2018, KMD’s average sickness percentage was 3.0 % – an improvement compared to the 2017 figure of 3.1 %. The target is to reach the national average for private businesses, which is 2.8 %. For many years, KMD has been reorganizing the company and its employees to meet future needs. This has naturally presented some challenges, which is also reflected in the level of employee satisfaction. In this light, employee satisfaction among KMD’s top management has a top priority. We have come a long way along the right path, but we need to do even better. In 2018, we succeeded in improving the employee satisfaction score in our quarterly surveys by an average of 3 index points compared to 2017. 13 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 Women at KMD Female role models can be beacons at KMD that attract even more women to the company, both as employees and managers. The proportion of women at KMD is currently 32 %. By comparison, women make up 24 % of the industry as a whole. Compared with the business community in general and the IT industry in particular, women are strongly represented at KMD’s top management level. In the top two management layers, there are 36% women, which means KMD in this aspect is on the right track in terms of demonstrating equal opportunities internally and providing inspiration externally. In 2018, women made up 24 % of all managers – status quo compared to 2017. We can do better KMD has set a goal for the share of female managers to be 30 % by 2022. Currently – since KMD was acquired by NEC in February 2019 – there is one woman elected by the general meeting on KMD’s Board of Directors. Our goal is to have 33 % women on the Board of Directors, corresponding to two women by February 1, 2022. 30 % female managers by 2022 14 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 15 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 THEME: Climate and environment KMD strives to be a responsible climate and environment partner for our customers. We work systematically to reduce our climate and environmental impact, which primarily comes from our datacenters, offices and our employees’ travel. Our biggest climate impact is linked to our IT operations. We are therefore working systematically to optimize our operations. At the same time, we know that KMD’s products can reduce traffic and paper consumption, create an overview of energy consumption and optimize operations for our customers. We therefore also see our products as one of our biggest assets in the work to give customers a greener footprint. It is our goal to develop fact sheets on our products’ potential to reduce the environmental and climate impact of our customers. The goal is to present the first product fact sheet in our Energy and Utility portfolio by 2020. We routinely monitor our own energy consumption and environmental impact, including in terms of waste and waste sorting. If we identify opportunities for optimization in areas that are assessed to be important, prioritized actions are agreed upon. These are exemplified in our environment and climate strategy. In previous years, we have downscaled our percentage of certificates of origin on renewable energy, hence our CO2 emission has grown, even though our consumption has decreased. 2018 was an unusually warm spring and summer, but we managed to maintain a decrease in energy. In the coming years, we are looking into new ways to increase the amount of renewable energy in order to reduce our carbon footprint. The focus is continuously on reducing our energy consumption, but with the realization that many of the bigger opportunities for optimization have been realized during the past years. We continuously monitor the environmental impact of our employees’ transport and seek to minimize it through use of Skype meetings, car sharing, optimization of public transport to our locations and optimization of conditions for those who bike to work. What we have done __ Upheld the environmental management standard ISO 14001:2015 in DK locations __ Upheld high standards of waste sorting __ Continuous implementation of Energy Key, which ensures better monitoring of energy consumption and a better basis for environment-friendly decision-making __ Improvement of lightning sources in offices __ Continuous work to improve datacenter efficiency __ Implemented new transport reporting system. This will provide a much more detailed insight to transport data in the future 16 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 2018 fiscal period 2018 Environmental data 2017 01.01.2018-31.03.2019 01.01.2018-31.12.2018 Energy consumption kWh 31,874,155 39,089,305 32,645,841 2,4% from 2017 Ton CO2 from energy 14,854 12,112 7,313 Waste production ton 637 518 668 Waste recycling degree in % 71 72 72,5 Transport 1,803 1,630 1,922 CO2-emission ton 17 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 SOLUTIONS FOR SOCIETY: We are making a difference For more than 40 years, KMD has been supporting Danish society with digital solutions and today, we are an integral part of the Danish society. This is something we are very proud of, and it is on this foundation that we pursue our work with social responsibility. At KMD, we take our corporate social responsibility very seriously. We do it every day when we go to work and with the solutions we bring to the market, and as an IT company, our competencies and knowledge play a huge part in the responsibility we take. KMD’s business ethics are therefore part of our corporate social responsibility. Every single manager and employee have a vital role to play if we are to maintain a corporate culture where ethical conduct is a matter of course. The UN Global Goals address the great challenges of the world community – but they also embrace the challenges that our domestic society faces – for example, in the field of education or in relation to ensuring that there are strong institutions. At KMD, we believe that with new technology and digitalization we can make a difference and positively affect many people’s lives. For us, digitalization is about how to turn technological development into value for the people it affects. It is value for the families who through our solution can be assured that their close relatives have received the necessary care and treatment. It is about creating value in the pension savings, where our industry solutions ensure cost-effective operations. It is about creating value for the over 4 million Danes who can safely hand over their ballot papers at the next parliamentary election with the certainty that their vote will count. It is about creating value for those citizens who receive a highly qualified treatment of their cases on the basis of qualified decisions supported by machine learning. In the following, you can read a few examples of how KMD’s solutions supports selected sustainable development goals. 18 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 When applying for higher education When you fall ill – KMD Studica – KMD Nexus When looking for a job, applying for unemployment beneﬁt, When meeting any document when you get a jobat the municipality and get paid wages or record from the state – KMD Momentum, KMD Nova Link, KMD Opus, KMD Nova ESDH, – KMD Workzone, Grunddata, KMD Cognito KMD Føniks og Data Analytics When geting a credit card – Banqsoft When you get a job and get paid wages – KMD Payroll Cloud When you become homeowner, and settles utility supply – KMD Easy Energy, BBR-register, KMD ESR When you go to school – UVvej, MinUddannelse, KMD Personale, KMD Elev ...or when you go to an election When you sign children up for daycare – KMD Valg – KMD Institution When you play or watch a football match When you receive unemployment beneﬁts – KMD Booking og KMD Sport og Data Analytics or early retirement beneﬁts – KMD Føniks When receiving pension – Edlund LIFELINK+ When you receive home care or live in an assisted living facility – KMD Nexus, KMD Nova Vej When leasing a car When you are born, married, divorced, deceased – Banqsoft – KMD P-Data When meeting the police – KMD Workzone Fig. The KMD Village illustrates the many touch points where Danish citizens meet KMD solutions in their everyday life. 19 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 SDG 3: Good health and well-being Ensuring a healthy life for everyone and promoting well-being is a work that is constantly changing. The challenges are different depending on where in the world you are, but the overall objectives of promoting well-being for all age groups are as relevant in Denmark as well as, for example, in Uganda. KMD helps to promote well-being and better health in many different areas. For example, the KMD Nexus Citizen platform is now implemented in 15 municipalities, ensuring that citizens and their families will have a much better overview of their care and treatment plans. The digital care platform Nexus is currently used by 60 municipalities and 2 regions, where 120 different professions work together every day via the platform. More than 700,000 citizens have been registered in the KMD Nexus. Another example is KMD’s cooperation with the organization Team Rynkeby and MinUddannelse. KMD has helped to digitalize educational programs on exercise and health. It supports the schools and the children ’s desire to do something good together to promote healthy and affected children. The courses are available on KMD’s learning platform and can be used by teachers and pupils in 43 of the country’s municipalities when planning and conducting teaching. SDG 4: Quality Education We must ensure that all girls and boys get out a high-quality inclusive education leading to relevant and effective learning outcomes (target 4.1). The school must challenge all students so that they become as capable as they can be. Today, it is still a challenge to get all young people to complete a youth education. The goal is that by 2030, all young people will have the necessary competencies to engage in society and the proportion of young people and adults who have relevant business skills (sub-goals 4.4 and 4.6) should be increased. All young people must have the opportunity to take an active part in society. KMD contributes to the children’s development through both administrative and professional pedagogical solutions. KMD’s digital learning platform is central to delivering the best possible education in the most effective way. Each student is given clear learning goals, thereby supporting the individual to achieve relevant and effective learning outcomes. The digital learning platform is used by more than 740 schools with approximately 65,000 potential users among teachers and educational staff and more than 665,000 students. More than 900,000 courses have been produced in the platform. KMD has developed a new system for youth education programs in close collaboration with selected educational institutions. The solution ensures that vocational schools, technical and general colleges have a secure, data-protected, user-friendly administration and smart user processes. 20 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 SDG 7: Affordable and clean energy Goal no. 7 must ensure sustainable, reliable and modern energy for all. KMD operates a number of solutions that help companies and public institutions with optimization of energy consumption and thus also with the aim of promoting particularly target 7.2, which states that the proportion of renewable energy in the global energy mix must be increased significantly, and target 7.3 on improving energy efficiency two-fold by 2030. In the Danish context, the government has a goal that Denmark should be independent of coal, oil and gas in 2050. Energy efficiency improvements are a central part of this energy policy. KMD handles data from more than 2 million meters across Denmark and ensures the collection of DKK 20 billion annually for our customers. We help our customers with energy savings in the order of 15-25% by showing consumption in a transparent manner and through collaboration with energy advisors. KMD supports the central processes of Danish energy and utility companies – from the collection and processing of meter data for billing to customer service. KMD also helps energy consumers optimize their resource use and save both money and CO2. For example, KMD EnergyKey and IoT save the City of Odense three days of driving and gives access to daily data. Three days a month, a technical supporter in the municipality of Odense usually drives to Odense Municipality’s 534 water meters with a small antenna with a Bluetooth box on the roof to collect data from the water meters. Now, smart meters send their data home every day. This way, the municipality can discover errors much faster, such as a leak on a water pipe, and they receive important alarms directly from meter-specific alarms. SDG 8: Decent work and economic growth Economic growth, full and productive employment, and decent work for all are important conditions for sustainable development. The goal defined by the UN is to achieve full and productive employment and decent jobs for all women and men in 2030. There must be a significant reduction in the proportion of young people who are not in employment or under education (target 8.6). In Denmark, in 2018 there were approximately 85,000 unemployed, of which around 30,000 were in the 16-29 age group. Our digital contribution is based on the individual situations of those who are unemployed and their competencies, and thus we support an effective way of getting a new job faster. We do this in close cooperation with the job centers, which are a central focal point for helping the unemployed into a decent job. KMD’s solutions create an overview of the citizen’s plan, conversations and activities, and it strengthens the goal-oriented employment effort with an overview of the effect of your efforts. KMD also supports communication both internally within the municipality and externally with companies, business partners and the unemployed. 21 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 SDG 16: Peace, justice, and strong institutions Strengthening the constitutional state and effective and transparent governance are important conditions for sustainable development. It seems obvious in Denmark and the Nordic countries that ”Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions” are a matter of course – and therefore not a challenge. Behind the obvious, however, there is a machine room where processes must be established, implemented and operated. Today, these processes are often digital, and they ensure that institutions at all levels can be effective, responsible and transparent (target 16.6). Over the past 25 years, KMD has worked with transparency and efficiency through digital securing of compliance with the Public Act and the Public Administration Act. The two acts are constitutional and legal guarantees for public access to information and for fair treatment of citizens’ cases. Within this area, KMD’s solutions within Electronic Case and Document Management (ESDH) have established strong standards on how to process, register, store and provide insight into the authorities’ work. 55,000 government employees in the state and municipalities today use our solutions that contribute to accountability and transparency in public administration. In many ways, Denmark is a pioneer in transparency, most recently with the decision to make all public basic data available to both citizens and businesses through the Basic Data Program (Grunddata). KMD develops and operates the basic technology to secure this goal through the Data Distributor program (Datafordeleren). SDG 17: Partnerships for the goals The Global Goals can only be met if we work together. A sharper focus on IT competencies in the future is a social challenge that KMD wants to contribute to overcome. We do this, among other things, through community partnerships with organizations and public authorities. A few examples of our partnerships are with Dane Age, Coding Class and Welcome Home. KMD collaborates with Dane Age (Ældre Sagen) to ensure that citizens who meet our solutions in daily life are prepared to commit themselves to an increasingly digitalized environment. Therefore, KMD developed two e-learning courses to increase digital skills among the elderly. Since 2012, the tools have been used by volunteer teachers, and every year over 10,000 students make use of the tools. Together with the IT industry association (IT Branchen) and the Danish municipalities, KMD contributes via Coding Class to teaching coding in the Danish primary school. Coding Class is offered as a training course to 6th grade school classes and the courses conclude with visits to a company. KMD is a partner in Coding Class and has ongoing classes on company visits. The aim of Coding Class is primarily to make children interested in IT and technology and to give them a better understanding of the world that surrounds them now and in the future. As a partner in Welcome Home, KMD makes company mentors available to veterans who, after serving in the Danish Defense, seek a path towards a civilian career. 22 KMD CSR REPORT 2018 55,000 government employees in the state and municipalities today use our solutions that contribute to accountability and transparency in public administration 23 © KMD A/S 2019 Lautrupparken 40-42 2750 Ballerup Tlf. 4460 1000 www.kmd.dk
