Communication on Progress This is the fifth Annual Report (Jan’18 to Jan’s 19) for communication on progress in implementing the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. UN Global Compact Communication on Progress 2018 State of Support I am pleased to reaffirm Information Matrix’s support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual communication on progress (COP), we describe the actions we have taken to continually improve the integration of Global compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations for the period january December 2018. We look forward to improving our action and further integrating the compact principles into our business. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders. Thaung Su Nyein CEO of Information Matrix 1 Human Right Principles Principle 1: ​Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and ​Principle 2: ​make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Assessment, Policy and Goals Information matrix have a policy that incorporates human rights principles. Besides that we have an internal Standards of Business Conduct and an external Supplier Code which both include Human Rights considerations. The Standards of Business Conduct has been made available to all employees and is available in their working languages. The Codes are regularly reviewed and amended to ensure they remain as relevant as possible. Implementation Below we outline our approach to respecting and supporting human rights for all, those in our supply chain, for example, we ● promote equality and value diversity by treating all employees fairly and equally, creating an inclusive culture for all employees, ensuring equal access to opportunities, regardless of their abilities, their background or their lifestyle, appreciating the differences between people and treating people’s values, beliefs, cultures and lifestyles with respect, ensuring policies, procedures and processes don’t discriminate against anyone ● seeks to ensure a healthy and safe working environment for all employees regardless of where they work ● provide accessible development training to give employees skills to do their job and opportunities to build their career if they want to ● ensure our rewards are competitive, simple and fair ● Ensure full compliance with applicable wage, work hours, overtime and benefits laws. Measurement of Outcome No formal complaint relating to human rights have been recorded in 2018. 2 Labour Principles Principle 3: ​Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: ​the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; ​Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and ​Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Assessment, Policy and Goals At Information Matrix, we support and adhere to the International Labour Organisation's Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights and comply with national labour laws and regulations and actively work towards the elimination of all forms of illegal compulsory labour and child labour in Myanmar. Implementation Our labour relations system incorporates both societal values (Freedom of association, a sense of group solidarity, search for maximized profits) and techniques (methods of negotiation, consultation and dispute resolution). ​We follow a strict no child labor policy. There is strict implementation of Government of Myanmar guidelines on minimum wages and employment benefits for all our employees. We work closely with labor inspectors to enforce all guidelines. The important human resources policies include the management of key staff managers, executives and experts. These policies are implemented through human resources standards used to arrange their legal employment status, monitor their development and training and provide for succession. We conduct to maintain the physical, mental and social well-being of workers. We provide adequate facilities such as washrooms, toilets, lockers, dining areas and first aid etc. and as much information, instruction so that workers can work safely. Besides that we arrange a sexual harassment seminar to ensure no employee feels unsafe at work. We care about our work environment and ensure that all are aware of the proper steps to take in the event harassment occurs. 3 Sexual Harassment Workplace Training by Daw Sandar Thant (Director, Socio-Economic & Gender Resource Institute) Measurement of Outcomes We always monitor the conditions at the workplace under management and control and prevent the unfavorable effects on health caused by working conditions. We aim to measure the outcome of our rules and mechanisms in place by counting and evaluating any cases of labor-related issues that may arise. In addition, we will evaluate the work-force against the backdrop of well-balanced demographics, especially paying attention to this when hiring new personnel. Finally, we aim to monitor staff turn-over and workplace satisfaction and take the necessary actions if we observe any areas that need improvement. 4 Environment Principles Principle 7: ​Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: ​undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and ​Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Assessment, Policy and Goals Operating sustainably and responsibly underpins our purpose and strategy and reflects our commitment to our people, our clients and our communities. Our efforts reflect our commitment to align our policies and operations with the United Nations Global Compact’s principles and to support the UN’s Sustainable Development Goals. We strive to integrate environmental sustainability meaningfully into our business strategies, operating models and critical processes. Our Materiality Assessment confirmed the importance of environmental responsibility to our people, clients and communities. Implementation We implement activities that require conservation of energy and environmental awareness: waste management, control of consumption of water and energy, consumption of paper and use of IT, logistic & transport services, including business travel. Information Matrix regularly reviews its environmental management systems and service line with a view to waste and energy use reduction Green Measures in place for our internal processing has included: Eliminating Meeting Documents, and Reducing the number of on site copies, and providing meeting details printer/copier to save energy and reduce electronically & booing system waste, and formatting printers to print double sided Reducing disposables and individual serving size packaging , Reducing the use of (envelopes, notepads, plastic office supplies folders, and others) 5 Measurement of Outcomes No cases of impacts on environment and no complaints are reported during the report period. Anti-Corruption Principles Principle 7: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy and Goals Information Matrix’s first corporate value is honesty and ethical manner. Our ethics consist of our integrity (the quality of being honest), the fact that we operate honestly, legally, transparently, incorruptly and with care towards the communities we operate in, as well as our environment. Implementation The company established in 2001 a Compliance Codex in which clear guidance is given with respect to corruption and bribery. We secure our business fairly through the quality of our innovative products and services and not by offering undue advantages to others. We implemented Whistleblower Policy within our organization and it enables our employees at all levels to confidentially voice any concerns they may have regarding any wrongdoing in the course of the company’s dealings or day-to-day transactions. We also arranged compliance training for our employees and educate them throughout the years regarding the up-to-date laws and regulations applicable to their job function or industry. Additionally the company established a “gift policy” which also includes clear limits in order to support every employee We hope to carry all of this forward into 2020, ensuring the highest standards are maintained throughout our Supply chain and reflected in our service to our clients. Ethical standards are vital to ensure peaceful communities in which to do business, and so it is every business’ responsibility to ensure compliance in every dealing. We take this responsibility seriously and commit to upholding these standards. 6 Measurement of Outcomes Information Matrix is committed to maintaining the highest ethical standards and to complying with all anti-corruption principles where we operate. We will continue to maintain zero tolerance for corruption and to work against it in all its forms. 7
