CSR Report 2018 1 We move for all to grow CSR Report CSR Report 2018 2 Contents DFDS takes CSR to the strategic level 03 Development of new CSR strategy 04 Diverse contribution to the strategic themes 06 Environmental Footprint 07 Caring Employer 08 CSR governance 09 Our business 10 About this report Commitments and conduct 11 This report constitutes DFDS’ Communication on Progress to the UN Global Compact. It covers the CSR policies 13 DFDS Group’s CSR approach and activities for the CSR risks 14 financial year 1 January to 31 December 2018. Responsible procurement 15 The report is an integral part of the management review of DFDS’ Annual Report 2018 and by Environmental Footprint 17 publishing this document, we fulfil the requirements of Sections 99a and 99b of the Danish Caring Employer 22 Financial Statements Act. A strong safety culture 26 Local community engagement 30 www.dfds.com CSR Report 2018 3 DFDS takes CSR to the strategic level In the view of the increasing need to take care of the environment and to contribute positively to our communities, a new CSR strategy has been developed. DFDS’ core business is to move freight and passengers on ferry influence. Actions include reducing our impact on the climate and routes in and around Europe, and to provide transport and logismarine environment, caring for people, being good neighbours tics solutions for a wide range of businesses. We have a strong and giving something back to business and local communities. focus on customer solutions and digitisation, and our ambition The CSR strategy is therefore a key element in developing our is to continue to grow our network and range of services. business sustainably. We are fulfilling our ambitions by organic growth and through New CSR strategy and team acquisitions, of which the latest was the acquisition of Turkey’s Our ambitions are high knowing that the ideal state keeps leading freight ferry operator. Fulfilment of those ambitions is evolving and may be a long way off. A new CSR team has been dependent on the support of our employees and the communities created and the management structure strengthened to ensure in which we are active. We believe that people will work with us implementation of the strategy and achievement of our goal and support us if they trust us to act responsibly and to do good to take steps every day and every year on the journey toward in their communities. sustainability. By making CSR part of our future plans it becomes an integral This report describes our new CSR strategy and ambitions, as part of our business strategy. well as our continuous work to act responsibly in all areas. It reflects our commitment to move for all to grow, and to the Developing DFDS in a sustainable direction principles of the UN Global Compact and the UN Sustainable We are launching a new CSR strategy that is embedded in our Development Goals. CSR is embedded in our business strategy way of thinking and it will strongly influence the way we act throughout DFDS. The CSR Strategy details areas where there are special opportunities and therefore special responsibilities to make a difference for Niels Smedegaard our staff, the environment and the communities we are able to President and CEO of DFDS Group CSR Report 2018 4 Development of new CSR strategy In 2018 we developed our new CSR strategy by engaging all levels of the company – from local operations to the Board of Directors – in identifying DFDS’ most material CSR issues. We furthermore established a new CSR governance structure to ensure progress and ownership. 1 6 Benchmark and inspirational meetings Presentation and approval by with CSR top performers and peers in DFDS’ Board of Directors in August January for input and good advice in developing our CSR strategy 5 Presentation and approval by 7 DFDS’ Executive committee Workshop at the yearly DFDS Management in June Conference in October for top 200 managers to share knowledge, best practice and ideas for implementation of our CSR strategy 2 4 Full day workshop with DFDS Definition of governance structure colleagues in February, engaging with senior management’s attenall managerial levels, a wide geotion and involvement in May graphical spread and different parts of the business to create the foundation for the strategy 8 3 Workshops on the two strategic themes, ‘Environmental Footprint’ and ‘Caring Continuous alignment with Employer’ in November, defining what DFDS’ CEO & EVP of People they mean for DFDS & Ships CSR Report 2018 5 Environmental Caring Footprint Employer Our ambitions Our ambitions Support marine environment Well-being for all employees Responsible neighbour Inclusive workplace Improve air quality Opportunities to do good CSR Report 2018 6 Diverse contribution to the strategic themes Our two workshops in November 2018 engaged a selected group of employees and managers from various parts of the business to discuss how to take forward the two strategic themes and our ambitions. Environmental Footprint Workshop attendees Our ambitions: – Support marine environment – Responsible neighbour – Improve air quality Our Environmental Footprint workshop engaged: 1 2 3 1 Rodney Ferguson, Managing Director 2 Jens Juel, Head of Strategic Sales 3 Sam De Wilde, Managing Director 4 Jeppe Nissen, Chief Engineer 5 Gert Jakobsen, VP, Communications 6 Søren Brøndholt, VP, Investor Relations 4 5 6 Caring Employer Workshop attendees Our ambitions: – Well-being for all employees – Inclusive workplace – Opportunities to do good Our Caring Employer workshop engaged: 7 8 9 7 Kasper Damgaard, VP Group HR 8 Robert Bately, Commercial Head 9 Gemma Griffin, VP, HR & Crewing 10 Seran Yuzbasioglu, HR Director 11 Jonas Nazarovas, Managing Director 12 Radek Mierzejewski, Head of DFDS Polska 10 11 12 13 13 Rikke Riise, Manager of Internal Communications Strategic themes CSR Report 2018 7 We care for our environment and our strategic theme, Environmental Footprint, supports three of the 17 UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Our work independently and with Environmental Caring partners focusing on SDG 13, 14 and 17 will address our impact on the climate and life under water. In view of the SDGs and Footprint Employer our business strategy, we seek to: Support the marine environment Ambition Operating ferries Ambition across Europe, it is natural for us to support ocean life, reduce emissions into the sea and support research and education focusing on the marine environment. Support marine Responsible Improve Well-being for Inclusive Be a responsible neighbour Opportunities environment neighbour air quality all employees Seeking to workplace be good neighbours and reduceto do good pollution, waste, noise and light in the communities in which we operate terminals, warehouses and offices is essential. We contribute to a cleaner environment by implementing greener alternatives. Improve air quality Reducing emissions of CO2 from our fleet of ferries and trucks by operating in a more environmentally friendly and efficient way is a necessity, as is the reduction of emissions of NOx, sulphur and other particles. We support and promote knowledge and products that can help improve air quality. UN Sustainable Development Goals UN Sustainable Development Goals gic themes CSR Report 2018 8 We care about people and our strategic theme, Caring Employer, supports SDG 3 and SDG 5. We believe we can create a better future for DFDS and our employees by improving health, wellCaring being and gender equality. In view of the SDGs and our business strategy, we seek to: Employer Ensure well-being for all employees We see our employees as valued people and not only employees. Ambition Thus, we support their physical and mental health – i.e. their overall well-being. We want our employees to be happy when they go to work and when they go home. Well-being for Inclusive Opportunities Be an inclusive workplace all employees workplace to do good Employing a multicultural workforce, we seek inclusivity encompassing differences in ethnicity, gender, language, age, sexual orientation, religion, socio-economic status, physical and mental ability, thinking styles, experience and education. We believe diverse groups and teams make better decisions. Provide opportunities to do good We cherish the idea of engaging the company, individuals and groups of colleagues at DFDS to take initiatives to do good and to care about each other in the local communities where we operate. UN Sustainable Development Goals CSR Report 2018 9 CSR governance A strategic approach to CSR requires a dedicated effort and in September 2018 we established a strategic CSR committee and a CSR team headed by Sofie Hebeltoft. She is assisted by Poul Woodall, Director, Environment & Sustainability. Strategic CSR committee CSR team Executive committee Operational CSR committee Eddie Green, EVP Logistics division Valdemar Warburg, VP Group Transformation Sofie Hebeltoft, Head of CSR Peder Gellert Pedersen, EVP Ferry division Kasper Damgaard-Richardt, VP Group HR Poul Woodall, Director, Environment & Sustainability Henrik Holck, EVP People & Ships (Sofie Hebeltoft, Head of CSR) Niels Smedegaard, CEO Søren Brøndholt Nielsen, VP Investor Relations Torben Carlsen, CFO Gert Jakobsen, VP Communication Thomas Mørk, VP Technical Organisation The CSR team reports to the Executive committee and the newly-defined operational CSR committee. This joint strategic CSR committee provides the right level of attention, responsibility and decision-making power. The strategic CSR committee will meet four to five times a year and have regular dialogue with the CSR team. In 2018 two meetings were held (September and December). The establishment of the governance set-up, feedback from the strategic workshops and initial CSR projects were discussed. In 2019 key topics will be the Code of Business Conduct, diversity and inclusivity, responsible consumption & waste-handling and supplier audits. CSR Report 2018 10 Our business DFDS moves freight and passengers in one of the largest networks of ferry routes in Europe. We also provide logistics solutions for a broad range of manufacturers. Own port terminals are operated in strategic locations, offering a range of services including warehousing. +8,000 Log +8,000 employees 20% ist Lo ics gis tic Pass employees 35% en 20% s +10,000 gers Pass 35% en +10,000 gers freight customers Fr ei gh t freight customers Frei ies gh 5,400,000 t sF err 45% rrie 5,400,000 Fe passengers 45% passengers Passenger ferry services 15.7bn 15.7bn The majority of customers are passengers travelling by car as Passenger well as mini cruise ferryenjoying passengers servicesa maritime experience DKK revnue The majority of customers and theare passengers on-board travelling by car as facilities. well as mini cruise passengers enjoying a maritime experience DKK revnue and the on-board Freight ferryfacilities. services 14% We mainly carry trailers for transport companies. We also carry heavy goods suchFreight ferry as cars, services paper and steel for manufacturers. 14% We mainly carry trailers for transport companies. We also carry heavy goods such as cars, paper and steel for manufacturers. Return on invested capital Transport & logistics solutions (ROIC) Our key customers are manufacturers of industrial goods, food Return on invested capital Transport & logistics solutions (ROIC) products, forest & paper products, consumer goods, and retailers. Our key customers are manufacturers of industrial goods, food Many of the solutions include using our own ferry services. products, forest & paper products, consumer goods, and retailers. Many of the solutions include using our own ferry services. Commitments and conduct / CSR Report 2018 11 Commitments and conduct We are committed to the UN Global Compact and our conduct is characterised by a culture of care, continuous improvement and transparency. Care for our employees, local communities and the environment is part of DFDS’ culture and history, which go back more than 150 years. We formalised our commitment to CSR when joining the UN Global Compact in 2015. We implement its 10 principles throughout the Group to ensure responsible business conduct and to meet the expectations of our key stakeholders. Our strategic CSR committee, which oversees DFDS’ strategic and operations work on CSR, is also responsible for our annual Communication on Progress report to the UN Global Compact. Through our commitment and CSR strategy, we address risks and opportunities related to our business model. We work to keep people and goods safe, provide good working conditions, limit climate change and the environmental impact of our activities. We procure responsibly and support local communities and initiatives where we operate. It is part of our culture and the DFDS Way to seek continuous improvement and transparency in our engagement with stakeholders. We actively engage with organisations such as the International Maritime Organisation, the European Community Shipowners’ Associations, Interferry, Danish Shipping and Global Compact Network Denmark. Commitments and conduct / CSR Report 2018 12 Stakeholders and expectations DFDS has many stakeholders and from a CSR perspective the focus is on: The DFDS Way • Investors and financiers • Customers The DFDS Way guides how we work, our operating model • Employees and unions and how we act. Our behaviors. • Industry organisations It is also a promise to create value for our customers and to do things • Suppliers a little better every day to become a stronger company. In view of the • Local communities DFDS Way, we are proud of the awards: Europe’s Leading Ferry Operator • Media and NGOs 2012-18 and the World’s Leading Ferry Operator 2011-18. • Public authorities In many cases the different stakeholders have the same expectations related to CSR and the most material for DFDS is to: • Recognise impact on society and environment Operating model • Define and implement a Group-wide CSR strategy Customer-driven • Be accessible and accountable Continuous improvement • Report in a transparent, consistent and accurate manner • Meet – or exceed – regulatory compliance Best practice • Ensure responsible operations and conduct Leveraging scale • Perform proactive risk management and loss prevention • Continuously improve environmental management Performance culture • Ensure and continuously improve health, safety and security management • Provide employment opportunities and fair New headquarter will combine employment conditions strategic CSR themes • Support inclusivity and career development DFDS will move to a new headquarter • Manage relations with, and impact on, local Behaviours in 2021 due to the increasing demand communities We care for office space in Copenhagen. We serve our customers with passion The CSR strategy themes – EnvironmenWe listen before making decisions tal Footprint and Caring Employer – will be clear guidelines in the process. The We do what we say we will do new office will be leading within energy If we see a problem, we fix it consumption and recycling and the facilities will be designed to support and We learn, develop and improve every day enhance the employee well-being. Commitments and conduct / CSR Report 2018 13 CSR policies Our conduct is constituted by the behaviour and actions of all our 8,000 employees and management team. Group policies set the parameter for how we should behave and manage our risks. However, there are areas where laws and policies do not provide sufficient guidance. In these cases, our Code of Business Conduct helps employees respond to ethical issues in a sound manner. The 10 UN Global Compact principles Human rights Environment Principle 1: Businesses should support Principle 7: Businesses should support a and respect the protection of internationprecautionary approach to environmental Our code is aligned with the UN Global Compact principles and ally proclaimed human rights challenges covers areas such as respecting others, diversity and discriminaPrinciple 2: make sure that they are Principle 8: undertake initiatives to protion, harassment, health and safety, environmental protection, not complicit in human rights abuses. mote greater environmental responsibility gifts and entertainment in the workplace, as well as competition Principle 9: encourage the development and pricing, bribery and facilitation payments, and company and diffusion of environmentally friendly donations. We respect human rights and do not accept bribes, technologies. whether directly or through third parties, and we work towards Labour the elimination of facilitation payments. We request employees Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the to report any breaches of the code through different reporting freedom of association and the effective lines or our whistleblower scheme. recognition of the right to collective Anticorruption bargaining Principle 10: Businesses should work Whistleblowing Principle 4: the elimination of all forms against corruption in all its forms, In 2015 the whistleblower scheme was implemented and in of forced and compulsory labour including extortion and bribery. late 2017 we updated and communicated the Code of Business Principle 5: the effective abolition of child Conduct and our whistleblower scheme to the entire Group. After labour this, the number of whistleblower cases increased. DFDS’ codes and policies on CSR Principle 6: the elimination of discrim• Code of Business Conduct ination in respect of employment and In 2017 we had nine cases and in 2018, 16 cases were reported. • Diversity & Inclusion Policy occupation. Of these, seven were still being investigated at year-end. The • Environmental Policy cases cover health and safety, employee relations, allegations • Health, Safety & Environmental of bribery, theft, conflicts of interest, substance abuse and Policy (Ship Management) discrimination. The reports came from our operations in Denmark, • HR policies and Employee Handbook France, Sweden and the UK. • Supplier Code of Conduct. Commitments and conduct / CSR Report 2018 14 CSR risks It is part of our culture, general operations and strategic planning to minimise risks. When we identify risks, we initiate an analysis of current policies and processes with a view to implementing mitigation measures and adjustments. Here we present an extract of high-level CSR risks and our mitigating actions. CSR risks DFDS’ mitigating actions Global CO2 levy Through trade organisations, argue for a fair system that ensures a level playing field as Globally imposed levy on CO2 emissions from shipping to motivate well as a system that can be policed effectively. In due course, communicate with stakeholders emission reductions. so they also can prepare for a new scenario. Mandatory slow steaming Follow discussions at national and supranational levels. Engage in the discussion with like-minded Mandatory speed restrictions imposed on ferries, making it difficult bodies on the potential pros and cons of the restrictions should the matter be tabled. to maintain existing route network with current assets. Major spill incident at sea Have qualified employees in relevant functions and advanced technical systems, e.g. to avoid Maritime incident causing spillage of fuel and/or hazardous material collisions, weather forecasts, maritime warnings on ferries in operation. Formal emergency negatively impacting the marine environment. committee structure and insurance coverage to ensure funds for swift mitigating actions. Poor working conditions Group-wide health and management system with focus on root cause analysis, continuous improveDirect or indirect employees subject to working conditions below acceptable DFDS health, ment and strategic focus on employees’ well-being. Biannual Group-wide employee satisfaction safety and working environment standards, and which negatively affect employee survey followed up by management actions. Group HR verifies alignment of employment contracts satisfaction, employability and DFDS’ employer brand. with DFDS standards and standard conditions for sub-contracting of hauliers in place. Harassment and discrimination Code of Business Conduct sets direction for appropriate behaviour, as does the Diversity Individuals being subject to discrimination and/or harassment due to race, gender, religion, & Inclusion Policy. Understanding of different cultures is included in management training profession etc., negatively impacting the individual’s rights, well-being and DFDS’ employer brand. and different reporting lines, and a whistle-blower function is in place. Corruption related to procurement Approval procedures on major investments in place and contracts above EUR 50,000 are subject Individuals with authority to approve major investments/operating costs use their position to tender processes and centrally managed. Supplier Code of Conduct, Code of Business Conduct for personal gain, causing financial and reputational damage. and whistle-blower function are in place. Commitments and conduct / CSR Report 2018 15 Responsible procurement With our strategic approach to procurement we want to continuously develop a responsible supply chain. DFDS’ annual sourcing of goods and services amounts to more Initiatives and results than DKK 9.5 billion from more than 15,000 suppliers. For our In 2018 Group Procurement made a significant move in the use Responsible supply chains ships alone, we issue around 5,000 purchase orders per month. of e-sourcing and e-auction tools, which are creating a transin the shipping industry Through our procurement practices, we strive to minimise the risk parent environment for sourcing and in negotiations. In a CSR IMPA ACT is an initiative of the Internaof adversely impacting human rights (including labour rights) and context, the tools are helpful in managing grey zones and avoidtional Marine Purchasing Association the environment in our supply chain. ing bribery, and e-sourcing is now standard in our tendering. We (IMPA) that seeks to improve the ecostrive to have 90% of tenders done through e-sourcing and we nomic, social and environmental compliCommitment and practice will roll out e-auctions to more categories in 2019. ance of its ship purchaser and supplier We primarily source from European suppliers and aim to include members. The IMPA provides a responour Supplier Code of Conduct in all contracts. DFDS Group ProWe are also implementing other measures to improve our syssible supply chain management procurement leads all major tenders and negotiations and concludes tems. Specifically, we are preparing for compliance with marine gramme, which DFDS joined in 2015. procurement contracts related to goods and services covering the equipment regulations related to safety and new regulations on As many shipping companies share the entire DFDS Group. a certified Inventory of Hazardous Materials. same suppliers, a standardised common system helps to ensure compliance Our Supplier Code of Conduct incorporates the IMPA ACT Supplier Mechanism for manufacturer selection throughout the industry. Code of Conduct, whereby our suppliers agree to conform to the We have contracts with GSI and Jinling shipyards in China to build code and adhere to all applicable laws, rules and regulations two freight & passenger ferries and six freight ferries. The core of the programme is the IMPA where they operate. ACT Supplier Code of Conduct representing As part of the contracts, we have a governance mechanism for current best practice. It incorporates the Suppliers should also have policies and procedures in place to manufacturer selection with the shipyards. Hence, we have a high UN Global Compact and the UN Guiding respect human rights, including labour rights, address significant degree of influence and can control the selection of manufacPrinciples on Business and Human Rights. environmental impacts and counter corrupt practices. The retures of key equipment, which helps to ensure the selection quirements are similar to those we impose on ourselves through of reputable suppliers. In 2018 this governance mechanism DFDS’ Code of Business Conduct. was expanded to other contracts as well. CSR Report 2018 16 Shore power Copenhagen – Oslo route DFDS wants to be a responsible neighbour in the communities where we operate. In Oslo, Norway, we support the capital’s environmental policy by investing in on-board shore power installations. From January 2019 and January 2020 respectively, our two passenger ships Pearl Seaways and Crown Seaways will, when calling, receive power from the port’s new shore-based power supply instead of combusting diesel to produce power on board. This reduces emissions of CO2, NOx, sulphur and other particles in the neighbourhood. Environmental Footprint / CSR report 2018 17 Environmental Footprint We strive to reduce our CO2 emissions and other environmental impacts from our operations and seek to be a responsible neighbour that cares for the marine environment and local communities. We fully recognise that our main impact on the climate and the environment comes from our business of moving freight and passengers on our ferry routes and from providing transport Environmental efforts and logistics solutions for a wide range of businesses. We work Local initiatives and dedicated employees to reduce the Environmental Footprint of our operations through drive our environmental efforts, including to: sound practices and seek innovative and intelligent ways to • Collect and monitor environmental develop DFDS in a greener direction. data from all our activities • Minimise waste and optimise Commitment and practice waste-handling at all facilities and on As stated in our environmental policies and Code of Business all ferries Conduct, we consider the environmental impact of everything we • Ensure disposal of assets for recycling do and strive to ensure continuous improvements. In view of our in a sustainable manner main impact, our foremost focus is on reducing emissions from • Cooperate with wider society to reduce ships and trucks, as well as developing and implementing new emissions from our ferries to limits environmental technology. We also focus on our warehouses, below the legal requirements office buildings and terminal operations to reduce our impact • Adopt a partnership approach and find on the environment and save costs. new ways of solving logistical challenges in an environmentally sound way We maintain an environment and climate risk matrix, in which • Implement good neighbour policies, we regularly assess and rate issues against the likelihood of their respecting local environments and occurrence, and the economic and reputational impact on DFDS. communities The risks with the highest rating relate to a global CO2 levy being • Communicate openly about our Enviimposed, a mandatory speed reduction policy for ships and major ronmental Footprint and how we plan spill incidents at sea (see p.14). to reduce it. Environmental Footprint / CSR report 2018 18 Initiatives and results Our ferries represent 96% of DFDS’ total CO2 emissions – conThe most ground-breaking event in 2018 was when the IMO’s sumption of bunkers and fuel, and therefore warrant extra Monitoring of new regulations Marine Environment Protection Committee (MEPC) in April agreed attention. While our total CO2 emissions have increased, we New climate and environmental legislaspecific targets for international shipping’s greenhouse gas (GHG) continue to reduce the emissions per ferry, as the average fuel tion, be it regional, national or internaemissions. Much work still needs doing, as the 2008 baseline and consumption of the fleet is decreasing year on year. Consumption tional, directly affects us. We monitor the associated KPIs need to be established. The GHG emissions of fuel is one of our largest cost areas and reduction in both fuel regulatory developments through trade targets are set for the international shipping industry, but it has consumption and CO2 emissions is of continued importance to us organisations such as Danish Shipping not yet been decided how it will filter down to flags, ferry types from an environmental, regulatory and financial perspective. We and Interferry, and we engage with the and perhaps individual ferries. constantly investigate cleaner fuel types and in 2018 we continInternational Maritime Organization (IMO) ued to cooperate with new partners on cleaner bunker fuels as and the EU to have our say and ensure There is significant work ahead for the industry and DFDS in part of our procurement activities. that we take timely action. making appropriate plans for achieving the targets. Although the details are not yet known, it is our view that the 2030 target can We consider it likely that the IMO and be reached with existing technology, whereas the 2050 ambition the EU will continue to promote new will require new fossil fuel-free technology. DFDS Group’s CO2e emissions and/or stricter legislation and that some (1,000 tonnes) 2018 2017 2016 ports served by DFDS may have stricter Reporting on our GHG emissions environmental regulations imposed than In 2018 the DFDS Group’s emissions of CO2 equivalents has been CO2e emissions 1,879 1,597 1,543 national and/or international legislation estimated at 1,879,000 tonnes, which is an 18% increase comDFDS records the Group’s CO2 equivalent (CO2e) emissions covering scope 1 and 2, prescribes. We anticipate the consequences pared to 2017. The increase is mainly attributed to the additional as defined in the GHG Protocol Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard. We will be in the form of either penalties or tonnage added to our fleet through the UN Ro-Ro acquisition in include all DFDS sites, ferries and trucks and we record fuel consumption using an discounts on port fees. 2018. ISO 14064-certified software tool to calculate the emissions. International shipping’s Average fuel consumption of the DFDS fleet A  verage fuel consumption of the DFDS fleet GHG emissions targets Fuel consumption (g/GT/Nm) 12 months moving average Compared to the base year of 2008, international shipping should: 6,5 • reduce its CO2 emissions per transport 6,3 6,1 work by a minimum 40% by 2030 5,9 • reduce the total GHG emissions by 5,7 a minimum of 50% by 2050. 5,5 5,3 The MEPC’s agreement was hailed as a 5,1 4,9 major breakthrough and for the first time We have measured the 4,7 CO2 emissions based established specific GHG targets for the 4,5 Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan Jan on our ferries’ fuel industry. Mar May Mar May Mar May Mar May Mar May Mar May Mar May Mar Maj Mar May Mar May Mar May Mar May Jul Jul Jul Jul Jul Jul Jul Jul Jul Jul Jul Jul consumption since Sep Nov Sep Nov Sep Nov Sep Nov Sep Nov Sep Nov Sep Nov Sep Nov Sep Nov Sep Nov Sep Nov Sep Nov 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2007. CSR Report 2018 19 As an increasing consumption of electricity in our head office (DFDS House in Copenhagen, Denmark) comes from data activity, No major spills we signed a contract in 2018 to move our data centre out of In 2018, there have been no major spills DFDS’ premises to a more energy-efficient partner. In Sweden our from our operations. fleet consists of 100 trucks and more than 80% of these use 98100% biofuels as part of a project initiated in 2017. Investments in scrubbers Mandatory systems on CO2 emissions Scrubbers are marine exhaust gas 2018 was the first year for data collection under the EU MRV cleaning systems that remove sulphur (Monitoring, Reporting and Verification) Regulation for CO2 oxides from ship engines. In 2018 the emissions. We collected data for all voyages and port calls during use of scrubbers in open loop mode was 2018 and will submit the data to the EU by the end of April discussed in the media in view of the 2019, following verification by our independent verifier. In total, increase in scrubber orders leading up to we collect and submit data for around 29,000 voyages and a the 2020 global cap and the implications similar number of port calls under the EU MRV reporting requirefor the marine environment. ments. Annualised ship performance data will be available to the public by July 2019. All scrubber systems have sensor monitoring to ensure compliance with the As of January 2019, the IMO Fuel Oil Data Collection system will sulphur caps and scrubber wash water come into force. Similar to the EU MRV system, this system makes is subject to quality standards issued it mandatory to collect certain consumption and emissions data on by the IMO. a global basis for all ships of 5,000 GT and above. DFDS primarily invests in hybrid scrubber Preparing for the global sulphur cap systems that are capable of operating Another discussion topic in 2018 was the global sulphur cap of in both open and closed loop mode. We 0.5% in fuel oil, which will enter into force in January 2020. The predominantly operate our systems in IMO has agreed a carriage ban on non-compliant fuel entering posal may be forthcoming at MEPC meetings in 2019. Our scrubber All Mediterranean open loop mode, where the washing water into force in March 2020 to facilitate the policing of the global retrofitting programme for the Mediterranean fleet would be able ferries will be retrofitted with scrubbers is discharged into the sea and we strictly sulphur cap. The cap is of particular relevance for our ferries to cope with the SECA demands if they were to come into force. to comply with the monitor water discharges to ensure comtrading in the Mediterranean, which have expanded in number global sulphur cap pliance with IMO standards. We operate following our acquisition of the Turkish company UN Ro-Ro in Ballast water cleaning systems the systems in closed loop mode when 2018. DFDS has engaged in a scrubber retrofitting programme The MEPC relaxed the implementation schedule for mandatory local policies call for this, as is the case in, for all our Mediterranean ferries to ensure compliance with the fitting of ballast water cleaning systems for ships over 400 GT for example, Belgium and Lithuania. global standard. in 2017. Our programme of fitting all ferries with ballast water cleaning systems to comply with the Ballast Water Convention Regarding the Mediterranean, there is an increasing call for deand the MEPC’s schedule is going as planned. As of the end of claring it a Sulphur Emission Control Area (SECA), which implies a 2018 five DFDS ferries had been fitted with certified ballast maximum of 0.1% sulphur content in the fuel oils used. Such a prowater cleaning systems. Environmental Footprint / CSR report 2018 20 Ship recycling DFDS is on par with the comprehensive ship recycling policies of Active engagement the EU and IMO. We are in the process of preparing documentain maritime industry fora tion of the Inventory of Hazardous Materials (IHM) required by DFDS supports a strict climate and envithe EU ship recycling regulation. This work must be completed by ronment policy based on common internathe end of 2020. No DFDS ferries were disposed of for recycling tional standards, subject to fair and equal in 2018. policing and formulated in such a way that practical implementation is viable. Waste management As part of our environmental efforts, we have increasingly We make our voice heard through a focused on waste management at our head office, DFDS House, number of channels and in 2018 DFDS and at our terminals in Copenhagen, Denmark. This has resulted was re-elected for a five-year period in in significant cost reductions as we continue to reduce waste the European Sustainable Shipping Forum through increased reuse and recycling. We are also looking into (ESSF), as one of two Danish shipping opportunities for reducing food waste on board our passenger companies. ESSF is a forum for structural ships. Currently we have an agreement in place in Copenhagen dialogue, exchange of technical knowlwhere we collect food waste from our passenger ships on the edge, cooperation, and coordination Copenhagen – Oslo route and turn the waste into biogas and among relevant maritime industries’ fertiliser. stakeholders and the EU Commission. Reducing empty kilometres Through our participation in Interferry we No fewer than 96.7% of DFDS’ trucks are Euro 5 and Euro 6 support the interests of the ferry industry certified. Apart from investing in trucks with the highest possible at EU level as well as in IMO institutions. Euro class engines, reducing the distance our trucks drive without DFDS also takes an active role in the a payload is the single most important factor for achieving an work performed in the relevant national environmentally friendly haulage operation. After we introduced shipowners’ organisations, of which we improved software, monitoring the empty kilometres has become are members, primarily in the Danish and easier. The software is implemented in most locations and we UK institutions. Collectively the shipownwill continue the roll-out to the remaining locations in 2019. ers’ voices are amalgamated in ECSA, the European Community Shipowners’ For the sites already covered by the software, the empty running Associations. percentage was 22.5% in 2018. This unfortunately represents an increase of 0.8 percentage points over 2017. We undertook DFDS also remains an active member of a number of initiatives in 2018 to reduce the empty running, Green Ship of the Future and the Trident such as using smart data to balance cargo flows and increasing Alliance. domestic loads to fill empty gaps. However, external factors such as change in trade flows and strain on the haulage capacity in general, unfortunately more than outweighed the gains achieved. CSR Report 2018 21 Employees engaged in doing good DFDS employees in the UK completed the Three Peaks Challenge climbing three mountains in Scotland, England and Wales to raise awareness among colleagues for mental health issues and to raise money for a mental health charity. At locations throughout our network, employees take initiatives to benefit colleagues and people in their communities. DFDS also supports local initiatives with a funding programme and initiates projects that aim to increase the physical and mental well-being of employees. Caring Employer / CSR Report 2018 22 7% Caring Employer Nordic We focus on the well-being of our employees and 8% strive to foster an inclusive workplace that treats all Mediterranean employees fairly and attracts, develops and retains people in the countries where we operate. 27% UK 13% Employees Baltic per regions By end 2018 DFDS employed more than 8,000 people in 20 countries and as such, our workforce is reflective of the communities in which we operate. More than half of our workforce is employed at sea and women make up 23% of our employees, which is on a par with the industry. Within the last years we have had the benefit of a workforce there is becoming increasingly multi-national. 20% 23% Continent DK Commitment and practice It is our goal to deal fairly and equitably with all employees and through our HR policies, Diversity & Inclusion Policy, Code of Business Conduct and employee handbook, we support people and the business in mitigating risks and making the right decisions. For example, in relation to recruitment, employee We also have a special agreement with the Danish Metalworkand leadership development, talent spotting, working environers’ Union and its maritime division Metal Maritime to support Respecting others ment, performance management, remuneration and benefits, employees who are members of the union and employed on our • We treat our colleagues, customers, suppliers and other and organisational efficiency. ships. The foundation, called Den Sociale Arbejdsmarkedsfond, stakeholders with respect, dignity, fairness and courtesy supports preventive activities related to employee health and • We take pride in the diversity of our workforce and view To ensure strong relations between DFDS and our employees we well-being, and conditions of employment for women. Employees it as a competitive advantage to be nurtured have established mechanisms that go beyond legal obligations. can also apply for financial support if they for health or personal • We are committed to maintaining a working environment We aim to discuss and resolve issues before they develop into reasons are unable to work full-time (see pp. 23-24 and 30). that is free from discrimination or harassment disputes and we seek an open and trusting dialogue with unions • We try to balance work and private life and help others and works councils. For example, in our European Dockers Trade DFDS respects data privacy and complies with the European to do the same Union Forum, we engage with representatives from our terminals General Data Protection Regulation as well as with the national • We invest in the ongoing enhancement of our skills and abilities to discuss current and upcoming issues three times a year. data protection acts in the countries in which we operate. • We provide a safe working environment for our employees. Caring Employer / CSR Report 2018 23 Developing our managers and employees Leadership development Personal development Initiatives and results 700+ 100+ In 2018 we welcomed more than 500 new colleagues following our acquisition of the Turkish company UN Ro-Ro. Through a dedicated effort, we are integrating our new colleagues into DFDS through introductions to the DFDS Way, our organisation, purpose, policies, procedures and training. Since 2009, 700+ managers have Employees participated in our personal participated in our general leadership development training programme in 2018 In line with other large companies, we participate in the ‘battle’ for training programme 100+ 45 talent and in 2018 we continued to place emphasis on employer branding and are confident that our strong purpose and business strategy will enable us to attract and retain talented people. We see a successful onboarding of new colleagues as key to reNew talents from different parts of the taining people. Over the past couple of years, we have identified Launch of a new sales management organisation have been selected to attend areas of improvement and have developed a unified onboarding programme, which 100+ sales managers the assessment centre session, which package to be implemented in 2019. We will also conduct our completed in 2018 kicks off in 2019 as part of our talent biannual Employee Engagement Survey in 2019 and we are using management programme. the 2017 results to improve employee satisfaction. We expect to 80+ see further improvements in response rates of above 83% and in the identified areas of improvement, which included professional and personal development. Sales & Customer Service development 350+ Improved training programmes People engaged in the introduction proWe continuously improve all programmes in our training portfogramme for new managers during 2018 – lio. It consists of 14 programmes within three main categories: all new managers must participate in the Leadership, Personal, and Sales & Customer Service development. programme no later than three months In 2018 we updated our trainee programme and developed a after taking up their new role. Sales people participated in our sales new manager programme to ensure that our managers are well Our purpose: programme in 2018 equipped to take on their new roles. We Move for All to Grow DFDS’ purpose was defined through an 150+ During 2018 we also had preventive courses related to stress extensive and engaging process in 2017. supported by the foundation Den Sociale Arbejdsmarkedsfond for all managers on our four passenger ships to help them spot We believe that a company with a strong signs of stress among themselves and their colleagues. As part purpose is an attractive company to work of our digital transformation, more than 60% of all corporate for and we articulated the purpose of our Launch of a new e-learning sales training programmes now have a digital element included in the business and our activities to everyone programme, which 150+ sales people training and we thereby met our 2018 objective. We continue to working at DFDS. In 2018 we further completed in 2018 implement digital elements in our training programmes to ensure activated the purpose through local initiagreater outreach and on-demand training. tives and seminars throughout the Group. Caring Employer / CSR Report 2018 24 Mental health focus Some say that one in four people will have a mental health More than 40% of our workforce is employed problem at some time in their lives. In 2018 Group HR worked to at sea and women identify how best to acknowledge and respect this. We now offer 85% male 15% female 71% male 29% female make up 23% of our advice and support through 24/7 counselling and an internal employees, which network of people has been trained to listen and help. We ran a is on a par with the industry. pilot course in Dover, UK, in May with people from ship and shore departments in the UK and France attending the training. Employee well-being is central to being a Caring Employer. One of our initiatives is the pilot programme DFDS Moves, which we ran at our head office, DFDS House, in 2018. We offered employees a health check, weekly fitness training and individual coaching related to diet, sleep patterns and regular exercise. Employees could also attend workshops on stress, motivational factors and mindfulness. More than 300 employees had a health check and we generally had positive responses from our employees. In 2019, we will run Sea 43% Land 57% the programme for all our employees on board our passenger ships on the Copenhagen, Denmark – Oslo, Norway route. This is made possible by the investment of close to DKK 1 million by the foundation Den Sociale Arbejdsmarkedsfond targeted at our representation of women in senior management positions. Among The representation of women on DFDS’ Board of Directors is 33%, employees’ well-being on board the ships. our VPs the proportion of women is 10%, despite our efforts and excluding employee-elected members. There are nine members focus on improving gender diversity. The reason for the decline of the board, of whom six are elected by the Annual General Gender diversity in 2018 is that one female VP left the company and the total Meeting. This is in line with the requirement set by Danish law. Diversity among employees and managers matters to us and number of VP increased with the acquisition of U.N. Ro-Ro. In 2018 we want to employ more women, as stated in our Diversity & we established a Core Committee to accelerate our efforts and Gender diversity in the DFDS Group Inclusion Policy. identify short and long-term initiatives. We engaged employees to brainstorm and share best practice on how to improve gender % 2018 2017 2016 At the same time, we recognise that our industry can create diversity at DFDS and will continue this engagement throughout special challenges for women, particularly the time at sea. the Group in 2019. Women in workforce 23 26 28 Our first female captain shows it does not have to be that way Through our talent management programme, 31% of the candidates Women in senior management 10 15 15 (see p. 25) and through the foundation Den Sociale Arbejdsselected in 2018 to engage in the assessment centre in 2019 were Women on the Board of Directors 33 50 33 markedsfond we have been working to establish better condiwomen. We now also run job adverts through a gender decoder and tions of employment for women following maternity leave. we include representatives of both genders in final interviews to Women in senior management include VPs and levels above. Women on the Board While women represent 23% of our workforce, we have a lower help address unconscious bias in our recruitment processes. of Directors include only those elected by the Annual General Meeting. CSR Report 2018 25 Şima: DFDS’ first female captain DFDS has adopted a Diversity & Inclusion Policy to achieve a more diverse and inclusive workplace. It has a particular focus on gender diversity, as in our industry men generally outnumber women in management positions. Among the many examples of new female managers, Şima Demir was promoted in October 2018 to become DFDS’ first female captain. She will master UND EGE in our Turkish fleet and inspire female officers and employees throughout DFDS to aspire to management positions. Caring Employer / CSR Report 2018 26 A strong safety culture We strive towards continuously improving our overall health and safety performance with the goal of ensuring zero harm to our most important asset: our employees. Whatever we carry, we uphold a strong safety culture and our goal is to keep our employees, passengers and customers’ goods safe at all times whether at sea or ashore. Legislation applies Health and safety conduct differently between sea and land, and we manage our efforts • Strive towards continuously improving through an organisational focus on safety at sea and ashore. our overall health, safety and environmental performance; with the goal Commitment and practice of ensuring zero harm to our most Our safety culture is embedded in the DFDS Way and outlined important asset: our employees in our Code of Business Conduct and Health, Safety & Environ• Act with prudence, responsibility ment Policy. and effectiveness in order to set and monitor targets for improvement At sea, we operate according to our Global Ship Management • Enhance and promote a strong health, System, which we review regularly to ensure that we identify and safety and environment culture while establish safeguards against all risk to personnel, ships and the continuously improving competencies environment. We monitor and report all maritime safety measand awareness among our employees ures and security factors for our ships, including any incidents • Promote and enhance a true ‘no blame’ on board. We follow the Maritime Labour Convention and codes culture of International Safety Management and International Ship and • Develop, maintain and adopt procePort Facility Security. Our CEO, leading representatives from our dures to implement best practice, People & Ships division and marine standards experts engage conforming to or exceeding all in regular reviews of our ships’ safety performance and ensure applicable regulatory requirements readiness for inspection by the maritime authorities. • Nurture, implement and exchange best practice through our management Ashore, our local management teams are responsible for safety systems management and maintain flexibility and proportionality of re• Ensure compliance with current sponses based on risk. Thus, more safety controls and formalised applicable legislation and our standinspection regimes are in place for higher-risk activities such as ards and procedures through regular port terminals than lower-risk activities such as our offices. internal audits CSR Report 2018 27 We regard training and We operate according to a Group-wide internal safety manageDFDS participates in drills in cooperation with various rescue and drills as extremely ment standard and have a management system for measuring emergency authorities. Such special safety and security drills valuable as they help and managing truck drivers’ performance. In Immingham, UK, our include advanced training in crisis handling, cooperation and Passenger rights us improve the safety and security of our behavioural safety initiative iCare is certified according to the BS communication between DFDS, the authorities and various emerIn accordance with the European Maritime passengers and crews OHSAS 18001 standard and is currently in transition to meet the gency teams. In 2018 we carried out 21 safety and security crisis Passenger Rights Regulations, we offer and ensure that our new standards of ISO 45001. drills throughout our area of operation with various authorities. assistance to disabled passengers and to emergency processes They included major exercises to ensure that our newly acquired those with reduced mobility. We support are continually tested and verified. Initiatives and results UN Ro-Ro operations in the Mediterranean are trained to handle passengers with special needs from bookDrills on board our ships are a vital tool to ensure continuous any issue that may arise. ing to port facilities and, ultimately, their improvements in our health and safety standards and that our voyages on board our ships. crew is trained to handle any emergency that might arise on During 2019 we will further implement and align DFDS standards board. Past incidents clearly demonstrate that training standards across the UN Ro-Ro fleet and operations. Furthermore, we will enWe are transparent in our pricing across and frequent drills are instrumental in the crew’s ability sure that the new ro-ro ferries being delivered from China have our countries and entitle passengers to to protect people, goods and ships against the consequences Global Ship Management System implemented quickly to ensure certain rights in the event of delays or of fire on board, collisions and other major incidents. uniform standards and high safety levels on our new assets. cancellations. Caring Employer / CSR Report 2018 28 Migration challenges and SAR operations Operating throughout Europe brings DFDS into contact with migrants from Africa and the Middle East. The migrants affect our operations and in 2018 the migrant situation resulted in more stringent border controls and demands for stricter controls 90 courses 25,605 online lessons on passengers travelling to the UK. Online safety training We are also pleased that injury severity at sea did not increase in 90 courses have Sometimes we have migrants trying to To increase personal awareness of safety we have an e-learn2018 compared to 2017. Injuries reported were minor, with one been distributed to staff and crew board our ships as stowaways in order to ing safety system with a range of modules available in English, exception of an injured seafarer just after Christmas. Most injuries in 25,605 online enter the UK and on the English Channel, French and Dutch. Online training provides flexibility and this were bruises, sore knees, back pain from lifting and other minor lessons on topics there have been daily attempts to board greatly improves the number of employees who register on the complaints. To develop best practice, avoid and react efficiently to related to safety, the ferries by hiding in trailers. It is our system and actively use it. In 2018 we had 3923 staff and crew near misses, we encourage near-miss incident reporting with a target security, GPDR, passengers, pets and policy to cooperate closely with the borregistered, including captains and officers. This is an increase of 48 near-miss reports per ship annually. dangerous cargo. der and local authorities to minimise the of 9% compared to the year before. problem. We also inform the public about Near misses are hazardous occurrences that, under different circumthe issue and the safety risks associated The training modules cover areas such as slips, trips and falls, stances, could lead to an incident if no corrective action is taken. In with travelling as a stowaway hidden in risk assessments, fire, manual handling, food safety, ISPS port 2017 we changed the scope towards encouraging quality rather than a trailer and on board a ship at sea. security and dangerous goods, as well as passenger rights and quantity in the reporting of near misses. There were 64.2 near-miss data protection. Each module takes approximately 30 minutes reports on average per ship in 2018, which is a satisfactory level. It The situation stabilised somewhat in to complete. A module counts as complete when you achieve an is a slight decrease compared to 2017, mainly caused by enhanced 2018 but we do unfortunately face new 80% pass mark. As regards road safety, we also offer training for focus on the quality of reporting rather than quantity. challenges. With more stringent border truck drivers using e-learning modules. controls, migrants wanting to cross the Shipping incidents Channel use small boats. This can be Safety performance at sea 2018 2017 2016 highly dangerous and has resulted in At sea, we provide an overview of the number of work-related injuries 21 situations where DFDS ferries have through a Lost-Time Injury Frequency (LTIF) rate. The development in LTIF 5.04 6.40 7.16 been engaged in search and rescue (SAR) 2018 showed a positive trend, with a reduced LTIF on board our ships, going down from 6.40 in 2017 to 5.04 in 2018. However, we want to Near-miss reports (average per ship) 64.2 66.7 72.7 operations, to assist and save the lives of these migrants. further improve LTIF and avoid large regional variations, as seen in Fatalities 0 1 0 our ferries flying the French flag, which had an average LTIF of 10.65 in 2018. The various measures established are starting to show and We measure LTIF as work-related incidents per million exposure hours that cause we are pleased to see that LTIF in our French operation has decreased absence from work for more than 24 hours. The reported data on LTIF and nearfrom 16.67 in 2017. However, this must improve further. miss reports exclude the acquired subsidiary, UN Ro-Ro. CSR Report 2018 29 Safety performance ashore Lost-Time Injury Accidents (LTA) and Accident We measure our land-based safety performance by the number Frequency Rate (AFR) of accidents expressed as Lost-Time Injury Accidents (LTA) and Truck drivers’ safety an Accident Frequency Rate (AFR). We see AFR as a comparable and working conditions measure of our annual performance reflecting the actual risk to While we own close to 600 trucks and 2018 2017 2016 individual employees working ashore. Our AFR improvement tar6,000 trailers and employ drivers, we also LTA 37 46 61 get is 5.14 and our performance in 2018 was 3.81, which reflects engage sub-contractors supplying trucks an improvement in both LTA and AFR compared to 2017. and truck drivers. In our Logistics Division, AFR 3.81 5.53 8.38 there is a dedicated team of haulier manInjury severity, expressed by the average lost working days agers to handle these engagements. Our per LTA was 21 days in 2018, which is a significant increase managers know the market well and look compared to 2017. out for any abuse of human and labour Injury severity – Lost days rights among the truck drivers. The main driver of this is four accidents resulting in fractures and Actual Average Average lost with an average of 88 lost day per accident. We carry out causal Poor employment conditions for foreign LTA lost days lost days per days per LTA analysis annually to inform managers of trends and feed availadrivers were also the subject for debate 2018 2018 LTA 2018 2017 ble data into their safety action plans to ensure proactive safety and scrutiny in the Danish media in 2018. Logistics 13 462 36 6 management. At an ongoing basis we select sub-contracters for audits to ensure that they Seaways 24 328 14 14 Health and safety recording maintain proper working conditions for As the DFDS Group is expanding and diversifying we have estabdrivers. We have formalised audit proceGroup 37 790 21 12 lished that a new improved way of monitoring and reporting dures in Sweden and will implement these The safety performance covers data from our operations sites. The reporting system Health and Safety shore based incidents is required going forward. procedures more widely in 2019. is designed for reporting injury details and the generation of causal analysis, while not We therefore aim to introduce improved procedures in this area in overburdening small, low-risk units. 2019. The new procedures and systems will facilitate more accurate data capture and thereby improved ability to identify focus First aid kits – also for pets areas and realistic ambitious targets in this important field. It is essential that we can support all our guests and their pets in their time of need. Fatal accident In 2018 our employees operating across Tragically a fatal accident occurred at DFDS’ Immingham termithe English Channel invited a local vet in nal on 24 September 2018. An external driver, who came to the Dover, UK, to teach first aid and introduce terminal to pick up a trailer, suffered serious compression injuries first aid kits for pets to DFDS colleagues on and was found by another driver. No one from DFDS witnessed the board and ashore in our terminals in Dover. accident. The police have not concluded on the accident yet. DFDS Health and Safety organisation always works closely with the auThe Channel is a popular travel choice thorities to support their investigations and is also investigating the for people travelling with their pets due accident in order to determine whether DFDS can take actions that to the frequency of departures and short can reduce or eliminate the risk of similar accidents in the future. crossing times. Caring Employer / CSR Report 2018 30 Local community engagement It is important for us to make a difference ship with the UK’s Merchant Navy Training Board the shipping in our local communities. industry’s central body for developing sector-specific education and training skills. Since the launch of the programme, DFDS has seen 20 apprentices pass through the scheme, with 17 deck apprentices and three engineering apprentices qualifying. In 2018, we offered as the first in the industry a Catering Scheme, which will see students work towards becoming Maritime Caterers. To support with people and businesses we also partner with a Kent-based college in the UK and engage with local schools. DFDS provides opportunities to do good and wants to have a We help children get work experience on our ships and on positive impact through engagement with the communities land to better equip them for making educational and Since 2016, DFDS where we operate. Our operational footprint is visible locally as career choices. has contributed to we annually carry more than five million passengers who pass the fight against through local communities close to port terminals and other faSupporting employees in challenging times breast cancer. cilities operated by DFDS in and around the Baltic Sea, the North Through the foundation Den Sociale Arbejdsmarkedsfond, see Sea and the English Channel. We also transport about 2.5 million p. 22, employees can apply for financial support if, for health trucks and trailers which travel through these communities. and personal reasons, they are unable to work full-time at sea. The agreement is unique to the Danish labour market and in Commitment and practice 2018, more than 20 employees benefitted from the scheme. This We are part of local life in many ways and take an active interest included support for education and new competencies, support in creating jobs, employee engagement and supporting people for surgery for remediation of physical injuries and leave for and charities. As outlined in our Code of Business Conduct, we employees who needed to attend private affairs. In 2018, our freight provide community support and donations, through knowledge, ferry Ark Germania supported one of services or direct financial contributions. We have clear reporting Since 2016, DFDS has contributed to the fight against breast the largest military lines and carefully ensure that any donation or sponsorship is not cancer. A pink trailer carries goods throughout most of Europe exercises ever held in used as a disguise for bribery. and for each 10 km driven DFDS donates EUR 1 to the charity Norway by carrying Breast Cancer Now in the UK. In total, the trailer has driven a full cargo of equipment to a harbour Initiatives and results around 50,000 km of which 22,000 km were driven in 2018. in Fredrikstad for DFDS has a leading role in a UK apprenticeship programme that The pink trailer was also used for charity events supporting the the NATOs exercise has been running since 2012. We offer apprenticeships in partnercombat of cancer in Sweden and the UK during the year. Trident Juncture 18. Caring Employer / CSR Report 2018 31 A way back to a crime-free life Since 2009, we have engaged with High:five and employed Employees engaged in doing good 49 former criminals, mainly on our passenger ships on route Our employees take many initiatives to Copenhagen, Denmark to Oslo, Norway. High:five is a Danish raise funds for charity or supporting local programme that finds jobs in private companies for young people communities in need. We appreciate and with criminal records and offers them a way back to a crime-free encourage their engagement of which we life. About 80% of the participants in the programme permanentprovide a few examples from 2018 here: ly give up a life of crime. • Employees supported the French annual event Yellow Coins to offer In 2018, DFDS opened the doors to four young people from a better life to children in hospitals. High:five of which one woman is now employed at our headquarCoins are collected via piggy banks in ter. We continue our engagement with High:five in 2019 to help public places and our colleagues had young people motivated to finding a new way to live their life. placed piggy banks on our ships and in our offices in Paris, Marseille, Dieppe, Christmas lunch for homeless people Calais, Dunkerque and Le Havre to DFDS offers a free Christmas lunch to homeless people on board collect coins. our passenger ships in Copenhagen and Oslo and have done so • Five employees from Turkey ran the for nine years. In 2018, about 600 homeless people accepted 40th Istanbul Marathon to support the invitation, and we donated leftover food from the event to 150 children diagnosed with cancer the local shelters. The lunch is partly organised on a voluntary and their families. In addition, a team basis by DFDS employees and in collaboration with the charities of DFDS colleagues in the UK completed WeShelter in Denmark, the Church City Mission and the Salvation the Three Peaks Challenge climbing Army in Norway. three mountains in Scotland, England and Wales to raise awareness of Hosting the Danish Community Award mental health issues. Further employWe hosted the Danish Community Award Fællesskabsprisen cereees entered other runs for charity in mony on board our passenger ship Pearl Seaways in Copenhagen, Hamburg, Germany and Brighton, UK. June 2018. The award was founded in 2014 by former Danish • Further funding for charities was raised Minister of Employment and leader of the Social Democratic through employees engaged in charity Party, Mette Frederiksen, who also took part in the event. golf, knitting, baking and other sports and social events in Norway and the Fællesskabsprisen was awarded to ten people and organisations UK including in Immingham and Newdoing extraordinary efforts for the community. DFDS had the castle; in Klaipėda and Vilnius, Lithuania pleasure to award WeShelter for the invaluable and voluntary and in Ghent, Belgium. efforts of their network to help homeless people. WeShelter also celebrated their 125th anniversary, for which we offered a birthday buffet on board our passenger ship Crown Seaways in October 2018. CSR Report 2018 32 “By making CSR part of our future plans it becomes an integral part of our business strategy.” Niels Smedegaard, President and CEO of DFDS Group DFDS A/S Sundkrogsgade 11, DK-2100 Copenhagen Ø / T: +45 3342 3342 / www.dfds.com / CVR 14 19 47 11
