(1) Statement of Continued Support by the Managing Director (Period Covered : April 2018 – April 2019) 01 April 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Sustainable Asset Management Solutions Pte Ltd (SAMS) reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. The Global Compact and its principles had given SAMS an excellent framework to leverage on where the relevancy is apparent especially for a young start-up company. Our support of the Global Compact and its principles had resulted in the transformation of our corporate culture, redefinition of our purpose, development of sound policies and processes. All these had cemented our position to better contribute to the People, Environment and Community where SAMS operates. In our second Communication on Progress, SAMS further describe our actions to integrate the Global Compact and its principles in our daily operations. We are also committed to share this information with our stakeholders using effective channels of communications. Sincerely yours, Joe Vong Managing Director Sustainable Asset Management Solutions Pte Ltd (201711738K) 31 Penjuru Lane Block A #04-01/02 & #08-02 Singapore 609198 Phone No: +65 69118180 I Fax No: +65 69118181 I www.samsolu.com (2) Description of Actions SAMS’ effort to incorporate the Global Compact and its principles in areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption is distinctively communicated in the established Corporate Mission, Vision, Code of Ethics and Policy Statements. 2.1 Human Rights SAMS’ Business Code of Ethics reinforced the importance of Corporate Governance and Social Responsibility in our course of work. One of the key emphasis is to ensure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses and do not associate directly nor indirectly with any of such perpetrators. SAMS’ Human Resource Management (HRM) Policy aligns with globally established Human Rights standards and guidelines such as the United Nations’ Universal Declaration of Human Rights to develop our HRM Codes and Practices. We reinforced our commitment to uphold human rights of all people associated with SAMS, exemplified with some of the following highlights of our established HRM practices :• no forced, bonded, involuntary labour nor hiring of any personnel below national minimum age of employment; • always treat all personnel with dignity, respect and without discrimination; • to promote freedom of association with equal opportunity; • to provide wages, benefits and conditions of work which meet prevailing statutory requirements; and • to ensure an open, safe and secure work environment etc. Sustainable Asset Management Solutions Pte Ltd (201711738K) 31 Penjuru Lane Block A #04-01/02 & #08-02 Singapore 609198 Phone No: +65 69118180 I Fax No: +65 69118181 I www.samsolu.com We ensure that all our People will have complete understanding of the established HRM Policy, Codes and Practices when working with SAMS. For example, all SAMS’ employees will be provided with :• documented employment terms and conditions in main language(s) spoken and understood by them; • onboarding orientation training which include workplace sexual harassment prevention, prohibition of illegal drugs and alcohol, data protection and whistle-blower programmes; and • work reporting channels with guidance to submit any feedback or escalation of any grievances when operating in SAMS’ facilities. 2.2 Labour SAMS is an equal opportunity employer with zero tolerance towards discrimination and unfair employment in any form. We value working relationships established with all our stakeholders and appreciate everyone’s unique personalities. Our People are the greatest intangible human asset, enabling SAMS to thrive in this ever-changing and dynamic business environment. Each of them possesses valuable domain expertise, skill-sets, knowledge and experiences which are pivotal to SAMS’ continuous growth as a young environmental service company. SAMS firmly believes in Personnel Development and we had put in considerable resources to promote :• continuous education and skill developments; • flexi-work hours; and • healthy and balanced lifestyles etc. Sustainable Asset Management Solutions Pte Ltd (201711738K) 31 Penjuru Lane Block A #04-01/02 & #08-02 Singapore 609198 Phone No: +65 69118180 I Fax No: +65 69118181 I www.samsolu.com The safety and health of our People is also of paramount importance to SAMS. All SAMS’ operated facilities align to established EHS policy for preventing industrial accidents and ill health. We had established the Risk Management Systems to identify hazards for all work processes and activities as well as implement appropriate control measures to manage these associated risks. As SAMS manages wide range of used ICT Assets and end-of-life electronics, we will ensure that the established work procedures can competently handle all received materials in an environmentally sound manner. One example is batteries where we facilitated our workers’ complete understanding of the specific process management with site training demos and pictorial work instructions for clear illustrations. This had enabled our workers to better visualise the actual production scenarios when handling batteries. Other than ensuring that all production operated equipment and tools are regularly maintained, upgraded or replaced when required, SAMS also continuously strive to elevate the work competencies of our workers. We provide continuous training and conduct daily tool-box meetings to discuss key operational issues, e.g. operating environment and work procedure improvements, understanding the use and importance of personal protective equipment as well as gathering valuable feedback through evaluations etc. 2.3 Environment As an environmental service company, SAMS draws energy through our passionate effort to develop environmentally sound and sustainable waste management solutions for a better world :SAMS’ Vision To champion environmentally sound and socially responsible values by delivering Secure, Compliant and Green ICT Asset Management solutions. SAMS’ Mission To be the industry leader in promoting Corporate Sustainability through reinventing our systems and processes to develop Asset Management solutions which can Reuse, Recover, Regenerate and Repurpose service life of ICT assets. We are very driven to promote circular economy and sustainability to the People and Community where SAMS operates. Sustainable Asset Management Solutions Pte Ltd (201711738K) 31 Penjuru Lane Block A #04-01/02 & #08-02 Singapore 609198 Phone No: +65 69118180 I Fax No: +65 69118181 I www.samsolu.com We have established EHS policy advocating conservation of natural resources, pollution prevention by minimizing waste generation and maximising recycling rate from our processes as well as to avoid directing materials to incineration or landfill. We also have corporate initiatives such as establishing of SAMS’’ very own “Sustainability Framework”. All these had enabled SAMS to instil an eco-conscious corporate culture towards promoting zero waste, reuse, recycling, green transportation, electricity and water conservations, carbon emission reductions, responsible production and aligning to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). SAMS is also one of the recycling partners in the “National Voluntary Partnership Programme” managed by the National Environment Agency (NEA), Singapore. Together, we want to encourage the public to recycle their end-oflife electronics responsibly, be part of the nation’s initiative “Towards Zero Waste 2019”. On global level, other than being a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, SAMS had also completed its first voluntary disclosure to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) in 2018 via the minimum version climate change questionnaire. SAMS’ voluntary disclosure to CDP had enabled us to gain familiarization related to the questionnaire structure. It had assisted SAMS to identify the key areas which we need to look into to gather required carbon emission data for next disclosure effort. 2.4 Anti-Corruption Through its Business Code of Ethics, SAMS had communicated the importance of Corporate Governance and within the established clauses, reinforced its zero tolerance towards any corruption practices. SAMS upholds the highest standards of integrity in all its business transactions, promotes transparency and traceability, prohibits any form of bribery, corruption, extortion and embezzlement. We advocate standards of fair business, advertising and competition, ensuring no improper advantage by means of bribe or any other offerings. SAMS’ Managing Director had personally established the Business Code of Ethics. All clauses are effectively communicated to all our stakeholders through published policy statements with further reinforcements to all our employees via department trainings, staff handbooks and internal notices. Sustainable Asset Management Solutions Pte Ltd (201711738K) 31 Penjuru Lane Block A #04-01/02 & #08-02 Singapore 609198 Phone No: +65 69118180 I Fax No: +65 69118181 I www.samsolu.com (3) Measurement of Outcome SAMS was incorporated in 2017 and being a young environmental service company, we are proactive in devising the best way to integrate the Global Compact and its principles in our business strategy and culture to continuously improve on our operations. The following are measured outcomes which we will continue to monitor and better :3.1 Human Rights SAMS is not involved in any human rights abuses nor violations to date. There are also no recorded human rights violations reported on our downstream vendors, suppliers and contractors to date. 3.2 Labour SAMS is in full compliance with prevailing labour laws in locations where we operate. There are also no recorded labour related violations reported on our downstream vendors, suppliers and contractors to date. Though we have multi-nationality of employees engaged from Singapore, Malaysia, India and China, there are no major conflicts nor grievances reported. We continue to encourage all to surface any issue through daily tool-box meetings and/or engaging the department managers for discussions etc. During the reporting period, SAMS had sent four of our employees for external trainings to enhance their skill-sets. One of the employees is now an authorised auditor for the Transported Asset Protection Association (TAPA) Facility Security Requirements, equipped with skills to audit TAPA certified sites. Another three employees are now licensed forklift drivers with added warehouse management capabilities. There are also zero health and safety reported cases. Sustainable Asset Management Solutions Pte Ltd (201711738K) 31 Penjuru Lane Block A #04-01/02 & #08-02 Singapore 609198 Phone No: +65 69118180 I Fax No: +65 69118181 I www.samsolu.com 3.3 Environment SAMS’ effort in promoting an eco-conscious corporate culture achieves very encouraging wins. 100% of our employees actively supported our “Movement to Stop Single-Use Plastics”. They use their own eco-friendlier alternatives such as recycle bags completed with personal water bottles, food containers and metal straws etc to support this movement. We will also continue to improve on our processes to achieve higher percentage of incoming material processing and outgoing recyclables generated. Going forward, baseline study will be established to better track and monitor material processing, recycling and disposal rates. SAMS as one of the recycling partners in the “National Voluntary Partnership Programme”, will be working closely with NEA for the nation’s Personal Mobile Devices (PMDs) recycling. Discussion is underway to look into providing collection services to the public to direct the PMDs for environmentally sound recycling and optimising resource recovery. SAMS’ voluntary disclosure to CDP in 2018 had received positive feedback and encouragement from our stakeholders. In 2019, SAMS is looking to participate in the CDP disclosure with the full version climate change questionnaire. We are looking at engaging a Consultant for GHG inventory compilation, developing training modules on CDP and GHG inventory planning. All these will further enable SAMS to establish a robust framework to address the identified risk areas, set targets and innovate related processes to minimise the impact of our carbon emissions. We will also continue our effort to participate in more Global Compact initiated activities through their local network office. 3.4 Anti-Corruption SAMS is in full compliance with the established Business Code of Ethics with no reported corruption cases to date. SAMS will continue to work closely with all our stakeholders, i.e. our employees, customers, downstream vendors, suppliers and contactors to uphold the highest corporate governance practices. Sustainable Asset Management Solutions Pte Ltd (201711738K) 31 Penjuru Lane Block A #04-01/02 & #08-02 Singapore 609198 Phone No: +65 69118180 I Fax No: +65 69118181 I www.samsolu.com
