STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT IN 2018 In August 2018, Manila Doctors Hospital (MDH) hosted the first Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) Certification Workshop for Businesses. This is in support of the Global Compact Network Philippines’ (GCNP) move towards engaging more businesses to join UNGC and take measureable actions in achieving the world we want by 2030 where no is left behind. At Manila Doctors Hospital, we are 2,779 people united around a common purpose: achieving meaningful impact together with our stakeholders both in growing the business and in helping communities. In line with societal developments and the company’s growth, MDH is committed to being a responsible business leader in the healthcare industry. What we do is defined by societal needs and business priorities; how we do it is defined by our values and social vision with support from our stakeholders. Our governance principles oblige everyone to always consider how decisions and actions may affect people, communities and the environment. To succeed in our long-term plan for sustainability, we accept the fact that government, civil society and the private sector must harmonize and collaborate vigorously. In this Communication on Progress report we share our efforts in 2018 and we hope that those who read it will be motivated to take actions, even small ones, because in achieving the SDGs everyone matters, every action counts. DR. HIAN HO N. KUA, MBAH First Vice-President/Hospital Director ABOUT MANILA DOCTORS HOSPITAL Manila Doctors Hospital is a private tertiary hospital located in the country’s capital, the city of Manila, Philippines, serving both local and international clients. Managed by the Manila Medical Services, Inc., Manila Doctors is the healthcare arm of Metrobank Foundation, Inc., since it became its major stockholder in 1979. Committed to give excellent and safe patient care, Manila Doctors is accredited by Accreditation Canada International for Excellent Quality Care & Service and ISO 9001:2015 for Quality Management Systems. It is an associate member of the International Hospital Federation (IHF), and a founding member of the Global Compact Network Philippines. Manila Doctors is the only Philippine Hospital recognized by the IHF for four consecutive years. 2018 Gender Just Climate Solutions IHF Merit Award 1 of the 28 featured innovative for CSR Excellence and replicable solutions in the 42nd World Hospital Congress 24th Conference of Parties (COP) held in Brisbane, Australia annual publication launched in Katowice, Poland UN GLOBAL COMPACTCOMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Human Rights: Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Corporate Level: Manila Doctors Hospital provides one of the best employment packages in the Philippine healthcare industry which is extended to family members of employees. Latest analysis shows that the company has achieved zero gender pay gap. 76.3% of leadership positions including C-suite levels are being occupied by female and the overall population of the hospital is composed of 66% women. Country Level 1. Annually, Manila Doctors is able to provide quality non-discriminatory healthcare to the underserved. Although we are a private tertiary hospital, we take our responsibility as a duty bearer on the Right to Health seriously. 2018 RESULTS OF HEALTH PROGRAMS BEING IMPLEMENTED BY THE CORPORATE SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OFFICE INPATIENT SERVICES 1,564 Patients +35.2% INCREASE Served VS 2017 OUTPATIENT SERVICES 20,981 Patients +10.3% INCREASE Served VS 2017 EXTERNAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL MISSIONS 6,578 Patients +23.6% INCREASE Served VS 2017 IN-HOUSE SURGICAL PROGRAMS 250 Patients +6.8% INCREASE Served VS 2017 TOTAL: 29,373 Patients +14.1% INCREASE Served VS 2017 1 2. In support of the public health sector, Manila Doctors partnered with an expert in the industry to provide public health practitioner with capacity building training series entitled “Training for Healthcare Leaders Working in Facilities and Areas with Limited Resources.” The goal is to maximize the resources for a more efficient delivery of primary healthcare focusing on preventive rather than curative actions. The training also tackled the prioritization in terms of procurement of supplies and equipment and building an active referral network for cases needing tertiary hospital care. 3. In line with its principle of providing non-discriminatory healthcare, Manila Doctors in partnership with the Development and Accessibility Fund for the Deaf (DEAFDeaf) trained its frontliners including Doctors, Nurses, Pharmacists and Social Workers on Basic Filipino Sign Language even before the national law was promulgated. This action stemmed from our various experiences in providing medical care in far-flung areas where Deaf patients encounter so much difficulty in receiving the necessary medical intervention because of the barrier in communication. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Corporate Level 1. The management of the hospital continuously abides and upholds the five (5) year collective bargaining agreement signed between the management and the MDH Employees Association. 2. The Procurement Department uses a rights-based checklist in accrediting suppliers which clearly stipulates that should there be any case or incident of child labor in producing, preparing or handling of products by the supplier. The hospital will immediately end its contract and make the necessary report to the authorities. 3. Hiring practices of the hospital ensure equal opportunity for all genders and age. 2 Country Level 1. The Dietary Department of the hospital deliberately procures from small farmers and producers to help them grow their business with the long-term goal that they would be able to hire more people and provide better benefits for their employees. 2. Manila Doctors continues to work with various non-profit organizations in championing the Rights of the Child through various campaigns. Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Corporate Level 1. Manila Doctors saves 6.27 cubic meter of water per month through the Reverse Osmosis (R.O.) Filter Backwash which recycles water utilized for the lavatories, biodiversity area inside the hospital, and the cleaning of air-conditioning units and hospital vicinity. 2. Food containers and utensils used inside the hospital are made of cornstarch biocompostable which is durable and at the same time easily soluble when soaked in hot water using the required temperature. 3. Manila Doctors utilizes variable refrigerant flow, saving 46.5% on power bills. The entire hospital complex composed of three (3) buildings uses refrigerant 134A which has insignificant ozone depletion and lower global warming potential. Country Level: Coming together for the Last Lung of Manila. In 2014, Manila Doctors Hospital (MDH) adopted the tree park as part of its Corporate Social Responsibility efforts for the environment under its Green Rebellion program. MDH sought the help of experts from the University of the Philippines Los Baños College of Forestry and Natural Resources-Department of Forest Biological Sciences in conducting a tree inventory. The findings confirmed the palpable need to protect and preserve this last bastion of nature in the city. Data show that there are 1,567 Trees. 217 species are endangered, 12 are endemic (can only be found in the Philippines), 16 is currently classified as threatened, 22 exotic/introduced species and 47 native species (can only be found in Southeast Asia). The parameters of the inventory included all types of species 3 except those that are less than 10 centimeters in diameter. The Wild Bird Club of the Philippines on the other hand documented at least 27 bird species both resident and migratory inside the park like Zebra Dove, Whiskered Tern, Coppersmith Barbeth, Brown Shrike, etc. Butterflies and fireflies can also be found inside Arroceros. MDH initially partnered with Winner Foundation, the original proponent who transformed Arroceros into what it is today for the upkeep and preservation of the park, then sister companies of the hospital like Metrobank, PSBank and AXA Philippines also got involved. However, in 2017 the Local Government of Manila issued a letter ordering the Winner Foundation to vacate Arroceros (Winner Foundation has a permanent personnel inside). It was divulged that that the local government was planning to build a basketball court inside the property which would result into the obliteration of trees and its biodiversity. To strengthen the campaign to preserve and protect the tree park, MDH engaged various stakeholders like Earth Island Philippines, NILAD Environmental Network, Center for Energy, Ecology and Development, Philippine Native Plants Conservation Society, De Torres Law Office, various bike clubs and the South Manila Educational Consortium. Thousands signed both the paper and online petition to #SaveArroceros. For the past 4 years, MDH is able to work with hundreds of volunteers for clean-up drives, adopting specific zones, conducting special activities for children recovering from abuse, alternative place for children with cancer to enjoy storytelling sessions, lectures for young adults, medical missions for Deaf communities, bird watching, guided walk tours and promoting arts and environment friendly products. The campaign has been featured several times in various news and documentary programs and publications. The support that it is currently gaining is a testament that developing and preserving open and green spaces is a necessity especially in a highly urbanized city. Why it matters. According to the United Nations data, Manila is one of the world’s densest cities, with 14,500 people per square kilometer almost triple London’s level. Manila for the past 5 years consistently ranked between 104th to 105th out of 140 cities assessed by Economist Intelligence Unit using the Global Livability Index. The report used 30 qualitative and quantitative factors across five broad categories: (1) stability, (2) healthcare, (3) culture and environment, (4) education and (5) infrastructure. Each factor is rated as acceptable, tolerable, uncomfortable, undesirable and intolerable. An article entitled “Human Benefits of Green Spaces” stated that the presence of green spaces in urban areas have physical, mental and social benefits. The abundance of plants, especially trees produce more oxygen which makes the surrounding cooler than those places with less or no trees. Studies have shown that interaction with the environment 4 allows our psyche to recharge itself as nature allows involuntary attention (effortless and enjoyable awareness) of sensory stimuli be activated. Roger Ulrich in his report to the Center for Health Design entitled “The Role of the Physical Environment in the Hospital of the 21st century” highlights his findings that patients with access to nature healed 8.5% faster than those who don’t. Green spaces also boost human health by lowering blood pressure and anxiety level directly attributed to being surrounded by nature. Children with attention deficit disorder also respond better to intervention when regularly exposed to nature or green spaces. Urban green spaces also increase the involvement of the community in public affairs. Given that it is open to the public, different types of people from different places can have a place to interact and hold their festivities and other social events. It abolishes the boundary between rich and poor. The existence of urban green spaces like Arroceros Tree Park allows urbanization, environmental awareness, social equality, and community development to co-exist harmoniously. The campaign to #SaveArroceros is in accordance with the Philippines Republic Act 5752, a national law that mandates cities and municipalities to establish forests, tree parks, or watersheds within public land owned by each municipality and city with an aggregate size equivalent to at least 2% of its entire area. To know more about the campaign, please visit https://www.facebook.com/TheGreenRebellion/. Protecting this beleaguered environment gem is not just for the current residents but a responsibility for the future inhabitants of the city. This undertaking is partly funded by the recyclables program of Manila Doctors Hospital led by its Environment and Waste Management Committee. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Corporate Level: Manila Doctors Hospital Committee on Purchases, Investments and Contracts (COPIC) The general function of COPIC is to ensure that proper review, discussion and analyses are performed by the Committee for all requests of major fixed assets and contract proposals with investment valued at Php250,000.00 ($4,900.00) and above per transaction prior to final review and approval of the Management Committee (MANCOM) and Executive Committee (EXCOM). 5 SPECIFIC FUNCTIONS INCLUDE: 1. Service a. Apply principles of efficient and effective procurement management through collaboration across all divisions, management and strategic business partners to achieve optimum value investment. b. Facilitate purchase of state-of-the art equipment, useful materials or effective substitutes to help the hospital in streamlining expenses. c. Oversee all major capital expenditures and major contracts of the Hospital. d. Enhance and monitor on regular interval the supplier and department commitments to ensure constant fulfillment. 2. Training a. Orient the department to monitor constantly patient census, doctor’s utilization, supplier and equipment performance. 3. Research a. Conduct research on the latest technology, item cost-effectiveness and cost-benefit analyses, benchmarking and supplier demographics. 4. Corporate Social Responsibility a. To ensure compliance to all relevant standards of ISO9001:2015, Philippine Health Insurance Corporation (PhilHealth), Accreditation Canada International (ACI), and the United Nations Global Compact-Principle 10. b. To protect the stakeholder’s interest and encourage ethical business practices Country Level Manila Doctors Hospital shares its practice of integrative values with our CSR Program partners with specific focus on resource utilization transparency and sustainability. At the moment, MDH CSR is working with eighty two partners (82) nationwide for its programs on Health, Environment and Gender. 6
