United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Year: 2019 Commitment Statement by Chief Executive Officer: August 1, 2019 H.E. António Guterres Secretary General United Nations New York, NY 10017 Dear Sir, I am pleased to confirm that Gulftainer Company Limited wishes to reaffirm its commitment to the Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anticorruption. We commit to making the Global Compact and its principles part of the strategy, culture and day to day operations of our company and undertake to make a clear statement of this commitment to our employers, shareholders, partners, suppliers, customers and other stakeholders. As founder members of the Pearl Initiative, we actively support public accountability and transparency within organisations. I hereby submit our Communication on Progress Report that encompasses the following: 1. A description of practical actions taken/ planned in future to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas (human rights, labour, environment, anti-corruption). 2. Measure of outcomes – COP submission includes our intended metrics to measure the progress of the actions outlined in the section above (i.e., the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met/ will meet in the future, or other qualitative or quantitative measurement of results). We are also pleased to confirm that Gulftainer’s name may be mentioned as a signatory on the UN Global Compact’s Call to Action website. Sincerely yours, Peter Richards Group Chief Executive Officer United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Year: 2019 Gulftainer Global Compact Report for UN Communication on Progress (COP) Issue. Issue Area Policy Actions Measureable Outcomes No. Following actions have been taken at Gulftainer's head office and terminal sites: Reference :-Pearl • Strict safety standards are strongly enforced in our site locations and head Initiative Middle East and office. • Not only are policies constantly reviewed and refreshed, but also strictly British Safety Standards. • Fully dedicated team of safety experts work in tandem to ensure safety tracked and measured consistently. 1 Human Rights Gulftainer's policies measures to our employees, customers and other stakeholders. • We have also won several reputed safety awards such as ROSPA to reflect its long standing further attest to our commitment commitment to human rights compliance • We are in the process of designing a measuring system to quantify • Labour policies are strictly followed as per the rule of the country. employee’s perception of comfort within the organization. • In addition to that, we also encourage an atmosphere of open dialogue and Reference :UAE Labour 2 Labour conversation between the management and employees. • Additionally, also keeping tracking of employee expressions (Number Law • Monthly events are organized to facilitate top-down and bottom-up of likes, posts etc.) via Yammer our internal social media equivalent and communication within the hierarchies. encouraging open dialogues within the platform via various contests. • Gulftainer's CSR stands on the three pillars of 1)Environment 2) Education and 3) Health and Safety. • We have partnered with Emirates Wildlife Society to consistently update our • Perform environmental audits with the assistance of Emirates Wildlife corporate strategy on environmental compliance. Society. Reference:Emirates • Additionally, we have also initiated a series of environmental friendly 3 Environmental Stewardship Wildlife Society internal policies on water usage reduction, efficient power consumption and • Measure water and power usage from utility bills. membership and Bee'A aim towards a paperless office. • In the future, with a proposed tie up with Emirates Wildlife Society, we intend • Measure paper and print usage from stationary departments. to form a Green team comprised of environmental passionate people to enforce our commitment to environment further • Monthly screening for any obvious cases of corruption Reference :UAE labour Apart from the strongly emphasized national policy, we also have in place a • Setting strong precedents for repercussion on any occurrence of 4 Anti Corruption law and internal antistrictly enforced internal anti-corruption policy from 2010. corruption in order to prevent any incidents in the future. corruption policy United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress Year: 2019 MEASUREMENT ACTION PLAN Consideration Step Step Actions Information /Preperation No. Responsible / Support People Deadline Actions and future plans Required Period Covered by 1 15th August 201815th August 2019 COP Statement of 1st August 2 Continued support by Prepare a draft and get it approved by CEO Gulftainer Communications Team Approval from CEO 2019 CEO 3 Description of Actions Continue with the current policies and work towards more effective Gulftainer Communications Team and Human Rights implementation QHSE team Monthly reports to be generated by concerned departments to ensure open Labour Gulftainer HR Team Continue with this year's dialogue and a platform to raise concerns process. Follow up on 28th July Continue with steps towards achieving a paperless office, water reduction Gulftainer Communications team, actionables such as planned Environment 2019 trainings, complaint box and power usage reduction Green team and QHSE team management and tracking Introduce employee trainings to refresh anti-corruption policies. Plan the measures on each category. trainings every quarter. Register and track the success of the training. Install Anti-Corruption complaint boxes. Track, measure and record the types and frequency of QHSE Team complaints. Monitor continuously for improvement and aim torwards zero complaints. 4 Measure Strategy for the above policies Gulftainer Communications Team, HR Compile data and revise/ Human Rights Register, track and record complaint frequency and type Team and QHSE team enhance policies accordingly Register the number of meetings and discussions conducted to address Compile data and enforce Labour Througho employee concerns raised within the limitations of UAE Labour law with a Gulftainer HR Team strong adherence ut the year strong aim to avoid any concerns in the future. until next Environment submissio Measure water and power usage from utility bills. Measure paper and print Gulftainer Stationary and Monthly tracking of bills n usage from stationary departments. Administration Departments Measure and record employees attending refresher training and complaint boxes. Enforcing maximum coverage of policies throughout the Constant review of complaint Anti-Corruption Gulftainer QHSE organizaiton. Testing of employee awareness through surprise quizes and boxes. rectifying knowledge gaps. Collect and compile information into a single document HR, QHSE, Administration Summary of all activities Communications department to brand it and design it Communications Measurement of outcomes Prepare and present Statement of continued support 5 30/08/19 Submit to CEO for review and approval CEO COP by CEO Publish the approved document in the website Communications Submit COP at UNGC webpage Communications
