Bolstering Growth through Financial Inclusivity LANDBANK 2016-2017 Sustainability Report 2 Contents Vision and Mission Statement 3 Foreword4 About LANDBANK 6 LANDBANK Presence 8 About the Report 10 Stakeholder Engagement & Material Topics 12 Financial Highlights 19 Corporate Governance 21 Risk Management & Business Continuity 22 Ethics and Conduct 24 Procurement Practices 26 Compliance27 Audit28 Grievance Machinery 29 Sustainability Cornerstones 30 ABOUT THE COVER Enterprise Development 32 Community Development 40 The cover represents LANDBANK’s sustainability cornerstones, namely Environmental Protection and Management 52 Enterprise Development, Community Development, Environmental Customer Service 66 Protection and Management, Employee Development and Customer Employee development 74 Service. These cornerstones are deeply ingrained in the Bank’s values and CSR Steering Committee as of December 2017 88 efforts to bolster growth through financial inclusivity. CSR Technical Working Group 90 CSR TWG Alternate Members 92 Appendix93 GRI Content Index (CORE) 94 The cover of LANDBANK 2016-17 MIX ™ GRI Content Index (CORE) 96 Sustainability Report is printed on 9lives Paper from Recycled Silk 55% Recycled 300gsm. GRI Content Index (CORE) 98 responsible sources FSC® CXXXXX made carbon neutral The main report and loose leaf are printed on GRI Content Index (CORE) 100 9lives Offset 100% Recycled 100gsm. Topics Considered Material by Stakeholders 101 100% RECYCLED 9lives Offset paper, certified by the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC), has a carbonneutral quality and is made from 100% postconsumer waste. L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 3 Vision By 2018, LANDBANK will be the top universal bank that promotes inclusive growth and improves the quality of life especially in the countryside through the delivery of innovative financial and other services in all provinces, cities, and municipalities. Mission To Our Clients and Publics: We will use the best technology solutions to deliver responsive financial and support services to our clients, while promoting sustainable development, and environmental protection. To Our Employees: We will develop and nurture talents that will exemplify the highest standards of ethics and excellence consistent with the best in the world. 102-16 4 Foreword Message of the President and CEO When I was appointed President of LANDBANK in November 2016, my mandate positive change in communities nationwide. We remained aggressive in funding was to promote inclusive growth in rural areas through agriculture. Inclusive training and capability building programs for cooperatives of small farmers and banking has since become our overarching goal – to make the Bank’s presence fishers, agrarian reform beneficiaries, and countryside financial institutions. felt in areas where we are needed most, and make banking services accessible to underserved sectors. We also continued to engage local communities, people’s organizations, and various partners in our Corporate Social Responsibility programs that focus on four key areas: livelihood, education, environment, and disaster response. The LANDBANK 2016-2017 Sustainability Report A new program we launched is the LANDBANK VOLUNTEERific Program, (SR) is thus themed “Bolstering Growth through which promotes a culture of social awareness and volunteerism within the organization by activating employee-initiated activities that address various Financial Inclusivity” as it solidifies LANDBANK’s needs of communities across the country. commitment to promote shared and sustainable Environmental protection and management is likewise a continuing priority. growth through financial inclusion. We remain consistent in incorporating environmental management practices in all aspects of our operations, services, and decisions, while promoting This is the Bank’s first SR that uses GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, social responsibility and environmental awareness among our employees and which is the latest standard prescribed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). stakeholders. LANDBANK’s sustainability reporting journey started with the release of its 20092010 Sustainability Report and we have since then been following the standards In the area of customer service, we continued to work towards making set by GRI. In this report, we present the highlights of the years 2016 and 2017 in LANDBANK a more responsive and inclusive bank. We expanded our physical terms of LANDBANK’s economic, social, and environmental performances based presence to bring convenient banking services closer to more unserved and on our five sustainability cornerstones: Enterprise Development, Community underserved areas. As of end-2017, LANDBANK remains the only Bank present Development, Environmental Protection and Management, Customer Service, in all provinces of the country – with 379 branches and 1,777 ATMs nationwide. and Employee Development. A new program piloted in 2016 is the Financial Inclusion Caravan, a nationwide In the enterprise development front, we remained aggressive in enabling and campaign to promote financial literacy, especially in 4th to 6th class municipalities growing enterprises to make them key economic players and contributors to where there are usually very limited numbers of financial institutions – or none livelihood and employment generation. As of end-2017, the Bank’s outstanding at all. The successful pilot run in 2016 gathered close to 4,000 participants from loans to microenterprises and SMEs reached ₱89.8 Billion, making LANDBANK nine (9) 4th to 6th class municipalities, where roughly 50% of the participants the biggest contributor to the national government’s accomplishment in MSME opened savings accounts for the first time during the event. Meanwhile, the loans. second run gathered nearly 3,000 participants during the first six legs completed from September to December 2017 – with two more scheduled in early 2018. In the area of community development, we intensified our efforts towards implementing and sustaining programs that improve the quality of life and create To realize the Bank’s aggressive thrust towards financial inclusivity, growing, 102-14 LAN NDBA DBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 5 and nurturing our most important resource is of utmost priority. This is why we continue to strengthen our employee development and talent management programs across all ranks to ensure that we attract, retain, and develop competent employees fit to serve as LANDBANK’s partners for development. We continuously strive to nurture a culture of excellence and professionalism within the organization, as our employees are the driving force behind LANDBANK’s success. Alongside all these, we remained aggressive in sustaining our financial viability, which is equally important in the fulfillment of our social mandate, as our profits fuel our development initiatives. LANDBANK registered a net income of ₱15.5 Billion in 2017, which is 9.9% higher than the ₱14.10 Billion income in 2016. The Bank also registered double-digit growth in other financial indicators – with assets up to ₱1.6 Trillion from ₱1.4 Trillion in 2016; deposits at ₱1.4 Trillion from ₱1.2 Trillion; and total capital up by 22% to ₱114.0 Billion from ₱93.2 Billion in 2016. Producing the SR is important for us as we endeavor to communicate to our stakeholders the concrete steps we take towards ensuring that our programs and activities are geared towards developing enterprises, communities, the environment, our customers, and our employees. Apart from the use of the latest GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, we have also sustained the practice of incorporating External Assurance in our report, which involves the verification and validation of the performance disclosed in the SR. This is a step we voluntarily take to uphold transparency and accountability in the reporting of our sustainable development efforts. Moving forward, we at LANDBANK set our sights on doing more and achieving more to further sustainable development by working hand in hand with all our stakeholders. We are committed to continue working towards building an institution that is relevant, responsive, and an active player in helping more Filipinos and promoting inclusive and sustainable development in the countryside and the nation as a whole. ALEX V. BUENAVENTURA President and CEO 6 About LANDBANK The Land Bank of the Philippines (LANDBANK) is a Government• Agriculture and Fisheries: Agri-business, Aqua-business and AgriOwned and Controlled Corporation (GOCC) with a unique, dual role of Aqua related projects of Local Government Units (LGUs) and promoting countryside development while ensuring financial viability. Government-owned and Controlled Corporations Over the years, the Bank has successfully managed this tough balancing act while promoting sustainable development and environmental • Other National Government Priority Programs (including Publicprotection. It is the official depository of the government of the Republic Private Partnership Projects): Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises of the Philippines; and is mandated to facilitate the land valuation and (MSMEs), Communications, Transportation, Housing (socialized, compensation for landowners of agricultural property under the onlow-cost, and medium-cost), Education, Health Care, Environmentgoing Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program (CARP). related projects, Tourism, Utilities, and Livelihood Loans LANDBANK is, today, the largest formal credit institution in rural areas The Bank promotes financial inclusion through products such as: with continued expansion of its loan portfolio in favor of its mandated and priority sectors, especially the farmers and fishers as well as microenterprises and SMEs. It is also the biggest credit provider to the local government sector, financing projects in agriand aqua-infrastructure, schools and hospitals, farm-to-market roads, and other development projects. Deposit Products Loan Products Card Products Through the years, LANDBANK continued to diversify its commercial banking operations – expanding the range of its products and services to address the changing needs of its diverse clientele. In support of the Philippine Development Plan 2011-2016, LANDBANK has committed to further its thrust towards greater financial inclusion by breaking barriers and expanding its credit outreach to unbanked and E-Banking Products Investment Remittance underserved areas, especially among its priority sectors. The Bank’s Products Products priority loan sectors are classified as follows: • Mandated Sectors: Small Farmers and Fishers and their Associations, and Agrarian Reform Beneficiaries (ARBs) 102-1, 102-2, 102-5, 102-6 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 7 Scale of the Organization* Total Regular Employees Total number Net income Total & Contractual Employees of operations Capitalization 379 1,777 41 Provincial Branches ATMs Lending Centers 9 121 47 LANDBANK Easy Head Office based Number of Other 2017 9,421 ₱15.50 ₱114.02 Access Facility Lending Units Banking Units (LEAF) Billion Billion 6 Tellering 6 23 Cash Operating FX Booths Booths Units (COU) 39 93 Cash Deposit Sub-COU Machines 2016 9,194 370 1,634 ₱14.10 Billion ₱93.18 Billion Branches ATM’s 39 8 Provincial Head Office Lending Centers Based Lending Units 102-6, 102-7 * Parent as of December 2017 8 LANDBANK Presence 2 LANDBANK is the only bank present in all 81 provinces of the country. Its extensive network reaches out across the Philippines, continuously expanding year on year. As of end-2017, the Bank has a total of 379 branches, 1,777 ATMs, 41 Provincial Lending Centers, and 9 Head Office-based lending units. Apart from its branch network, the Bank also 2 operates 6 tellering booths and 6 foreign exchange booths to provide 9 additional banking services. 3 5 In 2017, the Bank continued to have strong correspondent banking relationships with 721 foreign banks and maintained deposit accounts 4 5 with 25 top-tier banks in 13 countries. It likewise nurtured partnerships with 155 foreign and local companies specializing in the remittance and overseas manpower deployment businesses. 7 1 8 New Branches: 1 3 2017 2016 9 1 Caticlan EO (Aklan) 1 PEZA Taguig (Taguig City) 6 8 2 San Nicolas EO (Ilocos Norte) 2 Tagudin EO (Ilocos Sur) 6 3 Binalonan EO (Pangasinan) 3 Allen EO (Northern Samar) 7 4 Koronadal EO (South Cotabato) 4 Palayan City EO (Nueva Ecija) 5 San Ildefonso EO (Bulacan) 5 Mangaldan EO (Pangasinan) 6 Balamban EO (Cebu) 6 Silay EO (Negros Occidental) 7 Lopez EO (Quezon) 7 Consolacion EO (Cebu) 8 Hilongos Branch (Leyte) 8 Nagcarlan EO (Laguna) 9 Estancia EO (Iloilo) 9 San Mateo Isabela EO (Isabela) 4 102-4,102-6, 102-7 Association of Association of Development Financing Asia-Pacific Rural Government L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 9 and Agricultural Institutions in Asia and Accountants Credit Association the Pacific of the Philippines External Charters/Initiatives Membership of Associations Bankers Institute of Bankers Association the Philippines of the Philippines Aboutthe About theLAnd bAnkof LAndbAnk ofthe thePhiLiPPines PhiLiPPines LANDBANK 2014-15 Sustainability Report Government About the the LAnd of the bAnk of LAnd bAnk the PhiLiPPines PhiLiPPines Association of Corporations 10 About Government Internal Auditors, Inc. Athletic Association Trust Officers Philippine ExternalCharters External Chartersand andInitiatives Initiatives MembershipAssociations Membership Associations Association of the Marketing Philippines Association External Charters and Initiatives Membership Associations External Charters and Initiatives Membership Associations Associationofof Association Association Public Relations Associationofof Association of Asia-Pacific Rural Government Asia-PacificRural Society of the DevelopmentFinancing Development Financing Government Government Government Internal and Agricultural Corporations andAgricultural Philippines InstitutionsininAsia Institutions Asiaand and Accountants Accountants Auditors, Inc. Credit Association Athletic CreditAssociation thePacific the Pacific ofofthe thePhilippines Philippines About the Land Bank of the Philippines Association G4-15, G4-16 Association of Association of Association of Financing Asia-Pacific Rural Association Development Asia-Pacific Rural Governmentof Development and Agricultural Institutions in Financing Asia and and Agricultural Government Accountants Institutions Credit Association the Pacific in Asia and Credit Association Accountants of the Philippines 11 the Pacific of the Philippines People Public Relations Management Bankers Instituteofof BankersInstitute BankersAssociation Bankers Association Society of the Association of the the Philippines thePhilippines ofofthe thePhilippines Philippines Philippines Philippines About the Land Bank of the Philippines LANDBANK 2014-15 Sustainability Report Bankers Institute of Bankers Association Bankers Institute of the Philippines Bankers Association of the Philippines LANDBANK 2014-15 Sustainability Report the Philippines of the Philippines 11 10 10 LANDBANK 2014-15 2014-15 Sustainability LANDBANK Report Sustainability Report People G4-16 Management TrustOfficers Trust Officers Philippine Philippine Association of the Associationofofthe Association the Marketing Marketing 1010 Philippines Philippines Philippines Association Association Trust Officers Philippine Trust Officersof the Association Philippine Marketing Association Philippines of the Marketing Association Philippines Association G4-16 G4-15,G4-16 G4-15, G4-16 G4-15, G4-16 G4-15, G4-16 102-12, 102-13 10 About the Report With the theme “Bolstering Growth through Financial Inclusivity,” Since 2009, LANDBANK has been guided by the Global Reporting this Sustainability Report (SR) highlights how LANDBANK is strongly Initiative (GRI) reporting process that has provided the Bank with committed to promoting and nurturing financial inclusivity in the a platform to assess its sustainability performance through inputs Philippines. Understanding that financial inclusion is fundamental to any from both internal and external stakeholders. This LANDBANK 2016nation’s sustainable growth. LANDBANK has been relentlessly putting 17 Sustainability Report is the Bank’s sixth SR. This report has been together various initiatives to empower and enable individuals and small prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: Core option. This report businesses to have access to relevant and affordable financial products also includes information covering the Financial Services-Specific and services. With inclusive banking, LANDBANK envisions the needs Disclosures required for financial institutions. The last SR issued by of its stakeholders delivered in a responsible and sustainable manner, the Bank is its 2014-2015 Sustainability Report, entitled “Enhancing covering environmental, economic and social growth pillars. Financial Partnerships, Enriching Lives.” The Bank reports its sustainability inclusion thus forms a major part of its strategic thrusts as it looks to performance every two years. break across all boundaries and barriers in order to reach out to more Filipinos in various regions across the country. This report discloses LANDBANK’s activities that are material to its stakeholders, which consist of Bank clients, employees and service company workers deployed in the Bank, government agencies, communities, business partners, industry organizations, and service 2011 Standard Used: G3 GRI Application Level: 2013 Level B (self-declared) Standard Used: G3.1 GRI Application Level: Level A (self-declared) 2009-2010 2012 Standard Used: G3 Standard Used: GRI Application Level: G3 Level C (self-declared) GRI Application Level: Level A (self-declared) 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 11 firms. LANDBANK understands the value behind stakeholder inputs, and Men and Diversity and Equal Opportunity were not identified by the has thus incorporated their feedback in developing this sustainability stakeholders as material for this reporting year (as the disclosures report. These stakeholders were determined based on discussions by were already included in the previous reporting period and have been the Bank’s Corporate Social Responsibility Technical Working Group continually addressed since), these information were still included in the (CSR TWG), and was finalized during the Stakeholder Identification report. Workshop. The 2016-2017 Sustainability Report discloses information that Compared to the previous reporting period (2014-2015), changes were represents the areas where LANDBANK has operational control and noted in the list of material topics and topic boundaries in this report. social involvement. The scope covers the Bank’s national operations Specifically, the additional topics deemed important by stakeholders during this period. There are no major restatements for the current include the Employee Development Cornerstone (Ethical Operations report, and all the relevant data parameters have been updated. For and Management), and Environmental Protection Cornerstone questions and/or concerns about this report, you may contact: (Financial Risks due to Climate Change and Biodiversity). Disclosures such as Stakeholder Mapping and Engagement, Financial Inclusion and Corporate Affairs Department Provision of Loans were also added to the list. Although Environmental 32/F LANDBANK Plaza,1598 MH del Pilar cor. Dr. J. Quintos Sts. Malate, Expenditures and Investments, Equal Remuneration for Women and Manila (02) 522-0000 local 7374 / 405-7374 2016-2017 Standard Used: GRI Standards Undergone Materiality Disclosure Service* 2014-2015 Standard Used: G4 Externally Assured * 2016-2017 SR was reviewed by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 102-3, 102-48, 102-49, 102-50, 102-51, 102-52, 102-53, 102-54 For more information on the scope of the service, please refer to the GRI website at https://www.globalreporting.org. 12 Stakeholder Engagement & Material Topics In pursuit of its thrust towards inclusive growth that covers all LANDBANK identifies its key stakeholders through a detailed analysis, components of environmental, economic and social targets, the Bank identifying those who are highly influenced by and those who highly has incorporated sustainability as a vital part of its Governance strategy. influence LANDBANK to ensure inclusivity and completeness, thus The Bank’s Corporate Social Responsibility Technical Working Group ensuring a balance of interests in its approach. (CSR TWG) reviews and identifies sustainability indicators applicable to the Bank, and proposes to the Management Committee (MANCOM)/ For purposes of the SR preparation, stakeholders were clustered and CSR Steering Committee the important environmental, social, and group discussions, one-on-one meetings, open dialogues, candid economic aspects that the Bank must focus on. discussions, and surveys were conducted to identify key issues, to which the Bank can offer solutions. For the 2016-2017 SR, LANDBANK The topics are presented before each of the concerned departments who has engaged with the following groups: are responsible for documenting these aspects and present to MANCOM the indicators identified to have significant impact on the Bank. CSR Technical Working Group The CSR TWG is in charge of preparing LANDBANK’s Sustainability Report (SR). It reviews, identifies and finalizes the relevant sustainability indicators that LANDBANK must include for the reporting period. Through periodic meetings and analysis of internal and external stakeholder inputs, the TWG discusses the contents of the SR and monitors the preparation of the report before it is officially published. Results from the Materiality Workshop and Stakeholder Engagement Sessions, based on the GRI reporting framework, help the CSR TWG determine the topics most relevant to stakeholders during the reporting period. Stakeholder Engagement LANDBANK’s stakeholder engagement strategy involves soliciting feedback to understand specific concerns and expectations across various groups to holistically build its business development strategy. This covers the full range of efforts to understand and involve the Bank’s stakeholders in the activities and decisions of the organization. 102-19, 102-20, 102-21, 102-29, 102-30, 102-31, 102-32, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 13 Stakeholder Groups Internal Stakeholders Individuals directly working under LANDBANK, directly impacted by LANDBANK’s activities. LANDBANK Officers and Employees External Stakeholders Individuals/Groups/Organizations that may not be working under LANDBANK, but are impacted by LANDBANK’s business performance, LANDBANK’s activities, work with LANDBANK, or have regulatory authority over LANDBANK. LANDBANK Clients (Government Agencies, LGUs,Retail Bank Clients, and Cooperatives), LANDBANK Subsidiaries, Regulatory Bodies, Partners, CSR Beneficiaries and Suppliers 102-21, 102-40, 102-42, 102-43 14 Stakeholder Management Plan Stakeholder Engagement Internal External LANDBANK Subsidiaries: LBP Insurance Brokerage, Inc. (LIBI), LANDBANK Countryside Development LANDBANK Officers Clients (Government Agencies, LGUs, Foundation, Inc. (LCDFI), LBP Leasing Stakeholder Group and Employees Retail Bank Clients, and Cooperatives) and Finance Corporation (LLC), LBP Resources and Development Corporation (LBRDC), Masaganang Sakahan, Inc. (MSI) Type of consultation meetings, notices, mails, trainings satisfaction surveys, funding, consultation meetings Engagement and consultation meetings loan provision, capacity building Frequency of continuous need-based need-based Engagement interactions interactions HR Policy, grievance machinery system to product and service Response to note employee concerns, development/provision, need-based trainings, promotions, provision Concerns of safe working conditions, client data protection, assistance customer service employee benefits or compensation packages 102-43, 102-44 L A N DBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 15 Regulatory Bodies Partners CSR Beneficiaries Suppliers compliance to financial statements, applications, policies, annual reporting, contracts field visits regulations, laws and shareholder/investor (eg. Memorandum and interactions mandates, consultation meetings meetings, consultation meetings, of Agreement) with regulatory bodies contractual agreements need-based need-based need-based continuous interactions interactions interactions annual reporting, compliance with financial statements, regulatory standards, community development disclosures, government corporate governance to include support to livelihood, sustainability reporting, regulations, structure, ethical education, capacity building, risk management and ethical business practices, disaster response and donations business continuity procurement performing as per to relevant advocacies strategies, ethical mandates business practices 102-43, 102-44 16 The stakeholder engagement sessions were done across the Philippines The key topics raised per group are the following: – specifically in NCR, Davao City, Cebu City, and Lipa City, consistent with GRI Standards and guided by the Accountability Stakeholder Stakeholder Group Key Concerns Engagement Standard (AA1000SES). The sessions were conducted Bank Clients (Retail, Anti-Corruption, Compliance with laws in order to identify the issues of high importance, or issues that were LGU, Government and regulations, Customer Privacy, “material” for the Bank to report on, according to various stakeholder Agencies and Security Practices, Loan Policies and groups. A series of consultations was done through surveys and focus Cooperatives) Interest Rates group discussions. First, a quantitative approach was used by means of a questionnaire that encompasses various environmental, social, Biodiversity, Environmental Compliance, and economic parameters. Second, focus group discussions were CSR Beneficiaries and Financial Inclusion, Local Community conducted, where participants were grouped according to stakeholder People’s Organizations Development, Countryside Project type. Each group had to select key sustainability topics that they deem Development material for LANDBANK. The discussions brought to for possible issues LANDBANK Procurement Practices, Training, that they considered to be material, but were not included in the survey Rank-and-File Hiring and Compensation, Benefits, questionnaire. Different stakeholder groups were involved in this activity Employees Occupational Health and Safety to ensure holistic feedback across various segments. Market Presence, Promotions, Training, LANDBANK Officers Compensation and Benefits The common concerns established across the Stakeholder Groups were: LANDBANK Anti-Competitive Behavior, Market • LANDBANK’s Financial and Economic Performance Subsidiaries Presence • Access to Financial Services • Risk Identification and Management The concerns of the stakeholders were echoed to relevant departments • Business Continuity and Disaster Management in the CSR TWG for awareness and possible action, if needed. • Ethical Operations and Management 102-43, 102-44 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 17 Material Topics LANDBANK places utmost importance on stakeholder inputs in building its development strategy. Materiality is the process that helps LANDBANK determine the environmental, social, and economic issues or topics that are sufficiently important to disclose, in view of both its internal and external stakeholders’ concerns and issues. It also helps in determining the boundary of each material topic (internal or external). Through materiality, LANDBANK determines the key focus points that it needs to concentrate on which helps define the report content for the SR. The materiality assessment exercise was conducted during the Sustainability Reporting Orientation Training of the CSR TWG. Twenty members of the CSR TWG were asked to rate the GRI environment, social and economic topics that they consider most crucial for LANDBANK to focus on. A one-on-one discussion was also conducted with representatives from different department-members of the CSR TWG to determine the final list and boundary of each material topic, based on the Bank’s influence on each topic and relevance to the Bank’s sustainability agenda. A combination of external stakeholder inputs and internal CSR TWG inputs was done to determine the final material topics to ensure stakeholder inclusiveness and completeness of data. The results of these exercises were successful in generating a comprehensive list of topics for the Bank’s Sustainability Report which covers both GRI (General Disclosures, Economic, Social, Environment) and Non-GRI topics. 102-46, 102-47 18 Material Topics Identified by Stakeholders GENERAL EMPLOYEE DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY • Anti-corruption • Employment-BenefitsDEVELOPMENT • Compliance Compensation • Community Engagement• Employee Training and Capacity-Building and • Corporate Governance Education CSR Programs • Risks, Impacts, Opportunities and Business Continuity • Ethical Operations and Management • Labor Management Relations/ Collective Bargaining Agreements • Occupational Health and Safety ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT ENVIRONMENTAL STAKEHOLDER RELATIONS • Annual reporting, Economic PROTECTION • Customer Health and Performance • Biodiversity Safety • Audit • Energy consumption within • Customer Privacy • Market Presence the organization • Financial Assistance to LGUs • Procurement Practices • Financial risks related to • Financial inclusion climate change • Loan Policies; Interest Rates • GHG emissions • Marketing and Communications• Sustainable programs/ Customer Satisfaction products environment, Surveys, Information and LEGEND climate change, communities Communication Stakeholder Type / Boundary: • Online and Mobile Banking Software • Waste Management Development Internal External • Water consumption within the • Stakeholder Mapping and organization Engagement 102-44, 102-46, 102-47 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 19 Financial Highlights LANDBANK understands the importance of ensuring strong economic Financial Highlights of LANDBANK: performance as the profits derived from its commercial banking Parent Company (in Billions Php) operations are used to finance its developmental programs and initiatives. This dual role makes the Bank unique and also serve as the Financial Parameter 2017 2016 anchors of its three major business goals: Pursuit of Mandate, Customer Service, and Institutional Viability. ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED Gross Revenues 54.10 47.42 The direct economic value generated and distributed is reported through financial statements in the Bank’s Annual Report, including financial ECONOMIC VALUE DISTRIBUTED position, comprehensive income, changes in capital funds and cash Operating Costs* 27.34 22.51 flows. Business units submit their respective financial performance to the Employee LANDBANK Head Office through the Financial Accounting Department Compensation and 11.27 8.67 which generates the consolidated report. For regulatory purposes, the Fringe Benefits financial statements are also submitted to the Commission on Audit (COA) and the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP), while the summary Dividends Paid to 1.96** Exempted of operational costs is submitted to the Department of Budget and National Government Management (DBM). Financial Statements are also regularly posted Taxes and Licenses 3.10 2.73 on the website in the Bank’s Transparency Seal as required by the Governance Commission for GOCCs (GCG). Donations/ Contributions to LANDBANK’s finances are guided by local and national level regulations, Charitable 0.10 0.07 internal policies, as well as international banking standards. The Organizations Strategic Planning Group is responsible for aggregating operational (community highlights as reported by various operational units and indicated in the investments) annual reports. * Inclusive of Employee Compensation and Fringe Benefits ** Cash dividend to be remitted to the National Government in July 2019 201-1, 201-4 20 The following information are included in LANDBANK’s consolidated financial statements, which include comprehensive income for the parent and the group: • Interest Income Loans, investments, due from Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas, deposit in banks • Interest Expense Deposit liabilities, unsecured subordinated debt, borrowed funds • Net Interest Income • Provision for Credit Losses • Net interest income after provision for credit losses • Other Operating Income Gain from sale/redemption/reclass of on trading of financial assets and liabilities, foreign exchange gains from revaluation, dividends, fees and commission, gain from dealings in foreign currency, miscellaneous-net • Other Operating Expenses Compensation and fringe benefits, loss on financial assets and liabilities held for trading, taxes and licenses, depreciation and amortization, rent, miscellaneous expenses • Income Before Tax • Provision for Income Tax • Net Income • Other Comprehensive Income (Net unrealized losses on securities available for sale) For a more in-depth discussion of LANDBANK’s 2016 and 2017 financial highlights and subsidiaries, you may access the LANDBANK 2016 and 2017 Annual Report at www.landbank.com. 102-45 L A NDBA N DBA NK N K 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 21 Corporate Governance In LANDBANK, a solid corporate governance is vital to its sustainability and with applicable laws, rules and regulations, internal policies and procedures, longevity. Hence, the Bank is guided by a strong governance framework with with the required skill, care, prudence, and diligence in the management and a corporate structure that is aligned with its longand short-term institutional administration of fiduciary assets. goals and objectives, particularly in its thrust of promoting inclusive growth. LANDBANK’s governance framework is also anchored on its corporate values The Corporate Governance Committee oversees matters pertaining to the which are upheld on all fronts in the conduct of its core operations. organizational structure of the Bank, its selection and promotion of officers, periodic performance evaluation of the Board, its committees and the executive In championing good corporate governance, the Bank strongly adheres to ethical management, and annual self-evaluation of its performance. Apart from these, standards and maintains its accountability to its various stakeholders. It also the committee also studies and recommends policies to ensure appropriate goes beyond complying with legal, institutional and regulatory requirements, and effective management through organizational and procedural controls and and aims to be at par with internationally accepted governance principles and independent audit mechanisms. It also acts as the oversight committee for the best practices. Bank’s implementation of the Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP). Governance Structure The Investment and Loan Committee evaluates and recommends to the Board LANDBANK follows a governance hierarchy that is led from the top by the Board for consideration and approval investments and loans; and recommends of Directors chaired by the Secretary of the Department of Finance. The Board investment and credit policies and guidelines that define the structure, eligible of Directors functions distinctly and harmoniously through six Committees with investments and management of investment portfolios. oversight responsibilities. These Board-level Committees are: the Audit and Compliance Committee (Audit Com), Risk Oversight Committee (Risk Com), The Agri-Agra Social Concerns Committee formulates non-credit policies to Trust Committee (Trust Com), Corporate Governance Committee (CG Com), improve the delivery of services on CARP and other agri-agra matters; serves as Investment and Loans Committee (ILC), and the Agri-Agra Social Concerns clearing house for CARP-related non-credit programs of the Bank; and monitors Committee. the status of implementation of the Banks various non-credit agri-agra and social concerns programs. The Audit and Compliance Committee assists the Board of Directors in fulfilling its oversight responsibilities over the Bank’s financial reporting policies, practices and control, internal and external audit functions, and compliance functions. The Risk Oversight Committee fulfills statutory, fiduciary, and regulatory services of the Bank. It assists the Board in identifying, defining, and assessing risks at all levels of the Bank, and ensures the alignment of risk objectives with overall business strategies and performance goals. The committee is also in charge of developing a continuing education program to enhance its members’ understanding of relevant issues pertaining to the banking industry. The Trust Committee serves as the oversight committee on the fiduciary activities of the trust business, and ensures that these are conducted in accordance 102-18, 102-22, 102-23, 102-24, 102-28 22 Risk Management & Business Continuity LANDBANK has established a business culture that drives the Risk Management Group (RMG) is the central repository of BCPs of importance of a robust risk management and business continuity all Business Units. All LANDBANK business sites nationwide were program in achieving its sustainability goals. This is reflected in its mapped against the Philippine Institute of Volcanology and Seismology strategies in all levels of operation. (PHIVOLCS) and Mines and Geosciences Bureau’s geo-hazard maps to determine risks vulnerabilities from natural disasters. Through this, It has put in place an effective Business Continuity Management LANDBANK is able to craft appropriate emergency preparedness and Program that maps out the Bank’s recovery strategies in the event of risk response strategies for possible risks that may arise. or disaster. All business units of LANDBANK have a Business Continuity Plan (BCP) that is periodically reviewed and updated. A Recovery Time The Bank has an updated and effective BCP which is being tested Objective (RTO) is also set for all critical systems and functions of regularly. This was observed in recent risk events which affected the Bank which outlines the timeline to get back to active operation the Bank’s operations. During the Marawi siege in May 2017, the after disaster strikes. The RTO is approved by the LANDBANK Board/ preparedness and vigilance of personnel were manifested when Risk Oversight Committee, the Management Committee, and the IT they were trapped inside the branch. With available food supply and Committee. There also exists a Maximum Tolerable Period of Disruption emergency kits, coupled with survival strategies and awareness of (MTPOD) within which an activity or function needs to be resumed. emergency exit routes, branch personnel managed to escape to safety. LANDBANK Marawi’s alternate branch in Iligan City was immediately BSP mandates conduct of a Business Continuity Risk Assessment activated to continue servicing its clients. and Business Impact Analysis as part of the comprehensive Business Continuity Management (BCM) process. The Bank’s BCM provides a Regular awareness training on emergency preparedness and business comprehensive framework for building organizational resilience that is continuity are also being conducted for all Bank personnel to promote a effective, annually reviewed and periodically tested. LANDBANK’s BCP business continuity culture across the organization. details the orderly and expeditious process of recovery, resumption and restoration of business functions in the event of disruptions. The Bank employs a variety of BCP testing mechanism to ensure that the BCPs are accurate, relevant and operable. LANDBANK’s Business Continuity Management Framework and General Policy complies with the requirements of BSP Circular 951, series of 2017 or the Guidelines of Business Continuity Management, and it is also aligned with the International Standards on BCM (ISO 22301:2012). 102-29, 102-30, 102-31, 102-32 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 23 Some of the Major Awards Received 2017 Key Impacts on Sustainability and Effect on Stakeholders Employer of the Year Award BAIPHIL Best CSR BSP Stakeholders Awards – LANDBANK’s core operations in 2016 and 2017 were marked by a solid Asian Banking & Finance Retail Banking Awards 2017 for Gawad Patnubay BAIPHIL Outstanding CSF Lending Bank Gold Hall of Fame performance underscoring yet again its dominance as a catalyst for Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas countryside growth. Amidst political changes and other external factors, the Bank remained steadfast, raising the bar higher in its delivery of 2016 much-needed products and services to its mandated and priority sectors. Its financing support to small farmers, fishers, and other priority sectors accounted for 90.1% share to total loan portfolio, which by far is the largest share attained by the Bank. Innovative product delivery was another priority in 2016, hence the Banks’ aggressive move to expand its presence through its network of branches, extension offices, other banking offices, and Automated Teller Machines (ATMs). This is in line with its thrust to bring formal banking International Finance Magazine International Finance Magazine Best Agribusiness services closer to the unbanked and unserved communities in the rural Awards –Most Socially Responsible Bank Philippines Awards – Most Innovative Lending Platform Award Bank Philippines Global Banking areas, and to make banking more inclusive and accessible to all sectors. Award International Finance Magazine and Finance Review International Finance Magazine Sustaining its financial viability was given an equal priority, and this For a complete list of all the awards received by the Bank, you are invited to contributed to the retention of the Bank’s rank as the country’s top four access the 2016 and 2017 Annual Report through www.landbank.com. commercial bank in terms of assets, deposits and loans.In the years 2016 and 2017, LANDBANK was able to garner a number of notable awards and recognitions both locally and globally. These recognitions are a validation of the Bank’s commitment to bring the LANDBANK brand of service excellence across all stakeholders. 102-15, 102-29, 102-30,102-31,102-32 24 Ethics and Conduct As a financial institution built upon the trust of all its stakeholders, Integrity is deeply embedded in LANDBANK’s core values. The Bank has LANDBANK ensures that ethical behavior is not only applied within its a zero-tolerance policy towards fraud and corruption, and incidents of operations, but also extends to its supply chain. The Code of Conduct corruption or fraud are taken very seriously. The Bank strictly follows the for LANDBANK Employees was established and approved by the Revised Rules on Administrative Cases in the Civil Service, imposes the LANDBANK Board of Directors on November 23, 2006. LANDBANK Code of Conduct, as well as the provisions of Anti-Corruption laws such regularly communicates the Code of Conduct to all its employees. In as the Anti-Red Tape Act of 2007 on all Public Officials and Employees. 2016, revisions were made to the Code, as follows: In order to create a platform for advice and concerns about ethics, 1. Internal Whistleblowing and Reporting LANDBANK established a Bank Ethics Hotline. 2. No Gift Policy 3. Rules on Prohibited Concerted Mass Actions 4. Access and Usage of Official and Personal Social Networking Site (SNS) Accounts The Bank’s Ethics Hotline Number 5. Code of Conduct Compliance Recommitment Certificate 405-7660 or local 7660 was established since 2009 to serve as an additional medium for Bank employees to confidentially 6. The Landbanker’s Prayer report instances of graft and corruption or any complaint on fraudulent acts, wrongdoings, misdeeds and/or irregularities The Code of Conduct is aligned with the Bank’s core values, and provides committed or taking place that have adverse or negative effect guidance for all LANDBANK employees on the right and ethical way to to the Bank. The Civil Service Commission’s (CSC) Contact conduct themselves. January of every year is regarded as LANDBANK’s Center ng Bayan (CCB) 1-6565 has been implemented since 2012 as a means to receive customer complaints. Code of Conduct Month, with the theme “I Live by The Code”. During this month, all Landbankers are reoriented with all the provisions of the Code The 8888 Citizen’s Complaint Hotline has been implemented since 2016 to serve of Conduct, and are encouraged to sign the Code of Conduct Compliance as a mechanism where citizens may report complaints and grievances on acts of Recommitment Certificate. According to the Section 3, Article I of the red tape and corruption of any national government agency, GOCC, GFI and other 5th Collective Negotiation Agreement (CNA) between LANDBANK and instrumentalities of the government, and ensure prompt action on public concerns. LANDBANK implemented the Revised Whistleblowing Policy for the GOCC Sector the LANDBANK Employees Association (LBPEA), LBPEA is tasked to and established an online link in the Bank’s official website to the whistleblowing assist the Management in inculcating among employees the provisions web portal of the Governance Commission for GOCCs (GCG) www.whistleblowing. of the Code of Conduct for LANDBANK employees and pertinent gcg.gov.ph, in compliance with Memo Circular No. 2016-02 issued by GCG. The Bank Civil Service laws, rules, and regulations as well as other issuances also implemented EO No. 068 series of 2017 or the Amended LANDBANK No Gift designed to promote honesty, social responsibility, trust, excellence, Policy to further promote high standard of ethics in public service. Public officials and employees are expected to conduct their duties with utmost responsibility and professionalism, discipline, efficiency, productivity, and effectiveness of unbiased professionalism, without expectation of any undue favor or reward. the LANDBANK services. 102-16, 102-17, 205-1, 205-2 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 25 In April 2016, the Bank’s Integrity Committee was reconstituted and Number of Business Units Assessed for renamed as Integrity Management Committee (IMC) in compliance with Risks Related to Corruption Malacañang Executive Order No. 176 dated December 1, 2014. LANDBANK Offices, Sectors 2017 2016 This EO institutionalizes the Integrity Management Program (IMP) as the and Subsidiaries National Corruption Prevention Program in all government departments, Office of the Board of bureaus, offices, agencies, including GOCCs, GFIs, SUCs, and LGUs 8 Directors through the establishment of an Integrity Management System (IMS). Office of the President 53 50 The IMP is the Government’s national corruption prevention program established to harmonize and simplify integrity development initiatives. Operations Sector 150 154 It is jointly implemented across the bureaucracy by the Office of the President-Office of the Deputy Executive Secretary for Legal Affairs Branch Banking Sector 386 379 (OP-ODESLA) and the Office of the Ombudsman (OMB). The following guidelines were formulated by the Bank in 2016: Corporate Services Sector 11 10 • LANDBANK Anti-Bribery and Anti-Graft and Corruption Policy – Treasury & Investment 13 12 to reaffirm the Bank’s commitment to implement tighter measures Banking Sector against bribery and corrupt practices. Agricultural & Development 63 61 • Revised Guidelines in Handling Past Due Financial Obligations Lending Sector of LANDBANK Employees – to align with the principle of leading simple and modest lifestyles as embodied in the Code of Conduct LANDBANK Subsidiaries 5 5 for LANDBANK Employees and Republic Act No. 6713, an Act Total 689 671 Establishing a Code of Conduct and Ethical Standards for Public Officials and Employees. LANDBANK takes a precautionary approach in its operations, as well The Risk Management Group (RMG) collects data on the number and as the innovation and development of new products and technologies. percentage of operations assessed for risks related to corruption and It strictly follows a step-by-step approach of engaging in peer review the significant risks identified. RMG disclosed that 671 and 689 Business and considering the benefits and risks of innovation in a systematic and Units in 2016 and 2017, respectively, were assessed for risks related to transparent manner. This way, the Bank prevents any risk of causing any corruption based on validated Risk Control Self-Assessment (RCSA). form of harm or negative impacts to the public. Only one case of corruption was reported in 2016, while five cases in 2017. For both years, the cases were resolved according to the approved process. 102-11, 102-16, 102-17, 205-1, 205-2 26 Procurement Practices LANDBANK understands the importance of sustainable and efficient The Head Office Bids and Awards Committee (HOBAC) is tasked to review procurement practices that help in establishing a strategic sourcing and approve procurement requests in accordance to RA 9184. There platform, streamlining processes, and reducing costs of raw materials are also Regional Bids and Awards Committees (RBACs) nationwide by identifying better sources of supply. tasked to identify local and regional suppliers. Incorporating supplier sustainability into its procurement practices has helped LANDBANK The Bank constantly works towards optimizing its procurement extend its sustainability practices beyond its boundaries. In 2016 and practices and making its supply chain economical and profitable. The 2017, there were no significant changes in the supply chain, and no nonPresident and CEO of the Bank, being the Head of the Procuring Entity, is compliance incidence reported. responsible for approving the procurement activities of the Bank. The Bank adheres to the Government Procurement Act or Republic Act (RA) 9184, “An Act Providing for the Modernization, Standardization, Green Procurement and Regulation of the Procurement Activities of the Government and The Bank’s Green Procurement practices serve as guidelines for Other Purposes.” The legislation streamlines all procurement of the when evaluating quality of services and sourcing from suppliers. National Government, its departments, bureaus, offices, and agencies. The Bank gives priority to those suppliers whose products have LANDBANK uses the same to manage its procurement process while it environmental and social credentials. It partners with providers who lay premium on environmental, social, and health and safety evaluates its performance using inputs from its Internal Audit and the parameters. Understanding the importance of local sourcing, Commission on Audit (COA). The Internal Audit conducts a review of and patronizing local economy boom, LANDBANK sources most the Bank’s procurement operations every three years, while the COA of its suppliers locally (Filipino citizens/sole proprietorships and partnerships, regularly conducts audit of procurement contracts worth ₱2.0 Million corporations, or cooperatives duly organized under the laws of the Philippines) and above. preferring local producers, manufacturers and suppliers that offer competitive pricing. This also reduces transport costs, thus reducing the Bank’s carbon footprint. However, in certain situations, procurement from foreign bidders is entertained in the In LANDBANK, procurement decisions are also guided by the Bank’s event that the goods that need to be procured are not available locally. internal policy on achieving a healthier bottom line. The Bank’s procurement practices place a huge emphasis on environmental and social due diligence, cost efficiency and local sourcing. This is in cognizance of the importance of environmental, social, and economic criteria in procurement the process. 102-9, 102-10, 308-1, 308-2, 414-1 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 27 Compliance A robust Compliance Risk Management system is embedded in the in Perspective Program for new hires, various Management and Bank’s core values, developing a culture of integrity and compliance Development Training Programs, and LANDBANK E-learning Access extending across various operational areas. Portal. Compliance advisories, bulletins, and reminders are regularly issued through the Lotus Notes and publication in the Newsgram. These The Compliance Management Group (CMG) oversees the implementation compliance advisories include the regular issuance of the Compliance of the Bank’s compliance system which is designed to identify and Nuggets, which are easy-to-read tidbits of information on Compliance mitigate compliance risk that may erode the franchise value of the Bank. and AML. The system also ensures that business operations are conducted in accordance with laws, rules and regulations, code of conduct and sound Further, CMG maintains an updated Compliance Function Database, a policies, and standards of good practice. repository or central record of laws, rules and regulations easily accessible to Bank employees. The database is used for regulatory guidance/ CMG identifies and conducts risk assessment of laws, rules and reference in the performance of business units’ operational processes regulations, and other areas with exposure to compliance risk. After the and activities. To continuously build and strengthen working relationship review, requirements are identified and disseminated to the concerned with Bank units, periodic meetings with compliance coordinators are units/personnel through the issuance of compliance bulletins. To held. Advisory service and guidance in managing compliance issues are monitor compliance, different compliance testing approaches suited also being provided through CMG’s participation in various committees to the identified and assessed compliance/regulatory risk are adopted. and Technical Working Groups, and in the preparation of the internal Pre-testing involves the checking of initial actions taken or plan of action policies and implementing guidelines. to implement the requirements of new regulatory issuances, while periodic testing covers the regular checking of continuing compliance The Bank maintains a cooperative and constructive working relationship with existing laws, rules, and regulations. with various regulatory agencies. Open and transparent communications and frequent dialogues and consultations to clarify specific concerns on Independent testing is also conducted, which involves a more detailed regulations have strengthened and broadened the existing relationship review of areas or activities identified to be exposed or vulnerable to with the regulators. In case of complaints or breaches regarding high regulatory risks. Anti-money laundering (AML) Compliance compliance, the issues are reported to the Senior Management and Testing is also being done to check the Bank’s compliance with AML appropriate measures are put in place. laws, rules, regulations, and internal policies and guidelines. To foster a compliance culture among Bank personnel, appropriate training strategies to enhance knowledge on regulations are adopted. Lectures on Compliance and AML are also offered through the LANDBANK 307-1, 402-1, 419-1 28 Audit Internal audit is a strategic function that aids in ensuring good • IAG, through the Credit Review Department, validates the conformity governance, sound risk management, and strong internal control. of projects financed by the Bank with applicable environmental LANDBANK’s Internal Audit Group (IAG) directly reports to the Audit laws, regulations and requirements. This is carried out through the and Compliance Committee, a Board-level committee, and is under the Environmental Assessment Report issued by the Environmental administrative supervision of the President and CEO. To ensure that Program and Management Department (EPMD), whose main environmental and social policies and risk assessment procedures function, among others, is to implement the environmental policy are being complied with and implemented by business units, IAG on credit delivery. EPMD also provides technical support on undertakes the following: environmental due diligence and climate change vulnerability assessment of Bank-financed programs and projects. The • Conduct of Risk-Based Operations of all Business Units as part of operations of EPMD are audited by the Head Office and Systems its assurance services. Audits are held within the three-year cycle Technology Audit Department (HOSTAD) regularly. except for those mandated by BSP to be conducted on an annual basis. Any exception or audit finding as a result of such validation • IAG acts as lead auditor of the Environmental Management System is being considered in determining the audit rating of the Business (EMS) internal audit which is an important management tool Unit under review. for verifying and monitoring the effective implementation of the L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 29 Bank’s EMS. As lead auditor, IAG helps in determining whether the requirements of applicable regulations/EMS standards are complied with, and the areas for improvement, if any, are identified and LANDBANK’s vigorous efforts properly addressed on a timely basis. It covers the annual EMS audit of LANDBANK Plaza and the 39 ISO 14001:2004 certified branches to promote and strengthen in NCR and provinces, complementing the annual surveillance EMS inclusivity have helped sustain audit being conducted by an external service provider. In relation thereto, the Quality Assurance and Support conducts a Quality and improve livelihoods in the Assurance Review (QAR) of the EMS internal audit process to countryside are anchored on an provide reasonable assurance to the Environmental Management Representative that the latter was conducted in an effective and established good governance efficient manner, and in accordance with ISO 19011:2011. framework that ensures an inclusive, triple bottom line (social, environmental, and Grievance Machinery economic) approach that is integrated in its development strategy. To cultivate a work culture that fosters open communication, the Bank has a grievance machinery system for employees to voice out and resolve work-related issues and concerns. The grievance machinery is in accordance with Civil Service Commission (CSC) Memorandum Circular No. 02 series of 2001, entitled Revised Policies on Settlement of Grievance in the Public Sector, and Republic Act No. 9825 or the Alternative Dispute Resolution Act of 2004, and its implementing rules and regulations. LANDBANK’s grievance policy is communicated to employees during the LANDBANK in Perspective seminar that is conducted for new-hires, in workshops facilitated by the Organization Development Department (ODD) for Line Managers, and during coaching and mentoring of Bank Officers, Managers and Supervisors. Non-adversarial communication seminars are also conducted for target participants. 30 Sustainability Cornerstones Bolstering growth through Community Development financial inclusivity, LANDBANK This section highlights the Bank’s continues to serve as a activities or initiatives that directly and indirectly provide social value to major catalyst in countryside the stakeholders and community. development with a strong commitment to contribute to a better, safer and progressive society. The Bank goes Enterprise Development beyond its mandate to fulfil its This section features the Bank’s sustainability goals anchoring significant programs and projects which contribute and/or improve the economic on five cornerstones, which are conditions with direct impact and market presence to the various to the highlighted in this report. presence to the various priority sectors and stakeholders of the Bank. L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 31 Employee Development This section concentrates on activities and programs that promote good labor practices, conducive work environment, professionalism, and volunteerism. Environmental Protection & Management Customer Service This section focuses on the environmental management practices that are This section emphasizes the programs, incorporated in the Bank’s agrarian projects, and activities that enhance the and banking operations, services, and Bank’s products and services, as well as decisions. This is also comprised of systems that interfere with its internal activities that contribute to the proper and external customers, and other management of materials and natural stakeholders. resources, pollution prevention, and climate change mitigation and adaptation. 32 Enterprise Development Empowering Filipino Businesses One of the pillars for the sustainable growth of LANDBANK is enterprise development. In this endeavor, LANDBANK partners with entrepreneurs whose business practices are in line with the Bank’s sustainable approach. One such partner is the Malagos Agri-Ventures Corporation, the driving force behind the world-renowned Malagos Chocolates. The company’s venture into cacao growing started in 2003, when founders Roberto and Charita Puentespina leased a cacao farm in Malagos. The farm was developed in 2004 for the rehabilitation of cacao trees. Since the rehabilitation, the cacao trees have started to produce excellent quality beans. In 2007, the sustainability arm of Mars, Incorporated, an American global confectionery manufacturer, reached out to Puentespina Farms to establish the Mars Cocoa Development Center (MCDC). Through the partnership, a portion of the property became a demo facility where farmers from nearby communities were trained to grow and process cacao from the nurseries to post-harvest. In 2009, the farm exported cacao beans to the United States, the first of its kind in the Philippines. Encouraged by the international response received by their locally-produced cacao beans, the Puentespinas dreamt of further expanding their operations to make world-class chocolates. Malagos sought advice from a European chocolate expert to further improve the quality of their cacao trees and beans which would guarantee production of good quality chocolate. For L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 33 this dream to become reality, a dependable influx to Malagos has increased abundantly, source of funding was required. LANDBANK with tourists flocking in to get a taste of their stepped in to help provide the funds to make world-class chocolates. the Puentespinas’ dream come true. With LANDBANK’s assistance, Malagos AgriMalagos chocolate has received a lot of Ventures Corporation came into fruition, the worldwide attention and brought in many first venture into developing the Malagos awards both locally and internationally. A Chocolate. true testament that Filipino enterprises have the skill and talent to produce products that Through LANDBANK’s support, Malagos can compete in the international stage. This Agriventures was able to purchase European success would not have been possible without manufacturing equipment, which was then LANDBANK’s constant support to turn a the first step in establishing an enterprise dream into reality. that would eventually produce world-class chocolates. It helped Malagos through the various tree-to-bar stages of chocolate production. To encourage more Filipinos to grow cacao, the company established the Malagos Chocolate Museum in March 2017. Situated adjacent to the chocolate processing facility, the beautifully-designed museum showcases information on cacao and chocolate-making, an Interactive Zone for educational games, a refreshment center known as the Chocolate Bar, and the Malagos Chocolate Laboratory where one can create their own chocolate. The museum has been another avenue for the enterprise to generate jobs with most of the staff being from the local community in Malagos. Malagos Agri-Ventures has helped make the Malagos brand internationally recognized and paving the way to benefit the community. Since its inception, the tourist 34 ENTERPRISE DEVELOPMENT LANDBANK’s strong commitment towards countryside development is showcased in its enhanced partnerships and relationships with stakeholders at various levels and regions. The Bank works with utmost dedication to elevate the lives of individuals, enterprises, groups, and government units in and around its operational areas through direct and indirect economic impacts. Direct and Indirect Economic Impacts LANDBANK’s development endeavors focus on the National Government’s efforts towards long-term inclusion, thus creating both direct and indirect economic impacts in and around its operational areas. In the reporting period 2016-2017, LANDBANK expanded its loan portfolio in favor of priority sectors like farmers and fishers, their associations, agrarian reform beneficiaries (ARBs), agribusiness, aqua business and agri-aqua business of LGUs and GOCCs, and micro, small and medium enterprises. Different programs are created to improve livelihoods and create more inclusive opportunities through improved communications, transportation, housing, education, healthcare, environmental development, tourism, utilities, and livelihood loans. The Bank’s efforts have made it the largest formal credit institution in the rural areas. Its credit delivery system has the potential to reach out to a significant percentage of the country’s municipalities, thus increasing the coverage of its direct and indirect economic impacts. In the reporting period 2016-2017, LANDBANK worked relentlessly towards the provision of financial and technical support with accelerated credit assistance to the banked and unbanked sectors, continually supporting priority sectors and projects with high development impact. 201-1, 201-2, 201-4, 203-1, 203-2 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 35 Loans to Mandated and Priority Sectors Total Loans to Mandated and Priority Sectors 2017 2016 Total Share of Loans to Mandated and Priority Sectors (%) 2017 2016 ₱564.1 ₱440.5 93.86% 90.10% Billion Billion Total Outstanding Loans to Priority Sector ₱62.5 ₱59.4 Billion Billion Total Loans Released Number of Loan Channels and Beneficiaries to Small Farmers and Fishers 2017 2016 Farmers and fishers cooperatives 1,057 988 Countryside financial institutions 160 155 Irrigators associations 201 163 ₱28.1 ₱26.0 Billion Billion Small farmers and fishers benefited 837,653 791,852 Outstanding Loans to the 20 Poorest Provinces* * Identified under the Registry System for Basic Sector of Agriculture of the Department of Agriculture (DA) 201-1, 201-2 36 Development Impact of LANDBANK Loans 2017 2016 2017 2016 51 41 545 1,070 New Hospitals Additional Classrooms 3,088 1,877 137,166 41,495 No. of new Additional Hospital Households Connected Beds with Potable Water 74 114 665,866,912 566,761,536 Additional School Additional kWh Buildings Produced 273 875 Additional Kilometers of Farm-to-Market 201-1, 201-2 Roads L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 37 Loans to All Sectors Percentage of Total Percentage of Total SECTORS 2017 2016 2017 2016 C) Support for Other National Government Priority Programs including Public Private Partnership (PPP) Projects 7.53% 8.35% Mandated Sector 6.14% 9.90% Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises ₱89,844.12 ₱62,768.16 22.97% 22.71% Supporting Agriculture and Fisheries Communications ₱31,281.79 ₱28,048.08 Support for Other Transportation ₱38,898.04 ₱30,032.07 National Government 63.36% 59.04% Priority Programs Housing (Socialized, Low Cost and ₱48,113.48 ₱40,454.11 Total Other Loans Medium Cost) Education ₱6,072.72 ₱4,534.92 Health Care ₱14,187.43 ₱10,167.30 SECTORS 2017 2016 Environment-related projects ₱17,304.45 ₱15,389.06 A) Mandated Sector Tourism ₱8,835.08 ₱6,530.88 Small farmers including agrarian Utilities ₱104,903.98 ₱70,445.45 reform beneficiaries and their ₱45,188.92 ₱40,716.69 Others ₱21,279.03 ₱20,266.11 associations Sub Total (C: Support for Other Small fishers and their associations ₱86.78 ₱107.4 National Government Priority ₱380,720.12 ₱288,636.14 Sub Total (A: Mandated Sector) ₱45,275.70 ₱40,824.09 Programs) B) Support for Agriculture and Fisheries Loans to Priority Sector (A+B+C) ₱564,082.64 ₱440,461.03 Agribusiness ₱82,589.66 ₱53,796.43 Others Aqua Business ₱2,227.26 ₱1,296.08 Other LGU Loans ₱10,582.37 ₱10,951.94 Agri-Aqua related projects of Local Other GOCC Loans ₱14,852.25 Government Units (LGUs) and ₱53,269.90 ₱55,908.29 Others ₱26,313.85 ₱22,589.54 Government Owned and Controlled Corporations (GOCCs) Loans to other Sectors ₱36,896.22 ₱48,393.73 Sub-Total (B: Support for Agriculture ₱138,086.82 ₱111,000.80 Total Loans to all Sectors ₱600,978.86 ₱488,854.76 and Fisheries) 201-1, 201-2 38 Client Awards and Recognition In order to acknowledge Bank clients who have contributed significantly • Gawad Korporasyon ng KAagapay sa Ating GAnap na tagumPAY (GAWAD KAAGAPAY) for corporate clients who contributed to uplift the lives of communities in the countryside, LANDBANK to the Bank’s development thrusts, recognizing Bank-assisted institutionalized the following awards: corporations for their outstanding performance, and continuing • Gawad PITAK (Pinakatatanging Kooperatiba) for model agriand good relationship with LANDBANK. non-agri cooperatives, is an endeavor of LANDBANK to recognize the finest among its partner cooperatives who work hand-in-hand • The Gawad Microfinance Institution (Gawad MFI) recognizes non-government organizations that consciously create conducive with the Bank in pursuing its mandate of propelling countryside spaces for the poor to pursue their dreams outside a life of poverty. development. • Gawad Entrepreneur (Gawad sa Pinakatatanging Entrepreneur) for successful small and medium enterprises whose project improved the socio-economic conditions of the locality. This is the Bank’s annual search among its SME clients to recognize individuals who have exhibited excellence in management and played a crucial role in empowering people and catalyzing change in their respective communities. • Gawad CFI (Countryside Financial Institutions) for outstanding countryside financial institutions which served as partners in delivering financial services to the rural areas. This is an annual award conferred to countryside financial institutions that serve as the Bank’s allies in extending credit assistance to clients and priority sectors in the countryside. LANDBANK continues to support the growth of enterprises by providing resources and paving way for opportunities and programs with special focus on agriculture and development sectors. L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 39 Client Recognition Program 2017 2016 Buenavista Development Nagkakaisang Magsasaka Cooperative Agricultural Primary MPC (Buenavista, Guimaras) (Talavera, Nueva Ecija) Spouses Grace and Rosalina D. Mapoy / Manuel Tan God’s Favorite Farm (Gloria, Oriental Mindoro) New Rural Bank Cantilan Bank, Inc. of San Leonardo, Inc. (A Rural Bank) (Cabanatuan City) Megawide Ana’s Breeders Construction Corporation Farms, Inc. (Quezon City, Metro Manila) Center for Agriculture and ASA Philippines Rural Development, Inc. Foundation Inc. (San Pablo City, Laguna) For a complete list of winners, please refer to the LANDBANK 2016 and 2017 Annual Report. 40 Community Development Cultivating a Culture of Care In August 2016, LANDBANK formally launched the Volunteerific Program to articulate the bank’s core value of Social Responsibility. Through this program, LANDBANK encourages its employees to look at the social needs of the communities where they operate, and do their share to meet such needs by participating in the different Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) programs of the Bank; initiating their own volunteer activities; and, inspiring fellow Landbankers and other like-minded organizations to foster the same spirit of volunteerism. With the Volunteerific Program, the involvement of Landbankers in community development have been reported through various initiatives such as the reduction of the drop-out rate of an elementary school when Landbankers donated a school boat to an island barangay where children are unable to afford transportation cost; or when a rescue boat donated by employees also reduced the mortality rate of another island barangay. Other volunteer activities also included tree-planting, clean-up of coastal areas and other water tributaries, repair and repainting of schools before the start of classes, support to indigenous groups, elderly in homes, orphans, victims of abuse and other marginalized sectors. L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 41 Employees also continue to participate in to the Civil Service Commission (CSC) and the Bank’s CSR programs such as voluntary the Philippine National Volunteer Service contribution of salaries for the education Coordinating Agency (PNVSCA) in support of of poor but deserving students taking up the Volunteer Act of 2007. agriculture and related courses under the Gawad Patnubay Scholarship Program This resulted to a commendation from (GPSP), reforestation of LANDBANK-adopted PNVSCA who recognized LANDBANK’s sites in the Gawad Sibol Program, clean-up and Volunteerific Program “as one of the pioneers other rehabilitation activities under the Manila in implementing an active and sustainable Bay SUNSET Partnership Program (MBSPPI) employee-driven volunteering program in the and helping provide access to potable water public sector.” through the Gawad KATUBIGAN Program in calamity-affected areas of the country. The volunteerism activities of Landbankers in 2016 and 2017 resulted to over a hundred activities engaging 70% or 6,376 employees nationwide. This has benefited 110 GPSP scholars every school year, continuing cleanup and bioremediation of Manila Bay, recycling of PET bottles into rescue boats, planted 55,000 trees in 60 hectares of Gawad Sibol sites as well as distribution of water filtration systems that benefited 47,060 individuals across the country to name a few. LANDBANK employees also inspire fellow Landbankers, partners and clients, and communities being assisted, by sharing their volunteer stories through various internal and external communication channels of the Bank. Volunteer activities are also reported 42 CSR Programs LANDBANK’s commitment towards community development goes Volunteerific Program beyond its social mandate, as it remains involved in the development of social programs and activities that boost inclusive growth. Community Formally launched in August 2016, the LANDBANK Volunteerific development is at the heart of LANDBANK’s operations, embedded deep Program is an open opportunity platform for employees to express into its core values, as the Bank constantly strives towards reaching out the Bank’s core value of Social Responsibility and to extend their time to vulnerable sectors of the nation through corporate social responsibility and capabilities to help marginalized sectors of society. The program (CSR) programs implemented by the Corporate Affairs Department. also supports Republic Act No. 9418 or the Volunteer Act of 2007, and the Civil Service Commission Memorandum Circular No. 23 s.2012 or Volunteer Program in the Public Sector. In 2017, 70% of 6,376 Landbankers reported volunteer activities which generated an average of 10.62 hours per employee. Because of this, 4 special awards were conferred to outstanding Bank sectors and group whose employees showcased commendable volunteerism; The first award went to the Central Luzon Branches Group (CLBG), which was awarded the “Most Volunteerific Group” for having an average of 35 volunteer hours for each of its 332 total employees. 413-1, 413-2 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 43 The second special award is for the “Sector with Highest Number of Personnel Engaged,” and was given to the Branch Banking Sector (BBS), which has a total of 2,774 volunteers out of 4,382 sector employees. The third special award is for the “Sector with Highest Total Number of Volunteer Hours per Employee” to the Agricultural and Development Lending Sector (ADLS) for generating an average of 12.42 hours for each 1,079 volunteer employees. ADLS also recorded a total of 13,405 volunteer hours. ADLS was also recognized as the “Sector with the Highest Percentage of Employee Participation”, with 92% participation rate among its employees (1,079 out of 1,168 employees) for volunteer initiatives nationwide. Three (3) lending centers were commended for their volunteerism spirit: the (1) South Cotabato Lending Center which engaged 100% of its employees and rendered 60.50 volunteer hours per employee, the (2) Davao Lending Center and (3) Cagayan de Oro lending Center which both engaged 100% of its employees and rendered 25 volunteer hours Gawad KATUBIGAN Program per employee. The Gawad KATUBIGAN (Kaakibat na Tulong sa Bayan para sa Inuming The awarding ceremony aims to recognize employee volunteering Kailangan) is a disaster preparedness and response CSR program of the efforts and to encourage more employees to participate, initiate, and Bank. It provides disaster-prone areas with preparedness training and inspire or be engaged in the Volunteerific Program. access to clean water through portable water filtration systems. The program is implemented in partnership with Waves for Water Philippines (W4W). Under the program, the Bank distributes water filtration systems capable of filtering one million gallons of water per device, which can last from five to ten years if properly maintained. The program also aims to reduce waterborne diseases. 44 Throughout its activities, a total of 1,016 filters were distributed to 49 Under the formal education track, scholars are entitled to the following municipalities across the country benefiting over 100,000 individuals. privileges: Gawad Patnubay Scholarship Program With LANDBANK’s mandate of helping spur and sustain countryside development, the LANDBANK Gawad Patnubay (Gawad Pag-aaral 100% subsidy Very Competitive Yearly Book Research Licensure Tungo sa Maunlad na Bayan) Scholarship Program is an education-tofor tuition fees monthly stipend allowance grant/thesis review and employment initiative designed to benefit underprivileged, but deserving funding examination subsidy students who specialize in the fields of agriculture and fisheries. E2E Program The program offers both formal and non-formal education in the fields of agriculture and fisheries. Scholars, who are mostly children of agrarian Three weeks capacitybuilding and personal reform beneficiaries or belong to underpriviledged families, are provided development seminars Financial award 10-week Education-toat the LANDBANK Head with 100% subsidy on all school fees, with book and monthly allowances for honor Employment (E2E) Internship Office every semester, among others. students from Program (Inclusive of airfare, ₱30,000 to accommodation, food, and stipend) Seven weeks field The continuing formal track is implemented in partnership with the ₱50,000 cash internship incentive International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) the non-formal track, which L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 45 is expected to be completed by CY 2018, is implemented by the Pilipinas Highlights of Gawad Patnubay Scholarship Program Association of Rural Families for Education and Development (PARFED). Particulars 2017 2016 The financial assistance provided by the program is funded in part by more than 8,000 LANDBANK employees through voluntary salary contribution, with a minimum of one hour’s worth of their salary during Number of Graduates 17 10 the last working day of the year. Additionally, in 2017, LANDBANK provided a 50% counterpart of the total Number of Graduates funding for the formal education program which enabled the expansion 8 3 With Honors of the program to 17 universities across the country and supported 110 scholars starting school year 2017-2018. Number of Licensure In 2017, the LANDBANK Gawad Patnubay Scholarship Program was 16 4 Exam Takers adjudged as the Champion for Best CSR Project by the Bankers Institute of the Philippines (BAIPHIL). Percentage of Licensure 100% 100% Exam Passers Number of E2E 16 9 Participants Percentage of E2E Completed 100% 100% Percentage of E2E Interns Placed 100% 100% 46 List of Partner State Universities and Colleges (SUC) per Region No. Region Name of SUC 1 CAR Benguet State University (BSU) 2 I (Ilocos Region) Mariano Marcos State University (MMSU) 3 II (Cagayan Valley) Isabela State University (ISU) 4 III (Central Luzon) Central Luzon State University (CLSU) 5 IV-A (CALABARZON) University of the Philippines Los Baños (UPLB) 6 IV-B (MIMAROPA) Marinduque State College (MSC) 7 V (Bicol Region) Central Bicol State University of Agriculture (CBSUA) 8 VI (Western Visayas) UP Visayas (Miag-ao Campus) 9 VII (Central Visayas) Bohol Island State University (BISU) 10 NIR (Negros Island) Negros Oriental State University (NORSU) 11 VIII (Eastern Visayas) Visayas State University (VSU) 12 IX (Zamboanga Peninsula) Jose Rizal Memorial State University (JRMSU) 13 X (Northern Mindanao) Central Mindanao University (CMU) 14 XI (Davao Region) University of Southeastern Philippines (USeP) 15 XII (SOCCSKSARGEN) University of Southern Mindanao (USM) 16 XIII (CARAGA) Surigao del Sur State University (SDSSU) 17 ARMM Mindanao State University (MSU) L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 47 List of E2E Internship Program Partners where Interns were Placed Education-to-Employment (E2E) Internship 2017 Program under the Gawad Patnubay Scholarship Program • Allied Botanical Corporation • Central Luzon State University To ensure that the support to the Gawad Patnubay scholars does not end • DTI-Regional Operations Group upon graduation, the Bank has established the E2E Internship Program. • Harbest Agribusiness Corporation (Marawi City) • Juno Foods Inc.Lica Farm/Pinkies Farm It aims to provide holistic educational support to the graduates of the • LANDBANK scholarship through the following: • LANDBANK Countryside Development Foundation Inc. • National Institute of Molecular Biology and Biotechnology (BIOTECH-UPLB) • 100% subsidy for their review and examination for the Licensure • Northern Mindanao Consortium for Agriculture and Aquatic Resources Research and Development (NOMCAARRD-CMU) Exam for Agriculturists (LEA) • Philippine Coconut Authority – Zamboanga Research Center • 10-week internship wherein three weeks are spent for classroom • Philippine Rice Research Institute (PhilRice) lectures at the LANDBANK Plaza and seven week are spent for field • USM Agricultural Research Center internship with partner institutions • Assistance in securing employment in Lending Centers or partner Institutions 2016 • Cotabato Sugar Central Co., Inc. In 2016, 9 scholars graduated and participated in the program. Among • International Rice Research Institute (IRRI) the graduates, 3 graduated Cum Laude and the 2 passed the LEA. In • LANDBANK 2017, 16 scholars graduated, which automatically qualified them to • LANDBANK Countryside Development Foundation Inc. participate in the program. Also in the same year, 1 graduated Magna • Mira Farm General Santos Cum Laude, 7 Cum Laude, and 15 passed the LEA. • Philippine Rice Research Institute (PhilRice) • All Asian Center for Enterprise Development (ASCEND) • University of Southern Mindanao (Faculty) • USM Agricultural Research Center 48 Gawad e-Dukasyon Program To reach out to the youth and help educate them about the importance of agriculture, LANDBANK established the Gawad e-Dukasyon Program. This is in partnership with the Knowledge Channel Foundation, Inc. (KCFI), and in cooperation with the Department of Education (DepEd). The program introduces new media component in education by making use of modern and innovative forms of media such as videos and internet modules. It sends across the Bank’s message of promoting agriculture and agriculture studies among the youth to encourage them to pursue agriculture-related courses in college. Gawad e-Dukasyon Program’s primary objective is to produce videos: Crop Production and Harvest, Poultry Raising, and Aquaculture and Fisheries. These videos, entitled “AgriCOOLture,” are aired over Knowledge Channel, and the e-Modules are made available on the internet. The videos are also shown over all Knowledge Channel-connected public In 2017, the video series, which stars popular young actor Enchong Dee, schools nationwide as supplement for the students’ Agriculture subject was able to reach millions of learners from thousands of public schools in the curriculum. nationwide. In 2016, this video series reached The Gawad e-Dukasyon Program complements the Bank’s Gawad PATNUBAY Scholarship Program, as both Programs bring forward the 5,007,943 learners 10,000+ out-of-school message that agriculture is a good career path and possible source of of the 6,000+ public youth enrolled in the schools connected DepEd Alternative income and business to the youth. Learning System (ALS) Gawad Kabuhayan Program 100,000+ teachers Students (public and teachers of formal private) and their LANDBANK’s Gawad Kabuhayan Program is a “recovery through schools and parents and siblings in livelihood” program launched by the Bank in early 2013 in partnership community learning 1,500,000+ households with Habitat for Humanity Philippines (HFHP). The program is the first centers nationwide of its kind which integrates a livelihood component in HFHP’s disaster Note: Students and teachers with access to K Channel through on-air broadcast, videos recovery effort. It goes beyond building houses for disaster survivors on-demand, or on-demand package for ALS to equip relocated families with skills that allow them to start incomegenerating enterprises. 413-1 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 49 In 2016, LANDBANK and HFHP inaugurated the Macapaya Livelihood Center in Cagayan de Oro City. The livelihood center is designed to cater wholesale selling of rice and other goods to Calaanan Home Partners Phase 3 and to nearby communities. Around 420 direct home partners as well as the greater community of Camaman-an and Indahag with approximately 1,200 households will benefit from this. One Million Lapis Program Pledging support to improving education in the country, LANDBANK participated in the “One Million Lapis Campaign”, with lead agencies Council for Welfare of Children (CWC) and the Department of Education. The campaign worked to collect a million pencils for the benefit of underprivileged students in primary schools across the country. The donations received from Bank employees is part of the efforts to address the lack of school tools necessary for effective learning in the classroom. Together with private establishments and other government institutions, LANDBANK displayed 20 drop boxes for new or old pencil donations in various floors of the LANDBANK Plaza. LANDBANK turned LANDBANK Christmas CSR Program over the donations totalling 54,056 pencils to CWC. In the spirit of Christmas, Landbankers joined hand-in-hand in raising funds for books to support the project “One Million Books for One Million Filipino Children” of the Center for Art, New Ventures and Sustainability Development (CANVAS). A total of 850 story books were turned over to students of Nicomedes C. Tolentino Elementary School and Pangyan National High School in Glan, Saranggani in February 2016. The following year, Landbankers also worked together to donate to the Christmas Bazaar intended for the creation of a LANDBANK Library in the Shalom Science Institute (SSI), a Muslim-Christian school located at the Municipality of Balabagan, Lanao del Sur. At the end of the bazaar, 21 boxes of books were collected and donated to the SSI students. For the program, LANDBANK partnered with Givebay through the Library Renewal Partnership which also gave a counterpart that is twice the number of boxes of books donated by Landbankers. 413-1 50 LANDBANK Countryside Development Foundation, Inc. Capacity-building Project Likas Saka LANDBANK is involved in providing full-fledged capacity-building LCDFI also continued to implement Project Likas Saka in 2016 with programs on strategic management and governance to the LANDBANK financial support from LANDBANK and LANDBANK Insurance and assisted cooperatives. LANDBANK, through the help of its corporate Brokerage, Inc. (LIBI). From the two existing project sites from the foundation, LANDBANK Countryside Development Foundation Inc. previous year, the Project expanded to seven more program sites, namely, (LCDFI) has initiatives that showcase the Bank’s efforts in reaching (a) Cavinti, Laguna; (b) Balasan, Iloilo; (c) Hinigaran, Negros Occidental; out to areas beyond its operations, helping build resilient communities. (d) Calape, Bohol; (e) Imelda, Zamboanga Sibugay; (f) Claveria, Misamis LANDBANK’s efforts towards assisting all its beneficiaries are designed Oriental; and (g) Sibagay, Agusan del Sur. to holistically develop communities by improving financial literacy, developing entrepreneurship, and aiding towards long term sustenance LCDFI also partnered with the City Governments of Cavinti, Laguna; through growth and success. Also included in the LCDFI capacityCalape, Bohol; and Imelda, Zamboanga Sibugay to provide additional building initiatives are Monitoring and Evaluation of Action Plans support activities for the Project’s beneficiaries. LCDFI also forged a generated by cooperatives, and Coaching and Mentoring for select partnership with Balay Mindanaw Foundation, Inc. for the implementation LANDBANK-assisted cooperatives. of the project in Claveria, Misamis Oriental. Parameter 2017 2016 A major accomplishment in 2016 was that LCDFI was able to link up with University of St. La Salle University-Bacolod (USLS) through the Number of trainings conducted 105 77 project to provide funding support for the Bahay Pag-Asa Youth Center Number of cooperative officers trained 2,618 2,036 (BPYC) Organic Mini-Farm Project in Brgy. Granada, Bacolod City. The LANDBANK-BPYC partnership pioneered the integration of sustainable Number of LANDBANK 741 511 agriculture in the rehabilitation of children in conflict with the law (CICL). borrowing cooperatives Number of Trainings Requested Per Region 2017 2016 North/Central Luzon and NCR 29 27 Visayas 20 25 South Luzon and Bicol 33 15 Mindanao 23 10 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 51 Project Coco-BiNHi Pursuant to its commitment to spur development in the countryside, the Foundation partnered with LANDBANK and the Philippine Coconut Authority-Zamboanga Research Center (PCA-ZRC) to establish the “Project Coco BiNHi (Bigay and Hiram) in 2017. The project pilot tested an approach that will help small coco farmers increase the productivity of their coconut farms and the income they earn from it by going beyond being mere recipients of dole-outs to becoming credit-worthy borrowers for production purposes. The project provided capacity-building intervention for selected small holding coconut farmers. The participants were organized into farmclusters and were given seminars on planting/replanting using improved coconut populations and planting systems to rehabilitate coconut farms through fertilization and intercropping. It granted an initial supply of fertilizers and other farm inputs to farmers. The project also aims to assist in linking farmers to LANDBANK for possible loans to finance LANDBANK showcases its additional fertilizers or for the processing of coconut products. commitment to public service In 2017, the project conducted 4 training batches with 93 participants. and social responsibility through Each three-day training seminar consisted of about 30% classroom-type lectures by officials and scientists of PCA-ZRC and 70% field/hands on programs that give the Bank and training demonstrations that introduced coconut farmers to new farming its employees the opportunity to technologies and manufacturing of high value products from coconuts. initiate, be involved, and embody the spirit of social responsibility Programs 2017 2016 through different programs for Training Seminars Conducted 14 10 the community. Monitoring and Site Visits Conducted 35 12 Number of ARB/Small Farmer Members Assisted 834 282 Sites Established 10 10 Farmer Clusters Organized 10 10 52 Environmental Protection and Management Championing a Greener Future Protecting and managing the environment has always been at the forefront of LANDBANK’s sustainability thrusts. In doing so, the Bank communicates and encourages the same commitment from its partners and supports them in integrating an environmentally responsible approach in their day-to-day operations. One such partner is the LAMAC Multi-purpose Cooperative (LMPC), a full-fledged multi-sectoral, multi-purpose agricultural cooperative based in Lamac, Pinamungajan, Cebu. With the help of LANDBANK, LMPC’s environmental practices were institutionalized into an Environmental Management System (EMS). The cooperative established a committee to focus on EMS implementation across the organization. In addition to this, the cooperative has allotted 10% of the community development fund every year for its EMS activities. According to General Manager Maria Elena Limocon, LPMC had always followed its own environmentally responsible practices but they were informal in nature. The cooperative needed guidance in systematizing these endeavors to become more effective and sustainable. L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 53 In support of the EMS, LMPC, with continuous Realizing its relevance, LMPC plans to continue assistance from LANDBANK, set up projects to build on projects in a holistic sustainable and facilities to cover reforestation, water manner. With LANDBANK’s help in planning management, reprocessing of animal waste, a green future, LMPC hopes to continue and recycling, and sustainable agriculture. strengthen its impact in transforming lives LANDBANK played a key role in supporting towards a sustainable tomorrow. LMPC’s sustainable agriculture initiatives which included biogas and vermicomposting. LMPC set up an organic demo farm where vermicomposting has been applied, and the demo farm acts as a training facility for members from other cooperatives and local groups. The production of azula feeds, growing organic turkeys and pigs, production of coco coir and coco sugar takes place at this facility. In 2016, LANDBANK presented LAMAC with the “Gawad Pitak Platinum Award” (the highest national recognition given by LANDBANK to the country’s most outstanding cooperative) recognizing their efforts and a testament of the bank’s commitment in supporting endeavors geared towards a sustainable future. LAMAC also won the “Best in Environment Management System Special Award” in the same year. A future plan for the cooperative is to build and provide low-cost environmentally friendly housing for its members. These houses are also designed to have spaces for raising organic chicken (fed by coco feeds) and landscape growing vegetables which is aligned with the cooperative’s goal of encouraging their members to practice sustainable living. 54 ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION LANDBANK constantly optimizes its environmental performance by Goals of LANDBANK’s Environmental Sustainability Strategy providing innovative products and services that are tailored to help the Bank achieve its targets and goals towards sustainable development. The Bank exercises environmental protection in its operational sites and extends it across its supply chain in order to lower its carbon footprint, • To support climate change promote efficient resource usage, and enhance ecological balance. mitigation and adaptation undertakings LANDBANK’s Corporate Environmental Policy provides guidance for the development of environmental management practices that are incorporated in the Bank’s operations, services, and decisions. • To evaluate and manage our environmental footprint in our daily operations Environmental Management System (EMS) is embedded in the Bank’s daily operations. LANDBANK’s environmental policy on credit delivery • To deliver products and services that are ecologically sound ensures that all Bank-financed programs are environmentally sound and and compliant with applicable compliant with relevant laws and regulations. The Bank follows green enviropnmental laws procurement guidelines that ensure that environmental protection extends across the supply chain. conservation measures, and to measure, monitor, and report the results of LANDBANK’s Corporate Environmental Policy is communicated such measures. This helps the Bank to highlight the energy performance through internal and external channels. The EMS Working Committee of all its branches that helps to identify areas of improvement. is comprised of representatives from the various departments that are responsible for the environmental activities of LANDBANK. Every month, self-monitoring reports for electricity consumption are submitted to the Department of Energy. Every floor of the Bank has submeters that allow for the recording of floor-by-floor consumption. Data Energy Consumption on annual energy use are collected and submitted to the management as part of the EMS report. With strong commitment towards resource efficiency, LANDBANK makes conscious efforts towards efficient energy management within LANDBANK has Pollution Control Officers who prepare reports to be Bank premises. The Bank focused on reducing its energy consumption submitted to DENR and related agencies. They facilitate the renewal through the Electricity Conservation Program (ECP), as mandated by of permits related to the environment (discharge permits, permits to Executive Order No. 39. The Bank’s ECP serves as a guideline towards operate generator sets, etc.), and assist LANDBANK in its efforts to be energy management, requiring all LANDBANK units to initiate energy compliant with national and local environmental regulations. 302-1, 302-3, 302-4 L A NDBA N DBA NK N K 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 55 Energy Dashboard Scope: LANDBANK Plaza (2017 2,953 employees and 2016 2,799 employees) Total Energy Consumption Within Landbank Total Energy Trend 2017 2016 2017 2016* 33,778 395,857 Liters 36,293 37,299 MJ 2.70% reduction 24.02% reduction MJ 1,218,677 1,252,456 since 2016 since 2015 670,360 204,332 Liters 132,841 115,340 15.17% increase 4.85% increase MJ MJ 5,089,167 4,418,806 since 2016 since 2015 2,291,281 619,920 Kilowatt-hour 10,164,167 9,527,700 MJ 6.68% increase 1.84% increase since 2016 since 2015 MJ 36,591,001 34,299,720 * 2015 Data: Gasoline (MJ)-1,648,313, Diesel (MJ)-4,214,474, Electricity (MJ) 33,679,800 Energy Intensity (Energy Consumption per Employee) 2017 2016 14,527 14,280** MJ/employee MJ/employee Total number of employees Total number of employees in LANDBANK Plaza in LANDBANK Plaza is 2,953 is 2,799 LEGEND ** Not reported in the Landbank SR 2014-15 Gasoline Diesel Electricity Megajoule (MJ) 302-1, 302-3, 302-4 56 Water Consumption Emissions LANDBANK ensures the responsible and efficient use of water resources LANDBANK understands the implications of climate change and across its branches and field units. Integral to the Bank’s EMS is the greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and its relation to global warming. With Water Conservation Program mandated by Executive Order No. 20, this, the Bank strives to ensure efficient energy management, in order to series of 2008. In an effort to manage and minimize water consumption, reduce GHG emissions in its operations and to improve its sustainability LANDBANK has installed storage tanks that recover and recycle water performance. The Bank monitors, reviews, and assesses its emissions from the four operational cooling towers. in order to devise possible mitigation mechanisms. Aligning the Bank’s GHG performance with its Corporate Environmental Policy, LANDBANK LANDBANK obtains its water supply services from the Maynilad Water strategizes GHG management mechanisms and provides guidance Services, Inc. which in turn taps the Angat Dam as water source. for its branches and field units. The GHG Accounting and Reporting Program records the Bank’s GHG emissions from various energy types, Total Water Consumption Within Landbank such as fuels (gasoline and diesel) and electricity in order to understand and monitor its carbon footprint. Scope: LANDBANK Plaza Water Consumption (Cubic Meters) 2017 2016 m3 70,074 73,053 2017 2016 23.73 26.10 m /employee 3 m /employee 3 Water Intensity Total number of employees Total number of employees in LANDBANK Plaza in LANDBANK Plaza (Water Consumption is 2,953 is 2,799 per Employee) * Cubic Meter L A NDBA N DBA NK N K 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 57 Greenhouse Gases (GHG) Dashboard Scope: LANDBANK Plaza (2017 2,953 employees and 2016 2,799 employees) Total Emissions Within LANDBANK Scope 1 Total GHG Emissions Trend 2017 2016 2017 2016* MTCO2e 84.93 87.28 2.35 27.59 MTCO2e 2.69% reduction 24.02% reduction since 2016 since 2015 MTCO2e 356.01 309.11 Scope 1 emissions Emissions from sources that are owned or controlled by the organization 46.90 14.13 MTCO2e 15.17% increase 4.79% increase Total Emissions Within LANDBANK Scope 2 since 2016 since 2015 2017 2016 MTCO2e 6,541.66 6,132.03 Scope 2 emissions Emissions from the consumption of purchased electricity MTCO2e 409.63 1,856.57 6.68% increase 43.42% increase Total Emissions Outside LANDBANK Scope 3 since 2016 since 2015 2017 2016 * 2015 Data MTCO2e 5,148.15 6,845.19 Gasoline (MT CO2e) -114.87, Diesel (MT CO2e) -294.98, Electricity(MT CO2e) 4,275.46 The Luzon grid emission factor used in the 2014-2015 SR was 0.457 tCO2 / MWh; while for the 2016-17 SR, the most recent emission factor 0.6436 tCO2 / MWh was used. Scope 3 emissions Emissions from employee transport GHG Intensity (GHG Emission per Employee) 2017 2016 4.11 4.78** MTCO2e/employee MTCO2e/employee Total number of employees Total number of employees in LANDBANK Plaza in LANDBANK Plaza LEGEND is 2,953 is 2,799 ** Not reported in the Landbank SR 2014-15 Gasoline Diesel Electricity Metric Tons Carbon Dioxide Equivalent (MTCO2e) 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5 58 Effluents and Waste Integrated into LANDBANK’s Environmental Management System, Waste Management Agency Partners proper waste management is observed by the Bank through waste Frequency reduction strategies, efficient waste handling and disposal, and recycling, Partner Type Agreement of Disposal whenever possible. Paper, Linis Ganda MOA Monthly Understanding the importance of waste segregation, the Bank has Plastic introduced three-compartment bins in every floor of the LANDBANK ABS-CBN Plaza, branches and field units across the nation. This facilitates the Batteries MOA Annually Bantay Kalikasan recovery of reusable and recyclable materials. Prior to waste disposal, D’ Lacoste Obsolete Thrice a sorting activities are carried out at the LANDBANK Plaza basement to Contract Enterprise Documents year ensure that recyclable materials are recovered. Polystyrene Twice In order to minimize paper usage, LANDBANK strictly urges various Packaging Council Polystyrene MOA a year departments to ensure paper reuse whenever possible. Solid wastes of the Philippines are collected by the Bank’s service providers. Moreover, LANDBANK Gendiesel Used Oil Contract Annually donates used computers, printers, and other usable office furniture and equipment to schools and other government agencies. ENVIROCARE Hazardous Management Contract Annually The Bank also submits self-monitoring reports for hazardous waste in Wastes Precision, Inc. order to keep track of the hazardous wastes generated LANDBANK has partnered with reputable waste management agencies, Recyclables and Reclaimed Wastes to ensure proper disposal of its wastes, and recycling of reusable waste 2017 2016 in order to reduce wastes that end up in landfills. Recyclable Amount of Amount of Waste (kg) Waste (kg) Batteries donated to ABS2,020 CBN Foundation Inc. for the Bantay Baterya Program Recyclable Wastes Collected 52,057 41,165 Obsolete Records Disposed 17,910 20,762.67 Polystyrene collected 232 372 306-2 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 59 Hazardous Wastes The Bank’s treated water discharge outlet is located in Mabini cor. Dr. Particulars Unit 2017 2016 J. Quintos Streets Drainage Manhole, which discharges water into the DENRAccredited ENVIROCARE ENVIROCARE Manila Bay. The Manila Bay is an important maritime resource, as it Transporter/Treater Management Management provides food, livelihood opportunities, employment and recreation to Precision, Inc. Precision, Inc an estimated 23 million Filipinos. Empty Ink Cartridge kg 1,274.97 7.67 Total Waste Water Discharge Scope: LANDBANK Plaza Inorganic Chemical Waste kg 198.5 111 (Busted Bulb) Putrescible Organic Waste L 100.5 0.528 (Grease Oil) 2017 46,856.88cu.m. 2016 44,007.88cu.m. Paint Container kg 501.73 468 Solvent Based Waste kg 1,390 19.1 Pathological or Infectious kg 4 Waste Quality of Waste Water Discharge Scope: LANDBANK Plaza Dry Cell/Household kg 84.6 Batteries Jan. Jul. Jan. Jul to to to to Parameters Effluent Standard Jun. Dec. Jun. Dec. Wastewater 2017 2017 2016 2016 LANDBANK Plaza is equipped with a Sewage Treatment Plant (STP) Biological 14 29 40 49 <100 mg/L to ensure efficient handling of wastewater, and to minimize potential Oxygen Demand water contamination from the release of effluent to surrounding water Chemical Oxygen bodies. The Bank measures its wastewater discharge through volume 30 51 71 141 <200 mg/L Demand time determination, as the wastewater is treated in the STP through screening, disinfection and usage of activated sludge. A combination of Total Suspended 40 17 35 120 <150 mg/L these steps forms the wastewater monitoring and management strategy Solids for LANDBANK, which ensures that the Bank is compliant with Clean pH 7.62 7.86 6.19 7.70 6.0 – 9.0 Water Act, the DENR Standards on Effluents, and other environmental Oil and Grease 1.8 1.3 4.2 2.6 <10 mg/L standards. The Bank’s wastewater is analyzed on a quarterly basis by the Fluid Systems and Design Inc. and Mach Union Water Laboratory. Based on the maximum allowable for Coastal Water Class SC set by the DAO No. 35, Series of 1990. 306-2, 306-4 60 Sustainable Banking LANDBANK understands the importance of extending its sustainability LANDBANK prepares environmental reports that not only state the outreach to its stakeholders. By placing a premium on environmental environmental performance of clients, but also help in keeping the Bank protection and management in lending and investment activities, the aware of potential impacts and risks. This provides an opportunity for Bank ensures that all commercial banking and lending decisions take clients to put mitigation mechanisms in place to reduce adverse impacts environmental due diligence into account. Environmental assessments of their operations. The Bank conducts an environmental risk rating for and site visits are conducted by the Bank in order to assess the clients’ every project it invests on and continues to evaluate compliance. The environmental performance, ensuring good environmental record for Bank also identifies environmental benefits of projects, or the eligibility LANDBANK. of certain projects to be included under the CDM. EDD projects entail environmental initiatives like energy management, water management, LANDBANK’s Corporate Environmental Policy and Environmental Due and waste management, among others. The Bank also encourages Diligence (EDD) are integral in all of its financed projects under the project proponents to implement Environmental Management System umbrella of loan program offerings. Through the Bank’s Environmental (EMS) and secure the 14001 certification. Policy, an environmental unit was established, which eventually became the Environmental Program and Management Department (EPMD). In coordination with Lending Units, EPMD is responsible for screening This department conducts the EDD on Bank-financed projects, and projects and conducting Environmental Impact Assessments. EPMD implements the Carbon Finance Support Facility (CFSF), which is identifies the environmental impacts, documents them, recommends LANDBANK’s flagship climate mitigation program for piggery and environmental management, measures and monitors compliance, landfill projects. Evaluation processes and performance reviews are especially in the Bank’s environmental investments. done externally, through the conduct of missions (World Bank, Japanese International Cooperation Agency, among others) and third party The Bank has a key role in developing and implementing an Environmental validation for the Clean Development Mechanism (CDM) program. and Social Management Framework for World Bank and Japanese Internal review is performed regularly through the Bank’s planning International Cooperation Agency (JICA) related projects to guarantee conferences and summits, among others. compliance of loan clients in accordance with environmental and social parameters. The Bank’s responsibility towards effective environmental The Bank’s EDD advocates and promotes environmental compliance to protection and management is seen in its adherence to its certifications: ensure that all Bank-financed projects are compliant with environmental the ISO 14001:2004 EMS and the ISO 9001:2009. The Bank’s EMS laws and regulations. EDD is also a large component for the Bank’s credit is managed by the EMS Secretariat under Facilities Management delivery systems, throughout loan packaging and loan payment. The Department (FMD). The Bank’s Green Procurement Policy also shows Bank’s comprehensive compliance management system ensures that its commitment towards making environmentally-friendly choices. risks associated with penalties and legal issues due to environmental violations are minimized. L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 61 to address climate-related risks, the Bank has organized its lending programs for climate change mitigation and adaptation projects under the Climate SMART (Synergistic Mitigation, Adaptation, Resiliency and Transformation) Financing Program. The Bank’s Climate Change Mitigation Program is geared towards the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. Under this category are the following: •  arbon Finance Support Facility (CFSF) is the carbon credit C program for piggery and sanitary landfill projects. • Renewable  Energy (RE) Lending Program provides financing The Bank’s Expenditures on Climate Change to renewable energy projects in support of the government’s thrust of RE development, utilization and commercialization, As a government bank, LANDBANK regularly reports to the Department and accelerating investments in the energy sector. of Budget and Management (DBM), and these reports include the Bank’s climate change expenditures. For the years 2016 and 2017, the Bank LANDBANK also has its Climate Change Adaptation Program that has spent ₱17.7 Million and ₱18.9 Million respectively, which covered seeks to address potential climate change impacts prior to their the implementation of the following programs: occurrence. Under this category are the following: • The Carbon Finance Support Facility (CFSF), which is • Climate  SAFE (Special Adaptation Facility for the Ecosystem) LANDBANK’s flagship climate mitigation program for piggery Program aims to provide financing for climate change and sanitary landfill projects to generate carbon credits. adaptation projects in support of government implementation of Republic Act 9729 (Climate Change Act of 2009) and • Environmental Due Diligence (EDD), which is exercised Republic Act 10174 (establishment of People’s Survival by conducting environmental assessment for LANDBANK Fund (PSF) to complement financing requirements of eligible financed projects covered by the Philippine Environmental borrowers, including LGUs, for their adaptation projects. Impact Statement System (DENR EMB MC 2014-005). • Climate Resilient Agriculture Program is a financing program • Environmental Management System (EMS), which is that targets the promotion of climate change adaptation continuously implemented in the conduct of LANDBANK initiatives towards climate resilient agriculture. operations and services. In support of the government thrust 201-2 62 Apart from its mitigation and adaptation programs, the Bank also has a Climate Change Resiliency Program aimed to help communities affected by climate change and natural disasters, allowing them to return to their normal state. This is the LANDBANK Calamity Rehabilitation Support (CARES) Program, which is a loan restructuring and rehabilitation credit program for the Bank’s existing and new customers who have been severely affected by disasters in areas declared under the state of calamity by the Office of the President or LGUs. Investments in Biodiversity The Philippine Eagle Upholding its environmental preservation commitment, LANDBANK donated funds to the Philippine Eagle Foundation (PEF) in 2017, for the conservation and protection of the Philippine Eagle. The financial support helped in the improvement of Captive Breeding Facilities, as the foundation was able to purchase a brand new cage, repair breeding chambers and construct partition for existing duplex-type cage. Currently, there are only 400 pairs of the Philippine Eagle remaining •  ringing Urbanization and Innovation through LANDBANK’s B in the wild. It is now considered as critically endangered due to illegal Diverse Engineering Resources Support (BUILDERS) Program hunting and deforestation. PEF hopes to increase the count of these provides business loans to SMEs in the local construction birds through a holistic approach of public education, research, and market, forming part of the Bank’s contribution to the Publiccaptive breeding. For 30 years, PEF has been at the forefront of efforts Private Partnership projects of the National Government by to save the national bird and its forest habitat. It has spearheaded extending credit support to private and public sector players various campaigns dedicated to the conservation and protection of the in the industry. endangered Philippine Eagle. • K  alikasang Kabuhayan sa Wastong Pamayanan (KAWAYAN) promotes bamboo as source of livelihood or business to cooperatives, farmer associations, SMEs, NGOs, Agri-business entities and LGUs. 304-3 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 63 Manila Bay Sunset Partnership Program Inc. MBSPPI Partners The Manila Bay SUNSET Parnership Program, Inc. or MBSPPI headed As of December 31, 2017 by LANDBANK is the flagship corporate social responsibility program of the Bank. It is a public-private collaboration of 29 member institutions (refer to sidebar for complete list of MBSPPI Partner Institutions) Land Bank of the Philippines to implement a sustainable approach to help clean and protect the City Government of Manila Manila Yacht Club marine and coastal resources of the Manila Bay, and promote proper Cooperative Development Authority Masaganang Sakahan, Inc. management and correct attitude toward handling garbage. DENR Manila Bay Maynilad Water Services, Inc. Coordinating Office Metropolitan Manila DENR National Capital Region Development Authority Part of the ongoing priority activities of the program are: De La Salle University Manila Miss Earth Foundation, Inc. 1) monthly cleanup of Manila Bay areas; 2) information, education, and Department of Public Works and Pamantasan ng Lungsod ng Maynila communication (IEC) campaigns in different public schools in the cities Highways NCR Polystyrene Packaging of Manila and Las Piñas; 3) fund-raising activities through the Manila Environmental Management Council of the Philippines Bay Clean-up Run; 4) recovery program of collecting waste polystyrene Bureau – NCR Polytechnic University from partner institutions; and 5) adopting of a Manila Bay tributary/ LANDBANKOOP of the Philippines estero and introducing water quality improvement interventions. LANDBANK Countryside University of the Philippines, Manila Development Foundation, Inc. Villar Sipag at Tiyaga LANDBANK Insurance Brokerage, Inc. Foundation, Inc. LANDBANK Leasing and Finance Asian Social Institute Corporation Division of City Schools LANDBANK Resources and (DCS)-Manila Development Corporation Department of Finance (DOF) Manila Broadcasting Company Philippine Information Agency Manila Ocean Park (PIA) NCR Manila Bay Clean-up Clean-up activities saw an increase of 64.3% in the total number of volunteers. There were 7,998 volunteers in 2017 from 3,129 volunteers in 2016. The total number of truckloads of trash collected also increased to 53 truckloads in 2017 from 37 truckloads in 2016. MBSPPI was able to retrieve 273 kilograms of waste polystyrene products, which have been recycled to rulers. 304-1, 304-2, 304-3 64 Mabuhay Balls Program During the Manila Bay clean-up activity held on August 12, 2017, the rulers made from waste polystyrene products from program partner MBSPPI launched the Mabuhay Balls Program which started with the Polystyrene Packaging Council of the Philippines (PPCP). Adopt-an-Estero program launched in August 2016. The Mabuhay Balls Program uses Effective Microorganism (EM) technology that utilizes The MBSPPI-produced video, “That Thing Called Basura,” was also local materials formulated by the Asian Social Institute. shown to the students to help promote proper waste management. The expanded module of the 2017 Binion School Tour highlights the entry of The Mabuhay Balls Program and Adopt-an-Estero program seek to ‘Friends of Binion’, the environmental partners of Binion. This includes expand approaches to sustainable water quality improvement and the discussion of liquid waste management through Maynilad’s Water protection of the coastal resources of Manila Bay by including the Warriors. clean-up of water channels interconnected to the Bay. It also aims to increase community awareness and commitment, including those of Among the active MBSPPI supporters of this program are the Division stakeholders living near tributaries and “estero” or surrounding creeks. of City Schools Manila, LANDBANK Countryside Foundation, Inc., Manila Broadcasting Company, Maynilad, Miss Earth Foundation, PPCP and Volunteers from LANDBANK and partner institutions of MBSPPI who Villar SIPAG Foundation. participated in the clean-up in August 2017 worked together to clear trash from the shores of Manila Bay. They also worked together to In 2016, MBSPPI created a Facebook Page titled “Solusyon Ni Binion” to make 7,500 pieces of Mabuhay Balls which were dropped at Estero de generate more awareness about solid waste management, particularly Kabulusan in Tondo, Manila, the beneficiary site of the Mabuhay Balls the value of recycling among high school students. To date, it has Program. The Mabuhay Balls inhibit the growth of algae and break down generated a total of 8,400 organic “Likes”. For more information about sludge and silt in the water to help improve clarity and water flow. the page, you may visit www.facebook.com/solusyonnibinion. A total of 9,000 pieces of Mabuhay Balls were produced for the program. The first half was dropped last December 19, 2017, complemented by the application of EM solution to Estero de Kabulusan. The Environmental Management Bureau of NCR (EMB-NCR) conducted water quality sampling to assess the effectiveness of the intervention. Binion School Tours The Bank conducted Binion School Tours to educate the youth about the environmental protection. A total of 8 events were conducted in public high schools in Manila and 2 in Las Piñas City, where about 2,000 high school students participated. These students also received up-cycled 304-1, 304-2, 304-3 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 65 Phase III: Areas Involved Gawad Sibol Program (Adopt-a-Watershed Program Phase III) Isabela La Union 5 The Gawad Sibol Program is a continuation of the Adopt-A-Watershed 5 Nueva Ecija Program which started in 2006 with the objectives of reforesting, 5 protecting and increasing biodiversity of denuded watersheds across Albay the Philippines. The program also contributes to the National Greening Rizal 5 5 Program (NGP) of the Department of Environment and Natural Resources (DENR) and helps mitigate the impact of global warming Batangas Tacloban and climate change. Also part of its objectives is to minimize floods 5 5 during typhoons in the covered areas and empower local community groups (indigenous people and peoples’ organizations) as partner for Cebu 5 the program’s success and sustainability. The program also provides Iloilo volunteerism opportunities to LANDBANK employees. 5 By the end of 2017, the program has increased the number of areas Davao covered across the country to a total of 25 sites and 114 hectares in Oriental land area. 3 Zamboanga Based from the continuous monitoring, rigid on-site validation and Sibugay Aligned with the country’s 5 consultation, and impact assessment and evaluation, the cumulative Lanao gains of the Gawad Sibol Program include: del Norte commitment to reduce its 5 South Cotabato greenhouse gas emissions, • A total of 132,300 hardwood, mangroves and fruit-bearing trees 3 were planted during the entire course of the program; LANDBANK sustains its efforts No. of No. of • A total of 114 hectares of land covered in various watersheds located Program Sites Hectares to mitigate and adapt to the in all 18 regions in the Philippines; • Around 5,000 volunteers from LANDBANK nationwide have Adopt-A-Watershed 6 14 effects of climate change and participated in the program, where each employee/volunteer planted Phase I2006 to 2011 focuses on better management 20-25 trees each; and Adopt-A-Watershed 6 40 • Achieved 91.48% survival rate among all the trees planted in six Phase II2012 to 2015 of Bank resources. LANDBANK sites nationwide during the Phase II of Adopt-A-Watershed Gawad Sibol (Adopt13 60 remains committed to empower A-Watershed Phase III) 2016 to 2018 the countryside through projects Total 25 114 and programs that uphold environmental sustainability. 304-1, 304-2, 304-3 66 Customer Service Bringing Opportunities Closer to the Countryside According to the 2015 National Baseline Survey on Financial Inclusion (NBSFI) released by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP), only four out of 10 Filipino adults (43.2%) have savings. Nearly a fourth (24.5%) has never experienced saving money, while the remaining 32.3% have saved money in the past but have stopped. Moreover, the Philippines’ archipelagic make-up and the persistence of infrastructure gaps have hindered the accessibility of bank products and services in far-flung areas. While progress has been made through various initiatives, many of the municipalities still remain unbanked. Upholding its mission to promote inclusive growth, LANDBANK organized a Financial Inclusion Caravan in various provinces around the country. This activity was part of the Bank’s major activities in 2016 and 2017 as a meaningful undertaking to bring financial awareness, empowerment, and business and livelihood opportunities especially to poor members of the community. The LANDBANK Financial Inclusion Caravan is a nationwide activity in pursuit of educating more Filipinos on basic and responsible saving activities and equipping them with the knowledge and confidence to make their own informed financial decisions. Entitled “Ipon at Kabuhayan para sa mga Kababayan,” the half-day forum included modules on the basics of financial L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 67 products and services, tips on saving, and The campaign was launched in partnership livelihood and investment opportunities. with BSP, the department of Social Welfare and Development, LGUs and FINTQ – financial technology arm of PLDT and Smart’s Voyager To encourage attendees to open savings Innovations. accounts, LANDBANK gave pre-loaded ATM accounts (with ₱200.00) to 200 predetermined participants (by the LGU) in each Financial inclusion is thus a continuing priority area. Exclusive to caravan participants, these for LANDBANK in support of the government’s savings accounts have special features such thrust to achieve inclusive and broad-based as zero initial deposit, no minimum balance, growth. The Bank has been successful in waived dormancy and other fees, among penetrating all of the 81 provinces in the others. Apart from those given pre-loaded country through its branch network and has ATM cards, many participants opened savings established Other Banking Offices in areas accounts on the spot. where it has no branch to reach out to unserved sectors in other cities and municipalities. In 2016, a successful pilot was carried out impacting close to 4,500 participants from nine (9) 4th to 6th class municipalities. It was held simultaneously in Sta. Marcela, Apayao; San Antonio, Zambales; Palayan, Nueva Ecija; Alabat, Quezon; Laurel, Batangas; Sta. Margarita, Western Samar; Amlan, Negros Oriental; Sulop, Davao del Sur; and Sinacaban, Misamis Occidental. In 2017, LANDBANK continued its nationwide financial inclusion (FI) caravan aimed at covering eight (8) municipalities across the country, benefitting over 4,000 participants. The municipalities covered during its 2017 run are Barotac Nuevo, Iloilo; Argao, Cebu; Sugbongcogon, Misamis Oriental; Braulio E. Dujali, Davao del Norte; Kiangan, Ifugao; Moncada, Tarlac; Cuenca, Batangas; and Pilar, Sorsogon. 68 Customer Service LANDBANK believes in building a culture of responsible and strong Through this facility, client-payers who do not have ATM cards were customer relations through provision of quality financial products provided with pre-generated ATM cards. The facility also has ATM and well-devised engagement strategies that are compliant with all Machines and a Cash Deposit Machine for real time deposits to the legal requirements. The Bank constantly works towards improving its pregenerated ATM cards. rapport with its customers and building stakeholder trust by meeting the expectations of its customers, business partners or regulators. With an aim to accelerate the financial inclusion journey of marginalized Filipinos from being unbanked or semi-banked to a fully-banked segment LANDBANK works towards strengthening its product portfolio to of the population, LANDBANK has made inclusive growth more attainable minimize market risks, and reaching out to more markets. The Bank’s by empowering individuals to become self-sustaining. The financial efforts towards financial inclusion have widened horizons and expanded inclusion program is geared towards building assets, generating income, its reach to the unbanked areas in the Philippines. creating wealth, and psycho-socio-economic development. The Bank’s customer service strategy revolves around providing It is anchored on the prospect of mobilizing micro-savings linked with responsible products and services, ensuring responsible lending, conditional cash transfer (CCT) by pulling the liquidity of the poor into improving customer experience, and holistically building customer trust. the formal banking sector, while incentivizing them to avail livelihood The quality of LANDBANK’s processes, products, and delivery systems credit which has enormous potential for scalability and sustainability. ease the banking experience for its retail and institutional clients. LANDBANK continues to expand throughout the nation, offering its In 2016, LANDBANK won the “Asian Bank of the Year” award for its innovative range of products and services in an inclusive manner. efforts towards financial inclusion and support for farmers, fishers, agribusiness, aqua-businesses and MSMEs. To promote inclusive development, the Bank makes best use of the latest technologies such as mobile banking to empower communities with the Product Portfolio Development delivery of responsible and sustainable products. The Bank constantly ensures that its services are not only effective and at par with local and LANDBANK endeavors towards developing and delivering a wide range international laws, but are also responsive to changing needs of clients of quality products and services to help its stakeholders grow. The and stakeholders. Bank’s approach towards providing responsible and innovative products and services make banking more convenient. To increase the efficiency In 2017, to further support the National Government’s drive towards in service delivery, the Bank widened its delivery channels by providing inclusive banking, the Bank launched the very first LANDBANK Inclusive convenient access to banking services, customer-focused bank Banking Center (LIBC) with the Land Transportation Franchising products and services, and cash management services to the National Regulatory Board as the pioneer agency benefiting from the project. Government. 416-1, 417-1 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 69 LANDBANK is highly transparent about the services it offers. This is evident through the vast plethora of information available on the Bank’s communication channels such as websites, posters and brochures. Services are labelled accordingly and are compliant with all mandated national and local laws and regulations, and have no negative health and safety impacts. The Bank additionally has a range of sustainable banking options that it offers to cater to climate change-relevant issues. The Bank ensures that adequate information is provided to its stakeholders on product specifics. As a responsible government financial institution, the Bank considers environmental and social impacts of in the conceptualization and design of services. LANDBANK realizes the vital role of coming up with marketing and communications plan to increase operational efficiency and improve outreach to cater to different markets. The Bank’s streamlined marketing tools are compliant with the Corporate Identity Manual and the Manual of Procedures. These marketing tools help LANDBANK ensure a uniform application of its corporate trademark during printed communications, Product Responsibility marketing strategies, publicity drives, and other marketing initiatives. In its processes towards marketing and communications in relation to Product responsibility is at the core of LANDBANK’s sustainability operations, products and services, the Bank ensures that it abides by all ventures. The Bank’s strategy towards providing optimal services of high laws, standards and voluntary codes, strictly following all of the mandates caliber ensures improved customer service and improved relationships of the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas (BSP) and National Government in the with stakeholders. This serves as a stepping stone for increased revenue fair design and sale of financial products and services. generation and helps the Bank earn customer trust and loyalty through enhanced and sturdy partnerships. The Bank’s product responsibility agenda has an outreach across its value chain. The Bank ensures that it is being responsible towards its customers, and meets its customers’ expectations by incorporating their requirements while building its value chain. It does so by leveraging core banking processes through the use of Quality Management Systems (QMS), increasing transparency and improving its delivery channels to reach out to more stakeholders in need, upgrading its information technology and automation to be head-to-head with competition, making effective partnerships, and recognizing partners with outstanding performance. 416-1, 417-1 70 Customer Privacy Customer privacy is an important part of the Bank’s development strategy. It forms a crucial part of the Bank’s commitment to protect customer data and maintain truthful, long-lasting and loyal relationships with customers. The Bank does not disclose any of the customer information such as information on deposits of current or past customers, among other things, unless it is required by law or with the consent of the depositor. Customer information, likewise, cannot be looked into by any person, may it be a government bureau or office, except in cases specifically sanctioned by law, thus, maintaining such data confidential and further strengthening LANDBANK’s relationship with customers. The Bank restricts employee access to customer information, except in cases where such access is necessary in order to process the customer’s transaction with the Bank. Information collected from customers is only used for specific purposes said information is intended to, such as administering customer accounts, complying with local and national laws, protecting customers against fraud, and understanding specific customer requirements. LANDBANK’s Compliance Management Group and Legal Services Group, and other authorized units are responsible for handling customer privacy, reviewing policies and guidelines, implementing strategies, establishing internal controls to protect customer data, and ensuring that there are no breaches or leakages of Customer Satisfaction customer data. Customer satisfaction is of key priority to LANDBANK in its venture to LANDBANK’s strong commitment towards ensuring data privacy is bolster growth through financial inclusion. The Bank works meticulously governed by a rigorous and effective set of frameworks and policies towards improving customer experience with a strong commitment on customer privacy that is deeply embedded in the Bank’s Guidelines to build long lasting and responsible relationships with its customers. on Classification, Handling, Access and Disclosure of Information of In its ventures towards building strong customer relations, the Bank Assets, Information Security Policy Manual and the Policy on Securing works earnestly with a high level of conduct and integrity by providing Information Technology Infrastructure and Consumer Protection. an easy and safe space for stakeholders to have access to financial products and services. LANDBANK values all its customers by LANDBANK’s data privacy is also guided by the Data Privacy Act. The Bank conducts polis to educate employees on the significant role of confidentiality and data privacy of customer’s information. 418-1 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 71 providing world-class quality services. In order to constantly improve In compliance with the implementing rules and regulations of the ARTA its performance, understand stakeholder inputs and expectations, of 2007, the Citizen’s Charter for Branch Banking Products and Services and analyze if stakeholder expectations are being met, the Bank was repackaged to make it user-friendly. Further, the Citizen’s Charter conducts customer satisfaction surveys to understand organizational for Agrarian Products and Services was formulated to provide support performance. The Corporate Affairs Department is responsible for the to agrarian reform beneficiaries. customer servicing through the Customer Care Center which includes a 24/7 hotline, email, and social media channels for customer inquiries In 2016, LANDBANK implemented the Customer Assistance and concerns. On the other hand, the Strategic Planning Group is Management System (CAMS). This is part of the Bank’s compliance to responsible for customer service, measuring satisfaction and product BSP’s thrust on Financial Consumer Protection. This process ensures development. that all clients’ concerns and complaints are properly addressed and resolved. It also serves as an avenue to identify and propose process In 2016, under Republic Act No. 9485 or the Anti-Red Tape Act (ARTA) improvement initiatives which in turn enhance the Bank’s corporate of 2007, the Bank entered into an agreement with the Civil Service image. Commission (CSC) for conducting the 2nd run of the self-funded AntiRed Tape Act Report Card Survey (ARTA-RCS). The survey covered 100 In 2017, the third wave of the Bank’s Nationwide Customer Satisfaction selected LANDBANK Branches and Extension Offices (branch banking Survey was conducted by the Nielson Company (Philippines) Inc. operations) nationwide which have not undergone the ARTA-RCS. The The results of the survey show that 96% of the respondents gave a results showed that the Bank obtained 100% passing rate with an overall “Satisfactory Rating”. national score of 87.88% equivalent to a “Good” descriptive rating, the same rating obtained by the Bank in the 2015 ARTAR-RCS. This is also Customer Care Center Performance Highlights one of the commitments of the Bank under its Performance Scorecard required by the Governance Commission for GOCCs. 2017 2016 2016 ARTA Report Card Survey Results Calls 35 Branches/ 64 1 served 254,755 166,839 Extension Were Garnered an Offices got Rated Good Acceptable Excellent Rating Rating Emails Responded 147,938 75,989 72 LANDBANK’s Delivery Channels The Bank also strengthened the following initiatives during the reporting period: LINK.BIZPORTAL Link.BizPortal is an e-payment facility designed to accept payment of fees, dues, and charges from clients of enrolled merchants from both government and private institutions. For example, taxpayers and tax agent’s practitioners were able to pay their taxes via the Internet. Likewise, recruitment agencies can also pay the Philippine Overseas Employment Administration (POEA) for processing fees electronically. Through this service, the client avoids the hassle of lining up, and it provides a safer and more convenient platform of paying fees. The portal allows partner clients and/or agencies to directly interface or interconnect with LANDBANK’s Payment Gateway for the payment of goods and services. Link.BizPortal allows clients to pay using their Highlights of 2016-2017 LANDBANK ATM accounts, BancNet-Member ATM accounts, VISA/ MasterCard debit/prepaid/credit cards, and Globe G-Cash. In its efforts to reach out to the unserved, underserved and economically disadvantaged sites in rural areas, LANDBANK uses the power potential Europay, MasterCard, and Visa (EMV) of world-class banking technology, and quality financial products and services. The Bank continued expanding its LANDBANK Easy-Access EMV replaces magstripe ATM cards with EMV chip-enabled cards that Facility (LEAF), the Bank’s breakthrough venture to move towards store payment information in a secured chip instead of a magnetic financial inclusion. Through LEAF, customers can easily conduct stripe. An EMV card is virtually impossible to counterfeit since the chip is nontransactional banking activities like ATM withdrawals, self-service able to perform cryptographic processing during a payment transaction. cash deposits, submission of loan applications, open accounts, inquire about loans, products and services, and gain access to easy and Cheque Truncation System (CTS) affordable financial services. Through the CTS, physical cheques are converted into substitute The LANDBANK Easy-Access Facilities have ATMs, Cash Deposit electronic forms for transmission to the paying bank. Cheque truncation Machines, and the LANDBANK Express Access Machine (LEAM) which reduces or eliminates the physical movement of cheques and reduces allows users to pay taxes. The facilities can also be used for PhilHealth the time and cost of processing the cheque clearance system. Under this contributions and payments of various bills. LANDBANK continuously system, clearing of cheques become shorter from three days to two days. increases its network to widen its reach in the delivery of banking products and services, particularly in the countryside. The Bank has Purchase Transaction Alert established additional nine new Branches/Extension Offices and seven LANDBANK Easy Access Facilities in the remote areas of the country. Credit card holders receive real-time purchase transaction e-mail alert of purchases made to thwart unauthorized use of credit card. L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 73 iEasyPadala LANDBANK Remittance System (LBRS) is a web-based remittance system capable of processing remittance transactions with various delivery channels for the settlement of clients and beneficiaries accounts. The LBRS also implemented system interfaces with various Remittance Agency Partners such as XOOM, Western Union, WIC, etc. for seamless processing of remittance transactions. Continuing Bank Products, Services, Channels and Facilities • Mobile Banking Bank Products • LANDBANK Mobile Banking Application • Deposit Products (MBA) • Remittance Products • Payment and Collection Services • Card Products (LANDBANK Visa Debit • Electronic Tax Payment System (eTPS) Card (LVDC); Credit Card) • BOC Pass Electronic Payment System • Salary Loan Products (LANDBANK • (PAS5 -EPS) Mobile LoanSaver (LMLS); LANDBANK • Private Collection Services Livelihood Loan Program) • Government Collection Services Direct Delivery Channels Collection and Disbursement Services for the • Automated Tellering Machines National Government • Cash Deposit Machine • Conditional Cash Transfer • LANDBANK Express Access Machines • Revenue Collection Services and other • Mobile ATMs services • Modified Disbursement System (MDS) Electronic Banking (e-Banking) Products LANDBANK continuously prioritizes programs aimed at and Services Other Facilities • Internet Banking • Phone Banking promoting greater financial inclusion, with wider operations • LANDBANK weACCESS • LANDBANK Point-of-Sale (POS) Debit and centered on customers. The Bank puts premium on customer • LANDBANK iACCESS POS Debit/Credit • Electronic Modified Disbursement • LANDBANK POS Cash-out service as it continues to provide accessible, convenient, and • System (eMDS) excellent banking services even for far-flung communities. 74 Employee development Investment in People LANDBANK considers its employees as its greatest assets. It responds to the value of having a skilled set of professionals with technical capabilities, and expertise in various fields for its sustainable growth, to have an advantage over others in a competitive banking industry. In order to inculcate a culture of high performance, LANDBANK motivates and upgrades its human resources by investing in them--ensuring that they are provided with fair and equal opportunities for learning and development. The Bank has always put a premium on developing a talented and competitive workforce through attendance to various learning and development programs on various disciplines. The Bank’s Management and Leadership Development Program (MLDP) strengthens leadership skills among its high performers, forming a stepping stone for future supervisory and managerial roles in the Bank. A culture of excellence and professionalism is thus strongly nurtured within the organization. Success of the MLDPs is evident in the numerous recognitions received by the Bank. In 2015, the People Management Association of the Philippines adjudged the MLD framework as a finalist for the People Program of the Year. LANDBANK was also awarded Graduate Employment Programme of the Year – Philippines by the Asian Banking and Finance Magazine in 2016. The following year, the Bank was cited as the Outstanding Development Project under Human Capital Development Category for both its “MLD L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 75 Framework” and “Cooperative Immersion” by The Bank also offers various opportunities for the Association of Development Financing globally-recognized certification programs, Institutions in Asia and the Pacific (ADFIAP). especially for those who are involved in highly specialized roles. Other than providing Apart from strengthening the Bank’s technical skills trainings, the Bank also succession program, the MLD framework is attempts to inculcate a culture of coaching integrated with the other human resource across its operations, to counsel and mentor (HR) processes under a competency-based individuals to perform to their optimum. HR system developed and used consistently across the organization, linking employees All these initiatives serve as proof that to the organization’s tactical and strategic LANDBANK remains committed towards direction. placing great importance on the personal and professional growth of its employees, ensuring In order to evaluate the performance of its talent, that as the Bank grows, the employees grow the Bank initially uses Position Competency as well. Profile (PCP) to develop the competency levels among employees. This is based on individual key performance indicators of specific job roles. The performance evaluation system helps to review the core, leadership and functional competencies of individual employees by identifying gaps in performance, and provides focus points for improvement. With this system, the employees, with the assistance of the supervisors, can create a customized competency-based Individual Development Plan (IDP) which serves as a tool to enlist specific learning and development interventions for individual employees. As additional opportunities to pursue higher studies, the Bank provides opportunities for its employees to enroll in an in-house Master in Business Administration in partnership with the College of the Holy Spirit Manila. This allows Landbankers to earn a post graduate degree in a span of a year. 76 Employee Development With a mission to develop and nurture talents to exemplify the highest Employment standards of ethics and excellence consistent with the best in the world, LANDBANK’s talent management strategy ensures that all Landbankers LANDBANK’s talent management and recruitment processes are in are provided with an excellent platform to showcase their talents and accordance with government-related mandates. To ensure that the develop as individuals. The Bank understands that its employees play right kind of talent is recruited, the Bank conducts studies to understand a huge role in helping the Bank achieve its goals and targets, thus it region-wise market dynamics in accordance with business needs values their contributions by providing them with opportunities to grow throughout its regions of operation across the Philippines. Recruitment career-wise. processes are strategized based on the results of these studies. In hiring employees for permanent positions, LANDBANK’s hiring criteria is more LANDBANK’s workforce is comprised of talented and motivated detailed as employees need to undergo screening processes. These individuals who work hand-in-hand with the Bank to help in its longprocesses include pre-employment examinations, interviews, medical term success. Employee development is deeply embedded in the Bank’s examinations and background checks. The Bank’s diligent steps towards Corporate Strategy, constantly working towards building and enhancing hiring ascertain that only capable and competitive individuals are hired. partnerships with employees to improve their capabilities. Human The Bank understands the importance of having a low turnover rate, Resources Management Group (HRMG) is responsible for the employee hence it puts steps in place to ensure that its employees are satisfied. development activities of the Bank. LANDBANK provides equal pay to both men and women. 2017 2016 9,421 9,194 employees and employees and service company service company workers workers LANDBANK’s strong and diverse workforce is composed of multitalented individuals with various skill-sets. The Bank ensures that equal opportunities are provided to all employees, treating them with the respect and dignity they deserve, regardless of gender, age, regional background, religious beliefs and seniority. 102-8, 405-1, 405-2 L A NDBA N DBA NK N K 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 77 Workforce Dashboard Scope: LANDBANK Plaza and Branches Male Employees Female Employees Total workforce by Total number of Total workforce by Total number of employees and supervised employees by employment employees and supervised employees by employment workers by gender contract and gender workers by gender contract and gender 2,593 5,357 Permanent Permanent 2,616 22 5,369 12 Employees 2017 Employees Co-terminous Co-terminous 551 1 885 0 Supervised Supervised Temporary Temporary Workers Workers Total: 2,616 Total: 5,369 2,626 5,176 2,622 Permanent 5,190 Permanent Employees Employees 17 14 2016 498 Co-terminous 862 Co-terminous Supervised 1 Supervised 0 Workers Temporary Workers Temporary Total: 3,142 Total: 5,190 102-8, 405-1, 405-2 78 Total Number of Employees by Region and Gender 2017 2016 Appointment Status Female Male Total Female Male Total NCR 2,552 1,427 3,979 2,463 1,372 3,835 CAR 78 38 116 71 33 104 Ilocos Region 238 100 338 230 96 326 Cagayan Valley 223 131 354 215 131 346 Central Luzon 524 212 736 513 224 737 Calabarzon 505 195 700 490 201 691 Mimaropa 145 69 214 140 68 208 Bicol Region 236 102 338 224 108 332 Western Visayas 343 157 500 311 162 473 Central Visayas 249 108 357 234 108 342 Eastern Visayas 168 79 247 174 77 251 Zamboanga Peninsula 160 98 258 171 99 270 Northern Mindanao 249 120 369 248 125 373 Davao Region 219 110 329 212 117 329 SOCCSKSARGEN 247 150 397 240 146 386 ARMM 37 29 66 43 28 71 Caraga 81 42 123 73 47 120 Total 6,254 3,167 9,421 6,052 3,142 9,194 102-8, 405-1 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 79 New Employee Hires by Region and Gender Ilocos Region Cagayan Valley CAR 20 7 23 11 Total: 34 Number of Employees by Age and Gender Total: 27 20 11 28 15 Total: 43 Total: 31 12 2 Total: 14 Central Luzon CalAbarzon Age 2017 2016 12 7 Group Female Male Total Female Male Total Total: 19 NCR 55 23 40 10 25 and Total: 78 Total: 50 1,445 588 2,033 1,260 527 1,787 below 35 12 28 5 Total: 47 Total: 33 26-35 1,604 867 2,471 1,438 768 2,206 168 80 Total: 248 Bicol Region 36-45 1,443 649 2,092 1,518 652 2,170 133 73 Total: 206 46-49 703 353 1,056 778 394 1,172 26 11 Eastern Visayas Total: 37 50-55 908 550 1,458 856 573 1,429 MIMAROPA 16 5 Total: 21 12 8 56-59 136 137 273 177 197 374 Total: 20 12 10 15 3 60 and up 15 23 38 25 31 56 Total: 22 Total: 18 10 4 Total 6,254 3,167 9,421 6,052 3,142 9,194 Total: 14 Caraga Western Visayas Number of Employee Hires by Age and Gender 6 1 49 10 Total: 7 2017 2016 Total: 59 4 5 Age Group 18 5 Total: 9 Female Male Total Female Male Total Total: 23 Northern Mindanao 25 and 397 152 549 312 122 434 Central Visayas below 17 5 26-35 125 63 188 97 52 149 Total: 22 38 10 24 10 36-45 10 5 15 8 6 14 Total: 48 Total: 34 28 9 46-49 2 2 4 1 0 1 Total: 37 Davao Region 50-55 1 1 2 1 0 1 17 9 56-59 1 1 0 0 0 Zamboanga SOCCSKSARGEN Total: 26 Peninsula 11 5 60 and up 2 2 1 3 4 ARMM Total: 16 Total 536 225 761 420 183 603 9 9 31 16 Total: 18 1 3 Total: 47 18 6 Total: 4 13 7 102-8, 401-1, 405-1 Total: 24 7 1 Total: 20 Total: 8 80 Total Number of Separated Employees by Gender and Region Cagayan Valley Ilocos Region 9 13 Number of Separated Employees by Age Group and Gender CAR 6 12 Total: 18 Total: 22 3 0 4 3 Total: 7 2017 2016 3 4 Total: 3 Age Group Total: 7 Central Luzon CalAbarzon Female Male Total Female Male Total 4 2 Total: 6 25 and 23 13 36 15 8 23 40 30 29 19 below NCR Total: 70 Total: 48 26-35 38 21 59 40 24 64 14 17 15 7 Total: 31 Total: 22 36-45 51 16 67 35 18 53 126 68 Total: 194 Bicol Region 46-49 39 11 50 27 10 37 121 76 Total: 197 50-55 84 52 136 45 42 87 16 13 Total: 29 56-59 91 105 196 50 50 100 MIMAROPA 8 9 Total: 17 Eastern Visayas 60 and up 30 33 63 39 35 74 Total 356 251 607 251 187 438 8 7 Total: 15 13 9 6 9 Total: 22 Total: 15 6 7 Total: 13 Western Visayas Caraga 22 15 Total: 37 10 21 6 4 Total: 10 Total: 31 8 2 Central Visayas Total: 10 Northern Mindanao 15 9 Total: 24 15 13 17 9 Total: 28 Total: 26 12 5 Total: 17 Davao Region Zamboanga Peninsula ARMM SOCCSKSARGEN 10 11 Total: 21 21 11 8 6 Total: 32 1 0 16 13 Total: 14 401-1, 405-1 Total: 1 Total: 29 5 8 Total: 13 0 0 10 6 Total: 0 Total: 16 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 81 Employee Benefits Standard Benefits/Allowances Specific Purpose Benefits/ Allowances Medical/Health (including Magna Carta Benefits) Care/Life Care Benefits • Children’s Allowance • Total Annual Medical Benefit • Representation Allowance (for Pay Grade 8 and up) • Financial Assistance for Dreaded Diseases • Transportation Allowance (for PG 8 and up) • Loss of Life and Disability Benefit Plan • Housing Allowance (for PG 10 and up assigned in • Mutual Aid Benefit Program Personnel Economic Uniform/Clothing the field) • Mandatory Annual Medical Examination • Teller’s Allowance • Flu Vaccination Relief Allowance Allowance • Compensation Package for Overseas Remittance • Access to Emergency Medicines for Field Unit Employees Officers • Access to Medical Clinic/ Retainer Physician’s Services • Overtime Pay • Night Differential Pay Leave Benefits • Legal Assistance and Indemnification Plan • Sick Leave • Travel Allowance Per Diem • Vacation Leave • Mobile Communication Facility • Maternity Leave • Honoraria • Paternity Leave • Magna Carta for Public Health Workers • Maternity and Paternity Leave Benefits for Adoptive Parents • Longevity Pay • Parental Leave for Solo Parents • Meal Allowance Special Emergency Leave Year-End Bonus Mid-Year Bonus • • Special Leave Privilege and Cash Gift Rewards, Incentives and • Special Leave Benefits for Women (Magna Carta for the women) Performance-based Pay Benefits • Sick Leave with Pay • Anniversary Cash Gift • Extension of Sick Leave with Half Pay • Collective Negotiation Agreement (CNA) Incentive • Rehabilitation Privilege • Productivity Enhancement Incentive • Study Leave with pay Employees Availing Rehabilitation • Performance-Based Bonus • Forced Mandatory Leave Privilege • CSC Honor Award Program Dangal ng Bayan Award • • Compensatory Service 10-Day Leave under Republic Act No. 9262 Presidential Lingkod Bayan Award • LBPEA Time-Off Type of Privilege 2017 2016 Civil Service Commission Pagasa Award • Muslim Holiday in Areas outside the Autonomous Region • Awards for Individual Excellence • Monetization of Leave Credits Rehabilitation Privilege 8 2 Perfect Attendance Award • Terminal Leave Professional Award SL with Full Pay 21 24 Trailblazing Products and Services Program Bank’s/Employer’s Share • Awards for Milestone Years of Service • Bank’s Provident Fund Share SL with Half Pay 4 Loyalty Award • GSIS • Awards for Group Excellence • PHIC Branch Banking Award • HDMF Parental Leaves Taken Awards of Excellence for Lending Units Audit Achiever’s Award Others Awards for Institutional Achievement Type of Leave 2017 2016 • Merit Increase Program • Christmas Gift Package/Raffle • Financial Assistance and Relief Goods Maternity 247 242 • Floral Wreath for Deceased Employees, their Immediate Family Members and Retirees Paternity 64 78 • Shuttle Service Solo Parent Leave 122 112 401-2, 401-3 82 Labor Management Relations LANDBANK understands the key role that labor management and good conditions provided to Landbankers are compliant with all relevant laws, communication have in its success as an organization. In order to rules and regulations. This helps the Bank achieve the maximum level of improve relations with its employees, the Bank recognizes the formation working efficiency, constantly improving employee welfare. of employee associations. The Bank supports its employee association and ensures that it is completely transparent in its communications Collective Negotiation Agreements and Freedom with them regarding various aspects, especially operational changes. Currently, two associations are institutionalized in the Bank – the of Association Land Bank of the Philippines Employees Association (LBPEA) and the LANDBANK understands the importance of providing freedom of LANDBANK Middle Management Officers Association Incorporated association at the workplace to ensure that employees are provided (MMOAI). The LBPEA was identified as the sole and exclusive negotiating with a platform where they can share their concerns as a group. The representative of all regular employees of the Bank for the purpose of Bank realizes the mutual benefits gained when such freedom is collective negotiations. provided. Collective Negotiation Agreement (CNA) embodies the intent and purpose of Management and employees to promote and improve To maintain strong communications between managers and the industrial relations between them. The CNA outlines the terms and employees, the Bank ensures that it has a strong social media channel conditions of employment to ensure a safe working environment for all such as the website, human resources Facebook page, and Twitter employees, including proper wages, working hours, health and safety, as account among others. The Bank also conducts regular HR town hall well as overtime services. meetings, State of the Bank Address, circulates the weekly internal newsletters, and communicates regularly with elected officers of the LBPEA and the MMOAI to further strengthen communications. The Total LANDBANK population covered Bank’s communications strategies have improved transparency within by the Collective Negotiation Agreement (CNA) the organization and have provided a portal for the Management to promulgate information to its employees about the Bank’s goals, plans, programs, strategies and expectations. 2017 2016 The Bank also ensures that employees are provided with a platform where 7,028 6,825 or 100% of rank-and-file or 100% of rank-and-file they can voice out their concerns, in aid of policy decisions or conflict employees or employees or resolutions. With a view in mind to promote a harmonious relationship between employees and the management, the Bank has introduced a 87.08% 87.12% of the total LANDBANK of the total LANDBANK formal grievance mechanism that helps in addressing complaints and population population grievances. Together, LANDBANK and LBPEA ensure that the working 102-41, 402-1, 407-1 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 83 Respecting the rights of each of its employees to form associations, • Article XIII Section 3 – The State shall afford full protection to LANDBANK ensures that the development and conduct of CNA is labor, local and overseas, organized and unorganized, and promote guided by laws, rules and regulations issued by the CSC and Public full employment and equality of employment opportunities for Sector Labor-Management Council. The Bank conducts CNA with all. It shall guarantee the rights of all workers to self-organization, its employees who are represented by the LBPEA every three years. collective bargaining and negotiations, and peaceful concerted Additionally, monthly meetings and periodic townhall meetings happen activities, including the right to strike in accordance with the law. between the Management and LBPEA to address issues that have an They shall be entitled to security of tenure, humane conditions of influence on employee welfare. A representative from the LBPEA is given work, and a living wage. They shall also participate in policy and the opportunity to talk to the Bank’s newly-hired employees during the decision making processes affecting their rights and benefits as employee orientation seminar also known as LANDBANK in Perspective. may be provided by law. The Bank’s 5th CNA specifically stipulates the following provisions in the The 5th CNA between LANDBANK and LBPEA was concluded on October Philippine Constitution granting to government workers the right to form 24th, 2014. This Agreement was effective for the period 2014 to 2017, unions and to collective negotiations: which issued amendments to the 4th CNA: • Article IX (B) Section 2 (5) – The right to self-organization shall not • Article III Section 6 – Accreditation of attendance to employee be denied to government workers. organization leadership seminars as relevant training of LBPEA • Article III Section 8 – The right of the people, including those in the officers and members. public and private sectors, to form unions, associations, or societies • Article III Section 10 – Right of the LBPEA to give suggestions and for purposes not contrary to law shall not be abridged. recommendations in the issuance of guidelines or policies directly affecting their rights and welfare. 102-41 84 Investment in People Breakdown of Officers Performance Rating (%) With the Landbankers as its greatest asset, the Bank responds to the value of having a skilled 2017 2016 58.69% set of professionals with technical capabilities 53.77% 70 and expertise through various trainings. 60 50 43.88% 42.78% 42.69% 43.13% Average Number of 2017 2016 Training Hours 24.30% 40 21.66% 20.26% 21.03% 14.09% Senior Officers 30 13.43% 14.09 11.60 (PG 14-18) 20 Junior Officers 10.04 8.95 10 (PG 9-13) 0 Rank-and-File 9.85 9.88 Outstanding Very Satisfactory Outstanding Very Satisfactory (PG 4-8) Satisfactory Satisfactory Legend: Male Employee Female Employee Training hours provided to employees Total Number of Average Total Number of Average Training Hours training hours Training Hours training hours 2017 110,071.33 10.17 221,844.50 9.81 2016 135,537.08 9.58 271,427.49 8.81 * Total number of trained personnel is 8,147 404-1, 404-2, 404-3 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 85 Occupational Health and Safety LANDBANK understands the importance of providing a healthy and safe informed as the rest of the employees. To ensure that employees are of environment for all its employees. In its venture to provide such, the good health, LANDBANK requires them to undergo an annual medical Bank constantly puts efforts to improve employee wellness and boost examination and provides them with medical consultation and health workplace safety. By providing safe and healthy working conditions, the counselling. This happens at the worksite medical clinic or at the Health Bank reduces risks due to unsafe practices, enhances productivity of Maintenance Organization (HMO)-accredited facilities, conducted by employees, and reduces the costs that could be incurred due to lost experienced healthcare professionals. The Bank has implemented time. a Bank-wide Employee Wellness Program that has been strategized to improve employee health and well-being in a holistic manner. LANDBANK makes sure that it provides a safe working environment LANDBANK’s Employee Wellness Program activities cater to improve for its employees in order to reduce occupational diseases and workemployees physical and mental health. The Bank’s Employee Wellness related accidents. The Bank ensures that it is constantly compliant Program include learning sessions, stress management workshops, with all relevant occupational health and safety standards. It caters psychological interventions like critical stress incident debriefing, to employees’ health needs by offering nutrition counselling services, counselling and case management by mental health professionals. disease prevention services, risk control programs and socio-emotional health promotion activities that the employees can avail of. The LANDBANK Plaza offers facilities like the Medical Clinic, Health Gym and Fitness Center, and Lactation Center as part of its various efforts to promote employee health and wellness. Employee representatives from LBPEA and MMOAI play a significant role in the promotion of occupational health and safety in the Bank, as these groups form part of the Health and Safety Committee (HSC). The Bank’s HSC serves as a planning and policy-making body for all matters pertaining to occupational safety and health. Four representatives of the LBPEA are members of the HSC representing 100% of rank-and-file employees. The HSC was created to ensure a work environment that is free from occupational safety and health hazards in order to maintain the health, safety and well-being of LANDBANK employees. Upholding transparency about its health and safety provisions, the Bank includes workplace health and safety as a part of the employee orientation program so that the newly-hired employees are equally 403-1 86 Number of Injuries Absentee Rate Duration of leave of Number of Gender Type of Injury Gender absence Employees Female 7 Laceration 2 days 2 males Fall 5 days Male 1 Fall 2 months 2 females Total 8 Fall 0 months Human Rights and Security Practices LANDBANK believes in upholding and protecting the human rights of all stakeholders across its operations, subjecting all regions to Human Rights Assessments. The Bank has a strong commitment towards conducting its business in an ethical manner. The Employee Relations Department, the Organization Development Department, Personnel Administration Department and the Human Resources Management Group are responsible for carefully managing and ensuring that all activities related to the Bank happen in a moral and ethical manner, preserving human rights and conduct. The 5th CNA further strengthens the Bank’s mission towards protecting and upholding human rights. Section 5, Article I of the 5th CNA states that the Bank and the LBPEA promote equality among men and women without any gender biases, and that all Landbankers need to carry out their duties and responsibilities in a courteous and respectful manner, without regard to race, religion, region, ethnicity, gender or political affiliation. Human Rights Training is provided to 100% of LANDBANK’s employees, and is a part of the employee orientation program. 403-2, 410-1, 412-2, 412-3 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 87 LANDBANK understands the key role that good security practices have in maintaining efficient and safe operations. The Bank’s Physical Security Office (PSO) is responsible for undertaking and monitoring the security operations and for the general implementation and/or enforcement of the provisions of the Bank’s Security Program. The security personnel, primarily the premise and escort guards are required to undergo security re-training at Camp Crame/Provincial Philippine National Police (PNP) office 60 days before the expiration of their respective licenses. Security Briefings Conducted in Provincial Branches/Cash Operations Units Number of Personnel 2017 2016 Security guards 1,740 1,217 Armoured car crews 807 602 LANDBANK, valuing the importance of having a skilled set of professionals with technical capabilities and expertise, puts efforts into building and sustaining capable and driven talent through capacity-building and development programs on different disciplines. The Bank continues to foster the Landbanker identity that is tantamount to quality and excellence. 410-1, 412-2, 412-3 88 CSR Steering Committee as of December 2017 EVP Edward John T. Reyes Head Agricultural and Development Lending Sector Alex V. Buenaventura EVP Liduvino S. Geron Member President and CEO CSR Steering Committee Head Branch Banking Sector Chairperson CSR Steering Committee Member CSR Steering Committee L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 89 EVP Alan V. Bornas Head Operations Sector EVP Julio D. Climaco, Jr. Member EVP Carel D. Halog CSR Steering Committee Head Head Corporate Services Sector Treasury and Investment Banking Sector Member CSR Steering Committee Member CSR Steering Committee 90 CSR Technical Working Group FVP Catherine Rowena B. Villanueva AVP Prudencio E. Calado III VP Dina Melanie R. Madrid FVP Amelia S. Amparado VP Efren S. Tedor VP Maria Edelwina D. Carreon FVP Noel B. Marquez Head Head Head Head Head Head Head Corporate Affairs Environmental Program Facilities and Procurement Compliance Management Physical Security Office Internal Audit Group Legal Services Group Department Management Department Services Group Group Chairperson Vice Chairperson Member Member Member Member Member CSR TWG CSR TWG CSR TWG CSR TWG CSR TWG CSR TWG CSR TWG L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 91 Gaudioso Carlos A. Garcia VI VP Elenita C. Rapanut FVP Elcid C. Pangilinan FVP Emellie V. Tamayo FVP Sofia C. Ladores Mira Leah B. Patio FVP Alden F. Abitona Executive Director Head Head Head Head Head Head LANDBANK Countryside Branch Banking Support Strategic Planning Group Lending Program Risk Management Employee Relations Technology Development Foundation Inc. Development Management Department Group Department Management Group Member Member Member Member Member Member Member CSR TWG CSR TWG CSR TWG CSR TWG CSR TWG CSR TWG CSR TWG 92 CSR TWG Alternate Members Strategic Planning Group Ms. Sheila Marie Encabo Ms. Luzviminda Lindaya Ms. Maria Anna Elizabeth Lado-ing Risk Management Group Mr. Froilan Valmocena Legal Services Group Atty. Romina Dalagan Internal Audit Group Ms. Nerissa Loma Facilities and Procurement Services Group Mr. Alexander Lazaro Compliance Management Group Ms. Evelyn Villaruel Technology Management Group Ms. Marites Laserna Environmental Program and Management Department / Lending Program Management Group Ms. Pauline Angelic Roxas Employee Relations Department Ms. Salve Trinidad Malijan Branch Banking Support Department Mr. Dennis Malveda Ms. Carla Mirabueno Physical Security Office Mr. Edgardo Flores LANDBANK Countryside Development Foundation, Inc. Ms. Regina Cañizares Corporate Affairs Department / CSR TWG Secretariat Ms. Julienne Picato Ms. Hazel Elizes From L-R: Ms. Luzviminda Lindaya, Ms. Julienne Picato, Ms. Maria Anna Elizabeth Lado-ing, Mr. Alexander Lazaro, Mr. Froilan Valmocena, Mr. Edgardo Flores, Ms. Marites Laserna, Ms. Regina Cañizares, Atty. Romina Dalagan, Ms. Pauline Angelic Roxas, Ms. Evelyn Villaruel, Ms. Nerissa Loma, and Ms. Carla Mirabueno. L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 93 Appendix Loans to All Sectors in 2016 (Millions of Php) SECTORS Luzon Visayas Mindanao Head-Office Based Loans Total Mandated Sector Small farmers including agrarian reform beneficiaries and their associations 20,319.91 10,207.46 9,720.32 469.00 40,716.69 Small fisherfolk and their associations 52.69 22.81 31.90 107.40 Sub Total 20,372.60 10,230.27 9,752.22 469.00 40,824.09 Support for Agriculture and Fisheries Agribusiness 10,393.27 10,296.24 13,630.96 19,475.96 53,796.43 Aqua-business 10.20 476.95 808.93 1,296.08 Agri-Aqua related projects of Local Government Units (LGUs) and Government Owned 7,933.15 4,116.27 6,222.69 37,636.18 55,908.29 and Controlled Corporations (GOCCs) Sub Total 18,326.42 14,422.71 20,330.60 57,921.07 111,000.80 Support for National Government Priority Programs Micro, small and medium enterprises 19,584.39 7,680.00 10,095.82 25,407.95 62,768.16 Communications 114.69 133.39 27,800.00 28,048.08 Transportation 5,163.05 5,694.07 3,585.66 15,589.29 30,032.07 Housing 4,162.76 3,110.69 222.49 32,958.17 40,454.11 Education 1,671.04 218.42 518.47 2,126.98 4,534.90 Healthcare 3,971.71 926.92 986.56 4,282.12 10,167.31 Environment-related projects 796.18 229.20 1,026.21 13,337.47 15,389.06 Tourism 1,238.00 437.89 1,595.55 3,259.44 6,530.88 Utilities 2,942.35 3,310.45 1,571.62 62,621.03 70,445.45 Others 11,686.08 2,633.82 5,946.21 20,266.11 Sub-Total 51,330.25 24,374.85 25,548.58 187,382.45 288,636.14 TOTAL PRIORITY SECTOR LOANS 90,029.27 49,027.83 55,631.40 245,772.52 440,461.02 Others FVP Amelia S. Amparado Other LGU Loans Mira Leah B. Patio 4,741.32 2,487.24 1,941.05Ladores FVP Sofia 1,782.33 10,951.94 Other GOCC Loans 14,852.25 14,852.25 Others Head Head 1,707.34 6,206.48 Head 4,806.74 9,868.98 22,589.54 TOTAL Compliance Management Group OTHER SECTOR LOANS Employee Relations Department 6,448.66 8,693.72 Risk Management 6,747.79 Group 26,503.56 48,393.73 LOANS TO ALL SECTORS 96,477.93 57,721.55 62,379.19 272,276.08 488,854.75 Member Member Member CSR TWG CSR TWG CSR TWG 94 GRI Content Index (CORE) For the Materiality Disclosures Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index Placeholder is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. GRI Index GRI Index Disclosure Reporting Disclosure Reporting Reference Disclosure Title Page Number Reference Disclosure Title Page Number Number Status Number Status Number Number GRI 101: Foundations 2016 Executive-level responsibility for GRI 102 102-20 economic, environmental, and social Reported 12 GRI 102General Disclosures 2016 topics Organizational Profile Consulting stakeholders on economic, GRI 102 102-21 Reported 12-13 GRI 102 102-1 Name of the organization Reported 6 environmental, and social topics Composition of the highest governance GRI 102 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services Reported 6 GRI 102 102-22 Reported 21 body and its committees GRI 102 102-3 Location of headquarters Reported 11 GRI 102 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body Reported 21 GRI 102 102-4 Location of operations Reported 8 Nominating and selecting the highest GRI 102 102-24 Reported 21 GRI 102 102-5 Ownership and legal form Reported 6 governance body GRI 102 102-6 Markets served Reported 6-8 Evaluating the highest governance body’s GRI 102 102-28 Reported 21 GRI 102 102-7 Scale of the organization Reported 7-8 performance Information on employees and other GRI 102 102-8 Reported 76-79 Identifying and managing economic, workers GRI 102 102-29 Reported 12, 22-23 environmental, and social impacts GRI 102 102-9 Supply chain Reported 26 Effectiveness of risk management Significant changes to the organization GRI 102 102-30 Reported 12, 22 GRI 102 102-10 Reported 26 processes and its supply chain Review of economic, environmental, GRI 102 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Reported 25 GRI 102 102-31 Reported 12, 22 and social topics GRI 102 102-12 External initiatives Reported 9 Highest governance body’s role in GRI 102 102-32 Reported 12, 22-23 sustainability reporting GRI 102 102-13 Membership of associations Reported 9 Stakeholder Engagement Strategy GRI 102 102-40 List of stakeholder groups Reported 12-13 GRI 102 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker Reported 4-5 GRI 102 102-41 Collective Bargaining Agreements Reported 82-83 GRI 102 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities Reported 23 GRI 102 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders Reported 12-13 Ethics and Integrity Values, principles, standards, and norms GRI 102 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement Reported 12-16 GRI 102 102-16 Reported 3, 24-25 of behavior GRI 102 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised Reported 14-16 Mechanisms for advice and concerns GRI 102 102-17 Reported 24-25 about ethics Reporting Practice Governance Entities included in the consolidated GRI 102 102-45 Reported 20 financial statements GRI 102 102-18 Governance structure Reported 21 Defining report content and topic GRI 102 102-46 Reported 17-18 GRI 102 102-19 Delegating authority Reported 12 boundaries L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 95 GRI Index GRI Index Disclosure Reporting Disclosure Reporting Reference Disclosure Title Page Number Reference Disclosure Title Page Number Number Status Number Status Number Number GRI 102 102-47 List of material topics Reported 17-18 GRI 202: Market Presence 2016 GRI 102 102-48 Restatements of information Reported 10-11 Employees are paid Ratios of standard entry level wage by in accordance with GRI 102 102-49 Changes in reporting Reported 10-11 GRI 202 202-1 Reported gender compared to local minimum wage governmental laws and regulations GRI 102 102-50 Reporting period Reported 10-11 All senior management GRI 102 102-51 Date of most recent report Reported 10-11 Proportion of senior management hired from local community, as GRI 202 202-2 Reported from the local community per governmental laws and GRI 102 102-52 Reporting cycle Reported 10-11 regulations This report has been Indirect Economic Impacts Contact person for questions regarding prepared in accordance GRI 102 102-53 Reported the report with the GRI Standards: GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Core option Explanation of the material topic and its Claims of reporting in accordance with GRI 103 103-1 Reported 34 GRI 102 102-54 Reported 10-11 boundary GRI Standards The management approach and its GRI 102 102-55 GRI content index Reported 94 GRI 103 103-2 Reported 34-37 components Economic Performance GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 36 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impact 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its Infrastructure investments and services GRI 103 103-1 Reported 19 GRI 203 203-1 Reported 34 boundary supported The management approach and its GRI 103 103-2 Reported 19 components GRI 203 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts Reported 34 GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 19 Procurement Practices GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 Direct economic value generated and GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 201 201-1 Reported 19, 34-37 distributed Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 103-1 Reported 26 Financial implications and other risks and boundary GRI 201 201-2 Reported 34-37, 61 opportunities due to climate change The management approach and its GRI 103 103-2 Reported 26 Tax Credits Used in 2016: components Financial assistance received from GRI 201 201-4 Reported ₱1.08 Billion government GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 26, 60 2017: ₱1.10 Billion Market Presence GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 All procured goods are GRI 204 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Reported local, unless the goods are Explanation of the material topic and its not available locally. GRI 103 103-1 Reported 76 boundary The management approach and its GRI 103 103-2 Reported 76, 82-83 components GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 76, 83 96 GRI Content Index (CORE) GRI Index GRI Index Disclosure Reporting Disclosure Reporting Reference Disclosure Title Page Number Reference Disclosure Title Page Number Number Status Number Status Number Number Anti-corruption Biodiversity GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 103-1 Reported 24 GRI 103 103-1 Reported 62 boundary boundary The management approach and its The management approach and its GRI 103 103-2 Reported 24-25 GRI 103 103-2 Reported 60, 63-65 components components GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 25 GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 63-65 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 GRI 304: Biodiversity 2016 Operations assessed for risks related to GRI 205 205-1 Reported 24 Operational sites owned, leased, managed corruption in, or adjacent to, protected areas and Communication and training about antiGRI 304 304-1 Reported 63-65 GRI 205 205-2 Reported 24 areas of high biodiversity value outside corruption policies and procedures protected areas Energy Significant impacts of activities, products, GRI 304 304-2 Reported 63-65 and services on biodiversity GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 304 304-3 Habitats protected or restored Reported 62-65 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 103-1 Reported 54 boundary Emissions The management approach and its GRI 103 103-2 Reported 54, 60 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 components GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 54, 60 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 103-1 Reported 54 boundary GRI 302: Energy 2016 The management approach and its GRI 103 103-2 Reported 54, 56, 60-61 Energy consumption within the components GRI 302 302-1 Reported 54-55 Organization GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 56, 60 GRI 302 302-3 Energy intensity Reported 54-55 GRI 302 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption Reported 54-55 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Water Direct (Scope 1) GRI 305 305-1 Reported 57 GHG emissions GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GRI 305 305-2 Reported 57 Explanation of the material topic and its GHG emissions GRI 103 103-1 Reported 54 boundary Other indirect (Scope 3) GRI 305 305-3 Reported 57 The management approach and its GHG emissions GRI 103 103-2 Reported 54, 56, 60 components GRI 305 305-4 GHG emissions intensity Reported 57 GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 56, 60 GRI 305 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions Reported 57 GRI 303: Water 2016 Effluents and Waste GRI 303 303-1 Water withdrawal by source Reported 56 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Water sources significantly affected by GRI 303 303-2 Reported 56 withdrawal of water Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 103-1 Reported 54 boundary L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 97 GRI Index GRI Index Disclosure Reporting Disclosure Reporting Reference Disclosure Title Page Number Reference Disclosure Title Page Number Number Status Number Status Number Number The management approach and its GRI 401: Employment 2016 GRI 103 103-2 Reported 54, 58-59, 60 components New employee hires and employee GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 58-59, 60 GRI 401 401-1 Reported 79-80 turnover GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Benefits provided to full-time employees GRI 401 401-2 that are not provided to temporary or Reported 81 GRI 306 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method Reported 58-59 part-time employees GRI 306 306-4 Transport of hazardous waste Reported 59 GRI 401 401-3 Parental leave Partially Reported 81 Environmental Compliance Labor/Management Relations GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 103-1 Reported 27 GRI 103 103-1 Reported 82 boundary boundary The management approach and its The management approach and its GRI 103 103-2 Reported 27 GRI 103 103-2 Reported 82 components components GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 27, 60 GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 82 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 GRI 402: Labor/Management Relations 2016 Non-compliance with environmental laws Minimum notice periods regarding GRI 307 307-1 Reported 27 GRI 402 402-1 Reported 27, 82 and regulations operational changes Supplier Environmental Assessment Occupational Health and Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 103-1 Reported 26 GRI 103 103-1 Reported 85 boundary boundary The management approach and its The management approach and its GRI 103 103-2 Reported 26 GRI 103 103-2 Reported 85 components components GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 26 GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 85-86 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 New suppliers that were screened using Workers representation in formal joint GRI 308 308-1 Reported 26 GRI 403 403-1 management–worker health and safety Reported 85 environmental criteria committees Negative environmental impacts in the GRI 308 308-2 Reported 26 supply chain and actions taken Types of injury and rates of injury, Employment occupational diseases, lost days, and GRI 403 403-2 Partially Reported 86 absenteeism, and number of work-related GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 fatalities Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 103-1 Reported 76 boundary The management approach and its GRI 103 103-2 Reported 76 components GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 76, 79-80 98 GRI Content Index (CORE) GRI Index GRI Index Disclosure Reporting Disclosure Reporting Reference Disclosure Title Page Number Reference Disclosure Title Page Number Number Status Number Status Number Number Training and Education GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Incidents of discrimination and corrective No such GRI 406 406-1 Reported actions taken incidents Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 103-1 Reported 74, 84 boundary GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining The management approach and its GRI 103 103-2 Reported 74, 76 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 components Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 75-76, 84 GRI 103 103-1 Reported 82 boundary GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 The management approach and its GRI 103 103-2 Reported 82-83 components Average hours of training per year per GRI 404 404-1 Reported 84 employee GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 82-83 Programs for upgrading employee skills GRI 407: Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2016 GRI 404 404-2 Reported 84 and transition assistance programs Operations and suppliers in which the Percentage of employees receiving GRI 407 407-1 right to freedom of association and Reported 82 GRI 404 404-3 regular performance and career Reported 84 collective bargaining may be at risk development reviews Security Practices Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 103-1 Reported 86 GRI 103 103-1 Reported 76 boundary boundary The management approach and its GRI 103 103-2 Reported 86-87 The management approach and its components GRI 103 103-2 Reported 76 components GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 87 GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 76 GRI 410: Security Practices 2016 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 Security personnel trained in human GRI 410 410-1 Reported 86-87 Diversity of governance bodies and rights policies or procedures GRI 405 405-1 Partially Reported 76-80 employees Human Rights Assessments 76, Equal Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 405 405-2 Reported remuneration for men and women to men women Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 103-1 Reported 86 boundary Non-Discrimination The management approach and its GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 103-2 Reported 86 components Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 86 GRI 103 103-1 Reported 76 boundary GRI 412: Human Rights Asseessment 2016 The management approach and its GRI 103 103-2 Reported 76 components Employee training on human rights GRI 412 412-2 Reported 86-87 policies or procedures GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 76 L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 99 GRI Index GRI Index Disclosure Reporting Disclosure Reporting Reference Disclosure Title Page Number Reference Disclosure Title Page Number Number Status Number Status Number Number Significant investment agreements and GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 contracts that include human rights GRI 412 412-3 Reported 86-87 clauses or that underwent human rights Assessment of the health and safety screening GRI 416 416-1 Reported 68-69 impacts of product and service categories Local Communities No such GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 incidents; The Bank has been consistently Incidents of non-compliance concerning compliant with the Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 103-1 Reported 42 GRI 416 416-2 the health and safety impacts of products Reported Monetary Board and BSP’s boundary regulatory guidelines, with and services the BSP as the regulatory The management approach and its agency of the Philippine GRI 103 103-2 Reported 42-51 components financial sector. GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 50 Marketing and Labeling GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Operations with local community Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 103-1 Reported 68-69 GRI 413 413-1 engagement, impact assessments, and Reported 42, 48-49 boundary development programs The management approach and its GRI 103 103-2 Reported 68-69 Operations with significant actual and components GRI 413 413-2 potential negative impacts on local Reported 42, No such impacts GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 69 communities Supplier Social Assessment GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling 2016 Requirements for product and service GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 417 417-1 Reported 68-69 information and labelling Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 103-1 Reported 26 No such boundary incidents; The Bank prided itself for being The management approach and its Incidents of non-compliance concerning generally compliant GRI 103 103-2 Reported 26 components with the regulations and GRI 417 417-2 product and service information and Reported voluntary codes concerning labelling marketing communications GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 26 that include aspects like advertising, promotion and GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 sponsorship initiatives. New suppliers that were screened using Customer Privacy GRI 414 414-1 Reported 26 social criteria GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Negative social impacts in the supply GRI 414 414-2 Reported No such impacts chain and actions taken Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 103-1 Reported 70 boundary Customer Health and Safety The management approach and its GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 GRI 103 103-2 Reported 70 components Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 103-1 Reported 68-69 boundary The management approach and its GRI 103 103-2 Reported 68-69 components GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 69 100 GRI Content Index (CORE) GRI Index Disclosure Reporting Reference Disclosure Title Page Number Number Status Number GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 70 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 Substantiated complaints concerning GRI 418 418-1 breaches of customer privacy and losses Reported 70 of customer data Socio-Economic Compliance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Explanation of the material topic and its GRI 103 103-1 Reported 27 boundary The management approach and its GRI 103 103-2 Reported 27 components GRI 103 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Reported 27 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 Non-compliance with laws and GRI 419 419-1 regulations in the social and economic Reported 27 area L A NDBA NK 2 0 1 6 -2 0 1 7 Sust a ina bilit y Repor t 101 Topics Considered Material by Stakeholders Nationwide Stakeholder Engagement (153 Representatives)Internal Materiality Workshop Disclosure Number Material Topic Clients, CSR Beneficiaries, LGU's, Government Agencies, Bank Boundary (22 Representatives from Technical Working Group) Officers and Rank and File Employees 102-6 Market Presence √ Internal 102-9, 308-1,2,414-1,2 Supply Chain/Procurement Environmental, Social Internal and External 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities √ √ Internal and External 102-17 Ethical Behavior Internal and External 102-18 Corporate Governance √ √ Internal 102, 40,41,42,43,44 Stakeholder Engagement Internal and External 201-1 Economic impact generation and annual reporting √ √ Internal 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change √ Internal and External 203-1,2 Indirect Economic Impacts √ External 205-1,2 Anti-Corruption √ √ Internal and External 302-1 Energy Consumption within the Organization √ Internal 303-1 Water withdrawal by source √ Internal 305-1,2,3 GHG Emissions √ Internal 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method √ Internal 307-1 Environmental Compliance √ √ Internal and External 401-1 Employment hiring, benefits, compensation √ √ Internal 402 Labor Management Relations √ Internal 403-1 Occupational Health and Safety √ √ Internal 404-1 Employee Training √ √ Internal 407-1 Collective Bargaining Agreements √ Internal 410-1 Security Practices √ Internal 413-1 Community Engagement √ √ External 416-1 Customer Health and Safety √ External 417-1 Marketing, Communications and Labelling √ External 418-1 Customer Privacy √ External 419-1 Compliance with laws and regulations in the social and economic area √ √ Internal and External Non GRI Business Continuity and Risk Management √ √ Internal Non GRI Audit √ √ Internal and External Non GRI Sustainable ProductsClimate Change, Environment, Communities √ √ Internal Non GRI Financial Inclusion √ √ Internal and External Non GRI Banking Products √ Internal Non GRI Loans, Financial Assistance to LGU's √ Internal and External 102 LANDBANK Plaza 1598 M.H. del Pilar corner Dr. J. Quintos Streets, Malate, Manila, Philippines Tel. Nos.: (02) 405-7000; 1-800-10-405-7000 (PLDT Domestic Toll-Free) www.landbank.com Regulated by the Bangko Sentral ng Pilipinas
