r t p o R e al nu 18 A n 20 1 2 3 4 5 6 Presentation NEINVER Responsible leadership Creating value Reducing our About profile and management at for our stakeholders environmental this report NEINVER footprint 03 06 12 29 46 65 Message from the Chairman NEINVER and Leadership strategy Materiality analysis and Sustainability througout the About this report creating value stakeholder relationships entire life cycle of our projects 04 13 67 Message from the CEO 08 Company governance 32 51 GRI content index NEINVER in figures Employees Environmental performance 10 14 36 2018 highlights Financial performance Investors and partners 56 Environmental management evolution by country 17 36 Challenge management Store Operators 61 21 37 Appendixes Road map for the sustainable Centre visitors management of the property cycle 41 21 Local communities Design and development 42 24 Suppliers Commercialisation 44 25 Sector Financing and asset management Message from the Chairman (102-14) In 2019, NEINVER marks half a century since it with a portfolio of 37 logistical assets in Spain. In was founded. And it does so after closing a year the three years under NEINVER management, the packed with achievements. Our aim is to create joint venture almost tripled in size, reached a 98% more and more value for the brands, consumers occupancy rate and generated incomes of over and employees that are part of this large team, 11.5 million Euros. our partners and, ultimately, for the society. And this determination is reflected in our increased net At the same time, our growth strategy revolves revenues, which grew by 16% in 2018. around creating value in the areas where we operate. At NEINVER, we are convinced that the One factor which explains the company’s economic, social and environmental dimensions sustained growth is the soundness of our of our business are intrinsically connected. corporate governance, based on a solid Therefore, we continue to work so that our management and governance structure and a culture of transparency which is reflected in centres contribute to the local economies where they are located by collaborating with institutions “Our aim is to create everything that we do. and companies and promoting local employment, and to reduce our environmental footprint more more and more value In the retail sector, we continue to move forward in our vision of being a leading company and every day. Our sustainability strategy not only includes developing and managing our centres for the brands, an international reference for the quality and excellence of the projects developed and the in accordance with strict sustainability criteria, but also sharing our experience with brands and consumers and services offered. The success of our management model is reflected in the growth path of the promoting sustainable practices among visitors. employees that are part centres in our portfolio, which for another year, have continued improving their performance and Coinciding with the company’s 50th anniversary, in 2019 we have changed head offices in Madrid. of this large team, our responding to the challenges of the retail sector. Our new headquarters, which reflects the values of a flexible and versatile company, highlights partners and, ultimately, Challenges which we are not only facing in the management of our current portfolio, but also in NEINVER’s evolution over these 50 years, where our business model and even our way of working for the society“ the design and development of ambitious new have been adapting to new sector needs. In line projects that highlight the company’s ability to with our commitment to sustainability, the new identify and develop successful projects. The offices have achieved the BREEAM certification in new centres in the Netherlands and French Alps, the design phase, with an “Excellent” rating. which will open in 2020 and 2021 respectively, will reflect the needs of today’s consumer and will Ultimately, NEINVER’s evolution from its origins enable us to continue strengthening our leading to positioning itself as one of Europe’s leading position in the sector. companies in the outlet sector is the result of its growth capacity through a dedication to Likewise, throughout 2018 we have continued values such as innovation, adapting to market increasing the value that we create for our needs, commitment and passion for everything partners. The revenues and value of the Neptune that we do. joint portfolio, our joint venture with Nuveen Real Estate, have registered solid growth, thanks This report and the achievements that it records to the intensive management of the centres. are a reflection of these values and the large team Furthermore, we have successfully closed the sale which is part of NEINVER. That is why I am sure of the Colver assets, our partnership with Colony, that these first 50 years are just the beginning. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT 4 Message from the CEO (102-14) 2018 has been a year of solid growth for the challenges which need to be actively managed. do complies with strict environmental, social company. Beyond the positive results of our The role of physical retail continues to evolve to and corporate governance criteria, ensuring the retail portfolio, which includes some of the most respond to the changing shopping habits and maximum long-term value of our activity for all established outlet centres in prime locations needs of consumers, while brands are optimising our stakeholders. As part of this commitment, we in Europe, we have taken firm steps towards their distribution strategies to focus on the best are continuing to move forward with reducing our our objectives of continuing to expand our locations. environmental footprint and with the sustainable international footprint, ensuring the long-term certification of our portfolio, 90% of which already value of our assets, and creating maximum value NEINVER has demonstrated having extensive has triple ISO certification (9001, 14001 and for NEINVER, its partners and its stakeholders. experience in listening to the needs of the market 50001) and the BREEAM In-Use accreditation. and continually adapting its value proposition “In 2019, NEINVER Our outlet portfolio, the company’s main business to respond to them. As part of this continuous area, continued to register growth in sales and evolution, in 2018 we began a refurbishment is celebrating its 50th footfall, which is a reflection of the quality of our plan at several of the most established centres assets, our intensive management model and the in our portfolio. We are working on, inter alia, anniversary. A half positive context of the European outlet sector, the renovation of Vicolungo The Style Outlets which continues to perform better than other in Italy, FACTORY Poznan in Poland, and the century in which we channels, showing greater resilience to structural Roppenheim centre in France, which will be market changes. Thus, our operator sales completed throughout 2019. This year, we also have been characterised increased by 3% to 971 million Euros, while the started renovating The Style Outlets in Getafe number of visitors rose to 42.3 million, and the and San Sebastián de los Reyes in Madrid. by values including results for 2019 are looking even more positive. In addition to investing in improving the centres, innovation, adapting At the same time, we have moved forward we have various strategic projects under way to with our expansion strategy, selecting the best continue increasing the value offered to visitors to market needs, opportunities and combining the ideal factors to and brands, including the work of our Food & guarantee successful projects, in order to add Beverage group to design the best range of developing leading nearly 150,000m2 of floor space over the next restaurants at each of our centres, a factor which five years. We have already laid the first stone at has already doubled its space in our portfolio over projects and attracting Amsterdam The Style Outlets, our first outlet the last five years; the implementation of new tools centre in the Netherlands, which will open in to increase the knowledge of our consumers; and the best talent“ autumn 2020. Furthermore, the project has joined supporting our operators, providing them with the Neptune portfolio, our joint venture with more comprehensive and segmented information Nuveen Real Estate, which already includes 15 every day to support their strategies. assets in Europe. Likewise, we have started the preparatory works for Alpes the Style Outlets, We are continuing to analyse new investment the company’s second outlet centre in France, opportunities in the industrial and logistics sector, which will be located near the Swiss border and after successfully closing the sale of our entire will open in 2021. In Germany, we have opened portfolio (55 logistical assets and 162,000m2 of In 2019, NEINVER is celebrating its 50th the second phase of Halle Leipzig The Style floor space) for €300M last year, which was the anniversary. A half century in which we have been Outlets, which is already delivering results with sector’s largest operation of the year in Spain. A characterised by values including innovation, over a 30% sales increase in 2018, and we proportion of the profits from the operation, which adapting to market needs, developing leading have strengthened our lead in Poland with the is part of the company’s asset turnover strategy, projects and attracting the best talent. I am incorporation of Silesia Outlet to Neptune, was allocated to reduce corporate debt, which convinced that the company’s ambitious becoming the joint venture’s sixth asset in the decreased by over 20% in 2018. strategy, based on these same values, will allow country. us to continue looking towards the future from a Likewise, in line with our commitment to leading position. But our growth strategy in the outlet sector goes responsible investment, development and beyond expanding our surface area. In a broad management, we are strengthening our ESG context, the sector presents us with various strategy to guarantee that everything that we NEINVER Perfil de profile NEINVER 2 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. NEINVER PROFILE 6 NEINVER and value creation NEINVER MISSION, VISION AND VALUES NEINVER is a Spanish multinational company specialising in the Our mission management, investment and property Our vision development of commercial and To develop, acquire and manage commercial To be leaders in the European retail property logistical assets. assets which meet the expectations of the sector and to establish ourselves as an stakeholders, ensuring a sustainable longinternational reference for the quality and term growth which creates value for the excellence of the projects developed and company. the services offered. A leading outlet centre management company in Europe, with two own brands: The Style Outlets and FACTORY. Founded in 1969, NEINVER manages 18 outlet centres and 5 retail parks, Pioneers Adaptability including projects under development, and over 800 brands in six European Our values countries: France, Germany, Italy, Experience Team and Poland, Spain and the Netherlands. Talent Entrepreneurial Effort and flair Passion Commitment Trust 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. NEINVER PROFILE 7 BUSINESS MODEL SUSTAINABLE MANAGEMENT (102-2) OF THE PROPERTY CYCLE CHART NEINVER is a company specialising in the strengthened its position in the European outlet development, investment and management of market through signing strategic agreements with retail and logistical assets. International investors key partners to develop and/or manage its own, Management Design trust NEINVER for its long and specialised track joint-owned or third-party assets. Management Design and development of innovative record in the sector. That is why NEINVER has Asset management is one of the properties complying with the highest standards company’s main business areas and of sustainability, and suited to the needs of one of its main areas of expertise, customers and brands. contributing to its long-term commitment to the assets and SPECIALISATION IN THE RETAIL SECTOR*1 to maximising value for investors, brands and consumers. Development (102-2) Extensive experience in the development of a wide range of logistical assets, business parks, offices, retail and leisure parks and over over outlet centres. Development 23 18 540,000 1,600 800 Leadership Extensive experience in developing a wide range of retail of which m2 of GLA*3 leading logistics facilities, business centres*2 are outlets shops brands Experience parks, offices, and especially leisure and retail parks and Commitment outlet centres. Innovation For NEINVER, it is vitally important to recognise and due to the surface area managed, and the leading Flexibility manage the factors which influence the shopping operator in Spain and Poland. experience of consumers, the satisfaction of its Sustainability operators and the profits made for investors. Over the years, footfall at the centres and turnover have both registered sustained growth, allowing NEINVER’s expansion strategy over the last brands and investors to improve their results. This 23 years has focussed on specialising in outlet growth has been generated in an inclusive way, assets, primarily under The Style Outlets and under strict sustainability standards throughout Finance FACTORY brands. Building a relationship of trust the entire property cycle, positively impacting the Managing the relationship with and mutual benefit with the existing brands at local community through the creation of jobs and financial institutions to obtain Leasing finance for new properties and the centres, and the choice on offer to the end the development of new infrastructure. So much for renovations and upgrades to Trusted by more than 800 brands, giving existing ones. the centres an average occupancy rate customer, provides an attractive commercial mix so that NEINVER Group is the first company of 96%. and a unique shopping experience with exclusive of the sector in Europe to obtain sustainable services. These two levers have allowed us to certifications for all of the centres that it manages. become a leader of the European outlet sector OUR BRANDS The Style Outlets FACTORY *1 Data up to date as of March 2019 *2 Includes operational centres and those under development *3 Gross Leasable Area 2018 ANUAL 2018 ANNUALREPORT. REPORT.PERFIL NEINVER DE NEINVER PROFILE 8 NEINVER in figures (102-7) RESULTS FOR THE FINANCIAL YEAR MANAGED GLA VISITS €26.4 540,000 62.4 M m2 M (up 462% from to 2017) *1 (down 48% from 2017) *2 (down 0.1% from 2017) NET BUSINESS TURNOVER MANAGED PORTFOLIO OCCUPANCY RATE VALUE €103 1,499 96% M M (up 16% from 2017) (down 20% from 2017) *3 (=2016) GROSS BANK DEBT*4 SALES AT THE MANAGED NEINVER GROUP COMMERCIAL ASSETS EMPLOYEES €360.7 1,218 M 276 M (down 23% from 2017) (up 2.2% from 2017) (down 2% from 2017) *1 Increase due to the profits made from the disinvestments of the 2018 period. *2 Relate to the retail portfolio, the logistics portfolio is not included, whose sale was completed in December 2018. *3 The decrease is mainly due to the sale of the logistics portfolio in December 2018. 2018 ANUAL 2018 ANNUALREPORT. REPORT.PERFIL NEINVER DE NEINVER PROFILE 9 INTERNATIONAL PRESENCE (102-4 y 102-6) POLAND NETHERLANDS Nº. OF CENTRES 6+1 under development Nº. OF CENTRES 1 under development VISITORS 14.4 million LEASABLE 19,000 m 2 LEASABLE 114,800 m 2 DIRECT JOBS 1 SALES € 253.38 M DIRECT JOBS 70 GERMANY FRANCE Nº. OF CENTRES 2 Nº. OF CENTRES 1+1 under development VISITORS 3.1 million VISITORS 1.9 million LEASABLE 32,900 m 2 € 97.48 M 47,600 m SALES LEASABLE 2 SALES €111.13 M DIRECT JOBS 27 DIRECT JOBS 15 ITALY SPAIN Nº. OF CENTRES 2 Nº. OF CENTRES 8 VISITORS 6.3 million VISITORS 36.8 million LEASABLE 58,700 m 2 LEASABLE 266,900 m 2 SALES € 237.67 M SALES € 518.6 M DIRECT JOBS 30 DIRECT JOBS 133 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. NEINVER PROFILE 10 2018 Highlights The sales total across Viladecans The Style In 2018, a major renovation NEINVER’s outlet centres Outlets has won the AECC of the Vicolungo The Style reached 971 million Euros 2018 award for the Best Outlets centre was carried in 2018, which represents Specialised Shopping out, with an investment of a 3% increase compared to Centre, becoming the over 9 million Euros. The 2017. first commercial project in renovation includes, inter alia, Catalonia to be awarded in a revamp of the main plaza this category. and general fittings, in order to improve the shopping environment and guarantee the best visitor experience. In 2018, 500,000m2 of Neptune, NEINVER’s joint In 2018, NEINVER began logistical assets were venture with Nuveen Real managing the Silesia Outlet sold to the property fund Estate, acquired a new centre, located in Silesia, managed by Blackstone asset in its portfolio in 2018: Poland. This country is a for an approximate sum of Amsterdam The Style strategic market for NEINVER, 300 million Euros, becoming Outlets, which will open its where it has been operating the sector’s largest operation doors in autumn 2020 in for 16 years, and by opening of the year in Spain. The Randstad, with 115 shops this centre, it aims to set up sale included 55 leased spread over 19,000m2. the largest outlet centre in properties and 162,000m2 Silesia, with 120 shops across of logistical floor space in 20,000m2. strategic locations in Spain. In 2018, NEINVER has Montabaur has joined NEINVER liquidated the reduced its CO2 emissions NEINVER’s “The Style IRUS fund established in by 13.6%. Furthermore, Outlets” brand. Located 2007 with a 9% return, the company has obtained between Cologne and making it one of the most the renewal of the triple ISO Frankfurt, the 13,900m2 profitable funds of this type. certification (9001, 14001 centre has over 70 brands. and 50001) of the outlet Continuing with NEINVER’s centres and retail parks that expansion in Germany, in it manages in Spain, Poland, 2018, the company completed France and Italy. 90% of phase II of Halle Leipzig The the company’s European Style Outlets, increasing portfolio is already ISOand this centre’s floor space to BREEAM In-Usecertified. 18,000m2. Responsible leadership Perfilmanagement and de at 3 NEINVER NEINVER 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT AT NEINVER 12 Leadership strategy With over 20 years’ experience in the outlet sector, NEINVER is now a reference at a European level. NEINVER’s leadership strategy is based on • The cooperative management of social geographical and business specialisation in the responsibility. outlet sector, and reviving its activity in the logistics and industrial sectors. These three pillars were • Consolidating strategic partnerships to established by the Steering Committee in 2014 and strengthen its capitalisation structure and have been paramount to NEINVER’s management expansion strategy. model. These basic pillars are supplemented by the following four levers: In the outlet sector, the company’s portfolio has registered a continued growth during recent • Optimising centre management. years, thanks to a better performance of the outlet sector compared to the retail sector in general, • The digitalisation process, focussing on to the quality of the company portfolio, and to its developing an omnichannel strategy. intensive management model, making NEINVER a partner of reference for international investors. OPTIMISATION DIGITAL PLATFORM STRATEGIC Geographic Specialisation Reactivating diversification in retail the industrial and business and outlet and logistics PARTNERSHIPS diversification centres business SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT AT NEINVER 13 COMPANY GOVERNANCE (102-18, 102-19 y 102-20) The soundness of NEINVER’s The clear commitment to sustainable growth and fresh responses to sector challenges has allowed over recent years. The work of Daniel Losantos, NEINVER CEO, and Carlos González, Managing corporate governance is an the company to position itself as the sector leader. The business strategy driven by the Steering Director of the company, together with the remaining Steering Committee members, has been explanatory factor which explains Committee has resulted in sustained growth crucial for achieving such positive results. the positive results of recent years. NEINVER corporate governance structure (102-5, 102-22, 102-26, 102-33 y 405-1) NEINVER’s corporate governance structure is based on the following bodies: • The highest corporate body is the General • The Steering Committee is the operational Shareholders’ Meeting, comprising Losantos body, whose main role is to strengthen the family representatives, to whom 100% of the organisation’s different strategic focal points share capital belongs. They are not involved in and to monitor business activities. the day-to-day management of the company, but they do receive a periodic report from the • Lastly, NEINVER’s Corporate Governance management. structure is supplemented by an Advisory Council, formed of independent external • The Board of Directors is the highest executive professionals with a broad expertise, whose body of the group and is responsible for the role is to advise the company on certain long-term company strategy. strategic matters. BOARD OF DIRECTORS NEINVER’s top executive body. It takes responsibility for the company’s long-term strategy. ADVISORY BOARD SENIOR MANAGEMENT MANAGEMENT COMMITTEE Oversees the business from the perspective of each core area of the company. 50% 50% 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT AT NEINVER 14 RISK MANAGEMENT INTEGRITY AND SUSTAINABILITY (102-15 y 102-30) AS CORNERSTONES (102-12, 102-16, 102-17, 103-1, 103-2, 205-2 y 206-1) The Code of Ethics is the main document that guides the actions of NEINVER employees, as it sets out the day-to-day principals of conduct. María de la Peña Legal Director The Code of Ethics is the main document that 2018, NEINVER has continued to work on adjusting “In order to generate returns sustainably guides the actions of NEINVER employees, as to the General Data Protection Regulations, as well over time, NEINVER includes a risk it sets out the day-to-day principals of conduct, which employees are expected to apply to their as to their legislative development locally in each country where the company is based. assessment in its decision-making” relationships with all company stakeholders. In this regard, many NEINVER employees are accredited As a signatory of the 10 principles of the United by RICS (MRICS), an organisation which accredits Nations Global Compact since 2012, NEINVER’s property and construction sector experts, and commitment against corruption and fraud is which serves to guarantee that the ethical unwavering. In 2016, the Criminal Compliance standards of the property field are complied with Scheme was introduced, a criminal risk prevention internationally. protocol in line with criminal legislative trends. The introduction of this scheme means that Regulatory compliance and respecting free NEINVER now has a confidential email address for This year, NEINVER’s Steering Committee has impact in the event of them happening or their high competition continue to be the cornerstones in the complaints, doubts and suggestions, which has continued to actively work on updating the Risk probability of occurrence, a manager has been development of the company’s activity. Therefore, not received any formal complaints or comments in Map, which is an impactand probability-based assigned to monitor them, and define an action the legal department closely monitors the existing 2018, as well as a disciplinary system in the event prioritised summary (COSO methodology) of plan, aimed at mitigating or even removing them. and future standards in each country where the of non-compliance. the company’s main strategical, operational, company has a presence. It is worth noting that compliance and reporting risks, which allows it to In addition, NEINVER has a crisis manual to deal there are no anticompetitive elements in its business This compliance system is composed of a set of have a first-glance assessment of the company’s with potential emergencies at its assets, in order to relationships, such as radius clauses, which are policies and procedures, including the following: risk exposure. define the different scenarios and action protocols used by some sector companies to limit the activity conflict of interest policy, confidentiality policy, in each one, which allow internal and external of operators in the areas surrounding their centres. “acceptable use” of computer and/or electronic For each of the risks considered as the most communication to be carried out in an orderly equipment policy, and Data Protection policy, significant for the company, due to their high fashion. In order to constantly adapt to current standards, in among others. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT AT NEINVER 15 FINANCIAL PERFORMANCE NEINVER’s main financial figures (Millions of Euros) (103-1, 103-2, 103-3 y 201-1) For another year, NEINVER has achieved very of the company’s growth strategy, enabling the positive results and remains a clear reference on joint development and management of large NET SALES asset management in Europe. The net business multifunctional commercial projects, which have 2018 2017 2016 turnover for 2018 has grown by 16% as a result a high economic and social impact. NEINVER’s of the higher fees obtained by rentals, primarily experience in the sector and its specialised from the centres managed in Germany, as well management model, capable of integrating all € 103.0 M 88.6 M as the extraordinary fees received for assisting phases of the property cycle, are values which € €65.3 M with the sale of all the logistical assets owned are appreciated by international investors, who by Colver, the joint venture created by NEINVER trust NEINVER as a strategic partner for the and the American fund, Colony Capital. At the management, development or acquisition of same time, there has been an improvement in the new centres in Europe. Likewise, participating in management fees from the assets owned by the these agreements and alliances allows NEINVER OIBDA (Operating income before depreciation and amortisation) Neptune joint venture with Nuveen Real State. to capture part of the value generated as asset 2018 2017 2016 manager, as well as opening up a new source of Signing agreements and strategic alliances recurring revenue from the dividends distributed with major financial partners in Europe is part from these investments. € 29.2 M € 30.2 M €16.2 M Lorena EBITDA (Earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortisation) Díez Soler 2018 2017 2016 Finance Director € 39.6 M € 34.5 € € 16.6 M ASSETS “In 2018, NEINVER 2018 2017 2016 registered some very positive business results. NEINVER’s experience in the € 773.5 M € 913.6 M € 996.9 M sector and its specialised management model are values GROSS BANK DEBT which are appreciated by 2018 2017 2016 international investors” € 360.7 M € 466.4 M €439.2 M Strategic Assets Market value GLA (m ) 2 Rents alliance 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 GROUP’S GROSS BANK DEBT 1 NEINVER 12 12 €1,302 M €1,288 M 319,345 m2 €299,745 M €93.9 M €87.3 M Neuveen operational operational 2018 2017 2016 assets + 1 assets asset under development € 100.4 M € 176.8 M €190.7 M NEINVER -* 37logistical -* €166.89 M -* €256,216 M -* €11.6 M Colony properties Capital * On 31 December 2018, the joint venture in which NEINVER and Colony Capital participated had no logistical assets, having sold them during the financial year. * Bank debt excluding the non-recourse debt of proportionally consolidated corporate groups to NEINVER 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT AT NEINVER 16 NEINVER’s day-to-day financial strategy is 4. Reduced bank debts, continuing with the based on the following pillars: disinvestment in non-strategical assets. 5. Increased value of its financial holdings, 1. Increased recurring revenues, boosting the being a store of value for the company. double diversification of the same, both functional (leasing assets and providing The creation of shared value by NEINVER management services) and geographical. can be seen through the distribution of value among the different stakeholders: to suppliers 2. Operating income statement efficiency, through operating costs, to employees through through increased revenue and controlled salaries and social benefits, to financial operating expenses. institutions through financial costs, to public administrations through taxes and licences, 3. Reduced financial costs. and to shareholders through dividends. Economic value distributed. €95,559 million Bożena PUBLIC ADMINISTRATIONS STOCKHOLDERS Gierszewska 5% 4% Pago gobiernos Asset Management €-5,248 M €-3,500 M Director Central Europe FINANCIAL SUPPLIERS INSTITUTIONS 56% 14% € 95,559 M €-53,301 M €-13,025 M “Our goal is developing and improving the outlet concept, so our customers’ opinions and expectations are carefully analyzed with the aim of sharing the acquired knowledge and experience EMPLOYEES with our business partners“ 21% €-20,485 M 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT AT NEINVER 17 CHALLENGE MANAGEMENT CHALLENGE The mature industries face a higher number of challenges when implementing expansion strategies. Market knowledge and sector experience are key for exploring new projects, due to space limitations and regulatory restrictions. Geographic expansion The retail sector is evolving quickly in line with the expectations and needs of consumers. In this context, it is necessary for shopping centres to redesign Eduardo the experience that they offer consumers, including unique spaces, added Ceballos value services and incorporating traditional elements from sectors such as hospitality and leisure, with a special focus on dining options. Total shopping Asset experience Management Director South Europe The strategic association with the brands at our centres, which involves working more closely with them every day, is key to understanding their needs in a complex environment, supporting their strategies, and maximising the Brand returns and value of the centres. association “With a consumer who prioritizes investing Traditional channels must be integrated with new technologies in a holistic their money and time in experiences rather than manner. The challenge lies in doing it efficiently, with low integration, scalability and maintenance costs, which enables increased incomes and improved products, it will be key to improve the entertainment, Digital services for customers. food and hospitality offer, in addition to harnessing the transformation potential of new technologies to offer a unique and personalized experience“ There is a growing demand for a proactive management of environmental and social risks and good governance (ESG) from investors and consumers. Sustainable construction and controlling the environmental impact of the centres are two of the main aspects which sector organisations have had to consider when promoting Corporate Social Responsibility. Sustainability 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT AT NEINVER 18 Responding to challenges 1: digital transformation GEOLOCATION NEINVER is integrating the information of its digital ecosystem into an omni-CRM system, an analytics and customer communications personalisation engine, which provides three geolocation options: mobile applications, Wi-Fi and Gennion Sensors. This system allows us to know in real time when a user is visiting a shop, thereby creating content which is of interest to them. By developing this digital ecosystem, NEINVER Sergio Jiménez has been able to get to know and communicate with customers in a Delgado much more efficient and personalised way. Digital Business & IT Director POS SOFTWARE This project links the management of the commercial establishments TPV with the company’s information systems, which has allowed NEINVER to introduce a loyalty plan by monitoring customer sales, which it records in real time. In 2018, this system has been piloted in 13 shops at Viladecans The Style Outlets, NEINVER’s first outlet in Catalonia. “The omnichannel strategy is one of the company’s main tools for responding to digital transformation” These updates to the omnichannel system aim Also, in 2019, the development of an application to improve the experience of customers and is planned, which can design customer visits For the retail sector, knowing the preferences experience at its centres and shops, offering a brands at NEINVER centres and outlets and, in and offer a more personalised experience at its and characteristics of customers has been a personalised service according to user needs turn, respond to increased on-line sales. In this centres. To that end, the application can geolocate crucial aspect for guaranteeing a quality service. and preferences. way, the company has become a reference in the active offers of different brands and make Thus, new consumer habits and digitalisation omnichannel retail, especially Viladecans The personalised recommendations according to the make an omnichannel strategy an extremely To that end, the company has developed a Style Outlets, which won the AECC Award 2018 preferences and interests of the customer. useful tool for providing a more personalised unique platform which allows it to accompany for the best Specialised Shopping Centre, for the and positive customer experience. the customer before, during and after their complementary innovative services that it offers. Implementing these projects allows NEINVER shop, thereby improving the attention paid. to have a large amount of qualitative information NEINVER has been effectively developing this To provide such a service, NEINVER studies Continuing with the culture of constant about consumer patterns, thereby offering added strategy since 2015, constantly incorporating the interests and behaviours of its customers improvements to the system, in 2019, NEINVER value to the brands that operate at its centres. innovative aspects and improvements. So through different channels, including its intends to integrate an extranet to its omni-CRM, NEINVER believes that guaranteeing customer much so, that the company has become the websites, mobile applications, e-commerce in order to enable different features and include privacy is essential, therefore, in 2017 and 2018, first outlet and shopping centre operator which portals, social networks, people counters and information about customer preferences for it incorporated specific data protection measures offers an omnichannel B2B2C (Business to Wi-Fi and Bluetooth systems. different brands. in order to properly comply with the new European Business to Consumer) experience. Through and national legislations on this matter. this system, NEINVER is improving the customer In 2018, two projects stood out in this area: 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT AT NEINVER 19 Responding to challenges 2: Sustainability at all levels NEINVER considers Corporate Social Therefore, it aims to integrate environmental, social In 2016, NEINVER drew a road map to 2020, which (iii) work practices and (iv) operating practices. In Responsibility (CSR) to be a key attribute and good governance aspects into all areas of its would enable it to improve year on year in the order to report on the degree of progress of the for improving its long-term competitiveness, activity, throughout the life cycle of its own assets main areas for the company: (i) the environment, measures identified in this action plan, the following sustainability and relationship with its stakeholders. and those which it manages. (ii) corporate governance and CSR management, scorecard shows the status at the end of 2018. Aware of the importance of protecting the planet, of ensuring prosperity for all and of pulling together to overcome the global challenges which society is 1 ENVIRONMENT 2 CORPORATE GOVERNANCE AND CSR MANAGEMENT currently facing, NEINVER continues to support the • Develop a Certifications and Green • Develop a company-wide CSR Policy. Energy Policy. implementation of Agenda 2030. To that end, it carried • Update the Sustainable Design Guide • Roll out the Programme. Criminal Compliance out an analysis on which Sustainable Development and develop a Sustainable Operations Guide. • Create a Management System and a Goals (SDG) it contributes to most through its activity. • Train employees and contractors who Risk Committee. have environmental responsibilities. • Revise the Risk Map to include • Get store operators more involved in components related to ESG* and to the meeting goals and in environmental supply chain. reporting. • Promote innovation. • Develop Waste Management Plans. The result of this analysis pinpoints a direct contribution to 4 of the 17 SDG: • Conduct CSR training. • Improve calculation of the carbon footprint. • Bolster monitoring of waste water. SDG 3. SDG 8. • Get store operators to sign on to HEALTH DECENT WORK NEINVER’s green energy contracts. AND WELL-BEING AND ECONOMIC • Establish long-term public environmental GROWTH goals. The health and safety of workers, customers, NEINVER increases its staff year on year, • Improve the internal reporting system for operators and suppliers is a priority for creating quality employment. Conversely, environmental indicators. NEINVER. That is why the company is currently creating value for society (investors, suppliers working towards introducing the ISO 45001 and local communities) is a variable which certification across the entire portfolio. is immersed in every decision taken by the organisation. SDG 11. SDG 13. 3 LABOUR PRACTICES 4 OPERATIONAL PRACTICES SUSTAINABLE CLIMATE CITIES AND ACTION COMMUNITIES • Prevent stress and promote a healthy • Review the framework for collaboration lifestyle. with store operators on sustainability. The energy efficiency of NEINVER centres and Reducing greenhouse gas emissions • Earn certification of the Occupational • Develop a Responsible Procurement its work to improve access and transport to throughout the entire value cycle of its activity Health and Safety System for all of the Policy. its centres helps to create more sustainable is one of the main characteristics which defines company’s centres. • Review the supplier prescreening communities. This commitment is being NEINVER in terms of sustainability. An example questionnaires to better understand how realised, inter alia, with the gradual expansion of of this commitment is buying green energy they manage ESG* issues. the scope of the ISO 50001 certification across as an electricity source for its entire portfolio. the entire portfolio. According to 2018 data, the company has seen a cumulative reduction of 80% in its CO2 emissions over the last three years. The Implemented In process Not begun greatest reduction was seen at the Italian and Polish centres, with a decrease of 8.5 and 8.3 respectively. Currently, all of its Spanish, French, Italian and Polish centres receive 100% of their electricity from renewable sources. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT AT NEINVER 20 Regarding the training of employees and Social and Governance), which will also allow it to the ISO 45001 standard across its entire Lastly, NEINVER has continued to work on contractors, NEINVER has continued to work keep moving forward with the new CSR goals for portfolio, which will obtain the corresponding important aspects, such as stress prevention and on this by promoting environmental training with 2020. Likewise, NEINVER is continuing to assess certification in 2019. promoting healthy lifestyles, working on getting operators, among other things. its portfolio based on GRESB, a benchmark the WELL certificate at its new offices in 2019, which takes into account those ESG aspects in Likewise, work has continued on creating a Risk based on the WELL standard for worker wellbeing With regards to corporate governance and the property sector. Management System and forming a Committee, and health in the work environment. CSR management, the company is engaged in with the direct involvement of the Managing a creation process for the next CSR strategy, Conversely, NEINVER has continued to work Director, which has significantly boosted the focussing on integrating ESG (Environmental, on occupational health and safety, introducing Risk Map. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT AT NEINVER 21 Road map for the sustainable management of the property cycle DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT (102-12 y 102-16) All new projects undertaken by NEINVER are certified according to the BREEAM standard, ensuring high levels of energy efficiency and sustainability. NEINVER remains committed to sustainable Finally, during the construction phase, NEINVER business management in both the development includes sustainability criteria in both the prestage and the asset design and construction selection and the definitive selection of the phases, implementing an increasingly more efficient contractors undertaking the work. For example, and sustainable, ergo, more competitive model. NEINVER incorporates environmental and specific requirements about the type of materials NEINVER demands that technical projects comply used by contractors*1, the equipment installed, with all environmental requirements during the the management of waste generated during design phase, in addition to the regulations, in construction*2, and, ultimately, during the execution order to achieve the BREEAM certification, an of the works, finally achieving the BREEAM assessment and certification standard which certification during the construction phase. promotes more sustainable construction. Since 2011, its new projects (and the renovations The company extends this commitment to all which it undertakes) are certified according to this its value chain and stakeholders, especially standard, ensuring high levels of energy efficiency contractors, suppliers, operators and visitors. and sustainability. DESIGN PHASE CONSTRUCTION PHASE • Environmental requirements during • Implicit sustainability criteria in: development • Technical project must comply: • Green clauses for selecting contractors • Necessary permits • Materials used • All specifications for the BREEAM • Equipment installed certifications • Waste management • Overall execution of the works *1 NEINVER requires the use of raw materials from suppliers with certified management systems for the manufacturing process in the main elements of the building and requires contractors to prove and document that at least 80% of the materials will be obtained from suppliers and manufacturers who have an Environmental Management System which is certified according to the ISO 14001 standard. *2 The ISO 14001 standard ensures that waste and other environmental impacts are managed in accordance with the procedure established by the legislation. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT AT NEINVER 22 Status of the projects in 2018 Incorporating sustainability criteria in the construction of new assets In 2018, NEINVER has continued with the of the retail and restaurant units in order to development of 2 new assets: Amsterdam The comply with the sustainability standards which Guzmán Style Outlets and Alpes The Style Outlets, the company has established for each centre. Aguilar as well as the second phase of Halle Leipzig Some of these requirements relate to the use of Espinosa The Style Outlets and ambitious renovations materials, waste generation and consumption at Vicolungo The Style Outlets, Megapark information reporting. Technical Barakaldo and Roppenheim The Style Director Outlets. In all of these cases, development and In parallel, renovation works have progressed construction is being undertaken in accordance at the office building where the new NEINVER with sustainability criteria. headquarters will be located in Madrid. The new office building will also have the BREEAM Excellent This commitment will be extended to the store and WELL certifications, the latter focussing on operators, to whom NEINVER will provide the health and wellbeing of the occupants, at guidelines relating to the design and installation GOLD level. “NEINVER sees sustainability as an element which should permeate the entire value chain and life cycle of all projects, from the design and development phase to asset management” 2018 Projects Country Project Type GLA m2 Stores NETHERLANDS Amsterdam The Style Outlets New development 19,000 115 FRANCE Alpes The Style Outlets New development 20,400 96 GERMANY Halle Leipzig The Style Outlets (Phase 2) Expansion 7,344 36 SPAIN Megapark Barakaldo Renovation 96,177 106 ITALY Vicolungo The Style Outlets Renovation 34,194 148 FRANCE Roppenheim The Style Outlets Renovation 27,346 109 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT AT NEINVER 23 Amsterdam The Style Outlets Megapark Barakaldo A sustainable remediation plan has been followed level, with a Good rating. In 2018, NEINVER has carried out a complete This refurbishment was finished in December in the development of Amsterdam The Style renovation of the outlet and medium-sized buildings 2018, and a second phase involving the leisure and Outlets, and construction began in August 2018, Likewise, the company has made a specific site and undertaken a full revamp of the landscaping. restaurant area is planned for 2019. starting with excavation and pile driving work, with available to the general public, where people can the centre’s planned opening in 2020. follow the entire development process of the centre and check relevant information about its design Like all new centres promoted by NEINVER, it will and construction, which is very in keeping with the have the BREEAM certification at construction typically Dutch style and architecture. Vicolungo The Style Outlets Alpes The Style Outlets Work began at the centre in summer 2018, including Furthermore, the creation of 2 new buildings is renewing the façade materials, increasing the shaded planned to improve public services, including a new and covered areas, improving the recreational areas information and tourist point and another dedicated Once Environmental Authorisation was obtained purpose of reducing the environmental impact of and revamping the landscaping at the centre. to childcare and a children’s play area. Both will be for Alpes The Style Outlets, the first measures of the project, which will be carried out over a 10-year given to the town. the Environmental Action Plan were carried out. period from the start of the construction work. This plan is a set of compensatory actions for the Roppenheim The Style Outlets Halle Leipzig The Style Outlets In 2018, the final phase of the gardening and several native species have been planted and a landscaping project has been undertaken, in new lakeside rest area has been made available to In 2018, the construction of phase two was completed, which was opened to the public in April 2018, which the green areas have been extended, encourage visitors to relax. with 36 new stores. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT AT NEINVER 24 LEASING NEINVER portfolio KPI variation 2018 vs 2017 (102-6) Foot trafic Sales In 2018, NEINVER has entered into and renewed Alpes The Style Outlets in 2021 spring, both located 345 lease agreements, which represents a 7% in key tourist locations. From 2019, NEINVER is also growth in the last 5 years, a very substantial managing Silesia Outlet in Gliwice, Poland, which increase, given the current state of the retail sector. will also contribute to increasing commercialisation. Likewise, the FACTORY centres in Poland stand It is expected that the progression of growth out, where NEINVER has introduced over 20 new 62.4M 1,200M will continue to be positive, with the opening of fashion brands. Amsterdam The Style Outlets in 2020 autumn and Number o leases signed, by country (2018) Changes in number of leases 2014-2018 (= 2017) (up 2.2% from 2017) 26 10 FRANCE NETHERLANDS 403 33 353 345 GERMANY 80 289 SPAIN 205 Growing brands in the NEINVER portfolio 59 ITALY 137 POLAND 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 The leased floor space of the entire NEINVER leased area, followed by Spain. This growth in portfolio increased by 3% compared to 2017, Germany is mainly due to the opening of the with Germany as the country which recorded second phase of Halle Leipzig The Style Outlets the most growth in terms of square metres of in April 2018. Leased area, by country (m2) 2018 25,223 26,677 GERMANY FRANCE 58,208 ITALY 241,408 SPAIN 75,552 POLAND In total, NEINVER has an occupancy rate of 2017, and they received 62.4 million visitors. over 96%, with over 600 brands and nearly The solid growth of the centres was supported 1400 shops. by the positive results of the last trimester of the year, especially the Christmas campaign. The sales total of 21 of the outlet centres In Spain, Viladecans The Style Outlets, which operated by NEINVER reached 1,200 million opened in Barcelona in 2016, led the growth Euros in 2018, which is 2.2% more than in with a two-digit sales increase. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT AT NEINVER 25 FINANCING AND ASSET MANAGEMENT Asset and investment management NEINVER is constantly analysing investment opportunities in order to search for projects which fit in with the company’s criteria and strategy. In 2014, NEINVER signed a strategic alliance In line with this strategy, in 2018, NEINVER with Nuveen Real Estate, a property fund incorporated a new development to the joint manager and TIAA subsidiary, in order to create venture: Amsterdam The Style Outlets, the first a leading outlet centre platform in Europe. asset developed in the Netherlands. This new Carlos centre will have 115 shops and 19,000m 2 of González The result was the creation of Neptune in 2014, floor space, and it is planned to open in autumn a joint venture which, since then, has invested 2020. Furthermore, it will be in a strategic Managing in a large number of assets. NEINVER is location, as it is very close to the capital and constantly analysing investment opportunities just ten minutes from Schiphol airport. With this Director de in order to search for projects which fit in with new incorporation, the joint venture portfolio NEINVER the company’s criteria and strategy. In 2017, it increases to 14 assets. already had 13 assets spread over 4 European countries (France, Spain, Poland and Italy), with a total gross value of 1,300 million Euros. Acquisition and development history Country 2015 2016 2017 2018 TOTAL ASSETS SPAIN Acquisition of Viladecans The Style Acquisition of Nassica, and three The Style Outlets 5 “NEINVER has been operating in Poland for 16 years. It is a strategic market where we have 4 outlet centres Outlets centres in Madrid* (Getafe, Las Rozas and San Sebastián de los Reyes) and opening of Viladecans The Style Outlets under the FACTORY brand. We are sure that Silesia FRANCE Acquisition of 50% of Roppenheim 1 Outlet will become a popular shopping centre in the The Style Outlets region and a very successful asset in our portfolio” ITALY Vicolungo The Style Outlets* Castel Guelfo The Style 2 Carlos González, NEINVER Managing Director” Outlets POLAND Acquisition of FACTORY 5 FACTORY Warsaw Warsaw Annopol, FACTORY Ursus* Krakow and Futura Park Krakow NETHERLANDS FACTORY Poznań* Amsterdam 1 The Style Outlets *1 These assets belonged to the IRUS ERPF (European Retail Property Fund), which Neinver wound up in 2017 with a 9% return. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT AT NEINVER 26 Together with the increased number of assets, in 2018, sales increased by over 3% compared to the 2017 financial year, with over 1000 shops and nearly 40 million visitors. Asset performance +7% +5% Key indicators of the Neptune joint venture Average annual Average annual sales increase visitors increase Gross 2014 Leasable Area Number of countries 5 (GLA): Creation of 320,000 the fund m 2* * Includes the Amsterdam The Style Outlets asset, currently under development Asset gross value by country 2% Under development 22% 14 NUMBER OF ASSETS NETHERLANDS POLAND 10% 12 OUTLETS 41% FRANCE ITALY SPAIN 25% 2 RETAIL PARKS 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. RESPONSIBLE LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT AT NEINVER 27 MANAGING LOGISTICAL ASSETS (102-10) In 2018, NEINVER sold assets for 300 million The sale of this portfolio is a strategic Euros to the property fund managed by disinvestment for the company, which signifies Blackstone, making it the country’s largest the end of a multi-year process, particularly since logistical operation of the year. The sale includes 2014, when it created the Colver joint venture, over 500,000m2 of logistical assets, divided into together with Colony Capital Inc. Likewise, it 55 leased properties and 162,000m2 of logistical falls in line with the company’s growth strategy floor space in strategic locations in Spain, which based on asset turnover and investment in new NEINVER owns, co-owns and manages. business opportunities in the retail, industrial and logistics sectors. Juan Carlos Ortega Industrial & Logistics Director “We are creating value by designing a portfolio of quality and versatile assets in strategic locations spread across the main logistical hubs of the Iberian peninsula, which allow a unique positioning to capture the growth of the most thriving activities of the modern logistics market” Creating value for our stakeholders 4 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 29 Materiality analysis and stakeholder relationships (102-40, 102-43 y 102-44) Over recent years, NEINVER has reinforced its commitment to company transparency, this being a key element for strengthening stakeholder relationships and confidence. We are highlighting three key milestones on this path. Compañía Grupos de interés NEINVER Memoria de Sostenibilidad 2016 Crecimiento Medio Ambiente 2007 2012-2013 2016 The publication of NEINVER’s NEINVER’s sustainability report The first materiality analysis first sustainability report. starts to be based on Global is carried out, thereby Reporting Initiative (GRI). establishing the bases for reporting on the most relevant matters for its stakeholders. The company believes that promoting a relationship of trust relationship with its stakeholders is vital. The following NEINVER materiality matrix identifies the most relevant stakeholders for NEINVER: 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 30 NEINVER MATERIALITY MATRIX (102-40, 102-43 y 102-44) + ASPECTOS ECONOMIC ENVIRONMENASPECTOS SOCIAL ASPECTOS Procurement practices Local communities Indirect economic impacts ECONÓMICOS ASPECTS AMBIENTALES TAL ASPECTS SOCIALES ASPECTS Economic performance Marketing Employment and labelling Effluents Supplier Supplier and waste (Based on analysis of news and on consultation processes with interested parties) assessment assessment for labour practices Training and education Anti-corruption Energy and Water emissions INFLUENCE OF THE ASPECT Compliance Materials Diversity Occupational and equal health Customer opportunity and safety health and safety Labour/ Anti-competitive management Customer behaviour relations privacy ON STAKEHOLDER DECISIONS Market presence Supplier assessment for human rights and impacts Transport on society Biodiversity Marketing communications Grievance mechanisms Soil for impacts degradation Human rights on society assessment Nondiscrimination IMPACT ON/FROM THE COMPANY’S OPERATIONS (Based on internal interviews and analysis of reports) + 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. 2018 ANNUAL RESPONSIBLE CREATING VALUE REPORT.LEADERSHIP AND MANAGEMENT AT NEINVER FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 31 31 TRANSPARENCY AND RELATIONSHIP WITH STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholders Aspects of the company Communication channels that interest them • Economic, operational and sustainability • Annual reports. performance, of both the centres and the company. • Periodic reports to partners and joint ventures Investors • Marketing and Communication Plans. about the performance of shared centres. and strategic • Legal compliance, transparency and confidentiality. • A totally transparent process, with GRESB • Risk, opportunity and reputation management. (Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark) partners • Cost and investment optimisation and increased and investors jointly assessing the good asset value. governance, environmental and social aspects • Certification of the centres and their management (ESG) of the Neptune property portfolio. according to sustainability standards. • Periodic meetings with senior company management and with centre managers. • Website and media. • Strategy, new projects and organisational changes. • Internal memos and visual communication in • Training and development opportunities. offices. • Working environment and satisfaction in the • Personal interviews, briefings between Employees workplace. management and teams. • Comfortable work conditions which boost • Intranet. productivity. • Quarterly internal newsletter • Better work-life balance and flexibility. • Periodic air quality surveys in offices • Improved health and wellbeing in head office (WELL certification) • Centre results and management performance. • Reports on operator progress. • Company management model. • Satisfaction surveys. • Legal compliance, transparency and confidentiality. • Regular competitions. Operators • Actions for boosting sales. • Promoting training. • In-store efficiency measures. • Regular contact at centre and corporate level. • Bulletin boards and extranet. • Complaints and claims system. • Mystery shopper • New services, promotions and activities at the • Cluster newsletters on services, promotions and centres. activities at the centres. Consumers • Attractive mix of brands • Satisfaction surveys • Shopping experience. • Customer service systems and mechanisms for receiving suggestions (in situ and on-line). • Social actions. • Operational screens (MUPI). • Social networks and mobile applications. • Media information. • Employment and wealth creation in the surrounding • Creation of direct and indirect employment. area. • Development and improvement of infrastructure. • Development of infrastructure and services which • Meetings with the main socio-economic players Community can be enjoyed by the whole community. in each area. • Collaboration agreements with institutions. • Collaboration and sponsorship at cultural • Support for social projects. activities and events. • Participation in cultural activities and events. • Social networks, media and information points at • Social networks, media and information points at the centres. the centres. • Channels for sharing queries and suggestions. • Legal compliance, transparency and confidentiality. • Permanent links with local and regional authorities. • Promotion of employment in groups with special • Common action plans. difficulties. • Collaboration with local employment offices. Institutions • Training opportunities and first work experience for • Regulatory inspections. young people. • Participation in events and meetings. • Sustainability in the development and management • Signing Collaboration Agreements with the of the centres. Authorities support the development of the • Signing conservation agreements for public spaces. surrounding area when promoting new projects • Actions to promote the attraction of tourism. through joint programmes. • Information about the activity of the company and • Meetings and interviews with managers. sector. • Participation in forums and presentations. Media • Innovative projects or other activities at the centres • Publication of press articles and reports. (sustainability, renovations, extensions, etc.) • Website and social media. • Regular contact through one to one meetings. • General information about the company. • Participation in national and international sector • Promotion of best commercial practices. conferences, events, and fairs. Sector • Experience exchange and business networking. • Presence in the steering committees of sector • Visibility with brands and investors. organisations. • Security and comfort to carry out their work. • On-line occupational risk prevention platform for suppliers. Suppliers • Coordination meetings. • Legal compliance, transparency and confidentiality. • Periodic reports and annual accounts. • Current situation of the company. • Face-to-face meetings. Financial bodies $ • • Performance of the financed assets. Future strategy and forecasts. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 32 Employees HUMAN CAPITAL MANAGEMENT For NEINVER, managing its human capital is competitiveness. As people are the framework of essential. For NEINVER, managing its human all business actions, the essential pillars on which capital is essential to ensure their satisfaction, to act have been defined. respond to social challenges and guarantee future Luis Meseguer Human Resources Director Fundamental pillars of Human Resources management 1 2 3 4 Internal “Our staff is what sets us apart” Organisational Culture efficiency Talent and values communications WHY? WHY? WHY? WHY? Pride in belonging Alignment and Effectiveness Development and and efficiency and retention commitment globalisation of values HOW? HOW? HOW? HOW? • Review of the • Talent map. • Definition of values • Information to be evaluation system. • Training and and behaviours. conveyed: • Exit interviews. development plans. • Tools to enable linkage • What • Climate surveys. • Succession plans. to corporate values. • Who • Scorecard. • How 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 33 EVOLUTION OF NEINVER’S STAFF EQUAL OPPORTUNITIES FOR ALL EMPLOYEES (102-8, 102-41 y 401-1) (103-1) Guaranteeing stable and quality employment is a there has been a slight staff decrease compared NEINVER is highly committed to promoting equal women in managerial positions and 24 women in priority for NEINVER, which is reflected in the figures. to 2017, primarily as a result of Galeria Malta and opportunities and non-discrimination in all areas middle-level management. In 2018, 88% of NEINVER employees had a full-time Futura Park Wroclaw, both in Poland, and Prague and at all levels of the company. In 2018, it had 4 contract and the same percentage, 88%, also had a The Style Outlets leaving NEINVER’s portfolio. permanent contract. It should be emphasised that Breakdown of staff by gender by country 180 35% Men Evolution of NEINVER’s staff 276 281 96 133 131 83 70 82 54 50 27 24 30 27 15 14 1 0 12 15 3 12 15 15 16 65% Woman 0 1 Germany Spain France Italy Netherlands Poland TOTAL 2018 2017 Germany Spain France Italy Netherlands Poland TOTAL Men Woman The turnover ratio increases to 18.12%, which is risen slightly due to the increase in employees in slightly higher than in 2017, and the percentage of countries which are governed by it. employees under collective agreement (64%) has COMMITMENT TO LOCAL YOUTH EMPLOYMENT NEINVER is committed to promoting employability in agreements with Spanish educational institutions the communities surrounding the centres, including have been signed, allowing 15 students to have among students who are studying at university, work placements at NEINVER, both at the head at post-graduate level or have just finished their office and at the shopping centres. training. NEINVER’s support for young talent is structured by the company’s internship scheme and Furthermore, agreements have been signed with its collaboration with various universities through a different European universities in the influence areas scholarship programme for students and recent of our shopping centres, with the idea of assisting graduates. Our aim is to help students from the in the practical training of their students in the fields universities near our locations to join the job market. of Marketing, International Trade and Business Management. In 2018, NEINVER has collaborated In 2018, NEINVER has collaborated with twelve with the University of Milan and Universitá del Spanish universities, including some of the topPiemonte Orientale, Novara in Italy, with Heilbronn ranked universities in Spain, such as the Technical University in Germany and with Université Haute University of Madrid, Pompeu Fabra University and Alsace and CCI Campus Alsace in France; resulting Comillas Pontifical University (ICAI/ICADE). In this in 6 students having internships at NEINVER respect, 15 appendices to the different collaboration workplaces. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 34 PROFESSIONAL COMPETENCE AND DEVELOPMENT (103-1, 103-2, 103-3) For NEINVER, improving the professional therefore assessed in both the selection processes competence and abilities of its employees, as and in the annual training plan. Language training well as their job satisfaction, is a core value for is positively appreciated by employees, who can the company’s development, which is why it is participate in courses teaching the languages used continuously investing in staff training. by the company, both in groups and individually. Furthermore, they can choose to attend English, NEINVER offers a training programme to its Spanish, Italian, French and German courses, employees, allowing them to deal better with the according to level. In 2019, NEINVER will work on challenges that they face each day, adapt to the assessing and certifying the level of English of the evolution of the company, keep their technical and employees who attend these classes. managerial knowledge up-to-date, and invest in their personal and professional development. During the last quarter of 2018, the “1 hour with the Managers” internal training initiative was launched, This year, mainly internal and external classroom with the aim of giving employees the opportunity to training has been promoted, with access to on-line gain a better understanding of NEINVER’s activities and joint courses. Courses have been delivered and latest news from the company’s managers. on various subject matters, the most significant These sessions with the heads of each department have included: asset valuation, financial modelling, have been organised, where employees have been visual merchandising, security management, able to learn more about the Company and the emergencies, fire safety, first aid, BREEAM people involved. Each Manager shares their vision, certification, environment and energy auditing, experience and specific knowledge for an hour, marketing, commercial management, property during which time there is also an opportunity to design computer applications, risk analysis, ask questions and queries. This programme will horizontal property urban planning refresher course, continue during the first quarter of 2019. Social Security communication programme refresher course, advanced Excel, legal specialisation and In 2018, NEINVER provided each employee with an refresher course, and retail management. average of 57.01 hours of training, divided equally between the sexes, in line with previous years. The fact that employees can communicate in The investment made by the company in training different languages to adapt to the needs of activities has seen a slight increase compared their colleagues, customers, suppliers and other to 2017, due to the rise in language learning in stakeholders is valued in a multinational and Germany and technical training in Poland. multicultural company, therefore, NEINVER proposes Additionally, this year the focus has been placed to promote languages and to help employees to on organising training on health and safety matters, maintain and perfect them. Languages are a basic and in Germany, work has begun on training topics In order to increase employee motivation, thereby criteria in all countries, and directly integrating it into tool for work and interpersonal relationships and are with the local team and councils. improving their work performance, NEINVER is the scope of each person’s training plan and the developing an annual performance evaluation variable component of their remuneration. process of all employees, following the same Investment and average training hours at NEINVER 1 2 3 (404-1) Average hours of training per employee (h) Invested in training (€) Definition Meeting Closure of the 2018 57.01 h € 143,031 of corporate predefined process in a one2018 and operational objectives. on-one meeting 2017 59.57 h 2017 € 136,594 objectives and between each 2016 77.9 h 2016 € 148,935 employee-specific professional and 2015 56.89 h 2015 € 180,977 objectives. their manager. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 35 REMUNERATION POLICY FOR FAIR INTERNAL COMMUNICATION COMPENSATION (102-36, 401-2 y 404-3) NEINVER bases its remuneration policy on of the workers. Furthermore, NEINVER makes no Communication between and for employees has context of the Criminal Compliance Programme, international standards and in line with the distinction in staff remuneration, as it is based on to be clear, transparent and effective. NEINVER is hosted on this platform and aims to monitor compensation of the main companies of the its Equality and Non-Discrimination Policy. has different internal communication channels the work climate and improve the dynamics of sector. In order to guarantee equity and objectivity which intend to strengthen the bonds between interactions between employees. There is also an in wage increases, since 2016, NEINVER has been NEINVER also offers different programmes for workers, promote values such as commitment and internal daily mailing to inform employees of the updating its market salary information using the members of top-tier management, in order teamwork, and create a unique business culture. company’s current affairs and sector news, and a existing band system. to increase their commitment through this quarterly mailing with all news aimed at company remuneration policy. In 2018, all managers took The main tool is the intranet, which continues to be employees. Average salary ratio by category men part in one of these programmes. improved year after year to boost information flows compared to women and to share initiatives which may be replicated A new employee climate survey is planned for 2019, The social benefits offered to all NEINVER in the different countries. The internal mailbox for in order to continue strengthening and improving 2018 2017 Variation employees, which are in addition to their monetary complaints, questions and suggestions, in the this internal communication with employees. compensation, deserve a special mention. These Governance Body 0% benefits include health insurance, available for all employees and their immediate family, life Managerial 0.76 0.81 -6% insurance, and accident insurance taken out Middle-level mana1.20 1.32 -9% for all staff in all countries, even though it is not compulsory. Technical 1.01 1.06 -5% Administrative 1.31 1.32 -1% In Spain, NEINVER has a flexible compensation scheme in place for its employees, which every worker can choose according to their needs, The factors which influence employee which creates a tax benefit and includes restaurant remuneration are the professional category, the vouchers, childcare vouchers, a travel card or performance level and the degree of responsibility training expenses. NEINVER WITH HEALTH AND SAFETY AT WORK (103-1, 103-2, 103-3 y 403-2) Given its commitment to prevention and the occupational risks and preventive management, security of a healthy working environment, together with an annual risk assessment per NEINVER puts the focus on health and safety workplace, which all employees can access during the course of its activities. In recent years, via the company’s intranet. Furthermore, the very positive results have been recorded in terms company has a compulsory reading manual on of health and safety; while it is true that in 2018, best ergonomic practices for the workplace there was a slight increase in work absences, this and accident prevention in offices for new year, 6 accidents at work were recorded, only one employees. All of this is reinforced by an of which resulted in sick leave. Improvement Communication Model, which acts as a communication channel for queries and The company’s positive results year after year are improvements with regards to occupational risk the result of training delivered by NEINVER on prevention. Health and Safety Absence from work Accidents at work Occupational illnesses Days lost 4.03% 2.93% 0.03% 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% 2018 2017 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 36 Investors and partners Store Operators (403-2, 205-2 y 103-3) (403-2) Since 2007, creating strategic and stable alliances sustainability, as well as its sector specialisation, The organisation aims to provide the best information can align their operations across the board. with financial partners of reference has been one have become key to the success of its partnerships about its business to operators through its Business NEINVER’s key focal points. With these alliances, with other stakeholders. These aspects make Intelligence tools, sharing local and corporate Investment in new technologies, such as NEINVER’s aim is to develop and manage projects the company a strategic, upright and responsible information with them on the most relevant KPIs internal geolocation, which measures individual which have a great economic and social impact, partner when developing projects in the logistics, (footfall, sales, conversion, average receipt, units per visitors, combined with the information obtained thereby consolidating its plan for growth and retail and outlet sectors. Therefore, NEINVER aims receipt, etc.) on a weekly and monthly basis. from Mystery Shoppers and through periodic leadership in the sector. to ensure that its partners operate and execute corporate, regional and local meetings, generates projects in accordance with its principles and values, Furthermore, NEINVER provides them with information which is of great interest and highly NEINVER’s commitment to transparency and through various actions: technical construction guides and guides on best valued by customers. NEINVER coordinates the environmental and energy-saving practices, in order main services provided to its operators in two to encourage an improved performance so that they areas: Specific anti-corruption and anti-bribery clauses. These clauses include procedures against fraudulent invoicing, procedures to prevent serious crimes against the Treasury, and procedures against tenant invoicing corruption. Improved Compliance questionnaires. day-to-day operation Attracting • Business advice • Panic button in shops customers and Strict compliance with the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FACTA), American FACTA standard, whereby the American government aims to prevent tax evasion, and which includes • Cash centres for the immediate deposit of takings and foreign exchange shopping experience rules that apply to economic activities outside the United States. • Open days • Omnichannel platform for • Moving towards omnichannel retail managing customer relations • Marketing campaigns to attract more visitors • Private security • Physical and digital channels to improve customer• Training seminars facing services • Theft prevention workshops • Advertising and promotions launched from FACTORY and The Style Outlets platforms NEINVER investors and partners in 2018 Knowing the needs, expectations and opinions of operators about their level of As part of its work to satisfaction is of vital importance in order raise awareness of its to drive the continuous improvement surroundings, NEINVER of the organisation. NEINVER sends involves operators a biannual survey with questions in initiatives such as regarding communication between celebrating Earth Hour or NEINVER and the operator, reporting, Energy Efficiency Day, and environmental management and continually disseminates sustainability at the centre. environmental awareness campaigns, both on the In 2018, and in line with the trend digital panels at the centres, of previous years, the operators’ and through the website in satisfaction rate continues to be the What’s On section as above 75%, thereby validating well as on Facebook and NEINVER’s operator management Instagram. approach based on advice, communication, reporting and the good conditions of the centres. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 37 Centre visitors CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE (103-1) At NEINVER we take time to fully understand visitor in hospitality, experience, design and technology to insights and give them what they want now and, stay relevant to our customers. From ensuring food in the future. As an outlet operator, this means and beverage offerings, to understanding the type enabling or supporting our brand partners in of stores that will appeal to our visitors, to offering applying the changes their customers expect. We services to make their stay more enjoyable and design our whole strategy around the consumer encouraging increased footfall and relaxed dwell and we invest in long-lasting innovative approaches time at our centres. Sebastian Sommer Marketing & Retail Director NEINVER’s range of services for its visitors NEINVER centre visitors can take advantage of a variety of services on offer, which show the added value “In light of the new demands of the retail sector, of the company *1 we are adopting a strategy which is increasingly based on offering experiences to our • Free parking • Child geolocation customers and providing innovative responses • Electric car recharge points • Wi-Fi network • Motorcycle parking with helmet lockers • Cash machines to the demands of the younger generations, • Shuttle bus • VAT refund service for travellers thereby creating a strategy of • Bicycle hire points • App with discounts and personalised offers sustainable growth” • Car wash service • Mobile phone charging points and portable • Pushchair and wheelchair hire battery loan • Umbrella hire (in open-air centres) • Wide range of restaurants • Book hire • Image consulting (personal shopper) • Secure storage of belongings (hands-free • Gift card shopping) • Sewing service • Luggage lockers • Nurse’s station and defibrillator • Tourist information services • Outdoor chill-out areas • Lounges for parents with young children • Support areas and water bowls at pet-friendly • Children’s play area centres *1 Not all services are available at all centres. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 38 PROGRESS OF THE “HUNTERS, WELCOME” INTERNATIONAL MARKETING CAMPAIGN In 2018, the company continued to develop the campaign launched in 2016 with the slogan “Hunters, welcome”. The format followed the line of previous years, once again putting the customer at the centre of The Style Outlets’ communication. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 39 VOLUME OF VISITORS SECURITY GUARANTEE AT NEINVER CENTRES IN 2018 (103-1, 103-2, 103-3 y 416-1 y 418-1) (102-6) The number of visitors in NEINVER’s portfolio was 62.4 million. These are the results by country: Guaranteeing the security of its stakeholders general is one of NEINVER’s top priorities. To that visitors, operators, investors and community in end, the company is focussing on four action areas: Volume of visitors at NEINVER centres in 2018 Main spheres of action for stakeholders’ safety and security GERMANY 3.1 millions POLAND 14.4 (+14.9%) millions Health (-2.6%) Security and comfort • Action protocols to guarantee the • Specific action plans to prevent FRANCE security of visitors and their belongings the most frequent accidents 1.9 • Theft prevention studies • Defibrillators and qualified security • Panic alarms in the shops of the centres staff to act in case of an emergency and first ITALY that did not have them aid at all centres 6.3 millions • Security training for NEINVER staff • Defibrillator spare parts at (-0.2%) • Renewal of security services contracts all Spanish centres with greater provisions • Noise level, light conditions millions (-1.1%) and air quality monitoring and control Safety SPAIN and security 36.7 millions for stakeholders (+0%) Family Data protection • Plurikids: children’s play areas with • NEINVER is governed by the supervisors applicable law on personal data • Easy family shopping protection • Children’s play areas with specific • Information system audits maintenance contracts 62.4 In the interest of improving the security systems at its centres, NEINVER monitors the number of incidents and accidents: Incidents and accidents at The Style Outlets in Spain, 2018 million 123 Accidents visitors in 2018 166 2017 288 Incidents 341 2018 Compared to the previous year, an increase is seen in the number of accidents and incidents, which has been accompanied by a 30% increase in security interventions. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 40 NEINVER’S COMMITMENT TO ACCESSIBILITY VISITOR RELATIONS (102-43 y 102-44) NEINVER provides its visitors with different channels the website, email accounts for the management of to deal with complaints, suggestions and claims, each centre and information points at the centres. NEINVER’s social responsibility strategy includes safer for people with reduced mobility. Following in order to improve their experience as much as In 2018, the number of complaints and suggestions a broad concept of what accessibility means at the positive experience of the AIS (Accessibility possible. These channels include incident and was 2,256. its centres. Therefore, it does not limit itself to Indicators System) certification awarded to suggestion forms, access to a queries section on only removing architectural barriers for people Viladecans The Style Outlets, which received with physical disabilities, but also includes other the highest possible rating (5 stars), in 2018, the groups who may need help getting around the company has been working on adapting the other Complaints and suggestions received by NEINVER centres. This includes older people, children and Spanish centres, in order to obtain this same pregnant women. certification for the built environments in 2019. NEINVER aims to certify all of the centres in its 2018 2,256 Over recent years, the company has worked portfolio in the medium term. intensively to improve accessibility at its centres 2017 2,234 Suggestions + Complaints in order to make them more comfortable and The degree of accessibility achieved by NEINVER 2016 2,579 All information gathered is used confidentially and the satisfaction level and expectations of its visitors, always receives a personalised response. Continuing to be able to permanently make improvements with this customer relations strategy, the company at its centres. The ratings given by centre visitors wants to know the satisfaction level of its visitors, throughout 2018 show very positive results. These and therefore uses a tool introduced at all of its were the scores by country: centres. Through questionnaires, NEINVER knows ENTRANCES: MOBILITY: WC: SIGNAGE: Adapted and Full. Adapted. High contrast and GERMANY POLAND 4.2/5 4.5/5 accessible. bimodal. FRANCE 4.2/5 ITALY COMMUNICATION: LIFT: FURNITURE: EXTERIORS: 4.5/5 Human facilitator Accessible with Accessible. Accessible and and understandable capacity for with colour contrast SPAIN signage with pictograms. wheelchairs, handrails and signage. 4.5/5 accessible push buttons (inside and outside) and bimodal signage. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 41 Local communities CONTRIBUTING TO LOCAL EMPLOYMENT (102-40, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 203-1, 203-2 y 413-1) For NEINVER, creating employment in the areas where it operates is crucial. In 2018, between direct and indirect workers, the company’s operations contributed to nearly 9,000 jobs. Furthermore, the company has been working with local employment offices and developing training activities. In 2018, Megapark Barakaldo The impact of NEINVER’s activities on the and Fashion Outlet organised the first job fair to boost the recruitment of people who wanted to work at the centre, with 30 companies participating. This type of activity communities where it operates is a crucial demonstrates NEINVER’s commitment to promoting local employment in the places where the company develops its business activities. aspect for the company. Therefore, before developing its projects in an area, it analyses SOCIAL INTEREST PROJECTS the potential repercussions and puts in The social projects carried out in 2018 include the numerous collaborations of the Nassica Getafe centre with national organisations, such as the Spanish Association place mechanisms to manage any negative against Cancer, ONCE (Spanish National Organisation of the Blind), Red Cross, Ayuda en Acción and Remar; and other local organisations such as the Parla aspects that it could create. Municipal Occupational Centre and Afal (the Association of family members of people with Alzheimer’s disease of Getafe and Leganés). Furthermore, San Sebastián de los Reyes The Style Outlets sponsored a Fitness Masterclass against breast cancer during a local festival in Madrid. The donations received will be used to finance a study on the impact of physical exercise on the spreading and aggressiveness of early breast cancer. BIOSPHERE certification. NEINVER is also committed to promoting local culture by supporting different local activities such as art expositions or local festivals. In this regard, Castel Guelfo The In 2018, Viladecans The Style Outlets gained the “Biosphere Style Outlets and Vicolungo The Style Outlets have points where visitors can share Commitment to Sustainable Tourism” label, awarded by books free of charge. the Responsible Tourism Institute. In doing so, NEINVER has become the first commercial establishment to gain this label on an international level. PROMOTING ENVIRONMENTAL VALUES All NEINVER centres collaborate on Earth Hour, an international initiative promoted by WWF, which has become a symbol of the fight against climate change. PROMOTING ECONOMIC GROWTH The company has also demonstrated a great commitment to driving renewable energy, aiding the dissemination of information on Energy Efficiency Day under the slogan “Better energy for a better planet”. In line with this commitment to energy NEINVER is committed to shopping tourism, a strategy which helps to attract and consumption, in November 2018, Nassica hosted the “Imagine your energy” activity promote tourism, and which contributes positively to the economic growth of the organised by EDP Energy. This initiative offers participatory learning activities to areas where it is operates. Furthermore, it helps to expand the commercial market inform society about energy and how to save it. in these regions and improve the infrastructure in the areas around the centres, thereby revitalising the neighbourhoods. Some of the projects which contribute to Another outstanding environmental project in 2018 is the installation of honeybee these improvements are the promotion of public transport, the undertaking of traffic hives at FACTORY Krakow and FACTORY Ursus, an innovative initiative which was studies, clean-up activities or the creation of new parking spaces. started the previous year at Roppenheim The Style Outlets. The aim of this project is to mitigate the decline of pollinating insects. These types of actions, together with the planting of native species, are framed within the Biodiversity Management Plan. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 42 Suppliers (102-9, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) Responsibility, transparency and supporting Supplier assessment system local communities are the three key areas which characterise NEINVER’s relationships Phase 1 Phase 2 with its suppliers. Ensuring an alignment of its 1 2 Ongoing Initial ethical principles and values is essential for assessment assessment the company. WHAT IS EVALUATED? WHAT IS EVALUATED? RESPONSIBLE SUPPLY CHAIN QUALITY OF THE BID QUALITY OF THE PRODUCT/SERVICE • The bid’s ability to address issues such as • Evaluation of product/service quality to meet management capacity and experience. expectations such as quality of materials and Prior assessment of suppliers reliability. • Development of technology, processes and upgrades related to quality. NEINVER carries out an approval and selection • The existence of certain certifications, including process on its suppliers, which evaluates the ISO 9001, ISO 14001, ISO 50001 and OHSAS impact of both the products and the services 18001/ISO 450001 which it contracts. Furthermore, it certifies their proper suitability for the company’s quality, • Compliance with the data protection law and PRICE DELIVERY MANAGEMENT productivity and competitiveness standards. anti-money laundering or anti-bribery policies Using this procedure, it aims to standardise the • Reasonable price given the quality of the • Degree of compliance with deadlines and recruitment processes with its various suppliers; a • The quality of the tender, including resource product or service and given average market punctuality. complex task, given the business structure. efficiency, internal and external references, and prices. • Timely resolution of incidents, ease of contact compliance with good work practices in case of complaints. In 2018, NEINVER has introduced a new approval process in Poland, Germany, France and Italy, These requirements are assessed and rated following the success of the first phase in Spain positively when selecting a particular supplier, in 2017. This new system, which has involved although this assessment varies according to the all departments responsible for managing type of service required. This new initial assessment suppliers (CSR/Sustainability, Risk Management/ process for suppliers and contractors is very intuitive INTERNAL AND EXTERNAL REFERENCES FULFILLING REQUIREMENTS Legal, IT and Administration) in its definition and and has been integrated into NEINVER’s business • Degree of compliance with internal implementation, includes an initial approval phase management computer system. Furthermore, • The supplier’s references, both internal procedures and with the required information. and a continuous assessment phase. training workshops have been provided throughout references and those from clients, partners or other suppliers. the year to employees involved in its implementation, • Supplier’s reputation in the market. In the initial phase, a series of criteria and to get to know the new requirements of the company. requirements are established regarding: Responsible and transparent contracting CERTIFICATIONS AND COMPLIANCE • Certifications for quality, the environment, The continuous assessment phase focuses on compliance with the requirements and the quality health and safety, and other issues related to evaluating the performance and the relationships of the product or service, delivery management the relevant business. of suppliers with the company. In this second and the incorporation of best practices. • Degree of compliance with regulatory policies and with other possible agreements. phase, the following aspects are assessed: 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 43 In addition to the initial and continuous and evaluation process. Conversely, as the training of suppliers is relevant and constructive feedback on the approval assessments, NEINVER has a series of tools and for NEINVER, it provides different activities, processes, and an evaluation of the quality level procedures in order to guarantee responsible and 3. It carries out annual audits of the selection such as sharing best environmental and energy of the service provided. transparent contracting: processes to guarantee compliance with the practices, continuous personalised advice defined criteria and transparency in the entire 1. It includes environmental, social and good selection process. governance (ESG) clauses concerning labour regulations, health and safety and environmental 4. All company employees have signed matters in the contracting phase. the Conflict of Interests Policy and the SUPPORTING LOCAL SUPPLIERS Ethics Code, which regulate aspects such 2. It regulates the minimum number of accepting gifts, preventing conflicts of interest (204-1) tenders to be requested, the departments in contracting, and generally carrying out and managers involved in their any contracting procedure according to assessment, and the type of obligatory objective ethical criteria. These tools allow the NEINVER aims to contribute to local employment These purchases are mainly made for facility controls and procedures to which the company to identify potential crimes and apply through its activity, this being its main indicator management services (maintenance, repairs, tender must be subjected in order to preventive measures. in terms of its contribution to the community. cleaning, gardening, security, supplies, prevent fraud linked to the supplier selection To that end, the company promotes local consulting), marketing (agencies, signage, purchases to boost direct employment and the advertising, etc.), legal and tax advice, accounting growth of its suppliers. services, travel agencies, property intermediation services, insurance brokerage and office lease In light of this, NEINVER has an extensive agreements. Supplier relationships network of local suppliers so that practically all of its purchases are made in the countries In terms of purchases on a corporate scale, where the centres are located, representing a Spain and Poland are the countries where the geographical average of 95%. majority are made. From a legal point of view, and in the interest particular emphasis is given to the requirement of of improving supplier knowledge and control, suppliers to establish internal measures to prevent NEINVER distributing the “Know your Client” (KYC) money laundering and terrorism financing. questionnaire to all suppliers. Among its sections, NEINVER supply chain. Types of suppliers: • Architectural surveys • Builders Technical • Security • Maintenance • Cleaning • Head-hunters • Gardening HR Facility • Supplies • Training • Waste management • Sustainability • Licences • Authorisations Marketing Digital and Business Communication • Advertising agencies • Digital environment • Media agencies developers • Market and Satisfaction Surveys 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. CREATING VALUE FOR OUR STAKEHOLDERS 44 Sector NEINVER presence at sector events in 2018 (102-13) JANUARY • FITUR. International Tourism Fair (Madrid) FEBRUARY NEINVER’s participation in different sector • MIPIM (Cannes) associations and organisations allows it to gain MARCH visibility and to improve brand and investor interest. • Shopping Center Forum – Spring session (Warsaw) These business networking opportunities allow the APRIL • ICSC European Outlet Conference (Barcelona) company to know the latest sector trends, as well as MAY share best practices and maximise the creation of • SIEC. European Association for Investors in Non-Listed Real Estate Vehicles value among all its stakeholders. JUNE • (France) ReDI – Trade fair for retail investment (Warsaw) JULY • INREV European Association for Investors in Non-Listed Real Estate Vehicles (Barcelona) • Retail Property Analyst – The future of AUGUST shopping centres (Londres) Main Associations of which NEINVER is a member • Shopping Center Poland – Autumn SEPTEMBER session (Varsovia) OCTOBER Royal Institution Family Office International Council of Chartered Managers Meetings of Shopping Centers Surveyors (RICS) (FOMM) (ICSC) NOVEMBER • MAPIC The international retail property market fair (Cannes) • World Travel Market (Londres) • 5th German Factory Outlet Congress DECEMBER (Leipzig) Red Europea de Facility Asociación Asociación de Usuarios Management (EUROFM) Internacional de de SAP en España Facility Management (AUSAPE) As well as participating in various sector events, Another important highlight was giving Facility (IFMA) in June 2018, NEINVER organised the 3rd edition Management lectures at the Technical University of the Nomad Fashion Show, the annual reference of Madrid and the various awards received: meeting for fashion and trends held in Madrid. Private Equity Real Urban Land Estate (PERE/PEI) Institute (ULI) Superbrands Best Internet Best Specialised Poland 2018 Campaign Shoopping Centre 2018 The company also participates in sector events, contributing to the international dissemination of best business of the year 2018 FACTORY practices. Viladecans The Style Outlets. Superbrands FACTORY PRCH AECC Awards Poland Retail Awards Reducing our environmental footprint 5 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 46 Sustainability throughout the entire life cycle of our projects (102-11, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3, G4-CRE6, G4CRE8) NEINVER carries out a comprehensive environmental management at its centres, taking into account the entire value chain, and basing it on environmental and sustainability standards and regulations, which allows it to improve its competitiveness as a company. SUSTAINABILITY AT THE CENTRES The area of Project Management is responsible management, ISO 50001 for energy management for the design and development of new projects, and OHSAS 18001*1 for occupational health and always integrating sustainability criteria into all safety, all of which are independently verified. This is assets which are under construction or undergoing a multi-site integrated management system, which is major renovations. The Certifications Policy in this implemented at all sites of the portfolio, representing area stipulates that the design and construction an incentive for NEINVER and its commitment to of buildings promoted by NEINVER follows the continuous improvement. Furthermore, for buildings BREEAM NEW CONSTRUCTION international that have operated for over two years, NEINVER assessment methodology, which assesses the works with the BREEAM IN-USE methodology, project’s sustainability level, as well as that of the for part 1 (construction) and part 2 (management); building phase, requiring it to achieve a minimum requiring the same rating as the newly constructed rating of “Very Good” for new buildings. buildings. Conversely, the area of Facility Management is In 2018, NEINVER has continued to work with the responsible for managing the centres, whether Carbon Desktop tool in order to keep improving they are built by NEINVER, acquired subsequently in terms of energy efficiency, basing its decisionor belong to a third party. Therefore, this area is making on objective data. As a new initiative this responsible for defining, implementing, monitoring year, NEINVER has worked on integrating Carbon and evaluating the appropriate measures in terms of Desktop into Microsoft Power BI, a big data cloud energy efficiency, consumption reduction and proper tool which provides a better view and analysis of waste management. In line with the provisions of consumption at all its centres. the aforementioned Certifications Policy, NEINVER has a certified Management System which “In 2018, NEINVER has continued to be nominated conforms to the following standards: ISO 9001 for for BREEAM and GRESB awards for its commitment quality management, ISO 14001 for environmental to responsible investment in the property sector”. *1 NEINVER is in the process of transitioning to the ISO 45001 standard for all its centres in 2019. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 47 Every year, NEINVER evaluates its Neptune In 2018, the company kept the same rating as 2017 LATEST CERTIFICATION Next portfolio based on GRESB, a benchmark which (69 points in 2018 vs 68 in 2017), standing out certification Country/centre Building Building renewal takes into account ESG (Environmental, Social and considerably above the competition in some areas, certification. certification. Governance) aspects of the property sector, allowing such as management, risks and opportunities, PART 1 PART 2 the company to analyse and compare itself with the and monitoring, among others. Likewise, in the SPAIN sector, detect possible areas for improvement, as “certifications” section, the maximum rating (100 out well as continue to be transparent, based on the of 100) was achieved. commitment made to its investors. Las Rozas The Style Outlets Very Good Excellent 2019 Getafe The Style Outlets Very Good Excellent 2019 San sebastián de los reyes The Style Outlets Very Good Excellent 2019 Alegra Very Good Very Good 2021 Coruña The Style Outlets Excellent Excellent 2019 Megapark Barakaldo Very Good Very Good 2020 Nassica Getafe Very Good Excellent 2019 POLAND FACTORY Warsaw Ursus Very Good Very Good 2020 FACTORY Warsaw Annopol Very Good Very Good 2020 Futura Park + FACTORY Kraków Very Good Very Good 2020 FACTORY Poznan Very Good Very Good 2020 ITALY Vicolungo The Style Outlets Good Very Good 2019 Castel Guelfo The Style Outlets Very Good Very Good 2019 FRANCE Roppenheim The Style Outlets Excellent Outstanding 2019 Possible ratings: Unclasified (<10%) Pass** (25-<40%) Very Good**** (55-<70%) Outstanding****** (>=85%) Acceptable* (10-<25%) Good*** (40-<55%) Excellent***** (>70-<85%) Centres in NEINVER’s portfolio with the BREEAM IN-USE certification (103-3) New for 2018, NEINVER has obtained the BREEAM certifications with at least the same rating, since it As a result of all the work carried out over recent well as in terms of emergencies. Also highlighted are IN-USE certification for Alegra Shopping and Leisure starts from a very high base score, and to be able years in these areas, the centres of NEINVER’s the efforts made to succeed in having two trained Park, with a Very Good rating for both part 1 (building) to reach higher levels where feasible, as well as portfolio have made significant improvements in individuals in First Aid and Emergency Response and part 2 (management). Furthermore, most of the certifying Viladecans The Style Outlets in this scheme waste management, energy and water consumption, at each shopping centre, as well as private security work has been carried out to renew the certification for the first time, after having managed the asset for in the quality of water discharge to the network, as staff, as an extra security measure. at Roppenheim The Style Outlets, which will be 2 years. completed in 2019. All Site Facility Managers will receive specific training Since NEINVER hopes to renew most of the centres to interpret the requirements at their building and of its portfolio in 2019, the invitation to tender for to ensure that the evidence gathering procedure is the BREEAM IN-USE assessment has been carried carried out effectively. out in 2018. The company intends to renew the 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 48 ENVIRONMENTAL IMPROVEMENT INITIATIVES BY COUNTRY As part of a new initiative, a success story introduced at every Spanish centre in 2018 has been chosen, in order to share the lessons learned with all centres at national level, to share best practices and to continue progressing in the pursuit of excellence in 2019. Some examples of these best practices are collecting rainwater at Megapark Barakaldo to clean the floor, waterproofing gutters at Nassica Getafe, and improving the information gathered at Rozas The Style Outlets’ POLAND information point. • Refurbishing the service area and creating a first aid room at FACTORY Ursus. • Installing additional gas metres at FACTORY Ursus. • Adjusting the BMS (Building Management System) and introducing trend analysis to FRANCE save on energy consumption at FACTORY Annopol. • Cleaning the ventilation ducts at FACTORY Poznan. ROPPENHEIM THE STYLE OUTLETS • Modernising the BMS at FACTORY & • Starting the process of renewing the Futura Park Krakow. BREEAM IN-USE certification, which will • Installing a toilet water treatment plant at be completed in 2019. FACTORY & Futura Park Krakow. • Implementing the toilet renovation project, which includes improving the water consumption efficiency by incorporating low flow taps, waterless urinals and dualflush toilets, to be carried out in 2019. SPAIN • Starting the communal area redesign project, which will be carried out over two years, and which includes the total ALL CENTRES: renovation of the centre’s green spaces. • In 2018, various feasibility studies were carried out for the installation of ITAY photovoltaic panels for self-consumption. ALEGRA SHOPPING AND LEISURE CENTRE • Certification under the BREEAM IN-USE standard, with a “Very Good” rating. • Installing the first phase of the new • Installing outdoor LED floodlights, as well as inside internal technical corridors BMS at Vicolungo The Style Outlets and (the latter fitted with presence detectors). starting its installation at Castel Guelfo MEGAPARK BARAKALDO The Style Outlets, both cases include • Introducing water-saving measures in the toilets with the renovation of the same. the incorporation of an Energy Manager • Installing a groundwater collection tank. and connecting it to the other centres in • Certification of the centre under the ISO 9001-14001-18001-50001 standards. Neptune’s portfolio through the cloud (to CORUÑA THE STYLE OUTLETS be completed in 2019). • Installing sun protection films to reduce exposure to solar rays inside the • Starting the cosmetic and functional Shopping Centre, thereby reducing the demand for air conditioning. renovation of Vicolungo The Style Outlets, GETAFE THE STYLE OUTLETS including extending the garden areas • Installing air curtains in the doors, to increase user comfort and reduce the and improving the centre’s efficiency and demand for air conditioning. sustainability, among other aspects. LAS ROZAS THE STYLE OUTLETS • Creating new garden areas at Castel • Installing LED lighting in practically 100% of the lights. Guelfo The Style Outlets NASSICA • Creating a new manhole in Nassica’s sewage network to improve wastewater management at the Centre. • Installing a recharge point for electric vehicles in the car park between Nassica and Getafe The Style Outlets. SAN SEBASTIÁN DE LOS REYES THE STYLE OUTLETS • Installing new recharge points for electric vehicles. • Supplying and installing anti-solar radiation film, creating more comfort in the gallery and reducing the demand for air conditioning. • Improving the air conditioning system at Decathlon, optimising its operation and consumption. VILADECANS THE STYLE OUTLETS • Project to improve lighting management in the car park. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 49 BEST ENVIRONMENTAL PRACTICES IN DESIGN COLLABORATION WITH OTHER AND CONSTRUCTION STAKEHOLDERS For NEINVER, it is important to promote knowledge hosts awareness days in collaboration with these and improved environmental performance at the stakeholders and carries out a process of continuous centres, involving its suppliers, contractors and improvement in the collaboration and communication Alpes The Style Outlets operators within the framework of the company’s systems, so that they are increasingly more efficient sustainability standards. In this way, NEINVER and helpful. Once Environmental Authorisation was obtained for Alpes The Style Outlets, the first measures of the Environmental Action Plan were carried out. The proposed measures of the plan include: • Wetland protection: • Combating an invasive plant typical of the region named Goldenrod, over an area of 5.5 hectares. Promoting environmental improvement with stakeholders • Maintaining a grassy area of 9.6 hectares. • Reinforcing an embankment to improve the natural run-off system and create ponds over 7.3 hectares. • Reforestation measures over 6.7 hectares. • In terms of local protected species: 23 species of bats, 18 species of birds and 2 species of particularly vulnerable reptiles were found specifically in the area, therefore, sites of particular significance for these populations were avoided, reducing the impact of their displacement, and additional measures to boost local biodiversity were taken. SUPPLIERS OPERATORS Environmental • Knowing NEINVER’s policy on the environment, • Complying with the clauses in lease contracts energy efficiency, quality, and health and safety. which include the environmental and efficiency requirements • Answering a pre-assessment questionnaire requirements. which assesses environmental certifications. • Complying with the requirements of Technical • Signing “Green clauses” in the contracts, which Guides for the premises, which establish the include environmental, energy efficiency and requirements which must be followed when health and safety best practices. designing, building and managing their shops. • Working in compliance with the Service Level Agreements*1 established in the contracts, through which their behaviour is assessed. • Complying with environmental legislation and carrying out best practices. • Properly managing the health and safety of their professionals and facilities. The regeneration works will be developed over a period of 10 years from the start of construction, • Properly managing waste, especially in the event with NEINVER allocating the necessary resources to monitor it and to communicate regularly with the of hazardous waste. public administration on the status of the measures. Awareness • Guides on best environmental and energy efficiency practice for suppliers and operators. • Organising biannual Store Manager Meetings, where centre management meets with all Store managers Amsterdam The Style Outlets and to present the centre’s most relevant data and remind them of environmental aspects, such as the collaboration importance of recycling, the location of bins, etc. A sustainable Remediation Plan has been tools • Continuous training on NEINVER’s procedures and policies, as well as on specific issues which are followed in the development of Amsterdam The considered as areas for improvement at the centre. Style Outlets, whereby ground excavation and • Action guidelines in the event of an emergency, for contractors and operators. decontamination works have been undertaken on • Periodic performance meetings between the contract manager and the supplier to assess improvements the plot where the future centre will be located, and critical points. which was contaminated by an old sugar factory. • Awareness posters and signage on responsible consumption in the toilets. In this sense, NEINVER has gone to great lengths, providing the project with the necessary resources to carry out this ambitious Plan, which will not only allow the remediation of the ground, but will also give it a new use, at all times taking care of important aspects, such as integrating it with the architecture of the area. *1 For suppliers with the most environmental impact only: cleaning, gardening, security and maintenance. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 50 2018 AND 2019 GOALS 2018 Goals 2019 Goals AREA GOAL PROGRESS AREA GOAL BREEAM IN-USE To obtain the Very Good rating, in The certification with the recommended rating Obtaining the BREEAM IN-USE • To certify Viladecans as “Very Good” in both parts, and in the other assets, to certification at Alegra both part 1 (building) and part 2 was achieved (November 2018). certificate at Viladecans for the maintain the level and improve it where feasible. (management). first time and renewing it in the rest of the Neptune portfolio. BREEAM NEW To obtain the BREEAM NEW Currently, NEINVER has achieved the design CONSTRUCTION CONSTRUCTION certificate for phase certificate (December 2018), rated Certifications at NEINVER’s new • To obtain the final BREEAM NEW CONSTRUCTION and WELL certificates, after NEINVER’s new head office, rated Excellent, with that of the construction phase head office finishing the works, at Excellent and Gold level, respectively. certifications Excellent. pending until the completion of the work. Making the transition from • To carry out the audit for transitioning from the OHSAS 18001 standard to OHSAS 18001 to ISO 45001 ISO 45001 at the Spanish centres and to certify this scheme at the rest of the and expanding centres in NEINVER’s portfolio which are not certified in terms of health and Expanding the scope of ISO 9001, 14001, 50001 and OHSAS The quadruple certification at Megapark safety. the ISO certificates 18001 certifications for the Megapark Barakaldo was achieved, after successfully the scope of the other centres Barakaldo centre. passing the certification audit in September without this certification. 2018. Management systems AIS (Accessibility Indicators • To carry out the AIS international standard certification for accessibility, for all System) certification Spanish centres. Minimum expected rating ** Making the transition To make the transition from OHSAS The transitional works (training, revising legal Environment from OHSAS 18001 to ISO 45001 in Spain, in turn requirements, drawing up documentation, etc.) 18001 to ISO 45001 expanding the scope of the rest of are being started in order to certify ISO 45001 Improvements for Occupational • To implement a new tool to streamline procedures for coordinating business and expanding NEINVER’s portfolio. in the next renewal audit (2019) in the entire Risk Prevention activities in Spain. NEINVER portfolio. • To establish annual coordination meetings by centre on ORP with all the usual the scope contractors. • To promote worker participation and consultation by setting up quarterly meetings between the ORP managers at centre level. WELL certification at To obtain the WELL Building Standard Most of the work is being carried out during NEINVER’s new head certificate at the new head office, which the design and construction phase, with focusses on employee health and receipt of the certification pending until the Revising legal requirements • To outsource the revision of legal requirements to a specialised legal office consultancy, so that a double-check (internal and external) is obtained for wellbeing. The aim is to achieve GOLD completion of the work. any environmental, industrial safety, risk prevention, or energy efficiency level. requirements, etc. • To set up biannual newsletters summarising legislative updates by country. Improvements in terms To implement the improvement All of the planned works are being carried out of accessibility proposals from the DIGA certification and the contract is being signed to implement audit report at Viladecans The the AIS standard in 2019. Improving GRESB ratings • To improve the ratings of the Neptune portfolio in the GRESB standard, which Style Outlets and to carry out the compares the company with the competition. recommendations at the other centres in Spain, based on the architectural survey Predictive maintenance • To implement a predictive maintenance system based on big data. of 2017, to be able to proceed with the accessibility certification in 2019. To continue developing • To install air conditioning frequency converters at San Sebastián de los Reyes energy efficiency The Style Outlets. measures • To introduce a new Energy Manager at Roppenheim The Style Outlets and to Promoting electric To install electrical vehicle recharge It is being carried out at Getafe and it is expand them at Vicolungo and Castel Guelfo The Style Outlets. vehicles points at the centres which do not have pending for 2019 at Las Rozas. • To line air conditioning pipes to reduce energy losses during transport (San them yet. Sebastián de los Reyes The Style Outlets). • To install additional meters in Energy Manager at Nassica Getafe to continue delving into consumption breakdowns. Energy • New speed variators on the roof tops of Las Rozas to optimise its energy Energy To continue developing To install anti-radiation film to skylights All of the proposed measures are being carried efficiency. energy efficiency (Getafe, Coruña), LED lighting out and energy efficiency measures continue • To install rainwater collection tanks to be used for cleaning the floor. measures (Vicolungo, Las Rozas), lighting to be worked on in 2019. • To renovate the toilets at Castel Guelfo and Roppenheim, where water saving optimisation projects (Viladecans, measures will be introduced. Megapark), photovoltaic installation study for 2019, among others. Photovoltaic energy analysis • To carry out a detailed photovoltaic energy study, in order to determine the investment viability by centre. If the result is positive, to start installation proceedings. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 51 Environmental performance ENERGY CONSUMPTION (103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 302-1, 302-3, 302-4, 302-5 y G4-CRE1) All NEINVER centres have the ISO 50001 to the previous year. certification for energy management, which demonstrates the importance of this environmental This reduction is largely explained by the aspect for its activity. investments and initiatives made in recent years in terms of energy efficiency. In 2018, NEINVER has It is important to highlight that in 2018, NEINVER continued to develop these types of measures, for has managed to reduce its electricity consumption example, installing anti-radiation vinyl on skylights, by 2.4% compared to the previous year and has LED floodlights, lighting optimisation projects, and successfully extended the supply of green energy has other electricity optimisation projects in place, to the entire asset portfolio. The decrease in such as a study on photovoltaic installations in thermal energy consumption seen in 2017 is 2019, for example. continuing to reduce in 2018 by 7.9% compared Total energy consumption (GJ) by source 68,343 GJ 9,812 GJ 1,752 GJ 2016 79,907 GJ 66,398 GJ 8,999 GJ 1,633 GJ 2017 77,030 GJ 64,792 GJ 10,335 GJ 1,505 GJ 2018 76,632 GJ Electricity Consumption Gas/Fuel Oil Consumption Thermal energy consumption With regards to the consumption intensity per such as installing sun protection film, air curtains in visitor and gross leasable area (GLA), NEINVER the doors to reduce the demand for air conditioning, has continued to slightly reduce its impact by or installing LED floodlights, among other things. implementing consumption reduction measures, Centres’ energy intensity per visitor (GJ/visitor) and per hour of operation (GJ/hour) 0.172 0.169 Energy intensity (GJ/visitor) 0.159 2016 2017 2018 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 52 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS Emissions from transport (103-1, 103-2, 103-3, 305-1, 305-2, 305-3, 305-4, 305-5, G4-CRE3 y G4-CRE4) In line with the commitment to reduce the carbon environmental impact caused by the transport of its footprint impact at its centres, NEINVER is carrying employees, as well as that of its visitors. The most In addition to the investments and measures adopted In 2018, greenhouse gas emissions have decreased out a series of measures aimed at preventing, as far important measures include: to improve the energy efficiency of the centres, slightly by 4.1% (Scope 1 and 2), according to the as possible, the emissions of the centres and the the acquisition of green energy has continued to GHG Protocol *1. From 2018, all asset centres are significantly reduce greenhouse gas emissions. buying electricity from renewable sources, which Currently, all NEINVER centres acquire electric is why no CO2 emissions are currently created by energy from a guaranteed renewable source. electric energy *2. Scope 1 and 2 Greenhouse Gas Emissions (tonnes CO2eq) Virtual meetings Electric vehicles Bicycles Public transport Promoting the use of Installing vehicleBicycle parking at 100% Free transport services 583 tCO2eq 931 tCO2eq videoconferences to charging points at 70% of the portfolio. to the centre. 2018 1,514 tCO2eq avoid employee travel. of the portfolio. 507 tCO2eq 60 tCO2eq 1,010 tCO2eq 2017 1,578 tCO2eq 553 tCO2eq 422 tCO2eq 1,084 tCO2eq 2016 2,059 tCO2eq In 2018, business trip emissions have increased development in the Czech Republic and the significantly (26.6%). This increase is mainly due Netherlands. to an increase in journeys to the centres under Scope 2 emissions Scope 2 emissions Scope 1 emissions (thermal energy), tCO2eq (electricity), tCO2eq (natural gas), tCO2eq With regards to the emission intensity of the centres of 2018, NEINVER was continuing to gradually per person and per gross leasable area, at the end decrease them by 1.1% and 6.3% respectively. Greenhouse gas emissions from employee travel (tCO2eq)* Centres’ emissions intensity per visitor (tonnes CO2eq/visitor) and per hour of operation 103.87 tCO2eq 295.87 tCO2eq 2.16 tCO2eq (tonnes CO2eq/hour of operation) 2018 409.10 tCO2eq 7.18 tCO2eq 0.0731 tCO2eq 100.13 tCO2eq 216.09 tCO2eq 1.85 tCO2eq 2017 322.98 tCO2eq 4.89 tCO2e 0.0625 tCO2eq 0.0632 tCO2eq Greenhouse gas emissions intensity (tCO2eq/visitor) Emissions from Emissions from Emissions from rail Emissions domestic flights, medium-distance travel (tCO2eq) from car travel Spain (tCO2eq) travel (tCO2eq) (tCO2eq) 2016 2017 2018 *1 The GHG Protocol is the most recognised international methodology for calculating greenhouse gas emissions. This standard classifies emissions in three scopes (1,2 and 3). The emissions calculated by NEINVER correspond to Scope 1 (Direct consumption of natural gas in the company’s boilers) and Scope 2 (emissions from electricity consumption and the importation of heat from district heating systems). *2 In 2016 and 2017, in addition to the Megapark centre, the only centres which consumed electricity from non-renewable resources (Galería Malta and Futura Park Wroclaw) were sold by the company before the 2018 year-end, which is why the corresponding emissions have not been taken into account to allow greater comparability. 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 53 WATER CONSUMPTION (303-1, G4-CRE2, 103-1, 103-2, 103-3) NEINVER believes that rationalising water use at its its visitors, employees, suppliers and operators by With regards to water consumption data, following achieved a 2.2% reduction, thanks to a more effective centres is very important, therefore, it is promoting means of posters or by including this aspect in the an increase in 2017, mainly due to the incorporation water management and the saving measures put in its efficient use in all processes, thanks to different recommendations of the best practice manuals, of the Viladecans centre, in 2018, NEINVER has place, such as those mentioned above. actions and plans. In this regard, NEINVER is aimed at suppliers and operators. promoting best water consumption practices to all NEINVER best practices in water management Total water consumption (m³) at NEINVER centres 2018 226,984m3 EEK S NEW 2017 232,191 m3 Total water consumption (m³) E RS V IN 2016 199,865 m3 NE Installing waterless urinals. Replacing conventional taps with others which improve consumption efficiency. Introducing rainwater collection systems. Improving irrigation systems. Introducing a wastewater bacterial treatment which guarantees compliance with environmental regulations while extending the lifespan of the IMPR sanitation facilities and minimising the cleaning frequency. OV IN G EF FL UE NT QUAL ITY 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 54 WASTE (306-2, 103-1, 103-2) NEINVER is committed to proper waste management In 2018, the amount of generated waste has slightly at all its centres, promoting waste minimisation and increased by 2.3%, largely due to the increase in driving improved waste segregation. In order to usable commercial area at NEINVER’s asset centres. achieve this, NEINVER involves all its stakeholders It is important to note that NEINVER sends all through awareness and by installing bins which previously classified recoverable waste (cardboard, help proper waste segregation. Since 2016, plastic, glass, wood, metals, etc.) to recycling plants, clauses have been included in the contract with the so that it can be subsequently treated and marketed waste manager, which have enabled better waste as new materials. management and treatment. Waste production (t) at NEINVER centres 1,813 t 446 t 2,420 t 2018 4,679 t Paper/cardboard 1,785 t 387 t 2,402 t Plastic 2017 4,574 t Organic 1,586 t 421 t 2,183 t 2016 4,190 t AIR QUALITY AND FUGITIVE EMISSIONS (306-2) NEINVER continuously monitors CO2 emissions has specialised companies for cleaning, disinfecting inside the centre (if it is a closed building) and those and performing periodic analysis at the centres in covered parking areas. These emissions are where there are high-risk facilities. controlled using a BMS tool, which has temperature and humidity probes that automatically activate Throughout 2018, NEINVER has carried out certain the recirculation or ventilation when necessary, initiatives in this regard, including installing antiaccording to the established parameters. radiation vinyl on large skylights at Coruña The Style Outlets and Getafe The Style Outlets, which improve Additionally, NEINVER undergoes annual insulation and, therefore, help to reduce the demand specialised interior air quality audits and measures for air conditioning, or modernising the BMS tools the noise associated with its activity, carrying out the at FACTORY and Futura Park Krakow, FACTORY appropriate measures if it exceeds the emission limit Annopol and at the two Italian centres. values. With regards to Legionella control, NEINVER 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 55 ENVIRONMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS AWARENESS AND TRAINING € AND INVESTMENTS Environmental awareness is crucial for achieving committing to BREEAM Associate courses Throughout 2018, NEINVER has allocated over areas at the centres, integrating new BMS and greater sustainability for the current and future for Project Managers. Furthermore, NEINVER three million Euros to environmental costs and Energy Manager tools, and changing the lighting generations. Therefore, NEINVER carries out continually carries out training and awareness investments linked to, inter alia, renovating green system to include LED lighting. annual internal and external training sessions campaigns for operators and contractors. on energy efficiency, waste management and certification systems. NEINVER has also improved the environmental communication aimed at the tenants and For example, in order to promote awareness users of all the Spanish centres by designing and environmental values to a greater extent, in and disseminating environmental awareness November 2018, EDP’s “Imagine your energy” campaigns. activity was organised at the Nassica Getafe centre, aiming to teach society about energy and True to its environmental awareness work, NEINVER how to save it through educational exercises. continues to spread campaigns and involve its operators in initiatives such as celebrating Earth In terms of training, in 2018, the company continued Hour or Energy Efficiency Day. BIODIVERSITY In 2018, NEINVER has continued to implement the putting in place measures aimed at improving it. Biodiversity Management Plan, planned in 2016 These are initiatives which are being implemented from the perspective of reducing the impact of the for the BREEAM NEW CONSTRUCTION and centres’ land occupation on biodiversity as much BREEAM IN-USE renovations. as possible, and compensating for that impact by Biodiversity Management Plan scope of work Planting fruiting shrub Improvements in nesting Plantations of key flora Setting up drip irrigation species to sustain the bird management guidelines, species for the habitats in garden areas. fauna. especially migrating and surrounding the centres. ENVIROMENTAL ENVIRONMENTAL protected birds. COUNTRY COSTS INVESTMENTS Spain €699,487 €236,535 Italy €342,291 €369,640 Poland €305,904 €292,100 Best practices to Best practices to guarantee Installing France €181,861 €1,200,000 guarantee the use of that no invasive species are hives and nests. organic fertilisers and planted in the garden areas. pesticides. TOTAL €1,529,544 €2,908,275 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 56 Environmental management evolution by country 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 57 ENERGY CONSUMPTION TOTAL POLAND 29,196 GJ (down 3.1% from 2017) FRANCE TOTAL NEINVER TOTAL 76,632 GJ 2,083 GJ (down 2.53% from 2017) (down 0.52% ITALY TOTAL from 2017) 3,426 GJ (down 4.20% from 2017) SPAIN TOTAL 41,927 GJ (up 1.79% from 2017) 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 58 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS TOTAL 1,136 tCO e 2 POLAND (down 8.21% from 2017) FRANCE TOTAL NEINVER TOTAL 1,513 tCO e 2 0 tCO e (down 0% 2 from 2017) (down 0.30% ITALY TOTAL from 2017) 4.1 tCO e 2 (down 2.93% from 2017) SPAIN TOTAL 373 tCO e 2 (up 35.23% from 2017) 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 59 WATER CONSUMPTION TOTAL 44,248 m 3 POLAND (down 10.86% from 2017) FRANCE TOTAL NEINVER TOTAL 226,984 m3 11,198 m (down 2.86% from 2017) 3 (down 2.24% ITALY TOTAL from 2017) 92,877 m 3 (down 14.81% from 2017) SPAIN TOTAL 78,981m 3 (up 9.61% from 2017) 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 60 WASTE PRODUCTION TOTAL 1,338 t POLAND (up 8.90% from 2017) FRANCE TOTAL NEINVER TOTAL 4,680 t 530 t (down 1.90% from 2017) (up 2.33% ITALY TOTAL from 2017) 548 t (up 8.73% from 2017) SPAIN TOTAL 2,324 t (down 0.24% from 2017) 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 61 Appendixes ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Direct economic value generated and distributed. (201-1) Breakdown of staff by employee category, gender, and age range. (405-1) In thousands of euros 2018 2017 2016 2018 2017 Economic value generated 113,568 92,973 65,237 Employment category Age Male Female Total Age Male Female Total (Clients) Net receipts 102,998 88,609 65,266 GOVERNANCE TEAM <30 0 <30 30-50 1 1 30-50 1 0 1 Sale of (fixed) assets -9,530 4,364 -33 >50 1 1 >50 1 0 1 Sale of financial assets 20,100 0 4 Total 2 0 2 Total 2 0 2 SENIOR MANAGEMENT <30 0 <30 0 Other items (Specify) 0 0 30-50 8 4 12 30-50 6 3 9 Economic value distributed -95,559 -71,719 -65,760 >50 1 1 >50 2 1 3 Suppliers (Operating costs) -53,301 -46,350 -32,180 Total 9 4 13 Total 8 4 12 MIDDLE MANAGEMENT <30 1 1 <30 0 Employees (Salaries/Benefits) -20,485 -17,400 -18,351 30-50 13 21 34 30-50 14 25 39 Financial Institutions (Payments to providers of capital) -13,025 -15,497 -7,411 >50 2 4 6 >50 1 4 5 Total 16 25 41 Total 15 29 44 Public Agencies (Payment to governments) -5,248 7,528 -7,819 TECHNICIANS <30 2 1 3 <30 1 2 3 Shareholders (Dividends) -3,500 0 30-50 23 19 42 30-50 20 21 41 Other items (Specify) 0 0 >50 4 3 7 >50 3 2 5 Total 29 23 52 Total 24 25 49 Economic value retained 18,009 21,254 -524 ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF <30 11 37 48 <30 10 41 51 30-50 29 86 115 30-50 27 89 116 >50 1 6 7 >50 1 6 7 Total 41 129 170 Total 38 136 174 EMPLOYEES Breakdown by contract type. Employee training by gender, category and country. (404-1) Breakdown by contract 2018 2017 2016 % causes 2015 2014 type, employees variation Hours of training by gender, 2018 2017 2016 covered by collective compared to the average bargaining agreements, and number of voluntary departures MALE 48.21 46.26 89.93 Percentage of employees 61.70 66.09 75.79 88% 90% 90% -2% Day Reductions 90% 92% FEMALE who are full time by legal guardian Percentage of employees 57.01 59.57 77.90 88% 93% 94% -5% Maternity leave 93% 94% AVERAGE with open-ended contracts Percentage of employees 64% 61% 58% 5% Staff increasement 56% 56% covered by collective barin countries with agreement gaining agreements Voluntary departures 14% 9% 14% 57% 5% 9% 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 62 Hours of training by employee 2018 2017 % variation category, compared to the average GOVERNANCE TEAM 0.00 21.00 -100% SENIOR MANAGEMENT 27.47 40.73 -33% MIDDLE MANAGEMENT 61.94 53.68 15% TECHNICIANS 50.84 59.46 -14% ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF 60.28 62.73 -4% Hours of training by Causas que country, compared to the 2018 2017 % variation explican la variación average GERMANY 18.33 8.50 116% Languages increase SPAIN 35.91 35.66 1% FRANCE 9.87 29.82 -67% Languages decrease ITALY 26.30 33.70 -22% Languages decrease POLAND 136.07 128.21 6% Technical training increase Detailed information on parental leave. (401-3) 2018 2017 Took leave Returned Took leave Returned LEAVES H M H M H M H M GERMANY 0 0 0 0 1 0 1 0 SPAIN 3 7 3 6 1 8 1 4 FRANCE 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 ITALY 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 2 POLAND 0 7 0 3 1 11 1 2 CZECH REPUBLIC 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 TOTAL 4 15 4 9 3 19 3 8 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 63 APPENDIX OF ENVIRONMENTAL INDICATORS POLAND ITALY FRANCE SPAIN ENERGY 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Energy consumption Total energy (GJ) 32,172 30,129 29,196 3,871 3,577 3,426 1,959 2,137 2,083 41,904 41,188 41,927 Electricity (GJ) 26,170 24,464 24,052 3,774 3,501 3,346 1,959 2,137 2,083 36,439 36,296 35,310 Thermal energy (GJ) 1,752 1,633 1,505 Natural gas (GJ) 4,250 4,031 3,639 97 75 80 5,465 4,893 6,616 Energy intensity Energy intensity (GJ/visitor) 0.00228 0.00203 0.00203 0.00059 0.00056 0.00054 0.00111 0.00115 0.00113 0.00153 0.00146 0.00140 Energy intensity (GJ/hour of operation) 0.360 0.332 0.315 0.066 0.060 0.057 0.0719 0.0784 0.0762 0.192 0.206 0.190 GREENHOUSE GAS EMISSIONS 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Emisiones de gases de efecto invernadero Scope 1 and Scope 2 emissions (tCO2eq) 1,323 1,238 1,136 5.5 4.2 4.1 308 276 373 cope 1 emissions (tCO2eq) 240 227 205 5.5 4.2 4.5 308 276 373 Scope 2 emissions (tCO2eq) 1,084 1,010 931 Emissions intensity Emissions intensity (kg/visitor) 0.104282 0.093752 0.091849 0.06344 0.04854 0.04444 0.02052 0.01675 0.0218 Emissions intensity (kg/hour of operation) 17.28146 16.10987 14.50531 0.0872 0.0678 0.0744 3.20239 2.88495 3.86982 WATER 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Water consumption Water consumption (m3) 40,199 39,915 44,248 87,203 109,021 92,877 10,361 11,198 10,878 62,102 72,057 78,981 Water intensity Water intensity (m³/visitor) 0.00291 0.00287 0.00319 0.01284 0.01644 0.01501 0.00588 0.00604 0.00588 0.00257 0.00287 0.00330 Water intensity (m³/hour of operation) 0.4688 0.4783 0.5011 1.443 1.798 1.575 0.3803 0.4110 0.3978 0.3087 0.3994 0.4278 WASTE 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 Waste production Total waste production (t) 991 890 669 516 504 548 495 540 530 2.187 2.639 2.933 Waste production intensity Waste production intensity (kg/visitor) 0.05836 0.05250 0.04999 0.0984 0.0975 0.1071 0.2807 0.2915 0.2864 0.0860 0.0924 0.0991 Waste production intensity (kg/hour of operation) 8.9876 8.2046 7.8840 10.404 10.206 10.701 18.168 19.831 19.383 9.4284 12.3303 12.9346 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. REDUCING OUR ENVIRONMENTAL FOOTPRINT 64 NEINVER CERTIFICATIONS ISO 9001 ISO 14001 ISO 50001 ISO 45001 BREEAM IN USE BREEAM NEW CONSTRUCTION POLAND FACTORY Poznan x x x 2019 x FACTORY Ursus x x x 2019 x FACTORY Krakow x x x 2019 x x Futura Park Krakow x x x 2019 x x FACTORY Annopol x x x 2019 x x Poland Office x x x 2019 ITALY Castel Guelfo The Style Outlets x x x 2019 x Vicolungo The Style Outlets x x x 2019 x FRANCE Roppenheim The Style Outlets x x x 2019 x SPAIN San Sebastián de los Reyes The Style Outlets x x x x x Getafe The Style Outlets x x x x x Las Rozas The Style Outlets x x x x x Coruña The Style Outlets x x x x x x Nassica Getafe x x x x x Viladecans The Style Outlets x x x x 2019 x Fashion Outlet Barakaldo x x x x Megapark Barakaldo x x x x x Centro Comercial y de Ocio Alegra x x x x x Spain Head Office x x x x x About this report 6 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. ABOUT THIS REPORT 66 About this report (102-46, 102-47, 102-53, 102-54, 102-55 y 103-1) Coverage SCOPE OF THE INFORMATION AND STANDARDS GRI Material topics Organisation Outside the organisation USED IN THE REPORT 201 Economic performance x x 203 Indirect economic impacts x 204 Procurement practices x This sustainability report includes information on 2017 for all activities and services provided by NEINVER. Where appropriate, information is also included on previous years to facilitate comparability. 205 Anti-corruption x x It has been developed in compliance with the Sustainability Reporting Standards of the Global Reporting 206 Anti-competitive behaviour x x Initiative (GRI Standards), in its Core option, as specified in point 102-54 of the GRI content index. 302 Energy x This document has been created in accordance with the reporting principles listed in Standard 101 of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). Following these guidelines guarantees that the information contained in 303 Water x this report is reliable, complete, balanced and clear. 305 Emissions x Furthermore, additional content from the GRI Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement has been included in the report. 306 Effluents and waste x Of all the material topics that appear in the materiality matrix, in order to write the report, those situated in the upper quadrant have been taken into account, which are detailed below, as well as their coverage, 307 Environmental compliance x inside or outside the organisation: 308 Supplier environmental assessment x x 401 Employment x x 403 Occupational health and safety x 404 Training and education x 405 Diversity and equal opportunities x 413 Local communities x 416 Customer health and safety x x 417 Marketing and labelling x 418 Customer privacy x 419 Socio-economic compliance x If you require any additional clarification regarding the information included in this document, or about the company’s sustainability performance, you can contact NEINVER by writing to the following email address: sustainability@neinver.com. (102-53) 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. ABOUT THIS REPORT 67 GRI Content Index For the Materiality Disclosures CONTENTS PAGE REMARKS Services, GRI Services has reviewed that the GRI content 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, enviAll members of the Management Committee stay index is clear, and that the in ongoing contact with the key stakeholder groups ronmental and social topics references for Contents 102in their area of activity. Topics important enough to 40 to 102-49 correspond to the affect the company’s performance are shared by indicated sections of the report. the Management Committee and, when necessary, are escalated to other elements of the corporate governance structure. CONTESNTS PAGE REMARKS 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body 13 and its committees 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body The Chairman of the Board is not an executive GRI 101: FOUNDATION 2016 officer, as Daniel Losantos was named CEO in late 2015. GRI 102: GENERAL DISCLOSURES 2016 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting 13 purpose, values and strategy Organisational profile 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance The company continually assesses the need to 102-1 Name of the organisation NEINVER S.A.U. body improve knowledge among its governance bodies, and in all cases promotes the most advisable 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services 7 initiatives. 102-3 Location of headquarters Avenida Pío XII, 2ª planta, 28016, Madrid (Spain) 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s There is no independent performance evaluation of performance NEINVER’s highest governance body. 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environThe Management Committee and other advisory 102-4 Location of operations 9 mental and social impacts bodies promptly inform the highest governance body about the most important management 102-5 Ownership and legal form NEINVER is a corporation (sociedad anónima issues in the company, and that highest body gives unipersonal). its opinion and makes decisions about the most relevant issues. 102-6 Markets served 9, 24 y 39 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 27 The Management Committee informs the highest 102-7 Scale of the organisation 8 governance body about the main identified risks and about the steps to take to manage them. 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 33 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social At all its meetings, the highest governance body 102-9 Supply chain 42 topics analyses any new impacts, risks and opportunities of high relevance to the company. 102-10 Significant changes to the organisation and its 27 supply chain 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainabiManagement Committee. lity reporting 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach 46 y 47 102-12 External initiatives 14 y 21 102-33 Communicating critical concerns The Management Committee and other advisory bodies promptly inform the highest governance 102-13 Membership of associations 44 body about the most important management issues in the company, and that highest body gives Strategy its opinion and makes decisions about the most relevant issues. 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 4 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 35 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities 14 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Stakeholders’ opinions are not solicited for this section. Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of 14 y 21 Stakeholder engagement behaviour 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 29 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about 14 ethics 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 33 Governance 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders NEINVER defines its list of stakeholders as including 102-18 Governance structure 13 all organisations/groups that are critical to the company’s operations or are influenced by its 102-19 Delegating authority 13 operations. 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 29, 30 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, 13 The Management Committee involves all the and 40 environmental and social topics company’s top managers in issues related to economic, environmental and social topics. This 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 29, 30 Committee reports to Senior Management. and 40 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. ABOUT THIS REPORT 68 CONTENTS PAGE REMARKS CONTENTS PAGE REMARKS Reporting practice GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial Financial data taken from the Group’s annual GRI 103: Management approach 2016 statements consolidated financial statement. Its scope includes NEINVER, S.A.U. and all its subsidiary companies. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 42 and 43 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 66 103-2 The management approach and its components 42 and 43 102-47 List of material topics 66 102-48 Restatements of information Water and energy consumption data and greenhouse 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42 and 43 gas emissions data for 2015 and 2016 have been revised slightly from the figures included in the 2016 GRI 204: Procurement Practices 2016 Sustainability Report. These restatements reflect improvements to the data collection and processing 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers 43 procedures, and are not considered significant. 102-49 Changes in reporting In 2016 the sustainability report was prepared GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 based on G4, and the present report is based on GRI Standards. GRI 103: Management approach 2016 102-50 Reporting period The reporting period is the year 2017, although 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 14 information from previous years is included where deemed appropriate. 103-2 The management approach and its components 14 102-51 Date of most recent report The most recent edition of the report was published last year, in 2017, with content corresponding to the 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Criminal compliance procedures to be audited every year. year 2016 GRI 205: Anti-corruption 2016 102-52 Reporting cycle Annual 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption 14 and 36 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report sustainability@neinver.com policies and procedures 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI This report has been prepared in accordance with Standards the Essential option of the GRI Standards 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken There were no known cases of corruption during the reporting period. 102-55 GRI content index 67 70 102-56 External assurance No external assurance was obtained for the sustaiGRI 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour 2016 nability report. All indicators included in it come from GRI 103: Management approach 2016 the company’s own annually audited management systems. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 14 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components Our Ethical code has a specific section for Conflicts of interest, number 3.4, and it is signed by all the GRI 103: Management approach 2016 employees. A Conflicts of Interest Policy is available for all the employees through out intranet. 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 15 Boundary 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Criminal compliance procedures to be audited every year. 103-2 The management approach and its components 15 GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behaviour 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 15 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, 14 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 anti-trust and monopoly practices 201-1 Direct economic value generated and 15 distributed GRI 302: Energy 2016 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and Actions related to energy are key to fighting climate GRI 103: Management approach 2016 opportunities due to climate change change, which can have various effects on the assets the company manages: water shortages, chan103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 51 ges in energy prices, changes in flooding patterns, and impacts on the supply chain, for example. 103-2 The management approach and its components 51 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other There is no benefit plan in the organisation. retirement plans 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 51 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 GRI 302: Energy 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 302-1 Energy consumption within the organisation 51 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its 41 Boundary 302-3 Energy intensity 51 103-2 The management approach and its components 41 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 51 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 41 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products 51 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 2016 and services 203-1 Infrastructure investments and services 41 supported 203-2 Significant indirect economic impacts 41 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. ABOUT THIS REPORT 69 CONTENTS PAGE REMARKS CONTENTS PAGE REMARKS GRI 303: Water 2016 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 53 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 42 103-2 The management approach and its components 53 103-2 The management approach and its components 42 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 53 NEINVER’s portfolio and headquarters are cer103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 42 tified under ISO 14001 standard, environmental management system, with external audits on a GRI 308: Supplier Environmental yearly basis Assesment 2016 GRI 303: Water 2016 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environThe company evaluates all its suppliers. mental criteria 303-1 Water withdrawal by source 53 All NEINVER centres use the municipal water supply. GRI 401: Employment 2016 303-2 Water sources significantly affected by withdrawal No water sources were significantly affected by of water the company’s withdrawal of water. GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 and 34 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 103-2 The management approach and its components 33 and 34 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 52 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 103-2 The management approach and its components 52 GRI 401: Employment 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 52 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 33 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are 35 not provided to temporary or part-time employees 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 52 401-3 Parental leave 62 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 52 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 305-3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG emissions 52 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 52 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 35 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 52 103-2 The management approach and its components 35 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 35 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 54 403-2 Types and frequency of accidents, occupational 35 103-2 The management approach and its components 54 diseases, missed days, absenteeism and number of deaths caused by occupational accidents or diseases 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach NEINVER’s portfolio and headquarters are certified under ISO 14001 standard, environmental management system, with external audits on a GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 yearly basis GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 34 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 54 103-2 The management approach and its components 34 306-3 Significant spills There were no significant spills. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 34 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 61 and 34 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 46 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular perfor34 103-2 The management approach and its components 46 and 47 mance and career development reviews 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and NEINVER received no such sanctions in 2018. regulations 2018 ANNUAL REPORT. ABOUT THIS REPORT 70 CONTENTS PAGE REMARKS CONTENTS PAGE REMARKS GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 33 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 14 and 18 103-2 The management approach and its components Our Ethical Code has a specific section for Fair 103-2 The management approach and its components Security management system Remuneration, number 4.3, and it is sgned by all the employees. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach Advicing and periodical external audits with 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 61 external specialists GRI 418: Customer Privacy 2016 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 418-1 Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of To date, the company has received no comcustomer privacy and losses of customer data plaints about non-compliance in this area or 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 61 requests for data deletion. GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 41 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 14 103-2 The management approach and its components 41 103-2 The management approach and its components 14 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 41 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 36 Fullfilment with the American regulation Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act (FACTA), as well as local legislation in each location. GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance 2016 413-1 Operations with local community engagement, 41 NEINVER conducts this type of evaluation for all impact assessments and development programs properties. 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations in the The company has not received any significant social and economic area sanction in the last year. 413-2 Operations with significant actual and potential negaWhen developing new properties, none of the tive impacts on local communities socio-economic impact studies found any severe negative impacts in this area. GRI G4 construction and real estate sector GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 46 GRI 103: Management approach 2016 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 39 103-2 The management approach and its components 46 and 47 103-2 The management approach and its components 39 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 47 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 39 GRI G4: Construction and Real Estate Sector 2016 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 CRE1 Building energy intensity. 51 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts of NEINVER evaluates the health and safety product and service categories impacts of all the outlet and retail centres that CRE2 Building water intensity. 53 it manages 416-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health There were no cases of non-compliance in this CRE3 Greenhouse gas emissions intensity from 52 and safety impacts of products and services regard. buildings. CRE4 Intensity of greenhouse gas emissions 52 GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling 2016 greenhouse for new buildings construction and renovation activities GRI 103: Management approach 2016 CRE6 Percentage of the organisation operating in veri46 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 37 fied compliance with an internationally recognised health and safety management system 103-2 The management approach and its components Marketing procedures in ISO 9001 scope, quality management system: PM-01, PM-02, CRE7 Number of persons voluntarily and involuntarily The company’s projects have not displaced any PM-03, PM-04, PM-05, PM-06 y PM-07 displaced and/or resettled by development, populations. 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach NEINVER’s portfolio and headquarters are broken down by project. certified under ISO 9001 standard, quality management system, with external audits on a CRE8 Type and number of sustainability certification, ra46 yearly basis ting and labelling schemes for new construction, management, occupation and redevelopment. GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling 2016 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and There were no cases of non-compliance in this service information and labelling regard.
