CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT TABLE OF CONTENTS 3 INTRODUCTION 18 ACTING RESPONSIBLY 4 A Message From Our CEO FOR THE PLANET 6 About This Report 19 Environmental Compliance 7 Our Communication On Progress 20 Energy 8 About Cabot 22 Emissions 10 Engaging With Our Stakeholders 23 Waste & Spills 11 Our Continued Commitment 25 Water To Responsible Care 26 CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE 12 BUILDING A BETTER & COMMUNITIES FUTURE TOGETHER 27 Occupational Health & Safety 13 Economic Value Generated 30 Retention, Development & Diversity & Distributed 34 Community Engagement 15 Product Sustainability 16 Suppliers' Sustainability 36 GRI CONTENT INDEX 2 INTRODUCTION 4 A Message From Our CEO 6 About This Report 7 Our Communication On Progress 8 About Cabot 10 Engaging With Our Stakeholders 11 Our Continued Commitment To Responsible Care 3 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRODUCTION A MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO SEAN D. KEOHANE President and Chief Executive Officer Our annual sustainability report is an opportunity to not success, we broadened the focus of our Board of Directors’ only reflect on our accomplishments from the past year, Safety, Health and Environment Committee to now include but to anticipate how we can continue improving our oversight and guidance for our sustainability program. We performance moving forward. We are proud of our progress also formed an internal Sustainability Advisory Committee in 2018 and remain excited about the opportunities ahead composed of leaders representing a cross-section of our of us. While we have been in business for over 135 years, regions, functions and businesses to support the strategic it is clear that our responsibility to conduct our operations integration of sustainability throughout our company and with the highest social and environmental standards accelerate our progress in this important area. has never been greater. Our customers demand it, our communities expect it, and our planet needs it. In addition, we became the first chemical company in China to earn Responsible Care 14001® certification by As one of the largest performance materials and specialty an authorized registrar in China and have since reached chemicals companies in the world, we understand the our goal of having all our manufacturing facilities in China role that we play in leading and setting an example in our earn this certification. We were also recognized as one of industry. We know we must live up to our responsibilities, Corporate Responsibility Magazine’s 100 Best Corporate honor our commitments and be accountable to our Citizens and earned numerous regional recognitions in stakeholders. Advancing progress in sustainability is our markets around the world. In addition, we have made one essential way we will continue to demonstrate and progress on all our material topics, including two new maintain our leadership. focus areas of supplier sustainability and diversity and inclusion (D&I). Specifically, I’m proud to report that we We have learned over the years that our commitment to recently achieved our goal to reduce nitrogen oxides (NOX) sustainability is not just about acting responsibly, but emissions on an intensity basis by 20% from a baseline it is also about identifying and acting on opportunities. of 2012 ahead of schedule. In addition, we implemented a Increasingly, the challenges our customers are facing are pilot program to audit suppliers on sustainability criteria, sustainability challenges. Our ability to develop innovative and further embedded D&I into our culture by launching a technologies to meet these challenges, conserve D&I Committee and hiring our first director of D&I. resources across our value chain and grow our position in the circular economy is enabling us to maintain our As we push forward, our sustainability strategy focuses reputation and prepare our business for the future. on the most significant sustainability issues and opportunities facing our company. Specifically, we look to In 2018, we demonstrated our commitment to our 11 material topics to help focus our attention on what sustainability in a number of ways. Recognizing the matters most to our business and stakeholders. We are strategic importance of sustainability to our future committed to operating responsibly, conserving resources 4 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRODUCTION and developing innovative performance materials, through We have a unique opportunity to generate meaningful our relentless pursuit of developing solutions that address and lasting impacts in these areas but recognize that the sustainability challenges of our customers, our we cannot do this alone. We remain a proud signatory communities and our world. We do this by: to the United Nations Global Compact and will continue to have an external focus through which we will collaborate w C aring for our people and communities: We lead with others so we may continue making positive our industry in safety performance. We provide contributions for a more sustainable world. opportunities for our employees to develop and advance, and we foster a diverse and inclusive We are energized about the road ahead and are workplace where everyone is valued. We support our committed to achieving continuous improvement in communities through our active engagement and sustainability. This report is intended to provide insight commitment to being a responsible neighbor. to our many stakeholders about our sustainability initiatives. If you have suggestions regarding how we w A cting responsibly for the planet: We are setting the can further our efforts in this vital area, please email standard for environmental compliance, innovating us at sustainability@cabotcorp.com. We welcome to reduce our environmental footprint and optimizing your feedback. our operations and supply chain to increase circularity and conserve resources. Regards, wB  uilding a better future together: We are collaborating with our customers to create products that address sustainability challenges, working with suppliers to improve sustainability across our value chain, and GRI 102-14 creating long-term economic value for our partners and for businesses. As one of the largest performance materials and specialty chemicals companies in the world, we understand the role that we play in leading and setting an example in our industry. 5 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRODUCTION ABOUT THIS REPORT This report has been prepared in accordance with the is collected, analyzed and reviewed by subject matter GRI Standards: Core Option. It serves as our annual experts within the organization and, in the case of our Sustainability Report and addresses the sustainability greenhouse gas emissions, undergoes biennial verification topics determined to be most material to our company. by an independent third party, which was conducted most Additionally, this report includes our annual Communication recently for our 2017 and 2018 data in May 2019. on Progress in support of our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). Our last sustainability This report describes our sustainability strategy and report was published in June 2018. how it relates to our business and the interests of our stakeholders. The content focuses on the 11 sustainability Data and information covered in this report represent our topics that were found to be most relevant through a performance across all significant locations for which our comprehensive materiality assessment completed in 2017. company had operational control and majority ownership Dedicated sections describe our performance and vision during the 2018 calendar year, except for the financial for improvement in each of these 11 areas. Throughout the data, which covers our 2018 fiscal year (October 1, 2017, report, markers are provided to indicate the correlation through September 30, 2018). To ensure the highest between material topics and the GRI Standards. level of data integrity, we maintain databases for safety GRI 102-46 | GRI 102-47 | GRI 102-49 | GRI 102-50 | GRI 102-51 and environmental incident tracking, greenhouse gas GRI 102-52 | GRI 102-54 | GRI 102-56 emissions, finance and human resources. This data HIGHLY MATERIAL TOPICS UN SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED & DISTRIBUTED PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY SUPPLIERS' SUSTAINABILITY ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE ENERGY EMISSIONS WASTE & SPILLS WATER OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY RETENTION, DIVERSITY & DEVELOPMENT COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT 6 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRODUCTION OUR COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Since 2015, we have been a proud signatory characteristics or appearance, sexual orientation, union of the UNGC and remain committed to making membership or political affiliation. We are fully compliant progress with respect to the 10 principles with all requirements stemming from labor legislation within the categories of environment, labor, and collective agreements in the countries in which we human rights and anti-corruption. operate. In addition, safety is paramount to our operations, and we work diligently to ensure the safety of our employees, contractors, visitors and communities where ENVIRONMENT we operate. We maintain our sharp focus on safety by ensuring all employees, contractors and visitors are well With recognition of the numerous environmental issues trained and equipped with everything they need to return facing our planet, we are dedicated to understanding and home each day the same as they arrived at our facilities. managing our environmental impacts on the world. We We also recognize the benefit of promoting wellness fully accept our responsibility to reduce our environmental across our workforce and offer numerous opportunities to footprint to the greatest extent possible across our promote employees’ wellness inside and outside of work global operations. To this end, we have developed while creating a healthier, more engaged culture. initiatives to minimize the environmental impact of our business, conserve resources and promote environmental awareness. This commitment is underscored by the fact HUMAN RIGHTS that the majority of the topics identified as most material to our sustainability program are environmentally related. We are committed to conducting our business with Globally, our efforts are focused on reducing energy usage, integrity and believe that it is our responsibility to respect emissions and waste. We have developed environmental human rights with regard to our employees, suppliers, goals in these areas and continuously monitor our customers and communities. We firmly believe that every progress toward these 2025 targets in addition to other individual deserves to be treated with dignity, honesty, environmental metrics. We also recognize that water integrity, respect and fairness. In seeking to respect and is an important natural resource that we must monitor uphold human rights, we are guided by international our use of, and we are working across our network of standards embodied in the United Nations Universal facilities to develop a strategic water management Declaration of Human Rights; the International Covenant plan to help identify water reduction, recycling and on Civil and Political Rights; the International Covenant on efficiency opportunities. Economic, Social and Cultural Rights; and the International Labor Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. This commitment is explicitly covered LABOR in our Code of Business Ethics in addition to our formal Human Rights Policy. We also require that our suppliers We strive to ensure our organization reflects the diversity comply with our Code of Business Ethics, which in some of our global presence and are committed to providing cases demands higher standards than required by local equal opportunity for all employees at all levels. As one law. Pursuant to the California Transparency in Supply of our core values, we respect the differences of all our Chains Act, we have posted on our website a statement that employees and have zero tolerance for discrimination suppliers are expected to comply with all applicable laws on the basis of ethnic or racial status, color, nationality, and standards related to labor practices and human rights. descent, religion, caste, gender, age, physical 7 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRODUCTION ANTI-CORRUPTION All employees are required to undergo training on the Code of Business Ethics on an annual basis, through which they Conducting business in accordance with the highest can practice identifying potential risks of corruption and ethical standards and in full compliance with all applicable how such matters should be addressed. Depending on anti-bribery laws and regulations is critical to our business employees’ job responsibilities, supplementary training success. This requires the support of all employees as may also be required to uphold our high expectations well as our suppliers and customers, and we expect that for ethical business conduct. In addition, to facilitate they will comply with these laws and regulations at all the reporting of potential or suspected misconduct or times. Our position is that all forms of corruption, including noncompliance, including bribery-related activities, bribery and extortion, are unethical and unacceptable and we provide a reporting hotline through which our are inconsistent with our values and our Code of Business employees can confidentially report concerns. Ethics. In support of this position, we have developed GRI 102-12 detailed policies, compliance procedures and training. ABOUT CABOT Cabot Corporation is a leading global specialty chemicals and 30 sales offices in over 20 countries from our regions: and performance materials company headquartered in the Americas, Asia Pacific (APAC), and Europe, Middle Boston, Massachusetts, USA, that has delivered innovative East and Africa (EMEA). performance solutions to customers for over 135 years. We are a leading provider of rubber and specialty carbons, In 2018, we celebrated 30 years of success and fumed metal oxides, masterbatches and conductive development in China and were proud to become the compounds, activated carbon, inkjet colorants and inks, first chemical company there to receive Responsible cesium formate drilling fluids, and aerogel. Care® 14001 (RC14001®) certification that is recognized by the Certification and Accreditation Administration of We strive to be the most innovative, respected the People’s Republic of China as well as the American and responsible leader in our markets — delivering Chemistry Council (ACC). All four of our manufacturing performance that makes a difference. As a market leader, facilities in China earned this certification, and we plan we collaborate with customers to find innovative solutions to achieve the same status for facilities that will become that will help them advance their own products for a wide operational in the near future. This was an important range of industries, from transportation and infrastructure milestone in our commitment to demonstrate leadership to environment and consumer goods. We know that the in our markets. We announced plans to expand our properties our products impart give us the opportunity to global carbon black capacity by over 300,000 metric help our customers address key sustainability challenges. tons through a series of expansion and debottlenecking We look to advance in these areas with a continued focus projects, including a capacity expansion project at our on improving the performance of both our materials and facility in Cilegon, Indonesia. We also continued the the end products in which they are used. integration of Tech Blend, a leading North American producer of black masterbatches, and a carbon black We are known as one of the global leaders in safety, manufacturing facility in Pizhou, China. These projects health and environmental (SH&E) performance, and we will contribute to our continued growth and are essential continuously invest in sustainability, motivated in large to meet the growing demand in key markets around part by the commitment and drive of our colleagues the world. around the world. Our global network consists of GRI 102-2 | GRI 102-4 | GRI 102-6 | GRI 102-7 | GRI 102-10 approximately 4,500 employees in 45 manufacturing facilities, nine research and development facilities, GRI 102-12 | GRI 103-1 8 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRODUCTION OUR LOCATIONS VALUES AND ETHICS 13 different languages for our global network of employees. The Code covers topics such as the importance of treating We are committed to promoting an ethical business culture each other with mutual respect, interacting with our that is rooted in our core values of integrity, respect, customers and other stakeholders with a high standard excellence and responsibility. These values ensure that of ethics and serving our communities in a responsible we are operating ethically and transparently, and are manner. The Office of Compliance, which reports to the fundamental to our relationships with our customers, Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, oversees the partners, distributors, shareholders and colleagues around implementation of the Code and overall compliance with the globe. Our Code of Business Ethics establishes the laws and regulations. standards of ethical behavior and business conduct that we expect throughout our organization. Each year, all GRI 102-16 employees are required to complete training on our Code of Business Ethics in addition to more focused training based on job responsibilities. We provide the training in 9 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRODUCTION ENGAGING WITH OUR STAKEHOLDERS Being a responsible corporate citizen requires maintaining Our open-door policy provides the framework for positive relationships with our various stakeholder groups. employees to raise concerns and report violations of We diligently seek opportunities to engage with our corporate policies or the law. Employees may utilize customers, investors, employees, potential employees, several points of contact such as supervisors, the Office suppliers, regulators and communities and welcome their of Compliance or the Cabot hotline. Manufacturing facilities feedback on how our activities impact their respective have formal processes to engage the local community, interests. Our interaction with these groups can take including the use of Community Advisory Panels and many forms, including employee meetings, recruiting open days where community members may visit events, in-person meetings, and the use of social media sites and speak directly with our employees. to highlight key community initiatives and company GRI 102-40 | GRI 102-42 | GRI 102-43 | GRI 102-44 news. We believe it is important for our stakeholders to understand not just the nature of our business but also our ongoing commitment to improving our sustainability performance and investing in research and innovation. STAKEHOLDERS TYPES OF ENGAGEMENT KEY TOPICS Business performance, value of our work, strategic Meetings, executive briefings, training sessions, Employees initiatives and vision, policy and organizational surveys, regular intranet communication structure, benefits and compensation, safety Social media, college campus visits, Sustainability performance, company Potential Employees interviews, internships, job recruitment sites, values, community engagement, benefits employee referrals and compensation Plant operations, safety, environmental Plant visits, open days, sponsorships, stewardship, emergency response planning, Communities engagement programs, foundation activities, compliance programs, emissions, sponsorships, social media local engagement Sales calls, surveys, technical information, Business performance, sustainability, satisfaction exchanges, plant visits, complaint resolution, surveys, technical solutions, product quality and Customers trade shows, trade magazines, social media, performance, cost, production plans, product customer portals, website safety and regulatory information Presentations, supplier agreements, audits and Performance criteria and expectations, Suppliers performance assessments, supplier summits, sustainability, safety trade shows, trade magazines Annual report, quarterly disclosures, sustainability Business performance, strategy, execution, Investors report, annual meeting, individual meetings, social material disclosures, sustainability media, website, business and trade news Plant visits, training sessions, technical Compliance reporting, problem solving, Regulators information exchanges, inspections technical information, sustainability 10 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT INTRODUCTION OUR CONTINUED COMMITMENT TO RESPONSIBLE CARE Since joining the ACC in 2010, we have embraced the chemical industry’s voluntary Responsible Care initiative. Through the Responsible Care initiative and the Responsible Care Global Charter, we have made a commitment to improve our health, safety, environmental and security performance throughout the organization. We are committed to acting in accordance with the As an active leader in Responsible Care, we are helping principles of Responsible Care on a global scale and have to drive continuous improvement in the safety and applied them across our network. Specifically, we continue sustainability of our products and operations around to be a leader and promoter of Responsible Care in China. the globe. As a member of the Association of International Chemical Manufacturers (AICM) that promotes Responsible Care in The Responsible Care principles are closely aligned China, we are actively engaged in leadership positions with our sustainability strategy, and we are an active in the AICM’s environment, safety, emergency planning, supporter of these principles around the world. Our production and process safety subcommittees. participation signifies our deep belief in the value of external engagement and third-party certification of our In March 2018, we celebrated the certification of our Tianjin safety, health, environmental and security management facility, becoming the first chemical company in China to systems. Through Responsible Care, we continuously be certified by auditors from the international registrar, BSI, demonstrate our commitment to: in accordance with the stringent international standards of w Improving the safety, health and environmental the Responsible Care Management System® program. Later performance of our processes and products in the year, our carbon black facility in Xingtai, China, was officially certified to the RC14001 standard. This was yet wM  onitoring the security of our sites and working another important milestone toward our goal to complete with our neighbors to prepare for and respond certification of all our facilities in China. to emergencies GRI 102-12 wU  sing resources wisely and minimizing waste w P romoting responsible management of chemicals w C ommunicating openly with stakeholders Within this program, we have chosen to implement RC14001, which incorporates the requirements of both the Responsible Care code and International Organization for Standardization (ISO) 14001: Environmental management systems, for our manufacturing facilities and corporate offices in the United States and our carbon black facility in Canada. Each year following certification, several of our manufacturing sites have received ACC awards in the Achievement, Honor and Excellence categories, demonstrating facility-level safety leadership. 11 BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER 13 Economic Value Generated & Distributed 15 Product Sustainability 16 Suppliers' Sustainability 12 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER We recognize the value and importance of incorporating sustainability not only into our direct operations and research efforts but throughout our value chain. This perspective helps us identify how we can best leverage our influence and create the greatest value to improve efficiency and implement responsible practices. We actively engage with our customers to collaborate on developing products that impart sustainability benefits such as increased durability and energy efficiency. In addition, we support and collaborate with our suppliers to help them in their pursuit of continuous improvement in sustainability performance. Improving the overall impact of our value chain is dependent on our close collaboration with our customers and suppliers. Together, we pursue innovative solutions to improve our collective sustainability performance and address the key sustainability challenges of today’s world. ECONOMIC VALUE GENERATED & DISTRIBUTED OUR COMMITMENT Strong financial performance is key to the sustainable growth of our business and our future success. Our stakeholders around the world expect us to deliver on our financial commitments by generating and distributing economic value. To that end, we are focused on growing our earnings by 7% to 10% over time while returning 50% of our discretionary free cash flow to shareholders. We believe this approach in combination with investing for growth in our businesses will allow us to maintain our reputation as a leader in our markets and position us to respond to the evolving needs of our customers. Through our global operations, we create value for a wide variety of stakeholders, including our shareholders, investors, employees, suppliers, contractors and local communities. Our compensation programs are designed to provide a competitive package that rewards both individual and Company performance and that reflects job complexity, strategic value of the individual’s position, experience and location. GRI 103-1 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH total shareholder return, built on earnings growth and a With the support of our Executive Committee, the balanced capital allocation framework. This strategy helps Board of Directors oversees financial performance and ensure that we invest sufficiently in our core businesses strategy, capital structure, and market exposure as well to capture opportunities and drive long-term earnings as our company’s overall risk profile. Our comprehensive growth while providing our shareholders with a meaningful Enterprise Risk Management program is led by our chief cash return. financial officer and reviewed by the Executive Committee Our investment decisions and growth strategy are guided before it is presented to the Board of Directors. As part by an emphasis on sustainable business practices and of this process, sustainability-related issues — such as full compliance with laws, regulations and corporate impacts from climate change on our business operations standards including our Code of Business Ethics. When and our markets — are evaluated. Opportunities related to possible, we also look for opportunities to go beyond the how we can respond to markets seeking more sustainable minimum standards. solutions are also a key factor in our strategic planning. To ensure the reliability of our financial and strategic Our Advancing the Core strategy is designed to extend planning, we regularly monitor and evaluate both our our leadership in performance materials. We do this shortand long-term needs and objectives. Specifically, by investing for growth in our core businesses, driving each quarter we conduct a comprehensive internal review application innovation with our customers, and generating of our financial performance. We also review our financial strong cash flows through efficiency and optimization. The performance with our Board of Directors on a bimonthly goal of this strategy is to deliver sustained and attractive 13 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER basis. Annually, we develop and review long-range plans, the integration of Tech Blend, a leading North American establish performance targets and review business and producer of black masterbatches, which extends our function budgets. global footprint in black masterbatch and compounds. We also acquired a carbon black plant in Pizhou, China, Our investors and the broader investment community and announced our intention to modify the manufacturing closely evaluate our financial performance, and an facility to produce specialty carbons. Moreover, we independent registered public accounting firm audits announced investments for additional capacity in our our annual financial statements each year. global carbon black network through capital-efficient GRI 103-2 | GRI 103-3 debottlenecks and an expansion at our facility in Cilegon, Indonesia. In addition, we continued to make progress on OUR PERFORMANCE our new fumed silica manufacturing facilities in Carrollton, We were pleased to report a very strong financial Kentucky, USA, and in Wuhai, China. These two facilities will performance in fiscal year 2018. We generated adjusted add nearly 100 total jobs in those communities. In 2018, we earnings per share* of $4.03, which was a 14% increase also recommissioned our aerogel manufacturing facility compared with fiscal 2017. Furthermore, we achieved in Frankfurt, Germany, which increased the number of cash flow from operating activities of $298 million and employees from 14 to more than 50. generated $253 million of discretionary free cash flow Our business success enables us to further our (DFCF).* We continued to deliver on our commitment to contributions to society and the communities where return cash to our shareholders, returning more than 50% we operate, by generating jobs, providing fair wages, of DFCF through dividends and share repurchases. adopting the latest technology and materials to reduce We made several long-term strategic investments to our environmental impact, and participating in charitable extend our leadership positions and to drive sustained giving and community events. growth of earnings and free cash flow. Our investments GRI 102-7 | GRI 201-1 | GRI 201-2 for growth in our core businesses included furthering Celebrating 75 years of operations at our Ville Platte facility 2018 marked the 75th anniversary of our carbon black manufacturing facility in Ville Platte, Louisiana, USA. In honor of this milestone, the site hosted a week’s worth of events for our customers, employees, family members and retirees. Throughout the facility’s history, we have been proud to expand our production capabilities and employ local residents who have contributed to its long-term success. Today, we utilize four units to manufacture more than 10 different grades of carbon black, amounting to approximately 145,000 metric tons of product sold throughout North America annually. * Non-GAAP financial measure. Refer to non-GAAP reconciliations on page 10 of our 2018 Annual Report. 14 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER PRODUCT SUSTAINABILITY OUR COMMITMENT Our vision of delivering performance that makes a difference is exemplified by our products that provide health, safety, environmental and other sustainability benefits for our customers. We are committed to continuing to develop innovative products that improve the performance of our customers’ products by imparting properties that extend product life spans, increase fuel efficiency and optimize resource conservation. We look to grow our involvement in the circular economy by developing opportunities to use waste or byproducts as raw materials, and we understand that, as responsible manufacturers, we have an obligation to share comprehensive information on the health, safety and environmental aspects of our products. GRI 103-1 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH regulatory issues, promote collaboration on expansion Oversight of product innovation and development of health and safety information, and help ensure the is provided by our chief technology officer in close long-term sustainability of our markets. collaboration with our customer-focused business teams. GRI 103-2 | GRI 103-3 | GRI 416-1 We also regularly partner with customers to support their goals of developing sustainable products and solutions. OUR PERFORMANCE Our research and development teams use a stage-gate Innovation in energy storage process to assess the risks associated with the materials As part of our commitment to advancing the energy we use and produce, with regard to the health, safety and industry, we were excited to announce our participation in environmental impacts from our own operations as well as two United States Department of Energy research projects, the activities of our suppliers and customers. Through this for lithium-ion and lead acid battery materials. We will lens, we can make informed decisions about the design leverage our novel process technology to contribute to the and formulation of our products. research and development of low-cobalt active cathode formulations for next-generation lithium-ion batteries. Our efforts to maintain compliance with global product Research projects like these are designed to explore more requirements is led by regulatory experts and toxicologists sustainable, affordable options to cobalt, and ultimately within our Product Support and Toxicology department. to improve access to electric vehicle technology. For Our corporate hazard communication program ensures the lead acid battery project, we and fellow members of an ongoing review of our product properties as well as the Advanced Lead Acid Battery Consortium are funding compliance with global requirements. We are committed research by Argonne National Laboratory aimed at to developing transparent product labeling and sharing gaining the critical knowledge needed to create the next comprehensive supporting literature to ensure those who generation of lead batteries that will provide economical, manufacture, transport, store or use our products are recyclable and rechargeable energy storage. In addition to prepared to handle the material safely. Training is provided these two projects, we lend our expertise to several other for our employees, customers and distributors, to relay the partner-led research projects designed to advance the health and safety aspects of our products as well as the technologies of tomorrow. intended uses, ensuring that our materials are handled and used properly. Applying carbon nanostructure technologies In 2018, we gained capabilities in carbon nanostructure This commitment to product sustainability extends to our (CNS) technologies. We are working with customers engagement with peer companies in our industries. We serving the automotive industry to advance applications of have long been a participant and leader in the International Carbon Black Association as well as other industry CNS-containing composites for a wide range of conductive applications, including electrostatic discharge and associations around the world. These engagements electromagnetic interference shielding. These composites provide opportunities to further the understanding of 15 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER enable light-weighting and electrification, which help the industry achieve its future vision of more sustainable Fiber-grade carbon black supports mobility. This innovative technology will also enable us to wastewater reductions develop advanced formulated solutions for energy storage Our fiber-grade carbon black products help applications, enabling batteries to operate longer with enable a solution for environmental challenges greater capacity. faced by the synthetic fiber industry. Traditional Compliance with REACH bath-dyeing methods generate large amounts of We successfully completed registrations under the wastewater and emissions. With the increasing European Union (EU) REACH chemical regulation in 2018. emphasis on environmental protection and Since initial requirements began under this rule in 2010, sustainable development, the dope-dyeing process we have been focused on meeting our obligations for has emerged as an alternative and is gradually the diverse set of products we manufacture in or import replacing the bath-dyeing process. When using into the EU. Our efforts include partnering with our peers our specialty carbon blacks in the dope-dyeing through our industry groups and REACH consortia. We are process, customers can greatly reduce the volume committed to maintaining our focus on compliance with of wastewater generated and can minimize REACH and other global product regulatory obligations. other environmental impacts while achieving the exceptional color performance our products deliver. GRI 416-1 SUPPLIERS' SUSTAINABILITY OUR COMMITMENT We are committed to conducting business with the highest ethical standards, and we expect the same of our suppliers. At the same time, we see opportunities to generate shared value through sustainability. As we advance on our sustainability journey, we believe partnering with our suppliers will play an important role in our ability to generate significant positive impacts beyond our own operations. GRI 103-1 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH All our suppliers are required to acknowledge our Our supply chain predominantly consists of suppliers Supplier Code of Conduct, which outlines our minimum providing raw materials, chemical additives, process expectations while encouraging best practices relevant equipment, vehicles, packaging materials, logistics to their business. We reserve the right to conduct services and temporary contractors. The management of audits to verify compliance with this standard, and these suppliers is overseen by the procurement function, in the event of a violation, we respond appropriately which is organized in teams aligned with our regions, either through corrective actions or by terminating the categories and corporate services. Sourcing decisions are business relationship. guided by an internal supplier qualification process that GRI 102-9 | GRI 103-2 | GRI 103-3 considers a broad range of criteria, including issues related to sustainability. We also evaluate our critical suppliers using these principles throughout our engagement with them. 16 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER OUR PERFORMANCE our ability to collaborate with them. The sustainability audit findings reported by our internal auditors were 2018 marked an important year for our supplier acknowledged and fully addressed by suppliers. We also sustainability program. With an increased focus on had the opportunity to uncover several best practices, sustainability in our supply chain, we have turned our which enabled us to identify and recognize some of our attention to developing a new approach to engage top-performing suppliers. suppliers, which we hope will expand the potential for our sustainability impact. A key first step was to deploy a pilot We look forward to integrating sustainability evaluations auditing program as an extension of the existing quality into our auditing practices after this successful pilot. This audit practices. The audit criteria included elements that will support our ability to collaborate with our suppliers are fundamental to general risks associated with supply to identify new opportunities for improved social and chain management as well as to our core sustainability environmental practices across our supply chain. To this interests such as health, safety, environmental protection, end, we have established the goal of evaluating at least human rights, ethics, business continuity and quality. 50% of all our critical suppliers on their sustainability In light of our extensive global network of suppliers, performance by 2025. it is necessary to prioritize the suppliers we audit, as GRI 308-2 | GRI 414-2 determined by supplier criticality and exposure to risks, which takes into account the following: 2018 SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY AUDITS w C ategory of goods and services provided, as it relates directly or indirectly to risks associated with the type of Supplier Audits that Included labor performed and with its environmental impact 91% Sustainability Criteria wR  isks related to country-level (including regional) 6% Critical Suppliers Audited on Sustainability Criteria regulations applied to supplier activities performed or products provided wR  eview of historical performance and concerns SUPPLIER SUSTAINABILITY AUDITS BY REGION raised by internal key users and purchasing category managers whose assessment includes deep industry and market knowledge AMERICAS 27% Of the suppliers prioritized for audits in 2018, we were APAC 42% pleased to evaluate 91% of this subgroup on sustainability criteria, which represented 6% of the total number of our EMEA 31% critical suppliers. The results of this pilot program have proved to be a reliable process for us to identify risks and opportunities with our critical suppliers while enhancing Evaluating our emissions from distribution in Europe As part of our strengthened focus on sustainability in our supply chain, we have begun to assess where we can work with our suppliers to have the greatest impact. One of these projects involved evaluating the emissions associated with the transportation of products from our manufacturing facilities to our customers. Our transportation and logistics team started with assessing modes of transport and distribution routes from our European facilities. We were especially interested in determining both the longest distribution routes from our facilities to customers and the emissions associated with the different modes of transportation we use. Based on this information, we were able to calculate which routes were most emission-intensive, allowing us to collaborate with our customers, our suppliers and our business segments to discuss alternative transportation modes and routes so that we may potentially ship our products from other manufacturing sites in closer proximity to the customers. We look forward to expanding this work with the objective of setting a global baseline so we may track performance and develop related emission reduction targets. 17 ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET 19 Environmental Compliance 20 Energy 22 Emissions 23 Waste & Spills 25 Water 18 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET Environmental issues significantly affect us all on a global scale, and it is the responsibility of governments and corporations alike to help find solutions to these challenges. As such, we seek to conduct our business in a sustainable manner and to deliver innovative solutions that help address the sustainability challenges of our customers, our communities and our world. We acknowledge that we have a responsibility not only to remain compliant with applicable environmental regulations in the locations where we operate but also to lessen the impacts we have on the planet. We are proud of the steps we have taken to address environmental performance and the leadership we have shown within our industry, but we also know that our work is not done. We must continue to work toward innovative, cost-effective solutions to reduce our environmental impacts while remaining competitive within our industries. Of the 11 material topics serving as the foundation of our sustainability program, more than half are related to environmental performance. The management of these topics is guided by our Safety, Health and Environment (SH&E) Policy, and our performance is measured against specific goals to reduce greenhouse gases (GHGs), nitrogen oxide (NOX) and sulfur dioxide (SO2) emissions, and waste by 2025. We also continuously monitor our environmental compliance performance against internal year-over-year improvement targets. To accelerate our performance, we routinely evaluate our environmental management practices to uncover broader opportunities that translate to environmental benefits, increased efficiency and reduced operating costs. The Safety, Health, Environment and Sustainability (SHE&S) Committee of our Board of Directors has oversight of environmental issues at the highest governance level. Executive leadership for implementing environmental strategies and policies is provided by the senior vice president for SH&E, who is responsible for guiding our company on all matters related to SHE&S performance and oversees a global team of professionals assisting our locations in improving overall environmental performance. GRI 103-1 | GRI 103-2 | GRI 103-3 ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE OUR COMMITMENT Responsibility is one of our core values, and one way we demonstrate this is through our commitment to 100% compliance with the local, regional and national environmental laws and regulations under which we operate. Our ability to maintain compliance plays a major role in our license to operate, by demonstrating to our stakeholders that we are respectful of the law and fully capable of conducting our business in accordance with the permits that have been established to preserve the natural environment we all share. GRI 103-1 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH Responsible Care. Our approach to compliance is designed Compliance is managed through our Drive to Zero initiative to prevent environmental incidents by emphasizing proactive focused on reducing environmental non-conformance measures such as training and job planning with employees, (ENC) events, which we define as any event resulting in contractors and business partners. Environmental a reportable spill or release, a notice of violation, a public awareness training is provided to manufacturing facility complaint, or a regulatory permit deviation. Our internal employees as part of their new employee orientation standards are developed to meet or exceed laws, regulations training, and ongoing training is provided for job-specific and the requirements of voluntary programs such as tasks in order to maintain a high level of performance. 19 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET We seek to promote continuous improvement by In 2018, only one ENC resulted in a penalty. We incurred undertaking thorough investigations of any incidents that a fine of $3,200 for a failure to properly report quarterly do occur in order to identify the root cause of the event opacity readings at one of our facilities in the United and determine appropriate corrective actions. To help States. In response, we have implemented a more robust minimize the potential for repeating a similar incident, the system to monitor permit requirements. results of these findings are shared broadly throughout GRI 307-1 our global network of facilities. We manage compliance through our comprehensive SH&E audit program. These audits are conducted regularly and provide another ENVIRONMENTAL NON-CONFORMANCES opportunity to share best practices and learnings across our network. 86 GRI 103-2 | GRI 103-3 73 OUR PERFORMANCE 63 As part of our ongoing effort to eliminate ENCs, we realized a 14% reduction in the number of these occurrences in 2018 compared with 2017 and a 27% reduction compared with 2016. This improved performance 2016 2017 2018 is partly attributed to investments in environmental infrastructure, training, awareness and improved tracking of environmental obligations. ENERGY OUR COMMITMENT Our focus on energy is consistent with our corporate strategy calling on us to generate value through efficiency and optimization. We know that, in many cases, improved energy efficiency delivers both emissions reduction and economic benefits. Our manufacturing processes are heavily dependent on energy, and we are committed to continuously looking for ways to reduce our consumption and advance toward our goal of reducing our energy intensity. We work toward implementing new innovations in equipment, process technologies and waste heat recovery systems as our primary levers to help us achieve efficiency improvements, in addition to considering alternative energy sources that can lead to improved efficiency. GRI 103-1 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH utilize waste energy. Management practices designed to Because energy is such a crucial part of our manufacturing optimize operations and implement efficiency measures processes, energy use is managed at several levels are undertaken at the facility level. Data on energy use and throughout the organization. Leaders from our business sources is collected and analyzed through our internally segments, Corporate SH&E, Global Engineering and our developed corporate energy metric, which evaluates the research teams collaborate to evaluate new energy-saving energy efficiency of each facility and is used to determine technologies and implement capital programs to improve energy trends and improvement opportunities. energy efficiency and enhance our ability to capture and GRI 103-2 | GRI 103-3 20 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET OUR PERFORMANCE improvement can be attributed to implementation of more efficient processes in our Purification Solutions business. We continue to make progress on our energy intensity We recognize our progress on this goal has been slow, but reduction goal through the use of more efficient processes we look to current and planned energy center investments as well as our investments of waste heat recovery as well as energy audits to achieve this goal. systems and energy-efficient motors and lighting. While our overall energy use increased in 2018, our energy GRI 302-1 | GRI 302-3 intensity improved by 1.2% from 2017. Much of this ENERGY USE ENERGY TYPES Exclusive of Energy Sold USAGE INTENSITY* 0.1% LIQUID FUELS MMGJ 0.09 MMGJ Intensity GJ / MT of Production 0.1% STEAM MMGJ 0.12 2018 136.39 2018 62.22 1.8% PURCHASED ELECTRICTY MMGJ 2.65 2017 131.16 2017 62.99 2.9% NATURAL GAS MMGJ 4.18 2016 126.13 2016 63.10 95.1% RAW MATERIALS MMGJ 137.32 *Progress Toward 2025 Goal 44% TOTAL MMGJ 144.36 Optimizing energy usage in Sarnia As part of our pursuit of efficient technologies, our facility in Sarnia, Canada, successfully implemented several measures to improve energy efficiency. The facility converted approximately 100 light fixtures from high-pressure sodium lights to LED lights, saving an estimated 40,500 kilowatt hours (kWh) of electricity per year. Additionally, over a two-year period, the facility initiated several improvements to reduce its usage of natural gas, including the addition of new building insulation to reduce heat loss and the installation of several new electric steam condensate pumps that allow for the recovery of hot water. The combined savings from the improvement projects was approximately 1,800,000 m3 of avoided natural gas consumption, an amount equivalent to that used by approximately 375 households in Canada over the course of a year. Converting waste heat to energy in Shimonoseki Our Shimonoseki, Japan, site recently found a new way to convert excess steam to electricity, reducing our dependency on purchased electricity. The facility is required to incinerate 100% of tail gas produced by the carbon black manufacturing process and convert the heat to steam. With the installation of three STEAMSTAR™ generators, we can now convert that steam to electrical power. Each machine can generate up to 160 kilowatts of energy, and the steam that cannot be used internally is sold to a neighboring facility. 21 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET EMISSIONS OUR COMMITMENT We understand the impacts associated with GHG emissions and other air pollutants, including linkages to climate change, public health concerns and threats to ecosystems. We also recognize that emission reductions are often a signal of improving overall operational efficiency at our manufacturing facilities. We therefore see our focus on emission reductions as a potential competitive advantage, and we look to partner with our customers and others who share our goal of reducing emissions impacts across the value chain. We monitor our emissions closely and work to minimize our respective impacts in support of maintaining compliance with our regulatory obligations and reducing our global environmental footprint. GRI 103-1 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH GHG EMISSIONS 2016 2017 2018 CO2 The overall management strategy for our emission ABSOLUTE EMISSIONS reduction program is led by our business segments, SCOPE 1 4.50 4.58 4.77 regions and individual facilities. We continue to look to MM MT CO2e develop and implement cost-effective technologies that SCOPE 2 0.34 0.33 0.32 help meet both our emission reduction and our operational MM MT CO2e efficiency goals. We engage closely with governments EMISSION INTENSITY* in the areas where we operate, as they aim to reduce industrial and commercial sources of emissions in their SCOPE 1 2.25 2.20 2.18 MT CO2e / MT Production communities. Often, this engagement is through our active participation and leadership in various industry groups. SCOPE 2 0.17 0.16 0.15 MT CO2e / MT Production GRI 103-2 | GRI 103-3 *Progress Toward 2025 Goal 50% OUR PERFORMANCE By the end of 2018, we had realized 50% of our 2025 GHG SO2 EMISSIONS 2016 2017 2018 reduction target. This was achieved through efforts to SO2 S02 ABSOLUTE EMISSIONS 41.80 43.20 43.73 capture waste heat and offset our purchase of electricity KMT and by improving our process yields through technology, S02 EMISSION INTENSITY* product selection and feedstock selection. Looking MT / KMT Production 20.91 20.75 19.95 forward, additional process technology improvements are under development for deployment at one of our recently *Progress Toward 2025 Goal 30% announced expansions in Asia, with the expectation that this technology could be deployed at other facilities. NOX EMISSIONS 2016 2017 2018 NOX N0X ABSOLUTE EMISSIONS 13.97 13.23 9.77 KMT N0X EMISSION INTENSITY* 6.99 6.35 4.45 MT / KMT Production *Goal Achieved 22 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET In 2018, we experienced our first full year of operations Our SO2 emissions were consistent with previous years, of our NOx emission reduction system at our facility in with slight variation based on fluctuations in our feedstock Pampa, Texas, USA. This system has continuously achieved sulfur content and the products we produced. However, we a 90% reduction for what was previously our most continue to make progress on the implementation of our intensive facility in terms of NOx emissions. Furthermore, SO2 control system at our facility in Franklin, Louisiana, USA, we successfully completed the NOx control system at and we have started the early engineering for the control our largest carbon black manufacturing facility, in Tianjin, system at our nearby Ville Platte facility. These systems are China; these controls also achieved a 90% reduction of expected to be operational in 2021 and 2022, respectively. NOx emissions. Through these efforts, we were able to GRI 305-1 | GRI 305-2 | GRI 305-4 | GRI 305-7 exceed our global NOx emission reduction target well ahead of schedule. WASTE & SPILLS OUR COMMITMENT We acknowledge the potential impact that solid waste disposal or spills of hazardous materials could have on the environment in our local communities. Therefore, we take a targeted approach to minimize waste, and we work toward zero spills at our facilities. We also believe that finding alternative uses for waste materials and byproducts presents opportunities to further contribute to a circular economy. As such, our waste goal is to reduce the amount of waste generated at our facilities that is not beneficially used for energy recovery or other purposes. GRI 103-1 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH OUR PERFORMANCE Waste is measured by tracking progress against our Our goal for reducing the intensity of disposed waste was intensity target and seeking opportunities to reduce waste achieved in 2016, but in 2018 we continued to look for during manufacturing. Expectations for the management ways to reduce waste generation and beneficially use the of waste and the handling of chemicals are governed by waste we do generate. Because a one-time sludge removal internal standards applicable to all our manufacturing project in 2017 increased the overall amount of waste facilities. Compliance with these expectations is regularly generated, we removed the quantity of waste generated evaluated through our comprehensive SH&E audit program. from that project from year-over-year trending to provide We aim to avoid all spills through careful management and a better evaluation of progress within our ongoing design of the processes at our facilities, and we conduct operations. Taking this into account, we reduced our waste training on spill management and emergency response disposal intensity by 2.1% over 2017 and by 2.6% over 2016. so we are prepared in the event of an incident. We also In 2018, we also saw 17% and 25% increases in the amount implement programs to identify reuse opportunities for offof waste we were able to beneficially use over 2017 and quality products and other waste streams, and to improve 2016, respectively. The majority of this increase was related facility resource efficiency to reduce waste generation. to material from tank cleanings which was reused for GRI 103-2 | GRI 103-3 energy recovery. 23 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET A single waste stream at one facility accounts for over 93% to state and federal regulatory agencies. There were no of our disposed waste. This stream is directly related to the injuries as a result of this event. Corrective actions were production activities at that facility, and we expect planned implemented to avoid this issue in the future, including changes will likely reduce that waste stream significantly upgrading the relief valve and installing additional alarms in the future. and interlocks to prevent operation of the unit with this In 2018, we experienced a release at our facility in Franklin, valve open. Louisiana, USA, as the result of a relief valve that did not GRI 306-2 | GRI 306-3 properly close upon unit startup, triggering notifications WASTE GENERATION 2016 2017 2018 WASTE DISPOSAL 2016 2017 2018 ABSOLUTE VOLUME TOTAL WASTE DISPOSED — ABSOLUTE 401.34 415.78 428.62 NONHAZARDOUS 44.98 102.65 49.83 KMT KMT TOTAL WASTE DISPOSED HAZARDOUS 378.05 398.28 405.86 INTENSITY* 200.76 199.68 195.53 KMT MT / KMT Production WASTE INTENSITY *Goal Achieved NONHAZARDOUS 22.50 49.30 22.73 MT / KMT Production BENEFICIALLY HAZARDOUS REUSED MATERIALS 2016 2017 2018 MT / KMT Production 189.11 191.27 185.15 WASTE BENEFICIALLY USED 21.69 85.16 27.07 KMT WASTE BENEFICIALLY USED INTENSITY 10.85 40.90 12.35 MT / KMT Production Meeting recycling goals in Haverhill As part of a continued effort to reduce waste where possible, our facility in Haverhill, Massachusetts, USA, set a target for the 2018 fiscal year of recycling 50 tons of materials and 5 million gallons of water. The facility team implemented water recovery through reverse osmosis and was able to recycle 5.6 million gallons of water. By employing proper waste segregation and working with key partners, the facility was able to recycle 54 tons of cardboard, paper, plastics, metal, wood pallets and drums. Both of these efforts exceeded the facility’s 2018 targets and set up the team for continuous improvement in future years. 24 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET WATER OUR COMMITMENT Water is vital to human life and healthy ecosystems around the globe. It is also a natural resource we depend on in our manufacturing processes, and we must pay close attention to ensuring responsible water consumption and management. Therefore, we seek to conserve water across our operations and to discharge wastewater that is properly treated to avoid degradation to the surrounding environment. We also look to develop applications for our products that help conserve and protect water resources, including the use of our masterbatch material in durable water piping and our activated carbon products in water purification systems. GRI 103-1 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH WATER USE AND DISCHARGE 2016 2017 2018 Responsibility for water resource management predominantly resides at the facility level. Both intake ABSOLUTE VOLUME and discharge of water are typically governed by state WATER USAGE 51.89 54.06 58.53 MM m3 and local water permits, and we strive for full compliance with our obligations under these permits. We also look WATER DISCHARGE 39.94 40.22 43.34 MM m3 for opportunities to increase water efficiency and recycle wastewater when feasible. WATER INTENSITY WATER USAGE 25.96 25.96 26.70 Our water management is evaluated by reviewing data MM m3 / MT on water withdrawal and water discharge intensity. This WATER DISCHARGE MM m3 / MT Production 19.98 19.31 19.77 allows us to evaluate our water usage for each of our business units, as our numerous manufacturing processes vary in their water requirements. While we do not yet have WATER SOURCES a goal related to water use, we have been monitoring annual water use and discharges at our manufacturing 70% SURFACE MM m3 40.97 facilities since 2009 to better understand where our 25% PURCHASED MM m3 14.38 water is sourced; what our withdrawal rates are; and the volume, quality and destination of water discharged from 4% GROUND MM m 3 2.28 our facilities. Each year, as part of our comprehensive 2% GRAY MM m3 0.89 Enterprise Risk Management program, we conduct a water risk evaluation of our manufacturing facility locations in order to identify which of them may be impacted by future water WATER DISCHARGE DESTINATION scarcity issues. 93% SURFACE MM m3 40.47 GRI 103-2 | GRI 103-3 PUBLIC OR PRIVATE SEWER 5% MM m3 2.31 OUR PERFORMANCE 1% GROUNDWATER / OTHER MM m3 0.56 In 2018, we saw a 3% increase in our water use intensity, with the largest increase associated with the restart of our aerogel facility in Frankfurt, Germany. This increase GRI 303-1 | GRI 303-3 | GRI 306-1 was offset by decreased water use at our Purification Solutions facilities from decreased use of water-intensive production activities. 25 CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES 27 Occupational Health & Safety 30 Retention, Development & Diversity 34 Community Engagement 26 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES We recognize that our people are key to our ability to execute on our sustainability agenda. Our commitment to providing safe working conditions and involving all our employees in our safety efforts has been a fundamental part of our history. This focus on safety helps us attract and retain top talent from around the world and helps ensure reliable performance in our manufacturing operations. We also offer our employees professional development opportunities and competitive compensation and benefits. We are committed to increasing employee engagement by leveraging the diversity and aspirations of our people and developing their talents by fostering an inclusive acceptance of diversity in its many forms throughout our workplace. To remain a competitive employer, we acknowledge the importance of our company values, vision and sustainability program to our employees as we aim to continuously demonstrate our commitments and enhance our performance. Our commitments extend to our communities where we strive to be a good neighbor through our active engagement and responsible business practices. We seek input and feedback from our communities and look for opportunities to contribute our time and resources so we can play a role in the growth and success of the areas where we operate. GRI 103-1 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH & SAFETY OUR COMMITMENT Our employees are our most valuable asset, and it is our responsibility as an employer to provide a safe work environment and promote wellness across the workforce. This focus on health and safety has been deeply engrained in our company throughout its history and serves as a central theme in our culture. Our goal is for all employees to return home in the same condition as when they arrived at work. We also strive to help employees lead healthy lifestyles, through a variety of initiatives and benefits. GRI 103-1 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH Through our global SH&E Policy, which is endorsed by the The Safety, Health, Environment and Sustainability our executive leadership, we hold ourselves accountable to Committee of our Board of Directors has oversight of demonstrate our company values and continuously improve health and safety issues at the highest governance level. the way we operate. The policy includes guidance on: Executive leadership for implementing related strategies w Complying with all applicable regulations and policies is provided by the senior vice president for Safety, Health and Environment (SH&E), who is responsible w S haring complete information about the safe for technical guidance on all matters related to SH&E handling of our products performance and who oversees a global team of SH&E wM  aintaining the safety and security of our professionals including regional directors. employees, contractors and neighbors SH&E and site security are critical components of our w Minimizing impacts on our communities culture. As part of our Drive to Zero initiative, we have w Exemplifying the Responsible Care® Guiding Principles set a long-term goal of having no injuries at our facilities worldwide. Recognizing that it may take many years w P artnering with customers to develop innovative to achieve this ambitious goal, we also established a and sustainable solutions nearer-term target of being among the top 10% of our w Improving efficiencies, reducing environmental peer chemical companies for safety performance. To help impacts and preparing for emergencies meet these goals, we provide training to all employees on safety procedures that meets or exceeds all applicable government regulations and internal standards. 27 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Our facilities are required to develop and implement a In the event of a process safety incident or high-potential safety program that upholds the SH&E Policy and meets near miss, a thorough incident evaluation is conducted to all applicable health and safety laws, as well as our understand the root cause of the issue and assess how company standards, which may exceed those regulations. we may implement measures to avoid similar safety risks This program provides oversight for all direct activities in the future. We share the results of these evaluations occurring in our facilities and within our operational globally, so all our sites can learn from the event and control, including those that could impact employees, reduce similar risks. contractors and visitors. Additionally, the majority of our GRI 103-1 | GRI 103-2 | GRI 103-3 | GRI 403-1 facilities organize local health and safety committees representing employees, including those in formal joint OUR PERFORMANCE management agreements. We believe that a strong safety culture contributes to As part of our commitment to Responsible Care®, we the overall success of our business. It allows us to retain remain focused on continuously improving the health talent, remain operational and serve our customers as a and safety of our technologies, processes and products. reliable partner. As a result, we are diligent in measuring In accordance with this certification, we report our and monitoring our related performance. In 2018, we performance metrics annually and undergo external were pleased to see a decline of nearly 15% in the total audits regularly to evaluate our program, identify gaps and recordable incident rate across the organization compared undertake corrective actions as needed. In addition to the with the previous year. However, we saw a small increase Responsible Care audits, our sites routinely undergo robust in the total number of lost workdays associated with internal SH&E audits, which evaluate procedures, practices workplace injuries. and site conditions in accordance with SH&E regulations, internal company standards and industry-recognized Our safety priorities in 2018 included the expansion of our best practices. These risk-based audits are conducted Safety Leadership Training program around the world. This by teams of internal subject matter experts who are training helps develop the skills of our frontline leaders supported by external resources as needed. and enables them to better coach their teams on safety expectations and performance. We also expanded the Additionally, a key factor in keeping employees safe at use of location-specific safety improvement plans, which our manufacturing facilities is our careful attention to identify safety priorities for the year with a focus on process safety. This entails monitoring the condition continuous improvement. Through regular communication and functionality of our processes, equipment and among our plants on their plans, we are enabling better infrastructure to ensure our operations are as safe and sharing of best practices and ideas to address common efficient as possible. Prior to initial unit startups and safety challenges. To further our progress on our Drive to when significant changes to operations are required, Zero, we held training for employees in multiple disciplines preparedness assessments are conducted by subject across all our regions on improved root cause analysis matter experts. We also carefully track process safety methods. We know that by continuing to develop our ability events, defined by the Center for Chemical Process Safety to learn from the incidents and near misses we experience, as any release of material or energy from a process that we will be able to make progress on our goal to send all our results in injury, fire, explosion or release of flammable, employees, contractors and visitors home safe, each and combustible or toxic chemicals. In accordance with the every day. American Petroleum Institute’s recommended practice GRI 403-2 RP-754, we utilize the Tier 1 and Tier 2 categorization approach to track our performance and report externally. TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT & LOST TIME RATE Tier 1 events are considered more severe cases occurring Injuries per 200,000 Work Hours from the loss of primary containment, while Tier 2 events have less significant consequences. SAFETY RATES 2016 2017 2018 TOTAL RECORDABLE 0.46 0.47 0.40 INCIDENT RATE LOST TIME RATE 0.27 0.26 0.18 28 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Process safety In 2018, we undertook a project to refresh our approach Wuhai construction project completed to process safety management so that we may better without a recordable incident track our performance and identify opportunities for The critical role of safety in our culture is exemplified improvement in our program. In accordance with this effort, through our safety efforts during construction we have revisited and updated our approach for how we of our new fumed silica manufacturing facility in categorize Tier 1 and Tier 2 process safety events to ensure Wuhai, China. From the start of the project to its we report such events as accurately and transparently as recent completion, safety was a key focus for our possible. Previously, these classifications were considered teams. As a result, we completed the project having only for incidents that were reported according to our achieved nearly 1.6 million work hours without a internal definitions for environmental nonconformances, recordable injury amongst our employees and recordable injuries or significant process safety events. contractors. In 2018 alone, nearly 750,000 work However, we realized a more thorough and accurate hours were completed injury-free. This performance approach should also take into account other process is attributed to strong safety management and safety events that were less significant than those implementation, which included a high level of risk originally considered, which resulted in updates to the assessment, detailed safety plans and contractor historical Tier 1 and Tier 2 classifications. supervision, optimization of construction resources, Last year, we experienced three Tier 1 events and 10 Tier 2 and thorough safety training. The safety culture events. The Tier 1 events included a material release from a of zero incidents has been deeply rooted in the relief valve, a release within a process area and a process minds of all personnel and has helped demonstrate fire. There were no injuries as a result of these events. The our commitment to safety to the surrounding majority of Tier 2 events were related to incidents including community and our industry peers. chemical releases, most of which were captured within secondary containment, minimizing the impact to the environment. To provide an additional level of focus in our process safety management program, we introduced a USA Benefits Team launches successful series of leading performance indicators that we believe well-being program will help us prevent future incidents. These indicators track on-time completion of our process hazard analysis plans We know that paying attention to our employees’ as well as closure of corrective actions from events and overall health and wellness can contribute to our process safety audits. goal to keep our employees safe. With that in mind, we launched our You Matter well-being program at USA-based facilities. In the program’s first year, PROCESS SAFETY EVENTS 2016 2017 2018 more than 50% of our USA employees participated TIER 1 3 0 3 in activities ranging from biometric screenings and health risk assessments to mindfulness activities TIER 2 9 5 10 and exercise challenges. The program has brought positive changes to participants’ overall health by GRI 102-48 helping them better manage stress, increase their physical activity and improve their sleep habits. We are proud that the New England Employee Benefit Council has recognized the You Matter program with a Best Practices Award for design and communication. 29 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES RETENTION, DEVELOPMENT & DIVERSITY With approximately 4,700 employees around the world department enables managers across the company to who represent a wide variety of backgrounds and make drive performance and employee development through our business possible, we are committed to celebrating the use of our performance management process and the diversity of all our employees and supporting them in the implementation of our Code of Business Ethics and realizing successful careers. our Human Rights Policy, which establish expectations for professional conduct, strict adherence to labor practices Reporting to the CEO, the senior vice president and chief and human rights laws, and the creation of a safe and human resources officer (CHRO) oversees programs healthy workplace. and processes to attract, develop, retain and support GRI 102-8 | GRI 103-1 | GRI 103-2 | GRI 103-3 | GRI 405-1 our employees and routinely updates the Board of Directors on related initiatives. The Human Resources TOTAL WORKFORCE 4,715 FEMALE 23% APAC 24% 1,061 MALE 77% 1,122 AMERICAS 46% 3,654 2,157 EMEA 30% 1,436 12% 58% 30% UNDER 30 30 – 50 OVER 50 YEARS OLD YEARS OLD YEARS OLD GLOBAL WORKFORCE BY CONTRACT GENDER MALE FEMALE REGION AMERICAS EMEA APAC PERMANENT 3,632 78% 1,045 22% PERMANENT 2,139 46% 1,416 30% 1,122 24% TEMPORARY 22 58% 16 42% TEMPORARY 18 47% 20 53% – 0% FULL TIME 3,620 79% 980 21% FULL TIME 2,139 47% 1,339 29% 1,122 24% PART TIME 34 30% 81 70% PART TIME 18 16% 97 84% – 0% 30 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES RETENTION & DEVELOPMENT OUR COMMITMENT We understand that employees have a choice of where they work, and it is our goal to remain an attractive employer for top talent. We depend on the broad range of skill sets and experiences from our workforce to be successful as a business and advance on our sustainability journey. At the same time, we seek diverse candidates for all positions while providing competitive benefits and professional development programs to all employees to ensure they are treated fairly and equally. By developing our employees’ knowledge and skills, we offer our people opportunities for advancement, enhance value for our customers, and retain talent to further our leadership position. This also benefits our employees’ families and local communities by building intellectual capital and supporting broader economic stability. GRI 103-1 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH w c ontinuous feedback from managers, mentors Reporting to the CHRO, the director of talent management and peers and development is responsible for developing and w formal learning opportunities including leadership leading the execution of our talent strategy, focused on development programs, functional and technical building our current and future talent pipeline through the skills training, and professional conferences development of our employees as well as the recruitment of external candidates. We utilize a performance-based management (PBM) approach, which is a cyclical, year-round process through Employment decisions are based on merit and which managers and employees work together to plan qualifications, regardless of race, color, national origin, work and set expectations, review progress and results, religion, gender, sexual orientation, age, disability, veteran reward performance, and discuss development areas to status or any other legally protected status. An in-house support performance improvement and career growth. talent acquisition team leads outreach and recruitment GRI 103-2 | GRI 103-3 | GRI 401-2 | GRI 402-2 efforts suited to local market dynamics and business needs. We develop a talent pipeline by offering internships, apprenticeships and training to students in many of the OUR PERFORMANCE communities in which we operate. Revisiting our culture Recognizing that our company culture plays a critical role To ensure employees have their basic needs met in in our ability to fulfill our vision, successfully execute our order to live healthy and productive lives, we offer business strategy and advance our leadership position, comprehensive benefits programs that are designed we evaluated the fundamental aspects of our culture to meet or exceed requirements and standards for the in 2018 and explored how we could more effectively countries in which we operate. While our benefits vary manage and strengthen it. Our culture is grounded in by location, we typically provide healthcare, life and a collaborative spirit, our commitment to SH&E and accidental insurance, disability, retirement and pension acting in the best interests of our company. We look to plans, business travel accident insurance, medical travel create an environment that is conducive to the spirit of insurance, vacation time, holiday and leave entitlement, entrepreneurship and innovation while empowering every educational financial assistance, and access to retiree team member to take responsibility for the execution of medical coverage. our strategy. We recognize the potential each employee brings to our Through engagements with members of our global company and we are committed to helping them realize leadership team, we identified areas of our culture that their potential to the fullest. Our approach to development we wanted to keep, areas that we wanted to improve and is multifaceted and encourages: aspects that we wanted to diminish. Employees were w o n-the-job development, including stretch assignments encouraged to take action to adopt and reinforce the and rotations outcome of this effort in their roles and within their teams. 31 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES To support this effort, we equipped our leaders to actively and employees engaging in ongoing discussions to promote engage with their teams by providing resources to employee development and track progress toward achieving help employees understand their role in advancing performance objectives. the culture journey, as well as techniques to improve inclusivity and efficiency. In addition to training sessions required for all managers and employees participating in the PBM process globally, Upgrading our performance management approach we provided a dedicated toolkit with supportive materials In 2018, we redesigned the employee PMB review to equip managers and employees to engage in the process to encourage more routine employee-manager process and support employees’ ongoing performance development conversations, enhance performance and development. feedback and reduce administrative inefficiencies. The GRI 404-2 new approach emphasizes the importance of managers TURNOVER BY GENDER, REGION AND AGE GROUP PERFORMANCE REVIEWS BY EMPLOYEE CATEGORY TURNOVER BY GENDER MALE FEMALE 1,510 CLERICAL/TECHNICAL DEPARTING COMPANY 338 9% 115 11% 1,077 PROFESSIONAL/SUPERVISOR NEW HIRES 520 14% 175 16% 876 MANAGEMENT/EXPERIENCED TURNOVER BY REGION AMERICAS EMEA APAC 2,543 MALE 73% DEPARTING COMPANY 246 11% 134 9% 73 7% 920 FEMALE NEW HIRES 301 14% 177 12% 217 19% GLOBAL WORKFORCE RECEIVING PERFORMANCE REVIEWS TURNOVER BY AGE GROUP < 30 30 – 50 > 50 DEPARTING COMPANY 107 19% 209 8% 137 10% NEW HIRES 250 44% 373 14% 72 5% GRI 102-8 | GRI 404-1 | GRI 404-3 Developing leadership skills and accountability We drive our culture and business success forward by empowering our employees to take ownership, provide solutions and deliver on our commitments. Our Asia Pacific region invested in workshops focused on building strong leadership skills and establishing a shared mindset of accountability. The sessions, facilitated by members of the regional leadership team, used practical examples from our company to demonstrate how action-oriented behaviors and greater accountability can better enable us to achieve our objectives. Based on what they learned, attendees developed specific action plans to apply in their work activities so they can continue strengthening these skills. Enhanced USA Parental Leave Policy In July 2018, we introduced our paid Parental Leave Policy for USA-based employees, which gives parents the flexibility to care for the newest additions to their families. The policy provides paid leave to both primary and secondary caregivers, regardless of gender. We also enhanced our Short-term Disability Policy for mothers, to provide additional income stability while they recover from childbirth. 32 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES DIVERSITY OUR COMMITMENT We have a firm belief that fostering diverse perspectives and experiences not only builds a community of employees who feel included and valued but also enhances our ability to be innovative. Our business success depends on our ability to create an environment in which we all understand and acknowledge the importance of our differences. This supports our efforts in recruiting and retaining top talent and establishing a welcoming environment for our employees. GRI 103-1 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH to define D&I and prioritize our focus areas. In addition, With respect as one of our core values, we were proud we began a process of determining what systems and to formally launch a Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Council key performance indicators should be introduced to help in the beginning of 2018. The Council comprises a crossus ensure success in making our company a place where section of business leaders from across our company, employees with diverse backgrounds and experiences with the directive to examine how we promote and feel welcome and supported. support diversity in all its forms. Policies and practices Ensuring fair and equal pay were reviewed from both global and local perspectives In 2018, we completed our first global gender pay with the objective of ensuring that we build an inclusive equity analysis. The purpose of this review was to environment in which employees with diverse backgrounds ensure employees in the same job and location are paid and experiences feel valued and welcome to share new comparably to one another, considering job-related ideas, challenge the status quo, and collaborate broadly factors such as work experience, education and within and across their teams. contributions, without discrimination on the basis of In September 2018, we hired our first diversity and gender. To encourage fair and equal compensation inclusion director to further advance the work of the D&I decisions in the future, we offered pay equity training Council, including championing a strategy and setting for all managers and Human Resources representatives goals and objectives to drive a more inclusive and diverse in North America, and we pledged to complete a global culture. The director partners with Human Resources and gender pay equity review on an annual basis. business leadership to design strategies that attract and retain diverse employees, deploy related trainings, and Promoting diversity in our decision-making develop and track metrics to ensure accountability and In support of our commitment to fostering inclusivity monitoring of D&I efforts. and enriching our organization with diversity, we seek to develop teams representing a variety of backgrounds. This GRI 103-2 | GRI 103-3 was demonstrated at the highest level of leadership with the naming of one of our female directors as chairperson OUR PERFORMANCE of the Board of Directors, and we continue to look for ways Our top priority for diversity and inclusion in 2018 was to to provide opportunities for minority groups throughout define what this topic means to us as a company and how our workforce. To this end, we initiated unconscious bias we will build an inclusive environment in which employees training with internal focus groups, including all members can be their genuine selves. The D&I Council set a charter of our Executive Committee. The training focused on as well as objectives, which included benchmarking D&I gaining a better understanding of what unconscious bias activity with other companies, defining more clearly and is and on simple tactics that can be used to reduce the precisely what the terms “diversity and inclusion mean risk of partiality entering our decision-making. to us, and sharing this information on our website. As part of this effort, we hosted an executive leadership session 33 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES COMMUNITY ENGAGEMENT OUR COMMITMENT Throughout our history, we have maintained a strong sense of community and have strived to be a good corporate citizen. We understand the value of partnering with the communities in which we operate, and we recognize that thriving and resilient communities are essential for a sustainable future. Community engagement benefits our neighbors, resonates with employees on a personal level and allows us to operate with the trust and confidence of our neighbors. We are fortunate to have a workforce comprised of many individuals who are willing and able to contribute to this important effort by offering their time and skills to have a positive impact on our communities. GRI 103-1 OUR MANAGEMENT APPROACH More than half of our facilities globally have dedicated There are two primary conduits for our community community outreach teams responsible for preparing engagement efforts. The first is giving at the corporate local community engagement plans. level by the Cabot Foundation, and the second is through GRI 103-1 | GRI 103-2 | GRI 103-3 | GRI 413-1 facility-led initiatives. The Cabot Foundation was established in 1953 to support OUR PERFORMANCE qualified charitable, nonprofit organizations in the United In 2018, we donated more than $1.4 million to worthy States. The charter was amended in 1992 to include grants causes around the world. This included Foundation to qualified charitable organizations outside of the United disbursements of $853,000 and individual facility States in support of our intent to have meaningful impacts donations totaling $596,000. These fiscal contributions across our global footprint. Our Board of Directors annually were over and above the numerous ways our employees approves a budget for the Foundation's donations. found to give back to their communities through Decisions for how these funds are distributed is the volunteerism and personal giving. responsibility of the Foundation’s Board of Directors, which meets quarterly to review grant proposals and Aligning giving with our sustainability strategy evaluate the impact of this giving to ensure funds are One key area we focused on for community engagement used in ways that align with our company’s overall during 2018 was the alignment of the Foundation’s giving values and address the needs of our communities. with our overall sustainability objectives. We undertook this effort with the recognition that the Foundation Our facilities are responsible for developing and fostering plays a unique role in providing financial support to our relationships in their local community, and they are communities acround the globe while fostering long-term committed to making a meaningful difference in many partnerships with organizations that can support our ways. At some locations, company representatives are shared sustainability goals. To this end, the Foundation's involved in local industry associations. Active community Board of Directors conducted a thorough review of the engagement teams at many of our locations take the themes supported by its charitable grants to ensure lead in evaluating the needs of the community and they complement the material topics underpinning our identifying organizations the facility may partner with to sustainability strategy. Looking forward, we intend to draw deliver a lasting and meaningful impact. Our community inspiration from our overarching sustainability objectives engagement activities take the form of volunteer events, to help direct our community engagement activities at our charitable giving and sponsorship of local causes. In facilities in addition to the Foundation’s giving decisions. the case of monetary contributions, funds are typically managed as part of facility budgets, with additional GRI 413-1 resources available through the Cabot Foundation. 34 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Volunteering to protect the environment Our sites around the world are committed to making the world a better place by supporting local charities, improving our environment and reducing our environmental footprint. Our site in Billerica, Massachusetts, USA, recently launched a sustainability committee, which identifies opportunities for on-site improvements in materials and energy efficiency and organizes environmental cleanup activities. Our colleagues in Altamira, Mexico, partnered with neighboring industrial facilities to coordinate an environmental benchmarking activity with the goal of reducing plastic pollution. Similarly, our site in Xingtai, China, participated in Act for Beautiful China, through which we shared our industryleading SH&E practices with other companies. By taking a localized approach to our environmental objectives, we empower our colleagues around the world to collaborate within their facilities and communities to make a meaningful difference. Contributing to healthy and fulfilling programs for youth in Brazil With financial support from the Cabot Foundation and the leadership of employees at our carbon black facility in Maua, Brazil, we were able to make a difference in the lives of local youth. The Associacao Esportiva Cidade Imaculada is an organization dedicated to helping underserved children between the ages of 5 and 18 embrace their culture, gain a sense of community, and develop confidence in their ability to positively influence society through sports, cultural and academic programs. We were proud to contribute to this important cause with a donation in 2018 that funded improvements to their soccer field with the installation of a new fence around the perimeter. This project not only revitalized the recreational area, but it also served as a significant safety improvement, as the previous fencing was exposing children to hazards such as sharp edges from a metal fence that had fallen into disrepair. Encouraging future chemical engineers In 2018, the Foundation was proud to support the Doing a World of Good Campaign sponsored by the American Institute of Chemical Engineers (AIChe). This program focuses on five priorities identified by the AIChe community as imperative to shaping the future of chemical engineering, one of which we made a three-year commitment to fund: the Undergraduate Process Safety Learning Initiative. The goal of this initiative is for all graduating chemical engineering students to have a working knowledge of process safety. We believe preparing the future workforce of the chemical industry to conduct their work safely is of the utmost importance and consistent with the high expectations we set for ourselves at Cabot. 35 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI CONTENT INDEX For the Materiality Disclosure Service, GRI Services reviewed that the GRI content index is clearly presented and the references for Disclosures 102-40 to 102-49 align with appropriate sections in the body of the report. GRI 101: Foundation 2016 GENERAL DISCLOSURES GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 102-1 Name of the organization Cabot Corporation 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and/or services p. 8 102-3 Location of headquarters 2 Seaport Lane, Suite 1300, Boston, MA 02210 USA 102-4 Location of operations pp. 8-9 102-5 Ownership and legal form Cabot Corporation is a publicly traded corporation (NYSE: CBT). 102-6 Markets served p. 8 102-7 Scale of the organization Refer to p. 8 for the number of employees and operations. Net revenue is listed on p. 14. Total capitalization can be found in Cabot’s Form 10-K filed November 21, 2018. Part II, Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 102-8 Information on employees and other workers pp. 30, 32 We regularly engage a relatively small percentage of non-employee contractors, typically hired for specific project-based work or discrete periods of time. 102-9 Supply chain p. 16 102-10 Significant changes to the organization p. 8 and its supply chain 102-11 Precautionary principle or approach Throughout our operations and our product development, we are guided by the precautionary principle and carefully take into account effects on the environment, health and safety. 102-12 External initiatives pp. 7-8, 11 In addition to the UNGC, Cabot participates in the Carbon Disclosure Project, and we comply with the ACC Responsible Care® program as part of our commitment to safety, health and environment (SH&E). 102-13 Memberships of associations Cabot is an active member of the following national and international industry/advocacy groups and associations: u Advanced Porous Materials Association (AdvaPor) u American Chemistry Council (ACC) u Association of Synthetic Amorphous Silica Producers (ASASP) u China Petroleum & Chemical Industry Federation (CPCIF) u Corporate Environmental Enforcement Council (CEEC) u Environmental Law Institute (ELI) u essenscia (Belgium) u European Masterbatchers and Compounders (EuMBC) u International Carbon Black Association (ICBA) u Manufacturers Alliance for Productivity & Innovation (MAPI) u Nanotechnology Industry Association (NIA) u Society of Toxicology (SOT) u Synthetic Amorphous Silica and Silicate Industry Association (SASSI) u United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) 36 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 continued Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker p. 5 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and p. 9 norms of behavior 102-18 Governance structure The Board of Directors has five standing committees: Audit, Compensation, Executive, Governance and Nominating, and Safety, Health, Environment and Sustainability. For additional details on the Board's composition, refer to the Proxy Statement. 102-40 List of stakeholder groups p. 10 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements Across all Cabot operations, 34% of employees are covered by collective bargaining agreements. The terms of collective bargaining agreements are fully aligned with Cabot’s Code of Business Ethics (cabotcorp.com/codeofbusinessethics) and Human Rights Policy (cabotcorp.com/humanrightspolicy). 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders p. 10 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement p. 10 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised p. 10 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated Refer to Cabot’s Annual Report Form 10-K filed November 21, 2018, Part I, Item 1. financial statements Business for a description of our operations and entities in which Cabot has ownership interest and Exhibit 21 to Cabot's Form 10-K for a list of Cabot's subsidiaries. 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries p. 6 102-47 List of material topics p. 6 102-48 Restatements of information There were no restatements of historical financial data from fiscal year 2018; however, due to a revised approach to classifying Tier 1 and Tier 2 process safety events, historical data was updated accordingly (refer to p. 29). 2017 SO2 emissions data for one site was restated in 2018 to reflect the actual data rather than an estimate. The restated values differing by more than 1% from what was previously reported are summarized below. 2017 Metric Previously Reported Corrected Value % Change SO2 Emissions (KMT) 42.2 43.2 2.4% SO2 Emissions Intensity 20.2 20.7 2.5% (MT/KMT) production 102-49 Changes in reporting p. 6 102-50 Reporting period p. 6 102-51 Date of most recent report p. 6 102-52 Reporting cycle p. 6 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding Inquiries or comments concerning the content of this report may be directed to the report sustainability@cabotcorp.com. 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance p. 6 with the GRI Standards 102-55 GRI Content Index This complete GRI Content Index meets the intent and format required by the GRI Standards. 102-56 External assurance p. 6 37 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX MATERIAL TOPICS — ­ BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER Economic Performance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic pp. 8, 13 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach and pp. 13-14 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 13-14 GRI 201: Economic Performance 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 201-1 Direct economic value generated p. 14 and distributed For additional information, refer to Cabot’s 2018 Annual Report on Form 10-K (cabotcorp.com/2018annualreport). 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and p. 14 opportunities for the organization’s activities For additional information, refer to Cabot’s 2018 Carbon Disclosure Project filing due to climate change (cdp.net). Product Sustainability GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic pp. 8, 15 and its boundaries Product health, safety and environmental impacts occur primarily downstream from Cabot's operations through the activities of our customers and in some cases through end use by consumers. 103-2 The management approach p. 15 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 15 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 416-1 Assessment of the health and safety impacts pp. 15-16 of product and service categories 100% of significant product categories are assessed for health and safety impacts using the best available information. 38 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX MATERIAL TOPICS — BUILDING A BETTER FUTURE TOGETHER continued Suppliers' Sustainability GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic pp. 8, 16 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach and p. 16 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 16 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply p. 17 chain and actions taken With supplier sustainability as a newer area of focus, 2018 was used to pilot an audit program to evaluate suppliers on their sustainability performance including environmental impacts. In cases where audits uncovered areas for improvement, corrective actions were taken accordingly. GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain p. 17 and actions taken With supplier sustainability as a newer area of focus, 2018 was used to pilot an audit program to evaluate suppliers on their sustainability performance including social impacts. In cases where audits uncovered areas for improvement, corrective actions were taken accordingly. 39 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX MATERIAL TOPICS — ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET Environmental Compliance GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic pp. 8, 10 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach and pp. 19-20 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 19-20 GRI 307: Environmental Compliance 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental p. 20 laws and regulations Adhering to local environmental laws and regulations is the responsibility of facility general managers as well as site environmental managers located at each facility. In support of compliance efforts, resources include a robust database to track near-miss and ENC events and corrective actions, as well as over $44.6MM in capital spending in FY 2018 that was dedicated to improving facilities and reducing ENCs. Energy GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic pp. 8, 19-20 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach and p. 20 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 20 GRI 302: Energy 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization p. 21 For more information about our energy and fuel sources, refer to our response to the CDP Climate Change Questionnaire (cdp.net). 302-3 Energy intensity p. 21 Energy consumption includes all forms of energy consumed by facilities under Cabot’s operational control and excludes energy sold to third parties. 40 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX MATERIAL TOPICS — ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET continued Air Pollutants / GHG GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic pp. 8, 19, 22 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach and p. 22 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 22 GRI 305: Emissions 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions pp. 22-23 Our greenhouse gas calculations were completed in accordance with The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standards (Revised Edition), drawing guidance from the IPCC Guidelines for National Greenhouse Gas Inventories – 2006 and The Climate Registry: General Reporting Protocol. Emissions were calculated using the operational control approach and IPCC Second Assessment Report 100-year global warming potentials, and included emissions of CO2, CH4 and N2O. We maintain databases that track monthly usage volumes of feedstock materials and fossil fuels, as well as production volume. Our 2017 and 2018 GHG emissions were verified in alignment with the principles of the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised) under a Limited Level of Assurance by ERM CVS. 305-2 Indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions pp. 22-23 See Disclosure 305-1 in the GRI Content Index for a description of GHG monitoring methods. 305-4 GHG emissions intensity pp. 22-23 GHG intensity is calculated as MT CO2e emissions/MT of product. The intensity of our GHG emissions is calculated for all Scope 1 and 2 emissions produced by facilities under Cabot’s operational control, as reported under Disclosures 305-1 and 305-2. 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur oxides (SOX) pp. 22-23 and other significant air emissions Data reported has been calculated using actual test measurements based on countryspecific or U.S. EPA methods, Cabot engineering estimates, or similar emission factors. Waste & Spills GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic pp. 8, 19, 23 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach p. 23 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 23 41 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX MATERIAL TOPICS — ACTING RESPONSIBLY FOR THE PLANET continued Waste & Spills GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method pp. 23-24 More than a third of nonhazardous waste generated is recycled or reused, and the majority of hazardous waste is generated at one location and disposed of via on-site deep well injection. Nonhazardous Hazardous 2018 Disposal Methods Waste Waste Reused or recycled 36.7% 0.6% Incinerated with energy recovery 7.4% 0.6% Incinerated without energy recovery 0.4% 0.2% Deep well injection 0.0% 98.4% Landfilled 54.5% 0.2% Other 1.0% 0.0% 306-3 Total number and volume of significant spills pp. 23-24 Water GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic pp. 8, 19, 25 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach p. 25 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 25 GRI 303: Water 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 303-1 Water withdrawal by source p. 25 303-3 Water recycled and reused p. 25 GRI 306: Effluents and Waste 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination p. 25 42 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX MATERIAL TOPICS — CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES Occupational Health & Safety GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic pp. 8, 27-28 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach and pp. 27-28 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 27-28 GRI 403: Occupational Health & Safety 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 403-1 Workers representation in formal joint p. 28 management — worker health and The majority of our manufacturing locations, regional offices and service centers have joint safety committees health and safety committees operating at the site level and reporting to the Corporate SH&E department. These committees represent all workers and contractors. 403-2 Types of injury and rates of injury (IR), p. 28 occupational diseases (ODR), lost days Methods for calculating each metric are provided below: (LDR), absenteeism (AR), and number of u Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR): Number of injuries (employees and contractors) work-related fatalities per 200,000 work hours (~100 employees) u Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR): Number of lost time injuries (employees and contractors) per 200,000 work hours (~100 employees) u Severity Rate: Number of lost work days (employees and contractors) per 200,000 work hours (~100 employees) u Process Safety Events (PSE): Defined by the Center for Chemical Process Safety as a “release of material or energy from a process that resulted in injury, fire or explosion, or release of flammable, combustible or toxic chemicals.” Employment, Diversity & Training GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic pp. 8, 27, 30-31, 33 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach pp. 30-31, 33 and its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach pp. 30-31, 33 GRI 401: Employment 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover pp. 31-32 401-2 Benefits provided to full-time employees p. 31 Benefits packages offered to employees are designed to provide employees the tools and resources needed to thrive. Specific features of these packages differ depending on location of employment but typically include healthcare, life and accidental insurances, disability, retirement and pension plans, business travel accident insurance, vacation time, holiday and leave entitlement, educational financial assistance, and access to retiree medical coverage. 43 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX MATERIAL TOPICS — CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES continued Employment, Diversity & Training GRI 404: Training and Education 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills pp. 31-32 and transition assistance programs Our training programs are managed at the corporate level and on a site-by-site basis, according to the unique mix of each employee's experience and skill set, career interests, and the core business objectives of the company. Career transitioning is handled with sensitivity and commonly includes outplacement services for future employment opportunities or retirement. 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular p. 32 performance and career development reviews GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees p. 30 Diversity of employees at the end of 2018: By Gender: u Male: 77% u Female: 23% By Age Group: u Under 30: 12% u 30-50: 58% u Over 50: 30% Diversity of the Board of Directors at the end of 2018: By Gender: u Male: 83% u Female: 17% By Age Group: u Under 30: 0% u 30-50: 0% u Over 50: 100% GRI 406: Non-discrimination 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective During 2018, we were made aware of five alleged cases of discrimination, all of which actions taken were reviewed and investigated. Three of these cases were closed. Two cases remain open and are under additional review. Allegations of discrimination: u Total claims alleged: 5 u Total claims closed: 3 Corrective Actions Taken: Substantiated Unsubstantiated No Action 0 2 Policy Review 0 0 Training 0 0 Discipline 0 0 Termination 1 0 44 CABOT CORPORATION 2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT GRI CONTENT INDEX MATERIAL TOPICS — CARING FOR OUR PEOPLE & COMMUNITIES continued Community Engagement GRI 103: Management Approach 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 103-1 Explanation of the material topic pp. 8, 27, 34 and its boundaries 103-2 The management approach and p. 34 its components 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach p. 34 GRI 413: Local Communities 2016 Disclosure Disclosure Page Number / Number Title Response 413-1 Operations with local community p. 34 engagement, impact assessments, and development programs 45
