cr review OUR COMMITMENT TO COMMUNITY OVERVIEW PRO BONO contents Pro bono Empowering communities through access and opportunity Life at Simmons & Simmons Running a business that doesn’t cost us the earth Our Business Progress in 2018/19 UN Global Compact Principles 02 our commitment to community TO BEGIN WITH... “I am impressed by the many impactful projects and initiatives across our network. And while there is still more to do, I know that our firm will continue to dedicate itself to the communities most in need.” Senior partner, Colin Passmore 04 Senior partner, Colin Passmore reflects on a rewarding year for corporate responsibility and pro bono: “It’s been another encouraging year for corporate responsibility and pro bono at Simmons. I have been continually inspired and impressed by the new initiatives happening across the firm. From the Mindfulness Business Charter, to the firm once again being named a Times Top 50 Employer for Women, our focus this year has been to meet and understand the needs of our people, and to offer a work environment that is supportive, open and diverse. An environment where our people can thrive. Our Access to Justice programme has helped win over £1.5m in real money for its vulnerable clients and we were involved in the creation of the first Human Rights Defenders toolbox. Our aim has always been to assist both the communities in which we operate and to affect change at a global level we continue to work towards this goal. Over the coming year, we will continue to support the UN Global Compact and renew our ongoing commitment to this initiative and its principles as demonstrated in this communication on progress.” Colin Passmore | Senior partner our commitment to community CR IN NUMBERS We continue to support projects that aim to change lives and enhance the working environment for our firm and our communities. 100th Student recruited onto the Young Talent Programme 7 students have been awarded the Simmons & Simmons bursary to assist them through university We recruited our first hire from the Young Talent Programme in to full-time employment at the firm 06 First flagship LGBT event hosted in our Singapore office Our Hong Kong office awarded the “Caring Company” Allies in over 50% accolade by the Hong Kong Council of Social Service. of our office locations S immons Muslim Network Teams (SMN) hosted inter-Muslim across 5 professional networks offices discussion on the issue of marched Islamophobia for Pride Global activity to mark International Women’s Day our commitment to community PRO BONO IN NUMBERS 17,057hours £7,059,730 of pro bono were recorded globally in 2018 at a value of Access to Justice • 96% success rate • Over £530,000 in backdated awards • £1.5m in advance awards Activities • Celebrated 70th anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights – Achieved coverage in The Times 08 500 lawyers undertook pro bono work globally Awards • Winners of the Law Society Excellence Award for Pro Bono in October 2018: for the breadth of the Access to Justice programme • Robert Farrer-Brown and Ridvan Canbilen won the Five Lamps People Matter Award in November 2018 for their work advising the charity • Donia Chu won the Hong Kong Law Society Pro Bono Gold Award in December 2018 for her work establishing Oxfam’s presence in China our commitment to community OVERVIEW PRO BONO Defending human rights and supporting communities around the world Over the past twelve months, our involvement in a number of causes has had life changing impact on many global communities. The firm’s International Pro Bono Committee meets monthly to ensure international alignment and co-operation, and includes members from the following offices: Amsterdam | Bristol | Dubai Dusseldorf | Hong Kong | London Milan | Qatar | Singapore Three focus areas Access to justice for individuals Social responsibility | Supporting the rule of law (in line with the UN Sustainable Development Goal 16) 010 our commitment to community HIGHLIGHTS FROM 2018/19 012 The Human Rights Defenders Toolbox Singapore and Hong Kong In June 2018, the firm produced a Human Rights Defenders (HRD) Toolbox for Peace Brigades International. The toolbox is the first centralised online resource for rural In 2013, Justice Without Borders (JWB) was established communities and lawyers. The project has seen lawyers from Simmons & Simmons tap in to expertise on business and human rights to help strengthen the capacity of HRDs to battle concerns around underpayment and abuse of and vulnerable communities. domestic workers and fight for just compensation for migrant workers. In September 2018 the toolbox was launched in Spanish, to assist human rights defenders in Latin America. Victoria Channing, then supervising associate, travelled to Colombia for the launch in conjunction with the Colombia Caravana of International Jurists. A helping hand Simmons & Simmons has worked with JWB since 2016. This year, the firm’s cross-border team in Hong The Legal Response Initiative Kong and Singapore produced research reports and training on the best legal arguments to support domestic workers’ claims for mental, psychological and physical injury as a result of abuse. The team The LRI advises the least developed and climate vulnerable countries in the UN Climate has been involved in multiple cases to ensure the workers have a strong case. Change negotiations. Lawyers at the firm have attended UN climate conferences with the LRI, and assisted in the Situation Room, for the past ten years, to work with the LRI By ensuring domestic workers are treated fairly, through our work with JWB, we have made a on the Paris Agreement and Paris Rulebook finalised in December 2018. positive impact on some of the most vulnerable workers in the local communities where Simmons & Simmons operates. Access to Justice – making a global impact Other access to justice programmes Our Access to Justice programme is active across our network, making an impact on the vulnerable individuals it works to support. We have also provided advice to individuals at clinics, including: • The Battersea Legal Advice Centre, London UK • The Queen Mary Legal Advice Centre, London • De Klinik, Netherlands • The DIFC pro bono scheme, Dubai Since its launch, the programme has seen many • Law & Legal, Germany • Transient Workers Count, Singapore. successes. For those we assist, this often exceeds a • Advice to prisoners in the UK through the Prisoner’s Advice Centre letter writing scheme courtroom win, allowing individuals to access more fundamental life basics, including putting food on the table and money to cover essential living costs. Delivering results The programme has taken on 190 cases, achieving backdated payments of over £500,000. Including advance awards, the team has helped to achieve over £1.5m for its vulnerable clients. Driving a pro bono culture Over 100 volunteer lawyers and 45 partners have worked for the programme, contributing to the £1.5m delivered to claimants. Extending the programme to the firm’s clients has allowed in-house lawyers to engage with a wider range of pro bono work which they may not have otherwise had the opportunity to be involved with. Informing the debate The programme has played a crucial role in supporting vulnerable individuals but has also had a wider impact. The success of disability benefit appeals has resulted in a much-needed review of the system. It has also informed a wider debate about the impact of cuts to legal aid, which have affected the most vulnerable members of our community. This is a step towards achieving a more accessible legal system. our commitment to community PRO BONO INITIATIVES Advising organisations that support social and environmental responsibility Our impact • Supporting organisations that would not otherwise be able to afford it. This includes advice on real estate, IP, dispute resolution, defamation, banking, competition issues and funds. • We enable our strategic client partners to focus on service delivery outcomes (on health, the arts, disability, environment, microfinance and children’s rights) by providing first-class legal services. Highlights • The firm seconded a trainee to the British Red Cross for six months, where she worked across a range of corporate areas. • We hosted, with Alzheimer’s research UK, an exhibition at the Oxo Tower of artwork by Dementia patients in March 2018 called Reframe Dementia. 014 our commitment to community OVERVIEW PRO BONO Supporting sustainable ways to alleviate poverty through rule of law, we advised: • development NGOs on areas such as microfinance and social impact bonds • NGOs in relation to international human rights including land rights, children’s rights, migrant worker’s rights, human rights defenders and international humanitarian law • Least developed and climate vulnerable countries in the United Nations Climate Change negotiations through the Legal Response Initiative. 016 OVERVIEW CR Empowering communities through access and opportunity Over the past year, we have continued our efforts, ensuring that those in our local communities are presented with work opportunities that will assist them in their goals, plans and lives. “The Young Talent Programme is a phenomenal opportunity and allows our pupils to get to grips with the environment associated with a large city firm. The ongoing nature of the support that is offered to those involved makes the programme stand head and shoulders above any other opportunities we have experienced and has ensured that this is the most sought-after programme amongst our pupils.” Alex Palombo, Assistant Headteacher at Frederick Bremer School The Young Talent Programme Developed in 2012 the Young Talent Programme (YTP) partners with Frederick Bremer School in Walthamstow, London. Designed to raise aspirations of students from disadvantaged backgrounds, it provides them with access to opportunities within the legal profession, and an insight into the world of work. This year we welcomed the 100th student on to the scheme. We also recruited our first permanent hire from the programme in to full-time employment with us. These milestones demonstrate the passion the team has for this project and the positive effect it has had on many students. To date, 74 students have completed paid internships, both at our firm and at our client organisations, and seven have received the Simmons & Simmons bursary to assist them through university. our commitment to community OVERVIEW OF CR 018 Reading schemes Doha For young children, imagination is a truly powerful tool. Reading is a big part of this. Autism Day It was for this reason that we formed the reading schemes which see Simmons We took part in Wear Blue for Autism Day in our Doha office in support of understandvolunteers make weekly visits to two primary schools to assist with their reading and ing and acceptance for people with autism. help improve their abilities. Our partnerships with Moreland Primary School in London and Kingfisher in Bristol Madrid have been truly inspiring. Over the past year: Great Collection of Food • 10 students have taken part in the Kingfisher Primary School scheme We supported the Great Collection of Food campaign organised by Mercadona with • 18 students have taken part in the Moreland Primary School scheme the Federación Española de Bancos de Alimentos (FESBAL). Bristol Frankfurt Community Apprentice programme We supported the bottle cap for polio initiative with the Rotary Club which enables Working alongside Envision’s annual city-wide Community Apprentice Programme, plastic bottle tops to be sold in exchange for polio vaccinations across the world. we supported a team of 12 students from disadvantaged backgrounds to develop community-based projects before being assessed by the Mayor of Bristol. Dubai Our team volunteered at Al Jalila Children’s Speciality Hospital to take part in the Abtaal London Al Jalila volunteer programme. The programme was initiated by the hospital in line with The Big Issue Vendor Development Programme the Year of Giving and is aimed at involving the wider community in contributing to We have supported the Big Issue Vendor Development Programme for 11 years. This children’s health and happiness. year, 28 trainees took part in the Big Issue Vendor shadowing experience in London during their trainee induction. Amsterdam Awarded the Golden Hourglass Award from the Dutch Lawyer’s Magazine Advocatie Hong Kong for our Amsterdam office’s multitude of CR initiatives including the Dress for Success A day at a law firm project which provides a place for lawyers to donate their second-hand business attire We welcomed 18 students to our Hong Kong office from the Christian and Missionary to unemployed people to wear to job interviews. Alliance Sun Kei Secondary School to help them imagine a day at a law firm. Milan Sunshine Action Group and EELK We held a seminar that examined topics on discrimination and diversity, featuring reOur Sunshine Action Group and EELK were awarded, by the Caring Companies nowned panellists. The seminar contributed Continued Legal Education credits towards Certification, for their efforts taken to organise and support a number of social welfare our continuous training programme for lawyers in Italy. activities. Paris We helped to develop a Social Impact Fund, driven by women who endeavour to galvanize the French social entrepreneurship ecosystem and finance businesses in the CR industry. our commitment to community LIFE AT SIMMONS & SIMMONS Gender equality Striving for gender equality remains a business priority. We are committed to providing the best platform for female progression and to increasing the representation of women in partner and senior management positions. To achieve this, we have continued to introduce several programmes and processes to support career development for women. How are we striving to reach our goals? • Stretching targets for female partner promotions increased to 40% this year • Sponsorship for all male and female managing associates to support their readiness to join the partnership • Formal accountability via our partner, associate and business services gender balance committees • Our women’s network, The Number One Club, leads on business development opportunities with our clients’ women’s networks • We make it easier to return to work after a career break via the Reignite Academy • Mandatory inclusive leadership and unconscious bias training Workplace diversity • We have a longstanding commitment to improving diversity and providing our colleagues with an inclusive environment where everyone can reach their full potential and where opportunities are open to all. We are committed to Principle six of the UN Global Compact (to eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation). This underpins the complete cycle of all our employees. Flexible working • The firm offers both formal and informal flexible working to everyone. We are increasingly seeing candidates join us with a formal flexible working arrangement in place from day one at the firm. “Balancing being a parent and having a job as a lawyer is always going to be hard work and trying to find the right balance between the two even more so, but it is certainly true that this flexible working made finding that balance a lot easier.” Thomas Pointer, Supervising Associate • Proud supporters of Stonewall, Working Families, PRIME, The Reignite Academy and the Timewise Foundation. • We were one of the first signatories of the Mindful Business Charter, a client-led project setting out best practice behavioural principles to assist centred onreducing avoidable workplace stress Wellbeing We seek to create an environment where everyone can succeed. The firm’s approach to wellbeing looks at three areas: mental, physical and financial and over the last year we have focussed on a number of initiatives to support our employees to thrive and to open up the dialogue on mental health. In addition to embedding the principles of the Mindful Business Charter, this has included: accredited training for Mental Health First Aiders and Champions across the firm, weekly mindfulness sessions, on-site yoga classes, storytelling with impact and regular speaker and expert-led events. BAME equality This year we have developed our approach to increasing BAME diversity in the firm. Our Multicultural and Muslim networks have each hosted a number of profile-raising events at the firm, frequently in collaboration with our clients. We have appointed partner sponsors who will lead on our BAME initiatives going forward. We continue to work closely with external organisations at graduate level including SEO London, RARE Recruitment and Aspiring Solicitors. 020 “This year we marked UK Mental Health Awareness Week in our London and Bristol offices. I was encouraged by the record attendance levels at events and the enthusiasm to engage in discussion about mental health and wellbeing. We will keep working together to ensure that we support our people to succeed and thrive.” Colin Passmore our commitment to community MOMENTS FROM 2018/19 International Women’s Day We were again proud supporters of International Women’s Day (IWD). This year saw Network to Allies, re-emphasising that all partners and employees have the opportunity the largest global engagement with this awareness day, in which offices all over our to ensure that LGBT+ colleagues experience full equality and support in the workplace. network embraced it as a time for reflection, discussion and goal setting. In the coming year we will sustain the firmwide approach to LGBT equality and work to retain our Stonewall Top Global Employer status. A first in Singapore Celebrating the10th anniversary of our We held our first LGBT event in Singapore for the InterAlia Network, a platform for Singapore LGBTQ+ professionals and allies in the legal sector. The theme of the event women’s network was Allyship 101. Topics discussed included the importance of allyship at both the Our women’s network, The Number One Club, celebrated its 10th anniversary in personal and organisational level, the need for allies to step up and support others and September 2018, with a celebration event for clients and colleagues. Victoria Coren the support required by transgender colleagues. Mitchell joined as our guest speaker. As a professional poker player, radio and TV presenter Victoria shared her experiences of succeeding in male dominated industries. Developing our D&I focus in Milan 6,500km in a tuk tuk Our Milan office hosted a diversity and inclusion roundtable where they discussed diversity in the workplace and how we can provide a better and safer workplace for Our Multicultural Network organised events during the year including a lunchtime talk our people. delivered by an associate who travelled over 6,500km in a tuk tuk from London to Istanbul, raising money for the epilepsy charity SUDEP Action. LGBT+ Network events and discussions We held our sixth annual LGBT+ graduate recruitment event LGBT in the City alongside Barclays. LGBT students across many UK universities were invited to learn Many of our diversity networks , including the Muslim network, Jewish network and about the experiences of LGBT leaders and role models across Simmons and our Christians at Simmons held discussions and events to address issues, raise money clients’ organisations. The event had 75 attendees. We rebranded our Straight Allies and celebrate religious occasions. Running a business that doesn’t cost us the earth Over the past year, we have focused our attention on reducing the carbon emissions associated with running our business. We are committed to operating in a way that doesn’t cost us the earth. This year, we offset 9,451 tonnes of carbon emissions by purchasing certified carbon credits through our CR partner, PURE Leapfrog. We have also supported other environment-related projects including those below. Darfur Low-Smoke Stoves in Sudan project Borehole rehabilitation in Ethiopia The project helps to improve households’ health and energy budgets by replacing These projects rehabilitate broken boreholes to provide clean water to communities so traditional cooking methods with low-smoke gas stoves in the desert town of EI Fashfamilies no longer have to boil water, save firewood and consequently prevent carbon er. It is led by the NGOs, Practical Action and the Women Development Associations emissions from being released. The project creates a funding mechanism for the Network, who are trained and coached to run a community-owned micro-finance community that provides long-term maintenance of the boreholes. It: facility managed by a women’s collective. • prevents an estimated 1,250 children under five from being infected by deadly Things you should know about the project diarrhoea, dysentery and waterborne diseases each year • Each stove reduces emissions by 4.5 tonnes per year • offers a financial mechanism based on results and long-term sustainability • The sale of carbon credits provides most of the project funding and is used to • is managed and implemented by local NGOs serving their communities. seed the micro-finance facility and pay for project operations. • It received recognition from the United Nations Climate Change Kumkoy Run of River Hydropower project in Turkey • The project won the convention’s Momentum for Change award at the Conference This 18MW hydropower project generates clean energy from the natural flow of the of the Parties in Warsaw Yeslirmak River in Turkey. Greenhouse gas reductions are achieved by displacing • The project promotes gender equality in a range of ways: carbon-intensive energy with renewable energy. The initiative: – Enables access to education and employment • improves energy security in the area that frequently experiences power shortages – Cuts exposure to harmful smoke and low-quality electricity – Gets husbands involved in cooking • provides an additional social and community screen to improve livelihoods in the surrounding local villages • enables the irrigation of 82,000 hectares of land in the downstream plain. 022 Our Business We are committed to conducting responsible business practices across the firm at all times. This applies to our clients, employees and suppliers and is aligned to our obligations under the UN Global Compact to respect and protect internationally proclaimed human rights and to work against corruption in all its forms. Modern Slavery We are committed to ensuring that there is no modern slavery of human trafficking Human Rights Policy in our supply chains or in any part of our business. Our trained and experienced HR • The firm became a signatory of the United National Global Compact on department oversees recruitment of office staff and ensures that appropriate checks 09 August 2019. are carried out before taking a new member of staff on. Our partners and colleagues • We fully support the UN Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human are protected by our comprehensive range of policies which reflect our commitment rights, labour, the environment and anti-corruption and are committed to building to acting ethically and with integrity at all times. Relevant policies which are firmly the principles into our policies, operations and culture. entrenched in the way we do business include: • The Global Compact gave us an opportunity to benchmark our corporate • Human Rights Policy responsibility • Diversity and Inclusion Policy activities and to create consistency with our clients’ corporate responsibility • Ethics Policy standards. • Bullying and Harassment Policy • We have a Human Rights Policy which we expect all partners, employees, • Grievance Procedure consultants contracts or third parties to adhere to in their dealings on behalf of • Anonymous whistleblowing hotline the firm. • A Health and Safety Policy Statement, and procedures Supply chain management We have reviewed and considered the risks posed by our supply chain and have implemented risk-based processes aimed at preventing modern slavery. As a firm, We have a strong record for working with our suppliers and contracts and supporting we ensure that we only appoint reputable and well-established suppliers. them to improve and develop their CR commitment. Discussion about CR is introduced at the start of the tender process and all potential suppliers must submit copies of their CR, equal opportunity, diversity & inclusion and discrimination policies. We continue to Risk management and human rights due diligence work with our suppliers throughout the lifetime of their contract with the firm to support development and improvement across their commitment to CR. This includes In line with the UN Global Compact and UN Guiding Principles on Business and an annual CR audit of our top suppliers to assess their progress towards CR best Human Rights: practice and covers environmental initiatives, HR policies and diversity monitoring. • We have a comprehensive set of risk management policies in relation to anti-money We also host an annual CR roundtable event for our key suppliers across a number of laundering, anti-bribery and corruption sectors to share best practice and collaboration on a range of relevant key CR issues. • We perform checks on the human rights record on all potential new clients before The firm is cited by the United Nations in “Tackling Discrimination against Lesbian, deciding whether or not we are able to act for them Gay, Bi, Trans & Intersex People, Standards Of Conduct For Business” in relation to our commitment to supplier engagement. Migrant Workers Rights Network (MWRN) Ethics Policy Working with the non-government association in Thailand, we conducted an analysis of the working conditions of 14 workers form a poultry farm, which ahs been used • Our Ethics Policy clearly communicates to partners, employees, clients and what by unions that support MWRN to make a submission to the ILO. We also acted for a constitutes appropriate and acceptable conduct. migrant worker in Singapore on an appeal from an employment tribunal finding. After • The firm has an open-door culture and anonymous whistleblowing service. winning a compensation order, the worker was facing an appeal by the empoyer. • We have an Ethics Committee, chaired by our Senior Partner, which monitors the We assisted the Transient Workers Count Too non-government organisation to firm’s represent the worker in the appeal and negotiate a settlement. compliance with our ethical obligations and commitments and suggests actions which should be taken to ensure that we continue to do so. our commitment to community PROGRESS Focus Target Progress Outcomes Social Inclusion Continue to develop and embed further Recruit eighth cohort of Year 10 students 100 students enrolled onto the Young  stages of the Young Talent Programme. and develop initiatives and processes for Talent Programme. We recruited our first students in Year 13 and higher education. hire from the Young Talent Programme in to full-time employment at the firm Sustain client collaboration partnerships. We will award the fifth set of university Explore full-time employment bursaries in July 2019. opportunities for graduates of the programme. Our clients and suppliers continue to support the Young Talent Programme, hosting internship students across their organisations. Pro bono Create greater internal and external Engage with Business Development and WinnerLaw Society Excellence Awards  recognition across the firm for pro bono. Marketing departments. Increase internal 2018 for Access to Justice Programme and external communications. Expand client partnering on Access to Engage and collaborate with Marketing & The Client Partnering Programme has  Justice Programme. Business Development to further client been increased to 6 major clients. relationships. Close collaboration with UK Collective Continue engagement and leadership role Continued engagement and leadership  Plan to offer wider UK access to pro bono with the Collaborative Plan. achieved. Hosted major collaborative plan opportunities and continue to work with meeting in 2018. HMCTS Reform Programme on digitization. Environment To redyce electricity consumption by Identify opportunities for controlling and Global emissions from electricity  5% compared with 2017 usage. reducing energy consumption and decreased by 4.6%, with the London regularly communicate with our people, office emissions also reducing by 4.6%. clients, suppliers and neighbours to encourage behavioural change. To recycle 70% of the firm’s total waste Utilise and improve recycling options inter66% of waste produced in the London  produced. nally and work closely with the Landlord’s office is recycled (this is managed by the Building Management team to drive up Landlord and so the figures are directly recycling rate. affected by other tenants within the building). To reduce absolute carbon footprint by 5% per employee compared with 2017 Raise awareness of our carbon footprint The global carbon footprint has decreased  emissions. internationally, to ensure a unified by 16% per employee approach to reduction. To reduce paper consumption by 5% Discourage direct printing through the A4 paper usage has decreased by 8.9%,  compared with 2017 usage. promotion of print to store capabilities. whilst A3 usage has dropped by 67% To reduce carbon reporting estimations Improve international and top-level The number of estimations provided for  by 10% compared with 2017 figures. management engagement to ensure that the Carbon Footprint report reduced by useage affecting carbon emissions is 26%. continuously monitored and actual figures can be provided. To reduce gas consumption by 5% Work alongside the Landlord’s Building Global emissions from natural gas compared with 2017 usage. Management team to discuss decreased by 24% opportunities for reducing gas consumption. 024 Focus Target Progress Outcomes Diversity & inclusion Improve the firm’s gender balance and 40% of new firmwide partner and manag45% of internal partner promotions were  ensure that women are proportionately ing associate promotions to be women. women. represented at all levels of the firm and Women to make up 30% of the firmwide specifically within the partnership. promotions from Fixed Equity Partner to 35% of managing associate promotions Equity Partner by 2023. were women. Externally promote the firm as an Firm ranked as a Times Top 50 Employer employer of choice for women and for Women 2019. increase the number of female lateral partner appointments. Embed high performance, inclusive Deliver mandatory inclusive leadership and Mandatory inclusive leadership &  culture across the firm which supports unconscious bias training to 66% of our unconscious bias training delivered to people to maximise their potential and offices outside of the UK. 95% of our offices outside of the UK. where opportunities are genuinely open to all. Sustain firmwide approach to LGBT We achieved Stonewall Top Global  equality. Retain Stonewall Top Global Employer status for the third year running. Employer status. Ensure each office has a communicated 25% of our offices have a communicated  flexible working policy. flexible working policy. 45% of our offices support informal flexible working and remote working. Exclude bias (on the grounds of gender All processes are reviewed and free of bias.  identity, sexual orientation, race, disability Partners are held to account as part of the or flexible working status) from annual promotion and salary review process and performance cycle and promotion process. ongoing performance management. Develop further partnering and We have collaborated with 50% of our  collaboration opportunities with 8 programme Clients on shared diversity & programme clients on shared diversity inclusion objectives. & inclusion objectives.  Target is achieved  Target is partially achieved our commitment to community SETTING SOME TARGETS FOR 2019/20 Focus Target Action Social inclusion Continue to develop and embed further stages of the Young Recruit ninth cohort of Year 10 students and develop initiatives and Talent Programme. processes for students in Year 13 and higher education. Pro bono Further develop the client partnering programme between Increase the number of pro bono clients in non-UK officesGreater local Simmons & Simmons and key clients in the Access to Justice engagement and setting up strategic partnerships with local clients. Programme Greater integration of non-UK offices in collaborative research projectsEngage on research projects which can include multiple offices and jurisdictions. Further develop the client partnering programme between Simmons & Simmons and key clients in the Access to Justice ProgrammeExpand client pairing scheme. Set up Bristol Pro Bono Committee and increase both local, Bristol-based engagement and integration of Bristol lawyers with London-based opportunities Engage with Bristol office and increase lawyers in Bristol involved in locally based projects. Environment To be provided by environment team Reduce global emissions from energy use by 5% on 2018 figures (capturing gas & electricity) Recycle 70% of all waste Reduce Carbon footprint by 5% per employee on 2018 emissions Reduce paper usage by 5% compared with 2018 usage Reduce carbon footprint estimations by 5% compared with 2018 Diversity and inclusion Improve the firm’s gender balance and ensure that women are 40% of new firmwide partner and managing associate promotions to be proportionately represented at all levels of the firm and specifically in women. Women to make up 30% of firmwide promotions from fixed the partnership and in senior management roles. equity partner to equity partner by 2023. Embed high performance, inclusive culture across the firm which Externally promote the firm as an employer of choice for women and supports people to maximise their potential and where opportunities increase all the number of female lateral partner appointments. are genuinely open to all. Sustain firmwide approach to LGBT equality. Retain Stonewall Top Global Employer status. Exclude bias (on the grounds of gender identity, sexual orientation, race, disability or flexible working status) from annual performance cycle and promotion process. Ensure each office has a communicated flexible working policy. Develop further partnering and collaboration opportunities with 8 programme clients on shared diversity & inclusion objectives. 026 UN GLOBAL COMPACT PRINCIPLES Human rights Target Action Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally Our business > Risk management and human rights due diligence proclaimed human rights. Businesses should make sure they are not complicit in human rights Our business > Risk management and human rights due diligence abuses. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective Life at Simmons & Simmons recognition to the right to collective bargaining. Labour Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced Our business > Supply chain management and compulsory labour. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour Our business > Risk management and human rights due diligence Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect Life at Simmons & Simmons > Workplace diversity of employment and occupation. Environment Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental Our environment challenges. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater Our environment environmental responsibility. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of Our environment environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including Our business extortion and bribery. our commitment to community
