AGNI MOTORS AN ISO 9001 : 2008 COMPANY No. 41 & 42, Near Gangothri Nursing College, Sunkada Katte, Vishwaneedam Post, Bengaluru 560 091. INDIA When trust matters Tel :080-23586721 I 22 Fax:2358 6723 E mail : info@agnimotors.in www.agnimotors.in Ref : AM/UN GC/G/160972 Date. 21111/20tq) Secretary General United Nations New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Mr. Secretary General, I am pleased to confirm that AGNI MOTORS supports the ten principles of the Global Compact on human rights, lobour, environment and anti-corruption. With this communication, we express our intent to implement those principles. We are committed to making the Global Compact and its principles parl of the strategy, culture and day-to-day operations of our company, and to engaging in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. AGNI MOTORS will make a clear statement of this commitment to our stakeholders and the general public. We recognize that a key requirement for parlicipation in the Global Compact is the annual submission of a Communication on Progress (COP) that describes our company's efforts to implement the ten principles and support any specialized UN Global Compact issue platform that our company may join at a later date. ,We support public accountability and transparency, and therefore committo report on progress within one year of joining the Global Compact, and annually thereafter according to the Global Compact COP policy. This includes: o A statement signed by the DGM-Operations expressing continued supporl for the Global Compact and renewing our ongoing commitment to the initiative and its principles. This is separate from our initial letter of commitment to join the Global Compact. . A description of practical actions (i.e., disclosure of any relevant policies, procedures, activities) that the company has taken( or plant to undertake) to implement the Global Compact principles in each of the four issue areas( Human rights, Labour, Environment, Anti-corruption). o A measurement of outcomes(i.e., the degree to which targets/performance indicators were met, or other qualitative or quantitative measurements of results). Mr. M G Hulakund DGM Operations
