Sitel Group 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility Report 1 Our CEO 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report President & Chief Executive Officer, Sitel Group Dear Stakeholders, For another year, we are proud to be part of the United Nations Global Compact. It is my pleasure to present you with Sitel Group’s 2018 Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress (COP) report. I am pleased to confirm that Sitel reaffirms its support of the ten principles of the Global Compact in the areas of human rights, labor, environment and anticorruption. In this annual report, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact into our business operations. As an organization present in 27 countries, serving several markets, Sitel Group believes in its responsibility to contribute to the development of the communities in which we operate. With an emphasis on responsible business practices, the Global Compact initiative reflects our beliefs. In the past year, we have continued to bring the ten principles to life. We make use of our vast global footprint and solid capabilities to have a positive impact on our employees, our clients and our local communities. Being involved with the local communities in which we operate has always been a part of Sitel Group’s culture and many of our community engagement projects depend on our employees’ passion, time and energy. CSR continues to be at the heart of Sitel Group, whether by being mindful of how our operations impact the surrounding environment, by developing our employees and treating them fairly and by creating new jobs or by giving back to the communities in which we operate. We are proud of our employees who are taking an active part in helping to drive this initiative. Yours sincerely, Laurent Uberti 2 About the Group 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Sitel Group connects many of the world’s best-known brands with their customers – 3.5 million times a day. As a global customer experience (CX) management leader, we leverage our 75,000 people, 30+ years of industry-leading experience and the entrepreneurial mindset of our founders to deliver omnichannel experiences including voice, chat and social media. From Fortune 500 companies to local startups, we represent 400+ clients across all verticals. Our group’s breadth of capabilities go beyond business process outsourcing (BPO) to support every stage of the customer journey. We are redefining the contact center and improving business results by integrating innovative solutions such as self-care and automation with the human touch, emotion and empathy of our people. As a leading CX platform, we are powered by industry experts to deliver tailored CX solutions to our clients through a consultative, customer-centric approach adding value at every touchpoint regardless of location, channel or time of day. Learn more at www.sitel.com and connect with us on Facebook, LinkedIn and Twitter. Sitel Group by the Numbers Our global presence, combined with our local knowledge and flexibility, allows us to respond quickly to local needs and market changes – wherever and whenever they occur. 75,000 Employees Located in 27 Countries Serving 70 Countries Founded in 1985 400+ Clients 150+ Offices 48 Languages $1.7B Revenue Sitel Group’s primary shareholder is Creadev, an evergreen investment company, which is backed by the Mulliez family and its global footprint network. 3 About the report 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress This annual CSR report serves as Sitel Group’s Communication on Progress to the United Nations Global Compact. Since Sitel’s acquisition by Groupe Acticall, both companies have been reporting separately. Acticall France S. A. S. was the first affiliate company to join the United Nations Global Compact in 2011, followed by Sitel Ibérica Teleservices S.A. in 2012. Sitel Worldwide Corporation, as a global organization, joined the initiative in 2015. Last year, we have taken a decision to report jointly, as a Group. The Global Compact principles are primarily addressed on the following pages, but also in other parts throughout this CSR Annual Report.  HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1-2: pages 11, 16  LABOR Principle 3-6: pages 8-15  ENVIRONMENT Principle 7-9: pages 20-21  ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: pages 17-19 Several other issues of importance are also described in our corporate policies. UN Sustainable Development Agenda With our global capabilities and experience, we focus on creating economic growth, tackling social challenges and promoting development of our communities together with our employees, clients and partners. Further, by providing decent work and economic growth, reducing skill gaps, inequality and climate change, we are addressing the United Nations’ Global Goals and contributing to the new Sustainable Development agenda. Scope of this report This report relates to our global operations including locations where we operate our own sites and where we operate from client locations. Stakeholders Engagement Fostering a dialogue with key stakeholders is an important part of our reporting process. It helps us understand and communicate which topics are most important to our stakeholders and to manage our business. We regularly engage with our core stakeholders in discussions regarding our objectives, our progress and our performance. Sitel Group identifies its stakeholders as clients, employees, investors, suppliers and the communities in which we operate. 4 About the report 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report We believe Sitel Group believes that conducting business with a high standard of professional conduct, ethics and proficiency is critical to our success and the success of our clients. We continually strive to improve our processes and procedures to achieve the highest quality and the best results for our clients in accordance with all applicable laws and regulations and in respect of the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. 5 Our company 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report EMPOWER HUMANS. ENHANCE BRANDS. Our people-oriented values represent the foundation on which we strive to achieve in all interactions with each other, our clients and our customers. An extension of our client To our clients, we are not just another service provider, but also an integral part of their organization an extension of their operations. This reflects our commitment and efforts towards creating long-term relationships with our clients. We focus on making our clients successful by clearly understanding their Global Operating System (GOS) needs and documenting a plan for continued improvement that is actively GOS 2.0 is a set of 10 empowering supported by all parties on a daily basis. principles that help us speak a common language and bring Our teams ensures we advance the clients’ strategy while meeting its daytogether best practices. These quality to-day business priorities. As part of this approach, we collect regularly client guidelines provide our employees feedback to ensure we support client’s strategy. and managers at every level with an opportunity to share what they think, Our expertise in listening and responding to the Voice of the Customer to contribute and to enjoy working means we know the right way to apply tools and process to do the same for together on a daily basis. The 10 GOS our clients. Our processes drive a high level of customer focus throughout 2.0 principles are driven by a our organization – inclusive of our operations management, coaches and collective dynamic where everyone agents – thereby creating a culture of care that translates into every single has a role to play, and by a strong interaction we have with our client’s customers. desire to be as simple and as coherent as possible. Quality Throughout The GOS 10 principles are: Continuous improvement is a part of our delivery model. Sitel Group follows  Client engagement a continuous improvement approach and core staffs green belt and black  Hiring belt trained professionals within our site and regional support structure.  Training Additionally, all of our defined processes are closed-loop – ensuring a  Onboarding continual feedback process to drive improvement across all processes – from  Operational review recruiting and selection to ongoing performance management.  People performance A quality assurance program built on processes that drive continuous  Coaching improvement is vital to our goal of providing world-class customer support.  Walking management Our philosophy is predicated upon a teaching and counseling approach  Fun management rather than one of enforcement. This approach is critical to maintaining high morale and realizing continued quality improvement.  Retain 6 Our company 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report OUR CSR PROGRAM While we acknowledge the standards underlying CSR should be part of normal business practice, by formalizing this in a global program, we have made CSR an important element of our corporate identity. CSR Pillars Our CSR structure Sitel Group’s CSR program is Each country has implemented a CSR program based on an adaptation of our based on four main Pillars: global framework considering the local context. Each location runs the CSR Give Back. program with the support of a champion, the CSR Lead. The global CSR team is responsible for oversight of the overall CSR program. Management and Supporting local communities to execution of CSR activities are also taken care of locally through this make a positive impact on society structure. Local best practices are shared on regular calls with all the CSR while engaging employees in Leads. Our CSR program engages employees across the organization, causes they find meaningful. including our senior leadership, which is key to the success of our efforts. Live Well. CSR policies Promoting employee health & wellness by encouraging healthy Sitel Group invests significant effort to promote policies that are consistent living through programs such as with our goals. Sitel Group has adopted a Global Code of Conduct and Ethics, SitelFit. which defines the ethical standards by which the company conducts its business and a Supplier Code of Conduct, which sets out the standards we Go Green. expect of our suppliers. As a complement to the Global Code of Conduct, we Managing our impact through have adopted a Corporate Social Responsibility Policy to document Sitel sound practices and promoting Group’s commitment to best practices in the area of CSR. employee awareness. Our commitments to human rights are embedded within the company’s Be Ethical. policies, including the Global Code of Conduct and Ethics, the Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethics, the Global Corporate Social Responsibility Policy, the Promoting a fair, safe and Anti-Modern Slavery and Child Labor Policy. All Sitel Group policies are respectful work environment for accessible to the employees and available in the company’s intranet. our employees and cultivating an ethical corporate culture. Sitel Group’s global ethics and anti-corruption policies include the AntiBribery and Corruption, Anti-Money Laundering, Risk Management, Fraud Management and Security and Ethics Incident Management. Sitel Group’s Global Environmental Policy outlines the Group’s responsibilities in support of its commitment to environmental protection and stewardship. Sitel Group has also published a Corporate Social Responsibility Statement, endorsed by the Group’s CEO, to stress our commitment with social responsibility by providing safe working conditions and treating our Employees and others with respect and according to the standards of the UN Global Compact. Copies of the CSR Statement are available in all Sitel Group premises around the globe and electronic copies are available both internally in the Sitel Group intranet, and externally in the Sitel Group corporate website 7 Our associates 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report BUILDING VALUE THROUGH OUR EMPLOYEES Sitel Group employees are the core of our business and we conduct our business with respect for and adherence to principles of diversity and equal employment opportunity. Sitel Group is further committed to providing a safe and healthy work environment that minimizes the incidence of work related injury and is free from harassment, discrimination, harsh treatment and acts or threats of violence. It is our goal to promote an environment that encourages open My Academy communication, promotes mutual respect and teamwork, and stimulates individuals to develop and learn. At the heart of our commitment to our employees are the steps we take Everything we do to execute our strategy and deliver our vision comes to life to help them progress professionally through our thousands of employees who are the driving force behind in order to grow our business. everything we do at Sitel Group. Our employees are one of our unique strengths and are instrumental in Sitel Group’s success. In 2018, we continued to improve our e-Learning platform, My Our ability to grow depends on our employees their alignment with our Academy, Sitel Group’s global vision, a sense of common purpose, and the belief that their role at Sitel learning management system, which Group is making a positive contribution. provides all employees with a wide variety of online, self-paced, and Training and development instructor-led trainings, in multiple At Sitel Group, we believe that everyone has talent and that our people are languages. This learning environment critical to our sustained growth and long-term success. allows Sitel Group employees all over the world to participate in a Whether it is for advancing in a current role or exploring new avenues, Sitel centralized and uniform training Group offers training and development opportunities to extend our environment that has proven to be employees’ knowledge and skills. convenient and effective, and gives Sitel Group the opportunity to report We provide learning and development opportunities to train all employees on training participation globally. It in undertaking their jobs effectively and efficiently. We also promote the supports learning anytime, continued growth and development of their careers by identifying learning anywhere. With more than 50 online needs, developing training programs and performing ongoing evaluation and courses on topics ranging from clientmonitoring of trained staff. specific content to Sitel GroupWe offer unique opportunities for our employees to develop in their roles. specific to compliance, management, There is a clearly defined career progression, either as a line manager or in a leadership, team building and specialist role. professional development. With a combination of mixed training, classroom, distance and online, Sitel My Academy encourages employees to continue to learn and grow Group ensures its employees the opportunity to participate in a uniform, through the benefits of e-learning. consistent and effective learning environment and training. Above all, My Academy is a symbol of In 2017, Sitel Group delivered 6,230,079 hours of online training to its the dedication Sitel Group has to its employees, with a purpose of employees. In 2018, at least 6,364,871 hours were delivered. Examples of bringing out the true potential of training courses organized during 2018 include soft skill trainings, conflict each individual. management, communication skills, sales training, leadership training, and privacy and security awareness training. On top of the Group’s trainings offered to all employees, additional trainings are offered in the form of workshops covering different topics specifically selected to support the development of the employees. 8 Our associates 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Performance and talent Talent management and career opportunities management Providing meaningful and regular Skilled and motivated people are the key ingredient in providing excellent feedback to employees is at the heart customer experience and it is therefore critical that we have a process to of our commitment to our people. support high performance as well as the ability to attract new employees and Sitel Group relies on value-driven, retain our talent. high-performing people with the right skills to provide value to our Sitel Group is committed to focusing on recruiting and retaining our clients. Our Performance employees by creating an environment that is positive, nurturing and filled Management program is very with opportunities. Career advancement based on individual strengths is important in this context. This global strongly encouraged at Sitel Group. The ability to move up within the continuous process enables an open, organization makes Sitel Group more than just a stopping point in an transparent and integrated system employees’ career. for managing people. Sitel Group fills open positions by promoting employees from within the The Performance Management Group whenever possible, enabling our clients to benefit from trained, program is an important part of our experienced personnel. Internal job openings are posted in our job site and succession planning because it supports the identification of within each site where employees can submit an application for any posted potential future leaders at all levels. position. The program enables Sitel Group to A talent management and succession-planning program helps to identify attract and retain the most talented people, while quickly identifying future leaders based on knowledge, skills, abilities, work ethic, performance, available talent when job leadership abilities, key competencies and behavioral characteristics. opportunities arise, and also to We invest in internal training programs to prepare employees for define objectives and goals for each advancement. Individual e-training courses are available through our employee, creating a resultsorientated culture in our company. learning management system, My Academy. The number of internal promotions are consistently increasing over the years. In 2018, almost 4,000 employees were promoted internally to higher positions, a significant increase of almost 2,000 employees compared to the previous year. 9 Our associates 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Employee feedback We encourage all employees to share ideas and work together to make Sitel Group a good place to work as we strive to achieve our common goals of personal and professional success. It is important we receive feedback on the employee experience and ensure our employees are heard. At Sitel Group, we administer a global annual employee survey called Sit&Tell, for measuring the progress on our People strategy against employee engagement, and employee Net Promoter Score for all employees. We use the results to create targeted action plans that are led by Human Resources in partnership with leaders across the globe for every region and function utilizing standard process and tools. By keeping our finger on the pulse of employee sentiment toward the company, listening to their ideas for improvement and demonstrating to them that their feedback is valued, Sitel Group is working to ensure that each and every member of our team has a role in creating value for our clients and other stakeholders. Our leaders are accessible and are encouraged to walk the floor so that agents may easily ask questions or provide feedback. We take our Walking Management principle seriously we want our leaders to be close to the employees so as to listen to what they have to say and include the reality of on-site experiences into our processes. The employees are directly impacted by the decisions we make every day. Walking Management maintains, develops and enhances this connection between management and employees. If any employee wishes to discuss any matter directly with someone at a level higher than their manager, they can do so. 10 Our associates 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Professionalism and harassment Non-discrimination Sitel Group employees are expected to be respectful of We employ a diverse workforce and do not tolerate others’ customs and traditions. We treat each other, unlawful discrimination. We seek to provide a work our clients and their customers with respect, courtesy environment free of unlawful discrimination based on and dignity. race, color, age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity, disability, pregnancy, religion, political affiliation, or Each Sitel Group employee around the world is entitled marital status. to work in a professional atmosphere, free from all forms of harassment. Sitel Group seeks to provide a Sitel Group endeavors to address non-discrimination by work environment without harsh and inhumane fostering an environment in which everyone is treated treatment, including any sexual harassment, sexual equally and given the same opportunities. We are abuse, corporal punishment, mental or physical committed to ensuring we eliminate discrimination in coercion or verbal abuse of employees or threat of any all forms in our employment. We do so by: such treatment.  Evaluating and compensating employees based on Sitel Group supports employees in reporting any their qualifications, demonstrated skills, and inhumane treatment without fear of reprisal or achievements, striving to avoid any unconscious intimidation. Sitel Group makes available an Ethics bias. All employment decisions such as hiring, hotline, EthicsPoint, which enables employees to report discipline, terminations, promotions, and job any concerns anonymously, where permitted by law. assignments are based on Sitel Group’s needs and Sitel Group strongly encourages its employees to report on employee performance and potential. These any harassment to appropriate company officials and decisions are made without regard to a person’s prohibits retaliation against anyone who reports issues cultural background, ethnicity, personal beliefs, or or who participates in an investigation of such reports. any other characteristic protected by applicable law; Inclusion, diversity and equal opportunities  Facilitating the ability of employees to raise issues regarding discrimination (or other matters such as Sitel Group employees represent a wide variety of bullying and harassment) through accessible cultures, ethnicities, religious beliefs and languages. reporting channels (e.g. ethics hotline); This diversity makes our company smarter, helping us better serve our clients. Furthermore, we recognize  Encouraging participation in the annual survey in that the best solutions are generated through which employees are asked to express their views collaboration between people who think differently on workplace issues anonymously; and welcome a variety of ideas and viewpoints. We  Providing annual conduct and ethics trainings to key strive to hire employees with backgrounds and positions in the company which focus, among other perspectives that can reflect the diversity of our things, on issues around diversity and respect; and markets and customers, fueling innovation and insight across our business. We believe that being an employer  A robust whistleblower procedure. that provides opportunities to all is an important key to Inclusion our success. It is our employees’ skills, knowledge and attitudes that matter. We have zero tolerance for We welcome people with different abilities, discrimination. All individuals should be treated fairly perspectives and experiences because we believe that and respectfully and enjoy an inclusive culture where this diversity invites new ideas and approaches to every individual has an equal opportunity to contribute, business challenges. We also look for ways to remove develop and grow. barriers to employment for persons with disabilities outside Sitel Group by working with organizations that Gender equality empower persons with disabilities with job and skills training and by promoting initiatives to recruit persons It has always been our endeavor to promote gender with disabilities at many of our offices around the diversity across the organization. In 2018, more than world. half (53%) of Sitel Group’s total workforce was composed of female employees. Female employees in leadership position managers and above represented 43% in the same period. 11 Our associates 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Child, forced and compulsory labor Employee health & safety Sitel Group does not support child labor in any manner Sitel Group is committed to providing a safe and or form. Only the use of legitimate workplace healthy environment for our employees, clients, and apprenticeship programs, which comply with all laws visitors. and regulations, is supported. Sitel Group does not expose children to any situations in or outside of the Sitel Group makes every reasonable effort to promote, workplace that are hazardous or unsafe to their create, and maintain a safe and healthy workplace by development. providing safeguards against injury or hazards through maintaining proper equipment, materials, facilities and We also condemn all forms of compulsory labor and do employee training. Our sites comply with applicable not condone the use of forced, bonded or indentured health, safety and environmental laws and all related labor, involuntary prison labor or the trafficking of policies. persons. We uphold an environment where work is voluntary and employees are free to terminate their In line with our people-oriented culture, safety of our employment. people is the first priority and is addressed prior to any consideration regarding Sitel Group’s or clients’ Sitel Group’s Anti-Modern Slavery and Child Labor business requirements. Therefore, it is essential that policy contains guidelines, standards, and procedures our employees know how to react during an emergency intended to ensure that Sitel Group and those acting on situation. its behalf understand and abide by the applicable antichild labor, anti-human trafficking and anti-modernSitel Group has implemented a Global Business day slavery laws, rules, and regulations. Continuity Management policy to set, deploy, test, monitor and report on the required standards for Every year, our UK operations publishes a statement emergency preparedness in all sites and has assigned a pursuant to the requirements of the UK Modern Slavery dedicated resource, the Director of Business Continuity Act 2015. This includes how we address the risk of child Management, to manage the program and ensure its or slave labor being used in our business. View our ongoing effectiveness and continuous improvement. statement at: https://www.sitel.com/en-uk/ Our BCM methodology, tools and procedures are As a matter of fact, forced and child labor are not an constantly reviewed and upgraded to reflect the recent issue in our operations. changes in our business and the increased focus on business continuity planning due to world events. Freedom of association Sitel Group is committed to an open communication Sitel Group upholds its employees’ rights to join or with all employees on workplace health and safety, refrain from joining worker associations in accordance encouraging employee input and continual education with the law. Where worker organizations are legally to identify and solve health and safety issues, or other recognized, Sitel Group recognizes those rights concerns relating to working conditions without fear of provided by law. reprisal or intimidation. Sitel Group seeks to ensure that representatives of All Sitel Group employees take a training in which they employees and any personnel engaged thereby, are not learn about Sitel Group security and safety policies subjected to discrimination, harassment, intimidation, among other relevant topics. They also learn to identify or retaliation for reason of their being members of a situations that pose a risk to the company’s and their union or participating in trade union activities, and that own security. This training requires annual such representatives are afforded their rights under the recertification to ensure all employees are aware of the law. main elements and any changes that may have been In many countries where we operate, our employees made to our policies and standards. are represented by an independent trade union or are Sitel Group Spanish facilities are OHSAS 18001:2007 covered by collective agreements that entitle them to certified. healthcare and retirement benefits. 12 Our associates 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Employee wellbeing Sitel Group is positive that employee wellbeing is an important factor for a healthy environment. Our employees count on leisure areas, anti-stress programs and regular activities to minimize the stress and cultivate the feeling of belonging among our employees. In 2018, Sitel Group launched a health & wellness program, SitelFit, which promotes employee’s movement (walking, running, swimming, cycling) to encourage engagement, fun and wellness. SitelFit demonstrates our company values: Be Bold and Work Together. 13 Our associates 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Sitel Group Puts Fitness in the Spotlight with SitelFit April 6th, 2018 marks the launch of the SitelFit platform Between 1st and 31st May, our 75,000 employees had to that brings our 75,000 Sitel Group employees cover 75,000 km in order to unlock a charitable throughout the world together to share a common focus donation. This distance corresponded to the distance on wellness. This date was not chosen at random – it is between the different sites throughout the world if they also the International Day of Sport for Development and were linked by a road. The teams that finished first, Peace. second and third in the inter-country challenge got on the podium and make a donation to a charitable SitelFit encourages people to take part in individual and organization in their name. collective sports both inside and outside of work through regular challenges to help maintain How SitelFit came to be commitment. This is a unique project and the first of its Following the success of internal events organized to kind in Sitel Group, which used the initiative to forge ties coincide with International Literacy Day and Pink between its teams located in 25 different countries. October Breast Cancer Awareness Month, the idea of SitelFit seeks to encourage all forms of physical activity: promoting international awareness on a bigger scale walking instead of taking the bus, cycling to work or throughout the group started to take hold. It became organizing jogging sessions between colleagues or clear that if such a project were to be created, it must friends are all opportunities to slip a few kilometers into focus on team spirit, collective engagement and our daily routines. embody our group’s new core values: Work Together, Build Trust, Wow Customers and Be Bold. SMILES, the first supper challenge: 75,000 km for a good cause But what do 75,000 people in 25 countries that speak a combined 48 languages have in common? The answer is To create enthusiasm for the wellness platform and to sports – one of the world’s few universal languages and encourage a healthier lifestyle, a challenge was an activity that transcends culture, ability and time organized to mark the launch of SitelFit. In Spring, Sitel zones. Group has devised a “super challenge” called SMILES. 14 Our associates 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report The charts below show Sitel Group’s workforce by several key metrics1. Employees by Gender New Employee Hires by Gender Employee Turnover by Gender (worldwide) (worldwide) (worldwide) Full-time and Part-time Employees by New Employee Hires by Age Group Employee Turnover by Age Group Gender (worldwide, 2018) (worldwide) (worldwide) Employees by Gender and Region New Employee Hires by Region Employee Turnover by Region (worldwide, 2018) (worldwide) (worldwide) Employees by Job Category and Gender Employees by Job Category and Age Employees by Age and Region (worldwide, 2018) (worldwide, 2018) (worldwide, 2018) 1. Estimated based on existing database platform. Reporting year covers the period between 1-January of the previous year to 31-December of the mentioned year (2018 corresponds to the period between 1-Jan 2018 to 31-Dec 2018). Charts do not include data from Sitel Group ventures, which represent less than 0.5% of employees. 15 Our ethics 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report UPHOLDING THE HIGHEST ETHICAL STANDARDS At Sitel Group, we do everything we can to safeguard our values and the reputation of the clients that trust us and choose to work with us. Sitel Group’s strong ethical foundation has been at the core of our operations. Our leaders set the tone, but every person plays a role in keeping our ethical beliefs firmly in place. Human rights Translations of the text are available in 10 languages, allowing almost every employee to read the Code of We support and respect internationally recognized Conduct in their native language. human rights within our organization and wherever we do business. Internationally recognized human rights Relevant Sitel Group employees undergo code of are those expressed in the International Bill of Human conduct and ethics training and annual refreshers. The Rights and the International Labor Organization’s code of conduct training takes employees through the Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at major components of the Sitel Group Global Code of Work. Conduct & Ethics and educates on how it can be used to guide decisions and actions in potentially controversial Sitel Group knows that a fundamental component of situations, and what actions are appropriate to take ethical business conduct is supporting and respecting when a violation of the Code of Conduct is suspected. human rights within our company, our supply chain and This online training also serves to increase our the communities where we live and work. Our employees’ awareness of how to deal with everyday commitment is anchored in our global policies, situations that challenge their ability to demonstrate including those that address employee conduct, privacy respect and inclusion. and anticorruption. Reporting As a global customer experience company, the topic of human rights focuses on areas that are most relevant Concerns about human rights or other issues can be to our business and operations. These include, among brought to our attention via EthicsPoint, which is a other things, ensuring a fair and respectful workconfidential, integrated toll-free telephone and webenvironment for our employees, eliminating based hotline. discrimination, ensuring their health, safety and Any conduct that may be unethical, illegal, in violation security, protecting privacy and security of personal of professional standards, or otherwise inconsistent data and working against corruption. with Sitel Group’s policies, as well as and anything that Reinforcing our company ethics may affect the moral or physical integrity of its employees, may be reported. One of our most important written standards is our Global Code of Conduct and Ethics. It builds on our core EthicsPoint is staffed by an independent third party that values by providing details about expected behaviors is available 24 hours a day, seven days a week, with and outlining the high standards of honesty, integrity interpreters available for language assistance. and ethical conduct. Our Code reaffirms that we have Country-specific guidance is also available through Sitel zero tolerance for unethical behavior and corruption in Group intranet. Reporting procedure and contact any form and it applies to all Sitel Group employees information for EthicsPoint is also available on posters directors, officers and employees in every country in on notice boards in all sites, in the Sitel Group Code of every venture. Conduct and Ethics and in other relevant policies. An introduction to the Code of Conduct and Ethics is Reports may be submitted anonymously where part of the each employee’s induction. All employees permitted by law and Sitel Group’s Global Code of are required to review and certify their understanding Conduct and Ethics strictly prohibits retaliation against of and compliance with the Sitel Group Global Code of any person for making a report in good faith or Conduct and Ethics upon joining Sitel Group. cooperating in an investigation. 16 Our ethics 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Privacy and data protection We also provide periodic Privacy and Information Security Awareness training sessions to all our In an environment with new and continually changing employees that reinforce, among other things: security threats, technologies and legislation, protecting privacy and the security of data is essential  Creating security awareness; to maintain the trust of our employees and our clients.  Protecting and ensuring the security of an individual’s personal information; Our clients trust us with access to information about their key asset, their customers. We also store and  Security incidents that may arise; process personal data related to our employees in the  Preventive controls, i.e. identifying and preventing normal course of business. It is a core element of our incidents from happening; and commitments to uphold human rights among them,  Reporting incidents and risks. the right to data privacy. Therefore, we work closely with our clients and employees to ensure that we Anti-corruption manage personal information in a manner that respects At Sitel Group, we value integrity and ethical behavior the rights of individuals and have invested in in the conduct of our business. Sitel Group is committed organizational and technical measures to ensure the to complying with anti-corruption and anti-bribery laws information entrusted to us is suitably protected at all in the countries in which it does business. times. Sitel Group does business in many countries and With security and data privacy deeply embedded in our regions around the world. At each location, employees operations, we seek to maintain robust protection and at every level have the responsibility to know and comply with globally recognized privacy principles. follow laws and regulations that apply to our business. Some of the privacy and security requirements Sitel Sitel Group employees are expected to conduct Group complies with include: business ethically and Sitel Group does not allow any  European Union General Data Protection Regulation employee or anyone acting on Sitel Group’s behalf to (GDPR) give, pay, offer, promise to pay, or authorize the giving  Country and EU Member State Privacy Laws; or payment of money or any other thing of value to any foreign government official or Sitel Group client, vendor  PCI DSS (Payment Card Industry Data Security or other business partner for any improper purpose or Standard); in violation of applicable law, including the local laws of  ISO/IEC 27001:2013; any relevant country.  SSAE 16/18 SOC1 and SOC2 (Service Organization Sitel Group has a Compliance and Ethics organization Controls 1 and Service Organization Controls 2); reporting directly to the company’s General Counsel.  HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Designated compliance contact persons assist with the Accountability Act); and implementation of Sitel Group’s ethics and compliance  Client Specific Privacy Requirements and many program. others. The Legal Department and Sitel Group’s Ethics and Our Global Code of Conduct and Ethics, Global Security Compliance Team are responsible for setting Policy, Global Privacy Policy, Risk Management, Fraud enterprise-wide standards with respect to antiManagement, Security and Ethics Incident corruption laws and interactions with clients and Management, Information Classification, User Access & government officials. We have achieved compliance Approval, along with other security awareness and with key industry standards which provide all usage policies provide a robust framework for the employees with a consistent management framework protection of confidential, sensitive and personally to apply to ethical behavior. identifiable information. We have implemented various Sitel Group’s global policies include the Code of measures to handle and safeguard data appropriately, Conduct and Ethics, Supplier Code of Conduct and including information security controls (e.g. virus and Ethics, Anti-Bribery and Corruption, Anti-Money malware protection, access and password controls etc.) Laundering, Risk Management, Fraud Management, and physical controls (e.g. restricting physical access, Security and Ethics Incident Management and other clean desk policy and paperless environment, etc.). policies. 17 Our ethics 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Operational adherence is managed through a Sitel Group Anti-Corruption Program management system that is aligned to the ISO Sitel Group’s anti-corruption program is largely based 27001:2013 standard to ensure that controls for the on the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act FCPA and secure management of all data required to deliver the sets a clear global standard for its approach to honest services are in place and are assessed on an ongoing and fair dealing, which meets the legislation in all its basis for effectiveness with a view to continual countries of operation such as UK Anti Bribery Act and improvement. Relevant management information and the Brazilian Anti-Corruption Act. The program has 6 reporting are shared with clients as part of established key principles: escalation management and periodic business review processes. Tone at the top: Management’s “tone at the top” is vital for establishing Sitel Group Global Privacy and Security training is a transparent and company-wide culture against mandatory for all of Sitel Group employees to ensure corruption. they are aware of and understand Sitel Group’s Privacy and Security standards and to ensure that actual and The top-level management of Sitel Group is committed potential incidents of fraud and corruption are to preventing bribery by persons associated with Sitel identified and managed appropriately. Group. They foster an anti-corruption culture within the organization and send clear messages to all All Sitel Group employees and, where appropriate, third employees and business partners that corruption and party contractors or vendors, are required to report all bribery is unacceptable. fraud, security and ethically related incidents. The mandatory reporting of suspected or actual fraud or Proportionate procedures: ethical conduct matters is managed through Sitel Group’s existing global incident reporting procedures, Our procedures to prevent bribery proportionate to the with training developed to maintain awareness of the bribery risks we face and to the nature, scale and incident reporting obligations. complexity of our activities. For greater awareness of the Sitel Group’ ethics hotline, Management directives define and clarify the desired EthicsPoint, among employees, the company behavior of our employees. The outputs of these distributed EthicsPoint posters to all locations for control procedures provide the basis for mitigating prominent display promoting the reporting of business risks according to their potential impact. concerns via a 24-hour hotline. In addition to the Examples of activities that support these controls in posters, a brief tutorial reminded all employees about Sitel Group include: the EthicsPoint.  EthicsPoint, where employees may report any concerns to the Sitel Group compliance, ethics and Sitel Group’s Finance and Accounting organization is responsible for maintaining adequate accounting books whistleblowing hotline; and records and appropriate controls at all levels of the  Background checks in accordance with policy and organization that ensure accuracy of our financial where permitted by country specific law; reporting, including the investigation of potential  Employee handbooks defining fraud and action to fraudulent financial activity or results. Such controls be taken; provide reasonable assurances that, among other  Anti-corruption Policy; and things, transactions have been executed in accordance with applicable accounting principles.  Code of Conduct Policy published on the Sitel Group intranet to employees and incorporated as part of Sitel Group’s Internal Audit team is responsible for Sitel Group’s vendor registration procedure. evaluating and testing accounting control systems on an ongoing basis to ensure, as reasonably possible, that Risk assessment: the controls in place continue to be appropriate and Sitel Group assesses the nature and extent of its function properly. exposure to potential external and internal risks of Our Code of Conduct requires that all employees bribery on its behalf by persons associated with it. comply with all laws and regulations governing our company’s behavior. 18 Our ethics 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Sitel Group performs comprehensive risk assessment tailor the training program in order to ensure that our activities that identify and weigh risks that help define commitment against corruption is known throughout priorities including: the organization.  Risk Management Questionnaire reviewed annually All employees are required to review and certify their by Sitel Group’s Finance team and results discussed understanding of and compliance with the Sitel Group with Audit Committee; Global Code of Conduct and Ethics. Additionally, Sitel  Internal Audit reports; Group requires key employees to undergo annual code  Internal Audit annual Enterprise Risk Assessment to of conduct and ethics training, in which they learn identify potential risk areas and collating about the major components of the Sitel Group Global conclusions; and Code of Conduct and Ethics. The certification process is completed via a web-based training and certification  Site Compliance Questionnaire to identify key risk program. This web-based training covers antiareas. corruption and anti-bribery, among other subjects. This Due diligence: online training is provided in the employee’s local language, is available around the clock, and provides Sitel Group applies due diligence procedures, taking a participants with a comprehensive understanding of proportionate and risk-based approach, in respect of what is, and is not, permissible as they undertake their persons who perform or will perform services for or on responsibilities each day as Sitel Group employee. In behalf of Sitel Group, in order to mitigate identified addition to the online curriculum, Sitel Group’s Legal bribery risks. Department provides support for employees should Sitel Group has implemented mandatory requirements they have questions. for screening and conducting integrity due diligence Monitoring and review assessments of our business partners. Sitel Group monitors and reviews procedures designed Additionally, due diligence procedures in the to prevent bribery by persons associated with it, and recruitment process enables Sitel Group to hire the best makes improvements where necessary. Anti-bribery candidates. Poor hiring decisions can hurt Sitel Group in and anti-corruption policies are dynamic and require a variety of ways increased turnover, increased Sitel Group to perform ongoing monitoring of its burdens on co-workers, compliance problems, and compliance programs and adapting to changing even business ethics issues. business environment in order to remain effective. Communication and trainings Sitel Group has established internal checks needed to Sitel Group seeks to ensure that its bribery prevention monitor and review anti-bribery policies that include policies and procedures are embedded and understood financial monitoring, bribery reporting, incident throughout the organization through internal and investigations, reporting from the Risk and the Audit external communication, including training that is Committee: proportionate to the risks it faces.  Compliance Working Group: annual review of Sitel A key element in the Anti-Corruption Program is Group anti-corruption policies; capacity-building and regular training of employees.  Audit Committee: report on enterprise level risks; Our training ranges from online courses, dilemmaand training modules and other Sitel Group awareness  Compliance Working Group: review of current activities. Sitel Group strives to constantly improve and EthicsPoint hotline cases. 19 Our environment 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report We strive to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations in the operation of our business and are committed to reducing pollutants associated with our business, which may have adverse effect on the environment. We expect our employees to be respectful of the environment within which we operate. While Sitel Group’s operations have a limited environmental impact, we believe in being a responsible, environmentally aware company, minimizing, wherever possible, negative effects on the community, environment and natural resources. Our environmental efforts are towards increasing employee environmental awareness, reducing e-waste, limiting business travel and decreasing energy consumption in our facilities. We support local initiatives with our employees in order to encourage greater environmental responsibility in our workplaces. Our employees are committed to minimizing the impact and to working together to contribute to a better environment. Our environmental policy outlines Sitel Group’s responsibilities in support of its commitment to environmental protection and stewardship and guides us in complying with environmental regulations, advancing environmental awareness, minimizing environmental risks, reducing emissions and waste and conserving energy and water consumption. Sitel Group supports a precautionary approach to environmental challenges and manages risks of negative social and environmental impact in accordance with international guidelines. Carbon footprint and use of resources As a leading customer experience services company, Sitel Group’s environmental footprint consists primarily of carbon emissions generated from employee travel and the use of electricity. We are committed to encouraging, educating and promoting a business model that keeps environmental impact at a minimum and reduces the carbon emissions. We constantly explore new ways to make our operations even more efficient, in particular with the use digital tools. Smart travel saves money and reduces greenhouse gas emissions. Where and whenever possible, we promote the use of virtual collaboration tools and videoconferencing. This avoids unnecessary travel, is more efficient for us, and is better for the environment. 20 Our environment 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Our efforts to encourage the adoption of available communication technologies continue to help us manage business travel. When looking for new locations, we prioritize areas with good public transportation, since employee commuting is also a large contributor to our footprint. Our Work@Home business allow our employees to work directly from their home, dramatically reducing the need for travel and, consequently, these employees’ carbon emissions. Local initiatives to reduce emissions have been implemented by some of our countries. France implemented a carpooling program to facilitate employee travel and raise awareness of environmental issues and carbon emissions. In 2018, Sitel Group performed a greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions assessment that quantified the total greenhouse gases produced directly and indirectly from a business or organization's activities. Also known as a carbon footprint, it is an essential tool, providing your business with a basis for understanding and managing its climate change impacts. The assessment included 2017 data from select locations in North America, Latin America, Europe and Asia. The total emissions were 16,312 tCO2e, or 1.43 tCO2e/FTE. 1 The GHG assessment has been carried Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions1 out in accordance with the World Summary by WBCSD/WRI Scope (Location-Based, tCO2e) Business Council for Sustainable Scope tCO2e/year % Development and World Resources Scope 1 (combustion of fuels) 538 2 Institute's (WBCSD/WRI) Greenhouse Gas Scope 2 (purchased electricity) 15,222 57 Protocol; a Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard, including the GHG Scope 3 (Electricity t&d losses, landfilled waste) 10,744 41 Protocol Scope 2 Guidance. The Total 26,504 100 organizational scope of this assessment includes 28 sites in 15 countries: Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, Germany, Mexico, We are constantly looking for new opportunities to reduce demand and to Netherlands, New Zealand, Panama, be more efficient. This includes energy retrofit projects such as LED lighting Philippines, Poland, Portugal, Serbia, upgrades and building management system improvements. Spain, UK and US. These sites were selected to conform to CDP supplier Additionally, waste prevention and recycling are powerful ways to use less requests that Sitel Group received. The energy, reduce greenhouse gas emissions and contribute to a healthy operational scope of this assessment climate. Our sites have recycling programs in place to minimize landfill included as mandatory all Scope 1 and Scope 2 emission sources. Where impact and the release of harmful gases due to its production and disposal available, Scope 3 data such as waste process. and water supply has been included. Data quality: 82% of the data are based on Whenever possible, we also promote environmentally friendly technologies actual data. The remaining 18% were and equipment. Sitel Group manages and disposes of electronic and estimated. electrical equipment in an environmentally friendly manner. We also try to minimize the generation of e-waste by extending the useful life of computers. Most of our country organizations already dispose of e-waste via specialized e-waste management companies. 21 Our environment 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Protecting the environment Sitel Group promotes regular environmental activities involving employees, such as beach and park clean-up drives and tree planting events. As a part of the World Environment Day celebrations, Sitel Chennai, India employees planted trees and cleaned up a beach. Sitel Bogota, Colombia employees cleaned up a national park and planted 50 trees. Sitel Warsaw, Poland employees planted over 100 trees in a park. Sitel Lake City, USA also did their part and participated in a highway cleanup day. Sitel France, Serbia, Philippines and Colombia organized environmental awareness activities. Mexico, Brazil and Portugal celebrated the World Environment Day collecting plastic caps among employees to support a social cause. Sitel Panama employees planted trees in a national park near the banks of the Panama Canal to support government efforts to reforest millions of acres in the next 20 years. Sitel Kingston, UK has a team of volunteers who get together regularly do pick litter off the streets. Sitel Sofia, Bulgaria participated in the World Cleanup Day. Volunteers come together to clean up litter and mismanaged waste from beaches, rivers, forests and streets. 22 Our supply chain 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report A SUSTAINABLE SUPPLY CHAIN As an extension of our operations, our supply chain is a reflection of our company, giving due consideration to our ethical, environmental and social obligations as we pursue business excellence We expect the same commitment from our suppliers as but also how potential suppliers treat the people, we do for ourselves. This is why we have established a communities, and environment in their sphere of Sitel Group Supplier Code of Conduct and Ethics. Our influence. Supplier Code reflects our ethical principles and our Sitel Group’s supply chain consists of suppliers in three commitment to doing responsible business. In main categories: facilities-related suppliers, IT & particular, it specifies the ethical and labor standards to Telecom and temporary staff and recruitment agencies. which our external suppliers must adhere. We have assessed the inherent overall CSR risks at a low The Supplier Code has been published in 8 main level from a supply chain perspective. languages, requires compliance with all applicable laws Sitel Group suppliers must comply with all and regulations, supplements our Global Code of requirements passed through by Sitel Group clients and Conduct and Ethics and reflects our commitment to CSR with any CSR requirements or policies from time to time and the 10 Principles of the UN Global Compact. In adopted and communicated. We expect our suppliers order to do business with Sitel Group, suppliers are to comply with our Code, and apply those principles to required to review and acknowledge their conformance their own suppliers in the delivery of goods and services with Sitel Group policy. for Sitel Group. These practices align us with our clients’ As with all aspects of our business, Sitel Group conducts expectations in terms of social responsibility, reflect our its procurement using the highest ethical standards and operating philosophies and core values and establish considerations. Our procurement decisions take into steady support of integrity in all procurement activities. account not only price, quality and reliability of service, 23 Our community 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report OUR COMMITMENT TO THE SOCIETY At Sitel Group, we believe it is our responsibility to build a truly human environment where our employees are enabled to be their best, professionally and personally. We continually strive to create a culture that cares about all aspects of our people, including their own communities. As a company of more than 75,000 people, employee contributions are the foundation of our community programs. Many of our community engagement activities depend on our employees’ passion to contribute their time and energy. In 2018, our employees engaged in their local communities through philanthropic projects and contributed to numerous charitable causes organized and facilitated by Sitel Group in all of our 27 countries. 24 Our community 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Education Sitel Group employees around the world supported schools and education programs. Sitel Saint John, Canada, made a donation to a local school and several members of the management team volunteered at the local arena to help children ice-skating. Sitel Colombia employees donated 370 sets of school supplies to a local organization, which supports underprivileged children doing activities to ensure the wellbeing and development of these children. Blois, France employees donated school supplies, books and clothes to a charitable organization supporting children in need in Azrou, Morocco. Sitel San Angelo, USA, made a donation to the local DESK (Donating Educational Supplies to Kids) program, which used the funds to backfill needs that aren’t met by donations of actual supplies during their community drive. San Angelo site also donated gift cards to people in the community during the Tax Free Weekend to help with the purchase of school supplies or clothing. Sitel Panama donated school supplies to an elementary school in Cacique, Colon. Sitel Group India supporting the education of underprivileged children When the new school year begins, most kids are back to school with shiny new backpacks, new pencil boxes and the air filled with the smell of new books. However, for many children, back to school is a stressful time where they do not have access to the school supplies necessary for academic success. Many economically challenged families struggle to afford and provide essential school supplies for their kids. Sitel India, in its endeavor to support education for underprivileged children, wants to give back and make a difference by offering these children school supplies for the new academic year. In 2018, India employees donated enough supplies to fill more than 1,500 backpacks, which were donated to unprivileged children in Chennai, Mumbai and Hyderabad. By donating school supplies, we’re helping kids start the school year off right, giving them the confidence to do the best they can. We are always overwhelmed with our employees’ generosity. Our volunteers are humbled when they visit the children to deliver the backpacks. Sitel India has held school supply drives for the past few years, providing thousands of children with the tools to succeed in school and giving their parents one less thing to worry about. The school supply drive is one of the many activities Sitel India has implemented to support the education of underprivileged children. 25 Our community 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Celebrating the World Blood Donor Day India Sitel Group celebrated the World Blood Donor Day Sitel India holds regular blood drives to encourage along with the World Health Organization (WHO), who regular blood donors to continue giving blood and to is recognized by honoring those who have helped save motivate people who have never given blood to become lives by selflessly donating their blood. regular donors. Since January 2018, more than 350 employees donated blood, potentially helping more The theme of this year’s WHO campaign Be there for than a thousand people. someone else. Give blood. Share life, draws attention to the role of voluntary donations in encouraging Philippines people to care for one another and generate social ties In early 2018, Sitel Philippines was honored by the and a united community. With more than 75,000 Department of Health (DOH) and the Philippine Blood employees worldwide, our ability to communicate Center (PBC) with the Antonio Luna Award as a “blood effectively and passionately about what Sitel Group is donation hero” for collecting more than 200 voluntary doing in this area – in both a personal yet focused blood donations this year. manner – is absolutely essential and a top priority for us. Nicaragua In 2018, Sitel Group employees around the world have As one Nicaragua’s largest employers, Sitel supports its donated enough blood to potentially help almost local community by helping maintain a safe blood 18,000 individuals in their communities – a tangible supply. Since 2013, Sitel Nicaragua has been organizing demonstration of how our culture and values come to blood drives and creating awareness among our live through our incredible people. Committed and employee population, who are young and rarely think of passionate individuals improving the world, giving back situations in which blood are necessary. With leadership and positively impacting their communities, while support, nearly 500 employees volunteered to donate showing that there is a different way to do business. blood since 2017, potentially saving almost 1,500 lives. Our people are truly living our company values every day around the world. We are proud our employees give back in such a big way to their communities – truly making a difference. 26 Our community 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Sitel Newcastle Raise Over £7000 For Children North East Building relationships and giving back is all part of the organization was set up to offer support to poor children Sitel value; Working Together. Our sites across the UK who lived in Newcastle and Gateshead to give them a support both local and nationwide charities, working ‘hand up, not a hand out’, an ethos they continue to hard to make meaningful contributions to the pursue. Today they work alongside children and young communities in which we operate. people in their families, schools, and communities. At Sitel Newcastle our employees have done an Sitel Newcastle – The Fundraiser outstanding job of supporting their chosen local charity; Sitel Newcastle have been supporting Children North Children North East and have raised an incredible East since January 2018. After shortlisting 3 charities, £7569.49 since January 2018, when they began employees were asked to vote for the one they would supporting this organization. like to support over the following 6 months and Children Children North East – The Charity North East was chosen. Since then Sitel Newcastle have done a huge array of fundraising activities including Children North East is a charitable organization with over Tombola, Bake Sales, Dress Down Days, Raffles’ Hot Dog 127 years of experience in helping children and young Day and Indian Snack Days. people grow up healthy and happy. Originally, the 27 Our community 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Health-related causes Sitel Group employees across the globe carried out various activities to Sitel Group celebrates Pink support health-related causes, such as cancer, heart diseases, autism and October rare diseases. In October 2018, countries Sitel Brazil employees donated scarves to cancer patients who are around the globe celebrated Pink experiencing hair loss. Sitel Serbia supported an association of parents October in support of breast whose children are suffering from malignant diseases such as cancer. Sitel cancer awareness. Lake City, USA employees raised funds to benefit an organization which Sitel Group went pink to bring supports cancer patients and research. Sitel Kingston, UK held a fundraiser awareness to employees and to help breast cancer patients. Sitel St. Catharines, Canada made a cash highlight the importance of donation and a fundraiser to a cancer organization. education and early detection. Sitel Canada participates in an annual event where employees volunteer to Many of the Group’s sites took ride a big bike to raise funds for the Heart and Stroke Foundation. Sitel the pink initiative a step further Glasgow, USA participated in a community heart walk and also made a cash and organized events to raise donation to this cause. Sitel Amarillo, USA made a cash donation to autism funds for the cause. awareness and employees visited an autism organization located at specialized therapy services. San Angelo, USA made a donation to an organization which supports autistic children and participated in a walk to raise awareness of the condition. Every year, all the Sitel Group France organizes a cake sale to raise funds for an organization that researches innovative therapies for rare diseases. Sitel San Angelo, USA donated money to an organization that helps those affected Moebius syndrome afford life-changing surgeries to improve the use of muscles and nerves in the face. Sitel Corning, USA sponsored a yearly event hosted by the local American Red Cross. 28 Our community 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Disaster relief Sitel Group’s global footprint also means that some of Sitel Philippines employees provided immediate our sites are located in areas prone to natural disaster. support, collecting basic supplies, financial and in-kind Whenever disaster strikes, our employees are always assistance to families impacted by the typhoon. ready to offer a helping hand to impacted communities. United States: Hurricane Michael India: Kerala Flooding In October, 2018 hurricane Michael ravaged the coast During 2018 monsoon season, the south Indian state of where it roared ashore, carving out a path of Kerala was hit with some of the worst flooding in nearly destruction far inland: like in Jackson County, 50 miles 100 years. The aftermath: loss and devastation for from the coast. almost 800,000 residents, including hundreds of deaths. Sitel Lake City came together to donate relief supplies to the residents of Jackson County, who were still Sitel Chennai was affected by the tragedy and, together picking up the pieces after being hit hard by the with its employees, supported the victims by collecting hurricane. relief supplies for the people of Kerala. Sitel Chennai’s employees contributed more than 150 kg of food items, India: Cyclone Gaja such as rice and grains, and nearly 1,000 supply items In November, 2018 Cyclone Gaja hit Tamil Nadu, the including toiletries and clothing. southernmost state of India, taking lives and leaving Sitel’s longtime partner, the Indian Development hundreds of thousands people homeless. The cyclone Foundation (IDF), distributed the items to people in has come less than three months after the region was relief camps, which will help the people of Kerala as subject to some of the worst monsoon rains in recent they recover from this tragedy. history. Philippines: Typhoon Ompong With funding from Sitel Chennai and direct help and contributions from its employees, over 850 kg of food In September 2018, typhoon Mangkhut, known locally were donated. To ensure these and other donated as Ompong, hit North Luzon, including Baguio City, and relief materials including sheets, toiletries and in its aftermath left several casualties and thousands of mosquito protection reach the people that need them families affected. most, Sitel worked with local NGO for distribution. 29 Our community 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Sitel Group North America Charitable Giving Fund In March 2016, Sitel North America spearheaded an expansion of Sitel Footprints initiatives by creating a Charitable Giving Fund pilot. The Charitable Giving Fund is aimed at allowing North American sites to apply for a share of grant. This funds purpose is for Sitel to give back at a local level from a corporate standpoint, ensuring positive impact and showing our communities that Sitel is committed to investing in well-being and growth. In 2018, the Charitable Giving Fund has granted $58,750, handing more than 130 checks with the cash donations. Some of the 69 recipients have included Veterans organizations, schools, zoos, and other nonprofits organizations. 30 Our community 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Poverty and hunger Millions of people around the world live in poverty. Poor families face incredible hardships, including food insecurity, hunger, and limited access to education and services. Sitel Group employees volunteer to donate food, clothing, school supplies, and household essentials. Sitel St Catharines, Canada collected non-perishable foods for an organization that provides food to those in need in the Niagara Region. St Catharines also made a cash donation to an organization that provides lunch to three different inner city schools in the community. The donation funded lunches for a month for one school. Sitel St. John, Canada handed a check to a local organization which helps to ensure that children in need have a meal and presents under the tree over the holidays. Sitel Norman, USA donated money to support school children who don’t have food over the weekend. Sitel Augusta, USA donated to a local food bank and volunteers helped in the soup kitchen. Sitel San Angelo, Texas supported a local organization that is dedicated to serving warm, nutritious meals to the homebound elderly in the community. Sitel Mexico held a food drive and collected more than 250 non-perishable food items, which were given to homeless people. Sitel Colombia donated boxes with food items to an organization that helps and support mothers without resources. Sitel Mumbai, India donated groceries to a local old age home. Sitel Gurgaon, India donated food to an organization that supports children affected with HIV. 31 Our community 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Employee volunteering Many Sitel Group employees volunteer at hospitals, system with the kids at this center. Sitel Oak Ridge, USA retirement homes, orphanages, community centers partnered up with a client for a day of donations and and other organizations. Our volunteers play an painting at an organization where dogs are trained to important role in those organizations as they care for assist in the daily needs of our wounded US veterans. and spend time having fun and bringing joy to people. Sitel Gurgaon, India volunteers helped conduct a day Sitel Bogota, Colombia employees volunteered at long summer camp activity for HIV affected children. organizations dedicated to taking care of vulnerable Sitel Rabat, Morocco volunteers visited an organization children and to support and develop children with which support children with cancer to spend time with special needs. Sitel Mexico employees visited a them and deliver some gifts. retirement home and spent an afternoon with the Sitel Casablanca, Morocco volunteers visited a residents. Sitel Nicaragua volunteers regularly visits retirement home to celebrate with the residents a children battling cancer and spends quality time, religious event. In this celebration, the volunteers creating a fun and entertaining environment for them. offered breakfast, musical and gifts to the residents. Sitel Amarillo, USA volunteers made regular visits to a community center to promote a positive adult support 32 Our community 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Drives and fundraisers Holding drives and fundraisers to support vulnerable people is one of the ways Sitel Group employees help the community. Drives Sitel Brazil employees collected 50 kg of plastic caps and can tabs and donated to an organization that supports children with cancer. Brazil employees also collected almost 4,500 pieces of clothing in the 2018 Winter Coat Drive. The clothes were donated to an organization which takes care of children with cerebral palsy. Sitel Colombia donated over 120 pieces of clothing to an organization that supports mothers without resources. Sitel Starkville, USA hosted a Socks for Seniors campaign during winter to help keep seniors', in a couple of our Senior Care facilities, feet warm for Valentine's Day. Sitel Lake City, USA delivered 100 books to a local children hospital. Sitel Norman, USA donated shoes and clothes to support school age children in the community. Sitel Warsaw, Poland employees delivered food, toiletries and bedding to an organization which supports abused women and their children. Employees also raised funds to organize a party for the children. Sitel Belgrade, Serbia donated clothing, shoes, winter coats, toiletries and food to an organization where children working on the streets can come, rest and do their homework. Sitel Denmark employees donated foods clothes to an organization which supports homeless people and by helping them move on in life by for example escaping a life of addiction and get a better quality of life. Denmark employees also donated underwear and socks to keep homeless people warm through Winter. Sitel matched up the clothing donation by donating cash for every pair of socks and underwear. Sitel Clermon-Ferrand, France collected toys, clothing and books to ensure all children can celebrate Christmas. Sitel Panama donated toys, clothes and cash to an organization which aims at reducing child malnutrition through activities interrelated with nutrition, health, education, production and community development programs. Panama also donated food, toiletries, cleaning products to an organization that cares for abandoned elderly in the community. Fundraisers Sitel Group teams in Bulgaria, Canada, India, Morocco, Nicaragua, Panama, UK, USA and other countries raised funds to support children and adults in vulnerable situation. Some of the organizations benefiting from the fundraisers helps children coming from low-income families, women and children victims of domestic violence, community centers, children rights, education, health & nutrition, orphanages and veterans. The funds allowed the organizations to purchase supplies and resources to run their programs, as well as for renovating their facilities. 33 Our community 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report Sitel Group India receives IDF Award for partnership in CSR activities The Indian Development Foundation (IDF) an organization committed to health, education and development awarded Sitel Group Mumbai and Hyderabad for their partnership and contribution towards CSR activities. Sitel Mumbai was awarded with IDF CSR Award 2018 for their immense support in the Project Aashayein A Ray of Hope, which is dedicated to reach-out to underprivileged students. In 2018, at least 900 children from Dahanu village located in Palghar district of Maharashtra received backpacks filled with books, pen, pencils and other school supplies to support their education during the academic year. Sitel Hyderabad’s received the Best Partner and Award of Excellence – CSR for its journey with IDF, undertaking various CSR projects, such as the Student Leadership Program, school supplies drive, computer donation, blanket drive, blood drive, volunteering at old age homes, orphanages, school for the blind, etc. This is the second time our Hyderabad team received this award. 34 Our community 2018 Sitel Group CSR Report SMILES, a 1-month challenge for charity On May 1st, 2018 Sitel Group launched the SitelFit SMILES Challenge. We invited our 75,000 employees around the globe to work together and cover 75,000 km in order to unlock a charitable donation. The teams that finished first, second and third in the inter-country challenge got on the podium and make a donation to a charitable organization in their name, a total of $25,000. The winners Wittenberg, Germany finished first and donated $12,000 to DKMS, an organization that provides every blood cancer patient with a matching donor or help with access to treatment, all around the globe. DKMS supports all efforts to improve the outcome of blood stem cell transplantation. Sønderborg, Denmark finished second and made a $8,000 donation to Børnecancerfonden, which supports research in fighting children’s cancer as well as supporting the families of these children. Dallas, USA finished third, and donated $5,000 to United Way, an organization that advances the common good by creating opportunities for all. Their focus is on education, income and health the building blocks for a good quality of life and a strong community. An honorable mention was given to La Rochelle, France for the wonderful engagement of the team. A special check of € 1,000 was given to the team, who donated the amount to SOS Village d’Enfants France, an organization that support children without parental care and families at risk. 35 36
