Communication on Progress UN Global Compact ANNUAL REPORT 2018 MESSAGE FROM THE + PRESIDENT As a globally active player in development and state building, Agriteam’s core business revolves around the consistent and creative promotion and application of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Through our policies, processes and Code of Conduct, we believe that best practice begins with our own corporate culture. From there, we see every project engagement – both at home in Canada and abroad – as an opportunity to learn and innovate, exercising thought leadership to broaden meaningful application of SDG principles in partnership with clients and stakeholders. Through our 300+ professional staff and 12 international offices supporting a wide range of project engagements, Agriteam is active in post-conflict contexts, contributing to social cohesion, integrity and sustainable economic development. Our diverse international team is constantly challenged to seek out new methods of advocating, promoting and applying activities and approaches that foster adherence to the principles, from supporting women innovating in how they guide social change to safeguarding the voice and agency of local communities living on the margins of extractive projects. Agriteam will continue to invest in the development of complementary partnerships with organizations and companies around the world, sharing best practices and seeking to further innovation in advancing towards collective achievement of the Goals. Robert Francis President and CEO Agriteam Annual Report 2018 i United Nations Global Compact Measuring Outcomes Corporate Actions to Measure Progress For over 30 years, Agriteam has been supporting the policy, design and implementation of projects to support democratic development throughout the world. Staff and contractors associated with our firm are selected based on their commitment to the underpinnings of sustainable development – promotion of human rights and equality; commitment to environmental responsibility, and their proven ability to contribute to the creation and provision of opportunities for our partners to engage in sustainable development. . Corporate-level SDG Adherence: As a member of the UN Global Compact, Agriteam has pledged to operate our business responsibly in alignment with the Ten Global Compact Principles, and to report on our ongoing efforts and activities that contribute to SDG progress. SDG Indicator Application: Throughout our projects, Agriteam implements concrete measures on a case-by-case basis to ensure both empirical and interpretive measurement of SDG outcomes. Through the rigorous application of Results Based Management programming practices, SDG indicators are embedded in all of our Performance Measurement Frameworks (PMFs), and aligned with national statistics bureau indicators in our countries of engagement. Accountability Frameworks: Where project scope allows, Agriteam works with State partners to promote reporting systems that facilitate execution of the social contract through, accountability frameworks facilitating reporting. Such systems underpin protected rights and result in improved compliance with SDGs. Agriteam Annual Report 2018 1 United Nations Global Compact The Ten Principles Practical Actions to Implement the Sustainable Development Goals Agriteam’s project portfolio is both vast in scope and geographic reach. What is common to all projects is a deep commitment to advance the SDGs through conscious awareness-raising, creative project design, committed activity and strategic-level implementation. Below are Agriteam’s engagements captured under country rubric that continued or began in the year 2018, including projects implemented on behalf of different funding contributors. HONDURAS Agriteam’s engagement in Honduras focuses on building the education management and pedagogical leadership skills of the Ministry of Education’s district and department education offices. This Global Affairs Canada funded project entitled Strengthening Education Management at the District Level (FORTA) contributes to quality education by strengthening the knowledge, skills and attitudes Principle 1: Support and respect of female and male education leaders to deliver the protection of internationally professional education services, while providing proclaimed human rights direction for school directors, teachers, students Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination and local community stakeholders. It provides in respect of employment and technical assistance, training and coaching occupation through the development of local professional learning communities, inter/intra departmental Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to peer learning opportunities, action research and promote greater environmental responsibility through increasing the mobility and technology required to improve the quality, relevancy and efficiency of basic education in Honduras. FORTA is active in seven department education offices working directly with local management and technical personnel in 126 district education offices as well as the Ministry’s Department of Human Resources to institutionalize and Agriteam Annual Report 2018 2 United Nations Global Compact nationalize FORTA, with a clear focus on realizing both Principle 6 and Principle 8 by designing training processes in pedagogical leadership, education management, community participation and education governance that are transparent and informed by gender equality and green practices. VIETNAM In Vietnam, Agriteam is working with partners in supporting sustainable economic growth through the implementation of the Vietnam Skills for Employment Project (VSEP) funded by Global Affairs Canada. The project is designed to improve the enabling environment for investment, support rural small and medium-size enterprise development and enhance access to skills for employment. Principle 6 is reinforced through the approach undertaken to further skills Principle 1: Support and respect for employment and reduce inequality of access the protection of internationally to dignified employment. The quality of the proclaimed human rights national education system is being improved Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination through enhancement of Technical and in respect of employment and Vocational Education Training (TVET) leadership occupation and management, enabling knowledge-building and sharing of best practices in TVET institutions by developing two Training Centres of Advanced Management in both Ho Chi Minh and Hanoi. The project is also strengthening management of the TVET system at the provincial level in Hau Giang, Vinh Long and Binh Thuan; improving the performance of one leading TVET institution in each of the target provinces; and improving the performance of select community colleges throughout the country and supporting application of Principle 1 through raising awareness of internationally enshrined human rights. Agriteam Annual Report 2018 3 United Nations Global Compact ETHIOPIA Agriteam is currently implementing and providing technical assistance to six projects in Ethiopia that contribute to all 10 of the UNGC principles. At the national level, Agriteam is working to strengthen government systems and processes for the implementation of the Productive Safety Net Program (PSNP4). Within this flagship program financed by the World Bank and other donors, such as the European Union, Agriteam also deploys technical assistance to mainstream climate-smart planning and implementation approaches, in support of the Government of Ethiopia’s commitment to addressing climate Principle 1: Support and respect change and environmental degradation through the protection of internationally policies, strategies, and guidelines designed to proclaimed human rights ensure integrated rural development. Principle 2: Ensure not complicit in human rights abuses We are also supporting the second phase of the Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of Agricultural Growth Program (AGP-2) by association and the effective strengthening the capacity of government staff recognition of the right to and agencies to improve service delivery, collective bargaining increase agricultural productivity and optimize Principle 4: Eliminate all forms of commercialization of small-holder farmer forced and compulsory labour production. The Global Affairs Canada program Principle 5: Abolish child labour works at the federal and the regional levels and contributes to dietary diversity and consumption, Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and poverty reduction and fostering adaptation to occupation climate change. Funded by the World Bank, we Principle 7: Support a are also strengthening the understanding of precautionary approach to AGP-2 government and aid agency staff environmental challenges regarding nutrition-sensitive agriculture. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental Through a program funded by the Kingdom of responsibility the Netherlands and Global Affairs Canada, Principle 9: Encourage the Agriteam engages with government agencies to development and diffusion of support the implementation of the Small-Scale environmentally friendly Irrigation Capacity Building Strategy which aims to technologies promote household micro-irrigation among local Principle 10: Work against farmer groups and small-scale entrepreneurs and corruption in all its forms, including develop the capacity of agricultural technical extortion and bribery vocational education and training colleges. Agriteam Annual Report 2018 4 United Nations Global Compact Agriteam is also implementing the Strengthening Education for Mining project, designed to augment the skills and qualifications of women and men in geology and mining engineering undergraduate programs. Technical/vocational education and training (TVET) is also targeted within priority occupational areas to meet sector demands and improve equal employability opportunities for women and men such that they maintain sustainable livelihoods. All undertakings in Ethiopia are conceived and implemented with the ten principles at their core, and offer significant opportunities to promote individual and collective rights as well as understanding and creating opportunities to further environmental responsibility. TANZANIA The Regional Maternal Newborn Child Health (RMNCH) Strengthening initiative in Tanzania aims to improve maternal, newborn and child health (MNCH) in the Lake Zone area by working with regional and council health management teams to strengthen health systems. Agriteam is working with the University of Calgary to provide technical assistance for health management teams on planning and management of health Principle 1: support and respect services; to provide training for facility and the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights community-based health providers and promoters on delivering quality MNCH services; Principle 6: eliminate discrimination in respect of employment & to procure equipment and supplies in support of occupation health facilities to improve their capacity to deliver MNCH services; and to work with key community figures and local committees to improve MNCH, including the promotion of gender equality. Other key partners include the Canadian Paediatric Society, Save the Mothers, Mbarara University of Science and Technology, and Catholic University of Health and Allied Science. Agriteam Annual Report 2018 5 United Nations Global Compact In the education sector, Agriteam is implementing a Canadian funded project that aims to assure quality, long term training of teachers. Working through the national teacher training college system, the Teacher Education Support Project focuses on improving the core two-year residential training that teachers receive at the 35 government teacher colleges, in order for teachers to be conferred with certificate and diploma qualifications for primary and secondary teaching, under the auspices of Tanzania’s Ministry of Education. MALI Agriteam is working in Mali on the implementation of a Global Affairs Canada project supporting public administration reform. This reform is being catalyzed through capacity development of the Office of the Commissioner of Institutional Development (CDI), the steering mechanism of the Institutional Development Program (IDP). The IDP was established by the Government of Canada to underpin economic growth and reduce poverty through technical and financial assistance Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed provided to the Government of Mali. human rights Agriteam’s provision of technical assistance focuses on results-based management Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in respect of employment and occupation including new approaches to evaluation, managing human resources and supporting Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges staff in embracing change. Throughout all aspects, equality between women and men Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to is of key focus, as is the manner in which promote greater environmental responsibility new strategies regarding climate awareness and sustainable development will ensure Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly higher performance targets within the public technologies service and ultimately better service provision to the Malian population. Agriteam Annual Report 2018 6 United Nations Global Compact UKRAINE The Expert Deployment for Governance and Economic Growth (EDGE) project is helping Ukraine move towards a democratic and prosperous society by advancing citizencentered democracy and promoting sustainable economic growth. Working sideby-side with government at the highest levels, EDGE responds to critical reform needs, particularly planning, actioning and communicating with the public. Working across a broad range of governance sectors (anti-corruption, decentralization, Principle 1: Support and respect the deregulation, probation) and strategic protection of internationally proclaimed economic growth areas (export promotion, human rights foreign direct investment, information Principle 2: Ensure not complicit in technology, agriculture, ports reform, etc.). human rights abuses Agriteam embeds technical experts directly Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of within the project’s partner Ministries to association & effective recognition of facilitate hand-in-hand cooperation with the right to collective bargaining both the leadership and the bureaucracy as Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in they manage their respective priority respect of employment and occupation reforms. Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Within the security sector in Ukraine, Principle 10: Work against corruption in Agriteam is currently implementing and all its forms, including extortion and managing The Police Training Assistance bribery Project (PTAP) funded by the Peace and Stabilization Operations Program of Global Affairs Canada. The project provides advisory services and training to help strengthen the National Police of Ukraine (NPU) program and foster a national police academy system enabling merit-based professional development of a gendersensitive, community-oriented national police service based on local resourcing and international standards and best practices. In such a manner, several principles of the UN Global Compact are worked into the approaches, training, curriculum and mentoring processes. Key outputs include an organizational Agriteam Annual Report 2018 7 United Nations Global Compact governance and policy framework for the NPU to advance professional development; a legal framework for a police academy system, capacity support for security leadership, operational management and specialized policing functions; curriculum development and certification processes for police training. COLOMBIA Agriteam’s Building Extractive Sector Governance (BESG) project in Colombia is designed to improve public sector governance of the extractive sector by building capacity of the Ministry of Mines and Energy (MinMinas), mining agencies and mining authorities. Agriteam is developing a tailored capacity building program based on challenges including decentralization, management information systems, conflict management, transparency, Principle 1: Support and respect the environmental protection, occupational protection of internationally proclaimed health, economic development, protecting human rights human rights and transparency of miningPrinciple 2: Ensure not complicit in related information. human rights abuses Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in To date, the project has achieved better respect of employment and occupation than anticipated results including the Principle 7: Support a precautionary development and adoption of an official approach to environmental challenges resolution detailing the elaboration of social management plans for mining projects and Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental ensuring related training for government responsibility officials and mining title holders from five Principle 9: Encourage the development regions; the design and successful pilot of an and diffusion of environmentally friendly innovative, gender-sensitive methodology technologies for collecting censorial information on Principle 10: Work against corruption in construction material mining; the design and all its forms, including extortion and development of the first two cycles of the bribery Integrated Mining Management System fostering transparency and disclosure of mining-related information; incorporation of the valuation of environmental costs into the Agriteam Annual Report 2018 8 United Nations Global Compact national auditing procedures of the Comptroller General of Colombia and; strengthened leadership of women in communities in Putumayo, Meta and Antioquia to perform water quality monitoring where gold and petroleum operations are present. MONGOLIA Through the Strengthening Extractive Sector Management project, funded by Global Affairs Canada, Agriteam works with the Mongolian government for transparent and effective policy and regulatory application supporting sustainable growth in the extractive sector. Support provided is designed to improve coordination of policy and regulatory implementation amongst ministries and key industry stakeholders, providing for better evidence-based Principle 1: Support and respect the decision making in extractive sector protection of internationally proclaimed human rights management. The engagement is planned and executed in accordance with rigorous Principle 2: Ensure not complicit in human rights abuses gender equality standards, including a broader focus on social equality and Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and effective recognition of environmental sustainability. Additionally, the right to collective bargaining public awareness and education programs Principle 4: Eliminate of all forms of involving hundreds of industry and civil forced and compulsory labour society organizations will deepen Principle 5: Abolish child labour understanding and afford social license for Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in the sector, while evidence-based pilot respect of employment and occupation programs in monitoring and reporting will be Principle 7: Support a precautionary carried out in rural mining communities. To approach to environmental challenges achieve this capacity building program, Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to Agriteam is working with the Mongolian promote greater environmental Ministry of Mining, Ministry of Environment, responsibility Green Development and Tourism the and Principle 9: Encourage the development the Ministry of Finance, with additional input and diffusion of environmentally friendly from the Government of Alberta, the technologies University of Alberta, the University of Principle 10: Work against corruption in Calgary and other service providers. all its forms, including extortion and bribery Agriteam Annual Report 2018 9 United Nations Global Compact SRI LANKA Agriteam is working with a range of government and statutory institutions as well as civil society on a Global Affairs Canada project supporting the implementation of Sri Lanka’s Official Languages Policy. The National Languages Equality Advancement Project (NLEAP) will last for five years and contribute to reducing poverty, assuring Principle 1: Support and respect the decent work and economic growth and protection of internationally proclaimed improving public sector service provision. human rights NLEAP will work with an array of partners to Principle 2: Ensure not complicit in improve institutional capacity for egalitarian human rights abuses service provision to both the Tamil and Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in Sinhala-speaking citizens of Sri Lanka, respect of employment and occupation considering full gender equality as one of its key features. On a higher level, the project will advise on application of a national Accountability Framework amongst the government, civil society and the Parliament, holding institutions to their constitutional obligation of providing for language rights. NLEAP aspires to contribute to reconciliation and peacebuilding by fostering societal acceptance of the culturally diverse and bilingual nature of the country. INDIA AND NEPAL Agriteam recently initiated a new project in India and Nepal known as Enhancement of the Education and Resilience of Tibetan Youth (EERTY). Funded by Global Affairs Canada, the project will contribute to building the capacity of the Tibetan education system in India and Nepal which includes 70 schools and a current enrolment of approximately 22,000 students. Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed Implemented in cooperation with the human rights Central Tibetan Administration, the project Agriteam Annual Report 2018 10 United Nations Global Compact will build on achievements of the Improving Principle 2: Ensure not complicit in Education Quality and Learning for Tibetan human rights abuses Children Project which took place in India Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in and Nepal from 2015 to 2017. In line with respect of employment and occupation Canada’s new Feminist International Assistance Policy, EERTY will address the need to improve academic achievement through enhanced gender-responsive teaching practices that promote cultural and linguistic rights and better prepare Tibetan youth for post-secondary education and the transition to work. Agriteam Annual Report 2018 11 United Nations Global Compact Planning Ahead SDGs and Agriteam: 2019 and Beyond Agriteam is committed to the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact and to the Sustainable Development Goals. Over the course of 2018, the review of systems and processes internally was initiated in line with international best practices and conforming to the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact. In addition, a number of initiatives were developed corporately to build progressively on the manner in which we do business and ensure that we are aware, engaged and expansive in our individual and corporate attitudes towards growing best practices, whether internally or within communities of practice. We will continue throughout 2019 and beyond to build on achievements, as well as expand the number and scope of initiatives reflecting the letter and spirit of the Principles. Measures initiated in 2018 and plans for moving forward: 2018 2019+ Policy Review Reviewed internal policies to Identification of additional ensure conformity regarding policy areas requiring child protection, social impact, review; full rollout and harassment, discrimination, training of staff and environmental stewardship, contractors. corporate sustainability, corporate governance, etc. Code of Conduct Reviewed and finalized– due Annual review of Code of diligence, procurement, incident Conduct in accordance reporting, whistleblowing, health with international & safety, human rights, gender standards; full rollout and equality, modern slavery, etc. training of staff and contractors. Human Rights, Brought on dedicated internal Continued engagement. Governance & expertise to mainstream principles Gender Equality throughout corporate policies Expertise and all projects. Advisory Groups & Initiated internal advisory groups Continued and Committees on M&E, Gender Equality, Peace/ accelerated engagement. Agriteam Annual Report 2018 12 United Nations Global Compact Security, Environment/Climate Change. External Communities Either lead or participate in Continued and of Practice arenas of Women Peace and accelerated engagement. Security, Evaluation and Sexual/Reproductive Human Rights and report back internally through Webinars. Charitable Donations Internal voluntary group Expansion of Committee Committee dedicated to the granting of from 3 members to 5. financial and volunteer support based on evaluation of initiatives Volunteer drive augments in the context of the ten participation from 3 to 12. principles. Strategic Partnerships Partnership initiatives (academia, Effort continues to identify think tanks, civil society and and foster partnering others) at every stage of project arrangements that design, bid submission and enhance capacity to implementation expanded threerealize project goals in fold in 2018. accordance with the Principles. Agriteam Annual Report 2018 13 United Nations Global Compact Agriteam Gives Back: 2018 Events In the spirit of encouraging individual engagement and supporting SDGs locally in our communities, the Agriteam Charitable Donations Committee has rallied staff and other supporters around the following initiatives in 2018: April • Victim Solidarity Day in Colombia (April 2018) • Alberta Wilderness Association’s Climb for Wilderness • Support to the Ottawa Food Bank June • Farm Radio International African Harvest Dinner July • Dress for Success Clothing Drive September • Sandwich Making Day October • Bowlathon for Canadian Cancer Society November • Support for Veterans December • Children and Youth Programming (Grassroots) • Retirement Home in Nicaragua Agriteam Annual Report 2018 14 United Nations Global Compact
