Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 01 About This Report Thai Oil Public Company Limited is Approach to Reporting Scope of Reporting committed to disclosing all material The 2018 Sustainability Report follows The scope of reporting has been determined information on corporate sustainable the International <IR> Framework of the based on business relevance, readiness development to our stakeholders with International Integrating Reporting Council of comprehensive and accurate information, the utmost accuracy and transparency. (IIRC), and covers sustainability issues and level of impacts towards Thaioil’s In line with this commitment, we have selected through a materiality assessment core businesses – that is, our businesses been publishing annual corporate process. This Report has been prepared in in oil refining, petrochemical production, sustainability reports since 2011. This accordance with the GRI Standards: Core power generation, transportation, and other Option, with additional indicators for the businesses. The scope of reporting on Sustainability Report is the 8th of its Oil and Gas Sector Disclosure (OGSD). occupational, health, and safety (OHS) kind, and covers our economic, social, In line with the United Nations’ direction performance and environmental performance and environmental performance from in sustainable development, we have covers Thai Oil Public Company Limited 1st January 2018 to 31st December also included our progress in following (TOP), Thai Lube Base Public Company 2018. the United Nations Global Compact 10 Limited (TLB), Thai Paraxylene Company Principles and our contributions towards Limited (TPX), Thaioil Energy Services the UN Sustainable Development Goals Company Limited (TES), Thaioil Power (SDGs) Company Limited (TP), LABIX Company Limited (LABIX), and TOP SPP Company Limited (TOPSPP). This year, we have also expanded our scope of reporting to include TOP Solvent Company Limited (TS) in reporting information on product stewardship. In total, this determined scope of reporting covers 97% of all our revenues. • For information on performance of companies not included in the scope of this Report, please refer to the 2018 Annual Report or https://investor-th.thaioilgroup.com/ar.html • To download an electronic version of the 2018 Sustainability Report, please visit: https://www.thaioilgroup.com/home/media_ebook.aspx?id=273 MR. VEERASAK KOSITPAISAL THE CEO AND PRESIDENT For further information, please contact THAI OILand Sustainable Development Function, Corporate Governance PUBLIC COMPANY Sustainability LIMITED Department 42/1 Moo 1 Sukhumvit Road Km. 124 Thungsukla, Sriracha, Conburi 20230 sustainability@thaioilgroup.com 02 Message to สารจากประธานเจ้ Our Stakeholders ้ จั ด การใหญ่ และกรรมการผู า หน้ า ที่ บ ริ ห าร Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 03 Thaioil recognizes that support from all stakeholder groups is crucial to business success, and has continued to invest in developing our operational efficiency through a management system that aspires for operational excellence. Through connecting the administration of different business groups, including both our main oil refinery business and other supporting businesses such as the petrochemicals and lubricants businesses, Thaioil’s collaborative planning across business groups supports maximum operational efficiency. Message to In 2018, Thaioil and Subsidiaries STRENGTHEN THE CORE Our Stakeholders implemented over 25 programs for increased energy efficiency in the production process, and these programs collectively reduced Thaioil will focus on increasing our competitive capabilities in the energy industry through implementation of the 2. Green and Human Technology, and 3. Hydrocarbon Disruption Technology to search for opportunities and investment our energy consumption by 562,075 Clean Fuel Project (CFP), which will directions according to future economic, gigajoules. This resulted in reductions help increase the quality and production social, and environmental trends. of direct greenhouse gas emissions by capacity of diesel and jet fuel to meet For over 57 years, Thaioil has 32,151 tons of carbon dioxide equivalents the increasing demand for diesel – an To increase the efficiency of our business per year. Thaioil and Subsidiaries are also increase which came with the expansion activities, Thaioil and Subsidiaries been proudly fulfilling our mission committed to the research and development of travel alongside the announcement of have initiated a project to bring digital to run our petroleum refinery of environmentally friendly products to the International Maritime Organization’s transformation to support several processes, further reduce global greenhouse gas (IMO) new regulation to limit the sulfur in such as an information systems management business to strengthen Thailand’s emissions. Meanwhile, the past year fuels for maritime vessels to no more than that acts as an Integrated Platform where national energy security. In 2018, has seen the effectiveness of Thaioil’s 0.5%. With the Clean Fuel Project’s enabled information from refinery operations may Thaioil’s refinery capacity was organizational safety management system capacity in producing low-sulfur fuels that be connected systematically, applying the reflected in our maintenance of zero lost meet Euro 5 standards, Thaioil expresses online system for use with the procurement 113% of nameplate capacity, and time injury frequency rate (LTIFR) and our commitment to product stewardship to process, increasing efficiency in customer the business accumulated 389,344 continuous operation availability. Together, decrease and prevent the potential social service through the Jetty Scheduling System our performance in the aforementioned and environmental impacts of our products. (JSS), and creating a centralized information million THB of sales revenue. areas explain why Thaioil is not only placed center for commercial operations through Thaioil-produced fuels supporting as one of the leaders of the oil and gas VALUE CHAIN ENHANCEMENT the Commercial Excellence program. 30% of Thailand’s fuel demand. industry in safety management system, but This reflects Thaioil’s recognition of the To increase the speed of operations also accepted as one of the most effective importance of extending our business to and accuracy for all stakeholders and refineries in the Asia Pacific region. several petrochemical products such as to support the digital implementation of solvents and specialty products. Currently, various operations, Thaioil has organized Thaioil has reviewed the 2019-2023 Thaioil has expanded our portfolio to include Cyber Security measures and developed Sustainable Development Master Plan, new product types and new business our human resources for readiness in which covers the environmental and areas in the ASEAN region, including technological advancements. social dimensions, as well as governance Myanmar and northern Vietnam. Through along supply chain, and has adjusted this business expansion, coupled with the With the cooperation of our executives and our business strategy to respond to the opening of commercial operations and new employees from all levels to drive Thaioil United Nations’ Sustainable Development distribution centers, our goal of becoming towards sustainability, Thaioil has been Goals (UN SDGs) with the ultimate goal to a chemical products distributor may be listed as a Dow Jones Sustainability Indices create sustainable business development realized. (DJSI) member for the 6th consecutive year. alongside value creation for our society and This achievement serves as an award for our the environment, all the while remaining SEED THE OPTIONS operational success, and has brought all of aware of future contextual changes and Thaioil also searches for new innovative us immense pride. upcoming challenges of the petroleum business opportunities through investing industry. To align with Thaioil’s new in venture capital funds. We use corporate Lastly, on behalf of Thaioil and Subsidiaries, vision and mission, which have been venture capital (CVC) as a tool for seeking I would like to thank all parties that have updated over the past year to “Empower new industries (Step Out) to expand the enabled Thaioil to continue our business Human Life through Sustainable Energy business (New S-Curve) for Thaioil and activities and achieve sustainable business Mr. Atikom Terbsiri and Chemicals”, Thaioil have adjusted Subsidiaries. Thaioil targets 3 types of growth. I strongly believe that the genuine Chief Executive Officer and President directions of investment portfolio according businesses, including dedication and determination from every Thai Oil Public Company Limited to the new business strategies as follows. side to do business with consideration 1. Manufacturing Technology to increase of environmental, economic, and social production and management capabilities, impacts will empower Thaioil to continue to sustainably grow alongside society. Vision Mission Group Empower human life through To enrich stakeholders’ well-being and deliver sustainable returns built upon CONTENTS Overview sustainable energy and chemicals innovation, technology and resilient portfolio with top class management and accountable Thai Oil Public Company Limited corporate governance the largest petroleum refinery business in Thailand, has been operating for 57 years. We have a modern Corporate Values 01 02 and highly efficient production process that Professionalism Integrity Vision Focus About this report Message to our stakeholders allows us to produce and distribute refined Ownership and Teamwork and Excellence petroleum, and mainly support the domestic Commitment Collaboration Striving petroleum demands. Furthermore, Thaioil extends our value chain to include upstream and downstream Social Initiative businesses in order to maintain business stability. Responsibility Thaioil at a glance Strategy in action 05 Group overview 10 Our material issues and In 2018, Thaioil and Subsidiaries heightened our corporate vision, mission, and strategy in the short-term, medium-term, and long-term 08 Business model stakeholders to ensure that our strategy can support changing internal and external contexts. Our new vision is to “empower human life through 14 Corporate governance and sustainable energy and chemicals”, where we aim to promote organizational growth, create a leading level of return on investment, and sustainability reduce the volatility of profits by diversifying the business. Thaioil and Subsidiaries take into account the benefits of stakeholders, the creation of a sustainable economy, society and environment, and the creation of shared value to stakeholders through our new mission 18 44 58 to enrich stakeholders’ wellbeing and deliver sustainable returns built upon innovation, technology and resilient portfolio with top class management and accountable corporate governance,” which is the business strategy for years 2018-2030 (Strategic Direction 2030). Under the new business strategy, Thaioil and Subsidiaries have also studied and analyzed future business directions, and have arranged our Value Value Sustainable investment portfolio to respond to critical issues in the short-term, medium-term, and long-term. The 3 implementation strategies include: Protection Enhancement Value Creation Strengthen the Core Value Chain Enhancement Seed the Options 20 Fight against corruption 46 Operational eco-efficiency 60 Human and organization 26 Human rights 52 Value chain management development 32 QSHE management 72 Innovation management Strengthen the core business in order to Enhance our value chain and extend our Seek new business opportunities to seed focus on the energy business that Thaioil and business from petroleum refinery to various options and open the chance for innovative 40 Climate change risk 78 Product stewardship Subsidiaries have expertise in, namely: chemical products with high value, including: businesses, including: 80 Our society and Oil refinery business : Petrochemical business: Environmentally friendly businesses: communities Further strengthening the oil refinery and Extending the value chain to downstream businesses. Paving the way towards future bio businesses petrochemical production businesses, and follow with corporate sustainability and becoming the leading refinery and Chemical distribution business: strategy. petrochemical plant in the region, as well as Becoming the leading chemical distributor in supporting Thailand’s energy stability. Asia through increasing the variety of types of products and areas of doing business. New businesses : Increasing the new business portfolio from 90 98 10 0 Power generation business: Specialty products : innovation through investing in venture capital Supporting the power stability and security, Aligning with industry trends and responding to funds, promoting innovation for commercialization, and generating stable income for Thaioil and customer needs. and investing in start-ups. Performance summary Statement of external assurance Awards and recognitions Subsidiaries. Marine transport business : Strengthening the stability of transporting raw materials and products in Thaioil and Subsidiaries 104 10 8 and PTT Group with competitive principal costs. GRI Content Index and UN SDGs progress To ensure that our business strategy is successfully implemented, Thaioil and Subsidiaries have developed strategies to become a high-performance UNGC Principles COP organization. We especially focus on human capital development and using innovation and technology to develop the overall capability of the company. We are prepared to develop core competencies in operational and project excellence, commercial excellence, value chain & logistics excellence, leadership, agility, innovation, and digitalization to achieve our goals and targets. Thai Oil Public Company Limited operates refinery business with the use of highly efficient and state of the art production Headquarter VALUE CHAIN processes in order to produce and supply finished petroleum products to mainly the domestic market. The business of Thai Oil extends its value chain from the petroleum refinery to both upstream and downstream. Bangkok, Thailand OF THAI OIL Listed Date 06 in the Stock Exchange ETHANOL of Thailand This business encourages October 9, 2004 Clean Fuel Project: CFP and New Crude Tank Project the production of ethanol Specialty product (feasibility study) Solvent Distribution Center Top Solvent (Vietnam) Sriracha Office Relocation Project (Continued) and renewable energy limited Liability Company (Continued) through joint venture with (Completed) Corporate Venture Capital Jetty 7 & 8 two ethanol plants. Investment Fleet Expansion Project Expansion Project liter (feasibility study) (Continued) 600,000 per day Registered Capital 20,400,278,730 Baht 01 02 03 04 05 07 TRANSPORTATION OIL REFINERY POWER AND PETROCHEMICAL & LUBE BASE SOLVENT OTHER BUSINESSES Percentage of shares STEAM GENERATION owned by PTT PLC. This business supports marketing, The oil refinery is our This business utilizes by-products This business produces solvent from Supporting businesses such as Co-generation power 49.10% efficiency improvement and potential opportunities including core business which has been operated for plant ensures the power from our petroleum refinery and turn them into commercialized products Thai Oil petroleum refinery’s by-products through collaboration with a subsidiary, • Human resource management stability of Thai Oil • Treasury management international marine transportation more than 57 years. such as aromatics, lube, bitumen, and distributes within Thailand and to Refinery Production in 2018 of petroleum and petrochemical operations.The power Treated Distillate Aromatic Extract Vietnam. • Social enterprise Refining Capacity plant utilizes natural • Digital and Information Approximately products. Our fleet comprises of (TDAE), and Linear Alkyl Benzene(LAB), 310,000 Solvent BBL 10 vessels, transporting crude 275,000 gas as the resource adding values to our production line. • Engineering solution service per day oil and petrochemical products, barrel per day for the production. Aromatics 141,000 tons per year ranging from large crude carriers, The produced electricity of nameplate medium-sized vessels to small-sized and steam is mainly 838,000 tons per year 113% capacity at 275,000 BBL per day Tankers. Thai Oil also invests inpetroleum product pipeline business. used internally. Power Generating Capacity Lube Base Oil 684,535 tons per year Domestic Distribution Ship Transport Capacity 357 30% of total domestic finished oil demand 1,103,850 million liter per year Pipeline Business Capacity Megawatt Steam Generating Capacity LAB (Linear Alkyl Benzene) 120,000 tons per day Location of operations 26,000 million liter per year 713 Thailand, Vietnam, and Singapore tons per hour 08 Business Model Thaioil’s 2018 business strategy outlines our path towards sustainable development, which consists Thaioil’s business activities rely on financial inputs as well as non-financial inputs, such as our assets, natural resources, property, plants and equipment, of strengthening our core businesses in energy, enhancing our value chain through expanding our human capital, support from stakeholders, license to operate, brand value, technology, and information systems. All these inputs and capitals are managed Business petrochemicals and specialty products businesses, and increasing our competitive capabilities with technology and innovation. Integrated within this strategy is our dedication to sustainably create shared value for our stakeholders in three strategic priorities – value protection, value enhancement, through Thaioil’s business activities to create value for the business and our stakeholders. While outputs such as products, services, and wastes released are outputs directly related to our business, our activities also create outputs that reflect shared value for communities, society, and the environment. At the same time, some of the outcomes created in our activities are key factors to moving our business forward and securing the future creation of value. For example, Model and sustainable value creation. These three priorities will lead us towards good revenues while also creating value for communities, society, and the environment. current investments in developing the skills and capabilities of our employees in technology and innovation can lead to future solutions for more production efficiency. Capitals/Inputs Activities Outputs Outcomes to Thaioil Outcomes to Stakeholders Financial Capital Created and Shared Value Value Value Sustainable Products Market capitalization 177,238 million Baht Total Liability 142,141 million Baht “Empower Human Life Refined oil by the Organization Protection Enhancement Value Creation Total Equity 126,472 million Baht through Sustainable Energy 310,000 barrels per day Operating costs 373,128 million Baht and Chemicals” Aromatics 745,000 tons Financial Capital Earnings per share 1,983 Million Baht to Lubricants Revenues 4.97 THB per share government in taxes Natural Capital 225,000 tons Net profits 389,344 million Baht 10,149 million Baht 3.15% Increasd in daily closing Water withdrawal 23 million m3 EBITDA stock price to 86.88 Baht per Energy consumption 32 million GJ Generated power 20,239 million Baht finery Petrochem 2,634 GWh share Refinery Throughput 15 million tons Oil re icals LAB e ital Lu (Linear Alkyl Benzene) Natural Capital Greenhouse gas emissions from Around 700 thousand tons of Ven Corp p 124,000 tons ture ora Technolo cants Sustain 30% of 172 Million Baht saving production processes through carbon dioxide equivalent as Manufactured Capital Ca t bri energy efficiency improvement a result of low-carbon product s gy a freshwater consumption from energy efficiency Property, plants, and equipment 79,929 million THB nes n Waste through desalination improvement initiatives initiatives reduced up to 562,075 GJ or 32,151 tons of carbon dioxide consumption in end use tion Business 0.69% reduction in water discharge i Bus nt and Chemical Total assets 268,613 million THB equivalent nova Wastes generated Solve Products 1.79% Reductions in waste to Financial Power 13,013 tons landfill to 229 tons d In Management Human Capital Thaioil Refinery Wastes to landfill Total workforce (Refining and distributing) 229 tons Manufactured Capital 1,480 employees ti o n Operational availability to New engineering office Long-term benefits towards investors through investments in Total employee training e purchases, construction, and maintenance of property, plants, urc enhance 113% of name building and new warehouse R es o nt 105,032 hours e n era plate refining capacity Solvent distribution center and other equipment, which is part of Thaioil’s project activities Humaannageme Pet s Other By-Products es er G Investment in employee training in Vietnam and development 447 million THB M ro ch u s i n Po w e m ic al B GHG Emissions an d (Scopes 1 and 2) Human Capital m oil r o d u i o c n ts LA B l a tat e u l p 3.49 million tons Return on Employee Zero Total Recordable Injury 71 Average hours of training per employee Social and Relationship Capital Petrochemic nspor of CO2 equivalent p etr arin e tra o Development Investment Rate (TRIR) for employee 597 Training programs for employees Good employee relations Eth an ol m Employee turnover rate 3,580 Million Baht of employee welfare Water discharge Zero Loss Time Injury Strong relations with government agencies 18.6 million m3 Frequency Rate (LTIFR) decrease from 3.26% to Investor and shareholder trust for employee 2.91% Good collaborations with business partners Community trust Social and Relationship Capital Good customer relations Zero cases of human rights Maintain customer engagement 721 employees who volunteered a total of 83,676 hours Community development and donations complaints at 96% to work with communities 161 million THB Increase in community Supplier satisfaction increased 55,304 persons benefited from the use of the Health engagement to 97.3% to 96% and Learning Center from 93.5% 6,154 persons benefited from participating Intellectual Capital in Thaioil’s Dental Clinic Project Knowledge management system Research and development expenditures Intellectual Capital 44.99 million THB 2 Registered patents from Equipment and management 94,454 Million Baht of revenues from low-carbon products gained knowledge on systems 360 Knowledge sharing from Knowledge Management System managing oil refinery efficiency ISO certificates Earnings from commercialized innovation 484 million Baht 10 Our Material Issues and Stakeholders Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 11 Our Material Issues and Stakeholders Steps in the Materiality Assessment of Sustainability Issues Materiality Assessment and Stakeholder Relations Step 1: Identification of material issues Step 2: Prioritization of material issues Thaioil reports material In 2018, Thaioil identified material sustainability issues through analyzing both internal and Identified material sustainability issues of 2018 were then sustainability issues to our external drivers. Internal drivers reflect results of our SWOT (Strengths, Weaknesses, prioritized by high-level management from the Strategic organization and stakeholders in Opportunities, and Threats) Analysis, our short-term, medium-term, and long-term Planning and Organizational Risk Departments. For each accordance with the GRI business strategic direction, and our corporate risk profile, while external drivers material sustainability issue, the changing business contexts (Global Reporting Initiative) reflect issues of interest communicated by the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices were considered in light of two dimensions, ranked on a Standards. The process presented (DJSI), the United States Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and other global scale of 15 : in this Sustainability Report has also been externally verified. mega-trends. Upon compiling these internal and external drivers, we then integrate 1. Potential impacts on the economic, social, and environmental identified sustainability issues with results from our stakeholder engagement. performance, including corporate governance-related Thaioil continued to collect stakeholder concerns and issues of interest through impacts (impacts considered were impacts prior to the stakeholder engagement approach that is inclusive and comprehensive to all mitigation measures) and the likelihood of these impacts of our 6 key stakeholder groups as last year practice. being material towards the business performance of Thaioil and Subsidiaries, and Stakeholder Engagement 2. Stakeholders’ issues of concerns and impacts that such Shareholders/ Government issues may create towards stakeholders’ decision-making. Frequency Engagement Approach Creditors/ Customers Suppliers/ Employees Community/ and related Financial Contractors Society public agencies Institutions Annually Annual Meeting • • • Meeting to voice concerns • Step 3: Validation of material issues Corporate performance exhibition • Company site visit • • • Sustainable Development function was the first line to review Engagement survey • • • • • • and validate the result of prioritized material issues then Annual reporting • • • • • • presented to the Sustainable Development Committee attended Quarterly Corporate performance announcement • • • by management executives and chaired by the CEO for a final “CEO Update” Forum Bi-Monthly • review and endorsement of the prioritized material sustainability Pamphlets Monthly Meetings of representatives, such as meetings with issues. Additionally, an external verifier was invited to ensure employee welfare representatives or meetings with • • • • that the materiality assessment process, stakeholder engagement community leaders Magazines • process, and the collection and compilation of data related to Electronic news • • • • our safety and the environment performance were all done with Always Engagement activities • • • • • • accuracy and completeness. Grievance mechanisms • • • • • • • Hotline • • • • • Email • • • • • • • Specific Functions • • • • • • 12 Our Material Issues and Stakeholders Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 13 Details on the analysis of internal and external drivers in 2018 are presented as follows: Results of Materiality Assessment of Sustainability Issues 2018 From the 2018 materiality assessment, it was Results of Materiality Assessment of Sustainability Issues Influence on Stakeholder Assesments and Decisions on Thaioil found that there were internal and external drivers Changed Contexts, Related Material Process Safty that together created impacts on stakeholder Challenges, and Stakeholder Expectations Sustainability Level of Thaioil Response Group of and Integrity expectations. Thaioil’s internal business changes Opportunities Issue Importance Issues 5 Fight Against Corruption in developing the Clean Fuel Project (CFP) especially Increasingly stringent Investors and Shareholders: Environmental High QSHE Management Human Capital Low Carbon and Innovation Occipational has affected stakeholder expectations. Nonetheless, environmental • Operating in compliance with regulations Management pp. 32-39 regulations and without business disruptions or System Environmentally Friendly Products Management Health and Safty most of these expectations have to do with business profit loss Environmental Climate Change Value Chain Management System (Compliance) continuity and Thaioil’s ability to continuously create Government and Relevant Public Agencies: Management Corporate Citizenship value without facing business disruption for our • Regular communications & Philanthropy Operational stakeholders despite the context of changes. Thus, • Regular engagements with governmentEco-Efficiency the level of importance for these sustainability organized activities and projects Water Related Risk issues mostly remain the same. There were only Risks from climate Investors and Shareholders: Water-Related Medium Climate Change Risk pp. Human Rights change, such as • Operating in compliance with Risks 40-43 changes for the issues of human rights and corporate drought, floods regulations and without business citizenship and philanthropy, as our communities etc. disruptions or profit loss Climate Change Medium Climate Change Risk pp. have come to expect more from us as our area of Communities: 40-43 operation has expanded. The issue of innovation • Environmental concerns has also increased in importance, reflecting our Clean Fuel Project Investors and Shareholders: Process Safety High QSHE Management pp. 1 new vision and business strategy. Meanwhile, the (CFP) developments • Profits and dividends after CFP and Integrity 32-39 Value Protection only new material sustainability issue that was • Transparency not identified last year is the issue of low-carbon • Communicating information to business 1 5 analysts to forecast business profits Fight Against High Fight Against Corruption Significant of Economic, Environmental and Social Impact on Thaioil Business products. Thaioil identified this issue as a sector-wide • Regular communications and timely Corruption pp. 20-25 issue for the petroleum and petrochemical industry, responses Occupational High QSHE Management pp. Value Value Sustainable and overall a sustainable development goal for the Suppliers: Health and Safety 32-39 global community. • Transparent and fair procurement Protection Enhancement Value Creation practices Employees: Environmental High QSHE Management pp. Thaioil has thus developed a strategy to respond to • Occupational health and safety Management 32-39 Remarks: System In 2018, there was no restatement of previous year performance the material sustainability issues based on the nature Communities: In 2018, the scope of reporting was changed to include information related to the products of TOP Solvent Company Limited. of value that is relevant. The issues are divided into • Environmental impacts and issues resulting Human Rights Medium Human Rights pp. 26-31 from business expansion and CFP three groups, including: • Receiving accurate information with Value Chain High Value Chain regards to Thaioil’s operations Management Management pp. 52-57 Material Sustainability Material Sustainability Thaioil’s new business Investors and Shareholders: Operational High Operational Eco-EfficienMaterial Sustainability Issues for Issues for Sustainable strategy and external • Continuous business growth without Eco-Efficiency cy pp. 46-51 Issues for Value Protection movements towards business disruption Value Value Enhancement Value Creation Enhancement a low-carbon Employees: economy Value Chain High Value Chain • Job security and career development Management Management pp. 52-57 Value Protection is realized through having Value Enhancement is realized through supporting Sustainable Value Creation is realized through Customers: the ability to operate in accordance with business and improving business practices and activities along building the Company’s long-term capacity • Product quality and mutual growth Human Capital High Human and Organization principles, ethics, and regulations. It also has to the value chain to maximize effectiveness, Thaioil with technology and innovation, employee Development pp. 60-71 Communities: do with having systems and processes that allow can increase our business competitiveness and cost attraction, retention and development, and • Regular engagement through social Innovation High Innovation Management Thaioil to understand and assess economic, social, efficiency. For example, continuous improving energy seeking for opportunity to research and development programs and activities. pp. 72-77 and environmental risks related to the Company’s efficiency can lead to a reduction in required develop more environmentally-friendly Sustainable resources and then saving the costs. Also reducing Low-Carbon Medium Product Stewardship Value Creation business and value chain in order to protect our products with added value to society with Products pp. 78-79 value, secure the social license to operate, pollution or emissions towards our society and mutual growth in the long run. and ultimately maintain business continuity. environment while adding revenues to Thaioil. Corporate Citizenship High Our Society and and Philanthropy Communities pp. 80-89 14 Corporate Governance and Sustainability Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 15 Corporate Governance and Sustainability Board Structure Roles and Responsibilities In 2018, there were 14 membersin the Board of Directors, including: Our Board of Directors and executives have Audit Committee Executive Director Non-Executive Directors always prioritized good corporate 1 person 13 persons governance. In fact, a part of Thaioil’s mission The Audit Committee provides oversight of Thaioil’s operations, is to “aspire towards good corporate financial reporting process, system of internal controls, connected governance and uphold principles of transactions, and appointment of the external auditor. corporate social responsibility”. The 7 Dependent Directors 6 Independent Directors Board has appointed 4 Committees to oversee specific responsibilities It is required that at least one third and no less than three of our Directors are independent. All of our Directors and regularly report performance and Nomination and Remuneration Committee must have qualiﬁcations that completely comply with regulatory requirements and must not violate the requirements progress to the Board. All Directors in these The Nomination and Remuneration Committee evaluates the of the Public Limited Companies Act, B.E. 2535. Additionally, in order to ensure that all Directors will most effectively Committees must have qualifications devote their time to guaranteeing the success of Thaioil, we have established a policy to prohibit any of our Directors performance of the Chief Executive Officer and the President, that satisfy the requirements of the develops the criteria and process for performance evaluation, from being a Director for more than 5 publicly listed companies. Securities and Exchange Commission of selects qualified director(s) to take position in the Board of Directors Thaioil has developed a Board Skill Matrix according to our Board Diversity Policy that requires diversity of skills, Thailand (SEC) and the Stock Exchange and the Committees, and oversees the remuneration of Board professions, and expertise, especially with regards to of Thailand (SET). Directors. Industry Finance and accounting Law Social science Corporate Governance Committee Engineering Business administration Political science Security and management The Corporate Governance Committee defines, develops, and Science Economics improves upon Thaioil policies and practices such that our operations maintain compliance with regulations and align with good practices. This diversity is designed to support the success of our business strategy and Thaioil also nominates the Directors without discrimination The Committee also supervises and monitors Thaioil operations on the basis of gender, nationality, or religion. to promote the implementation of designated policies on good governance, anti-corruption, business ethics, as well as sustainable development and corporate social responsibility. Corporate Governance and Code of Conduct Manual Thaioil has developed a Corporate Governance and Code of Conduct Manual to The names and additional details of the guide our Board of Directors, executives, and employees in applying our principles in Risk Management Committee members of the Board of Directors can their daily responsibilities. The Manual is centered on our belief in equitable treatment be followed in the 2018 Annual Report, The Risk Management Committee reviews important projects before of all stakeholders and respect of all stakeholders’ rights, and encourages our people or at https://investor-th.thaioilgroup.com/ its presentation to the Board of Directors, determines Thaioil’s to perform all their duties and responsibilities with honesty, dedication, perseverance, ar.html risks, and reviews risk management policies, plans, and accepted responsibility, and a desire to contribute to goodness in society. It assigns responsibility risk levels. to our Board of Directors and executives to lead employees in applying Thaioil values in integrity, fairness, transparency, and accountability in all that we do. 16 Corporate Governance and Sustainability Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 17 Sustainable Development Structure Sustainable Development Committee Waste Management Taskforce Environmental and Community Relation Committee Each material sustainability issue of 1. Determine waste management 1. Provide the direction on managing environmental impacts, community relations, and Thaioil and Subsidiaries is driven by consists of the Chief Executive Officer and all Executive Vice Presidents, tasked approach and develop waste other impacts from Thaioil, such that the Code of Conduct principles on corporate specific designated working group or with the following responsibilities: management plans social responsibility are satisfied and stakeholders’ expectations and needs are adequately responded to sub-committee. Then the issues will be 1 Strategize and develop policies, targets, and key performance indicators that 2. Drive appropriate waste management monitored as an integrated oversight systems and tools 2. Manage Thaioil’s activities and initiatives related to the environment and community will lead to long-term sustainable development relations such that they are in line with international standards, and communicate under responsibility of Sustainable 3. Monitor and reports progress such these initiatives Development function, reporting overall 2 Drive the integration of sustainability strategy into business strategy with shortthat they are in line with corporate term and long-term plans targets 3. Analyze and review the effectiveness of activities and initiatives related to the performance quarterly to The Sustainable environment and community relations, provides recommendations for improvements, Development Committee, reporting 3 Support relevant functions in the identification and assessment of risks related 4. Review processes and shares lessons and reports performance in line with Thaioil’s principles on corporate social learnt. responsibility or international standards quarterly to the Corporate Governance to the environment, society, and governance (ESG), as well as the development Committee, and annually to the Board of of action plans Directors. However, if there should be 4 Provide consultation and the necessary resources and staff, and to provide Ethical Cultivation & Communication Human Rights Working Team Occupational Health & Safety a pressing material issue that requires suggestion for decision-making on material issues Working Team Committee immediate attention, the Corporate 1. Manage and support the Governance Committee will communicate 5 Promote employee awareness of sustainability issues and an organizational 1. Plan and strategize communications 1. Review policies and action plans implementation of the Human Rights culture that embodies sustainability. and ethical cultivation in the Policy, and promote the integration of related to occupational health and to the Board of Directors immediately. organization human rights principles with safety company culture 2. Report and provide recommendations Risk Management Steering Research & Development Steering Committee 2. Drive the implementation of developed Committee plans and employee engagement in 2. Review the accuracy and relevance to improve performance and maintain activities as planned of company intepretation of human compliance with occupational health 1. Determine research and development direction and develops a strategic masterplan, with rights and safety regulations and standards 1. Establish risk management relevant targets and key performance indicators, to guide research and development efforts frameworks, policies, structure, and 3. Communicate information on ethical in order to ensure the safety of all cultivation in the organization. 3. Monitor performance and progress, employees, subcontractors, and any strategy, including internal controls 2. Support the commercialization from results of research and development and assesse potential of human rights and business continuity management, other individual visiting onsite 3. Monitor progress and evaluate success risks relevant to the organization and to respond to changing contexts regulatory context, and then develop 3. Promote and support the organization 4. Provide research budget, manpower, equipment, facilities, and promote collaborations mitigation measures of occupational health and 2. Drive the analysis and assessment with other research institutes. of risk levels, and the development safety-related activities, and monitors, 4. Report results of improvements taken reports, and evaluate performance of risk mitigation measures on conflicts, issues, or risks related to 3. Review, monitor, and oversee risk Energy Management & Loss Improvement Working Team human rights to executive-level of 4. Conduct audits of occupational management performance, and corporate human resource management. health and safety at operation areas regularly reports results and progress 1. Implement tasks related to energy management and loss improvement to follow with and inspects statistics related to to the Risk Management Committee Thaioil’s energy conservation policy and targets incidents in the area of operations at (RMC) least once every month. 2. Collect past data, monitors present energy performance, and evaluates performance Compliance Working Team 4. Provide feedback on plans, processes, in comparison to targets to ensure that energy management and loss improvement and guidelines, and provides is conducted effectively 1. Manage, promote, and support the implementation of the Corporate Compliance necessary resources. 3. Organize training sessions and activities that promote awareness and understanding Management System of energy conservation and loss improvement 2. Review the accuracy and relevance of the interpretation of new government-issued 4. Report and present results to lead the revision and improvement of policies and processes. regulations, notices, standards, requirements, and commands to ensure that relevant functions can carry out implementation accordingly Energy Management & Loss Improvement Internal Energy Audit Team 3. Monitor performance and progress, and assess the likelihood of impacts and risks, and develop mitigation measures to reduce risk levels 1. Coordinate with the Energy Management & Loss Improvement Working Team to operate in compliance with regulatory requirements 4. Review and approve action plans, and provide feedback, recommendations, and 2. Audit supporting documents, evidence, and performance results of the Energy Management & Loss Improvement Working Team to support in developing appropriate mitigation measures ensure that they satsify regulatory requirements 5. Report performance to executive-level meetings and the Audit Committee. 3. Develop conclusive reports on the internal audit to submit to the Energy Management & Loss Improvement Working Team. 18 Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 19 “To protect business value as one of the main contributors of national energy security, and to respond to stakeholders’ demands and expectations, Thaioil must strive for sustainable development by upholding principles of good corporate governance, exhibiting business ethics in all its activities, Climate change risk maintaining effective management of quality, security, occupational health and safety, environment, and efficient energy consumption to demonstrate corporate responsibility towards the environment and society, strictly comply with laws and regulations, and foster a sense of just and fair business practices in relation to the license to operate.” Mr. Bandhit Thamprajamchit Senior Executive Vice President Refinery and Petrochemical, taking a position of Executive Vice President Operational Excellence (Act.) Thai Oil Public Company Limited QSHE Management VALUE Human Rights PROTECTION Value Protection strategy focuses on maintaining the compliance of systems and processes with business codes of conduct, laws and regulations,business ethics, and on managing risks and crises involving environmental, social, and governance issues. Through compliance and robust risk and crisis management systems, Thaioil and Subsidiaries ensure that all business activities across the value chain are transparent in every part of the process, and do not create adverse impacts to society and the environment. This strategy also serves to protect business value and build social trust such that the business may continue to operate sustainably. Fight against corruption 0 case 100 % 100 % 0.26 case 100 % of non-compliance with of operation units of new suppliers responded per million workhours of all of all significant capital laws and regulations, as undertaken human a self-declare of workers for Total Recordable projects undergone well as corruption and rights risk assessment Environmental, Social, Injury Rate (TRIR), better Public Participation. fraud incidents Governance performance that the target 20 Fight against Corruption Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 21 Management Approach Performance Results from Management of Corporate Governance Fight against Corruption To honor our commitment to operate our and Fight against Corruption In 2018, Thaioil has organized the following activities to promote the awareness and business activities with good corporate understanding of principles of corporate governance and ethical business conduct: governance practices grounded in fairness, Challenges, Risks and Impacts integrity, transparency, and accountability, Promoting REACT+E and POSITIVE One of the main factors that has allowed Thaioil to maintain its leadership position as the largest petroleum refinery Thaioil has developed a list of organizational Thaioil has prepared itself to respond to future regulatory changes, especially values named POSITIVE for our employees to with regards to the fight against corruption. We recognize that to accomplish our ท่operator ามกลางความผั in Thailand for the past จ57และสั นผวนทางสภาพเศรษฐกิ years งคมทัdespite wavesางประเทศ of economic and political turmoil, both in our country and in ้งในประเทศและต่ goals, we must start with ensuring internal readiness. The most important factor, the global sphere, has been our unwavering commitment towards good corporate governance grounded in honesty, apply in their daily duties and responsibilities. ทีtransparency, ่มีการเปลี่ยนแปลงอย่ างต่and clarity, อเนื่อaงstrong ปัจจัยหนึspirit ่งที่ท�ำofให้anti-corruption. ไทยออยล์สามารถด�Supporting ำเนินงาน the realization of this commitment are our goals to gain The “I” in POSITIVE stands for Integrity, we believe, is our people. We have thus organized the “Honoring Employees and ได้ secure มากว่ confidence, า 57 ปีtheในฐานะผู ้ประกอบธุ trust, โรงกลัacceptance รกิจand มที่our ่นน�้ำมันปิโตรเลีofยall ใหญ่stakeholders, ที่สุดใน as well as demonstrate our responsibility towards our with Ethical Conduct” Activity. These employees are selected by our executives and represents our commitment to operate and through a criteria based on our POSITIVE values. The POSITIVE value that society and environment, in order to ultimately ประเทศไทย คือ ความมุ่งมั่นในการด�ำเนินธุรกิจตามหลักการก�ำกับดูแลกิจการที่ achieve sustainable development. with honesty and fairness. To develop framemost directly relates to corporate governance and ethical business conduct is ดีCorruption may occur่อสัatตย์any บนพื้นฐานของความซื จริงใจ ชัดเจน While โปร่งorใส time. place each และการต่ นการทุmay อต้าcase จริต vary in type and severity, the general issue of corruption works and mechanisms that can support “I” – Integrity, which reflects the importance of starting with one’s own self to continues to be a nationwide challenge that has stood in the way of business, economic, and social development in Thailand. good corporate governance practices in our create positive impact in the world. Meanwhile, our “TOP” value represents the Thus,รัปชัour คอร์ ่นทุกBoard นี้ เพื่อสร้างความเชื รูปแบบofทั้งDirectors ่อมั่น ความไว้ and executives haveวางใจ ให้เป็นheavy ที่ยอมรัemphasis placed บ on the importance of complying with all principles professional collaboration and a deep sense of loyalty towards the organization operations, we have referred to international of good จากผู ้มีส่วcorporate governance นได้เสียทุกภาคส่ วน ควบคู่ไปกั ดชอบต่อสังconduct, ethicalบผิbusiness andบความรั คมและสิ่งแวดล้ อม as taking our own actions to fight against corruption. as well best practices. The result of our efforts is that can lead to transparency and sustainability. Selected employees earn the The เป็ นเป้Anti-Corruption าหมายหลักที่ไทยออยล์ Policy ยึดมัis่นในการด� เนินการไปสูthroughout strictlyำenforced ่ความยั่งยืน all our operations with the hopes that a culture of transparency the REACT+E framework, which stands for: title of “Palung Akanee Honorees”, a title which represents admiration and respect may be fostered. Systems and processes have been put in place to ensure that information is accurately, timely, and for these “model employees” who have “behavior that is honest, transparent, justifiably disclosed. These established systems and processes, including their implementation, are also regularly reviewed grounded in ethical conduct, and fair”. We believe that honoring these employees for effectiveness in responding to this challenge – specifically their ease of access, clarity, fairness, timeliness, alignment with can serve as a way to encourage other employees to act similarly with ethical strategic, regulatory and contextual changes, and effectiveness – and necessary improvements and possible gaps that may R esponsibility conduct. Through inspiring one employee at a time, we believe we may strengthen lead to corruption. Responsibility for performing corporate governance and ethical business conduct in our company culture. duties with due competence and adequate efficiency Commitment E quitable Treatment Thaioil is committed to operating our principles in their daily duties and responsibilities. Additionally, Thaioil has also publically business activities with fairness, integrity, disclosed the Corporate Governance and Code of Conduct Manual on our website in Fair treatment of all stakeholders transparency, and accountability. We aim order to allow any interested person to study and understand our practices. to secure and maintain the confidence of A ccountability Thaioil’s Board of Directors and executives recognize the importance of securing our investors and all other stakeholders good corporate governance and fighting against corruption. To meet this challenge, Accountability for one’s own while increasing business competitiveness they have established and disclosed Thaioil’s Anti-Corruption Policy, alongside roles, decision-making and acts, as well as and pursuing sustainable development responsibilities, guidelines, action plans, and measures to fight against corruption, with those of others under one’s auspices through grounding our activities on the a clearly declared requirement that principles of good corporate governance C reation of Long and ethical business conduct. We have Term Value referred to the internationally accepted The Board of Directors, executives, and employees of Thaioil must not take part in nor Corporate vision for long-term OECD (Organization for Economic Coaccept any act of corruption of any form in any circumstance. This statement applies to value creation Operation and Development) Principles all of Thaioil’s businesses in every country and every working function. Thaioil has in T ransparency of Corporate Governance and SEC place guidelines, action plans, roles and responsibilities, as well as regular monitoring (Securities and Exchange Commission) Transparency in conducting and reviewing of the Anti-Corruption Policy to ensure that it is always relevant and can business, openness to scrutiny, and and SET (Stock Exchange of Thailand) respond to business and regulatory changes. transparent disclosure of corporate guidelines to guide our practices. Thaioil’s information to related parties Corporate Governance and Code of The Board of Directors and executives have also established guidelines to Conduct Manual was published and support anti-corruption measures and ethical business conduct, such as the Code of E thics Thaioil has developed a series of short skits called “Integrity the Series”. Through distributed to Directors, executives, and Conduct regarding conflicts of interest and the giving and acceptance of presents, assets, Ethically undertaking business this series, 6 stories of the Palung Akanee employees who have demonstrated all employees for their ease of accessing, or other benefits listed in the Corporate Governance and Code of Conduct Manual. This operation, marked by a code of integrity were adopted to inspire and instill a culture of honesty, integrity, and understanding, and implementing all Manual also includes the Anti-Corruption Policy discussed here. conduct fairness in our employees. 22 การต่ Corruption ต้ า น Fight อagainst ทุ จ ริ ต คอร์ รั ป ชั่ น Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 23 Fight against Corruption Thaioil organized the CG KM Together Thaioil communicated the No Gift Thaioil invited all suppliers identified To demonstrate our commitment to fight Networking) which was formed under our own practices in transparency and We Share activity under the theme Policy to all employees through internal in the target group to attend the CAC against corruption, Thaioil has joined as the leadership of the Thaipat Institute. corporate governance, as well as reducing “INTEGRITY in using data at work”. We channels such as our website, the SME Executive Briefing (CAC SME) a member of the United Nations Global the regulatory risks we may be exposed invited Dr. Sak Segkhoonthod, Chief of corporate e-newspaper, the Akanee event, which was organized by the Compact (UNGC). We have applied Thaioil’s membership as a Certified to as a result of the newly established the Digital Government Development magazine, and other signs in our Thai Institute of Directors (IOD) to the 10 UNGC Principles that promote Company of Thailand’s Private Sector 2018 Anti-Corruption Act (the Act Agency (Public Organization) (DGA) offices in Bangkok and Sri Racha. We promote measures against bribery proper management of the issues of Collective Action Coalition against Supplementing the Constitution Relating to give a sharing on the importance of also organized and sent out copies of practices in the private sector. The human rights, labour, environment, Corruption, or the CAC, has also been to the Prevention and Suppression of integrity and using data to create value “Request letter to avoid giving gifts to event presented cases and lessons and anti-corruption in our operations. extended this year. The CAC was Corruption, B.E. 2561). Furthermore, our for Thaioil. This event was attended executives and employees of Thaioil learnt that IOD has collected from Additionally, to gather and learn from established and continues to be membership and active participation in by over 50 employees of Thaioil and and Subsidiaries” to all our suppliers, working with large enterprises. The CAC others, as well as exchange lessons supported by the government and the the CAC demonstrates our commitment Subsidiaries, and concluded with a customers, financial institutions, and SME was also supported by the Center learnt, experiences, and good practices Office of the National Anti-Corruption to doing our business transparently session of knowledge sharing. other business partners. We believe for International Private Enterprise to fight against corruption, Thaioil has Commission (NACC), and our participation and constantly looking for ways to that these efforts should help reduce (CIPE) and the Thai CG Fund. also joined the Partnership against in this program has contributed to improve and strengthen our contributions behavior that is not in line with our antiCorruption for Thailand (PACT significant advancements in increasing towards the fight against corruption. corruption policy, and will promote the Thaioil developed the TOP Group Compliance System and established equitable treatment of all stakeholders. Thaioil communicated all policies, the Compliance Policy. including the whistle-blowing procedure, Sharing and promoting corporate governance and anti-corruption policies inside and outside of our businesses whistle-blower protection mechanisms, and mechanisms to monitor and In 2018, Thaioil hosted the 2018 PTT Group CG Day. We chose the “Born to be Thaioil reviewed and included the investigate complaints that are in line Real” theme to bring to our attendees’ minds the idea of PTT Group’s core identity Corporate Governance Policy, Antiwith Thaioil’s Code of Conduct, to all as an organization embodying the ideals of CG 4.0, in line with Thailand’s national Corruption Policy, and Whistle-Blowing business stakeholders through our development strategy. This CG 4.0 ideal consists of 4 main principles – that is, Policy and Procedure as part of the TOP website and various activities such as sufficiency, discipline, integrity, and volunteerism – and their application in the Way of Conduct to drive standardization the quarterly analyst meetings to report context of a digital world. During the event, we held 3 different activities. The first of performance in corporate governance performance and the quarterly investor was an exhibition of good corporate governance practices, followed by a panelist throughout all our businesses. meetings in the “Opportunity Day” event discussion on the question, “When the world moves with technology, how should Thaioil developed the Supplier Code of the Stock Exchange of Thailand. CG move forward?”, with the panelists being the highest executives of each of Conduct to establish a mutual Company. Finally, the last activity was a short skit called “No, Thank You” understanding between Thaioil and presented by employees of PTT Group. The skit discussed issues of corruption and Subsidiaries and our suppliers with demonstrated the use of good corporate governance principles in solving the issue. regards to sustainably operating our business activities. We used various means and activities, such as the PTT Group CG Day, to communicate our Corporate Governance Policy, AntiCorruption Policy, and other practices to our suppliers. Our aim is to ensure that all of our suppliers are able to refer to the principles and practices that we use to achieve good corporate governance, “When we work, we often find that good processes can be linked to good outcomes. and are ultimately able to apply them to However, sometimes we may find that the target cannot be achieved because of too improve their own performance. retard and complex of work processes, and leading to the use of “short-cuts” and Mr. Atikom Terbsiri misconducts that eventually result in bad outcomes. With this reason, Thaioil make President and Chief Executive Officer, use of information technology to increase efficiency and to speed up these processes. Thai Oil Public Company Limited However, the selection of technology should rely on accuracy of data, timeliness, and Panelist discussion on “When the world moves highly efficiency in order to ultimately realize our ideal of good corporate governance with technology, how should CG move forward?” through process and result in the desired outcomes.” 24 Fight against Corruption I n tรายงานความยั O i ษl ั ทP uไทยออยล์ T h a i บริ b l i c C o mจ�pำaกัnดy (มหาชน) e g r a t e d S u s t่ งaยืi nนaแบบบู b i l i t yร ณาการปี Limited R e p o r t 22561 018 25 Whistle-Blowing Policy and Procedure To increase the clarity and effectiveness of our whistle-blowing procedure, as well as follow the Stock Exchange of Thailand’s guidelines, Thaioil has developed a whistle-blowing process that outlines whistle-blower protection mechanisms and Performance Performance mechanisms to monitor and investigate complaints that are in line with Thaioil’s Code of Conduct. The process is outlined below: Thaioil was awarded one Thaioil was awarded one In 2018, Thaioil achieved the following of the TOP 50 ASEAN PLCs (TOP 11-30) Whistle-blowing Procedure In 2018, Thaioil achieved the following of the TOP 50 ASEAN PLCs (TOP 11-30) based on an evaluation of CG performance by Whistle-blowing Procedure accomplishments in managing our accomplishments in managing our based on an evaluation of CG performance by corporate governance and fight against the ASEAN CG Scorecard Project for corporate governance and fight against the ASEAN CG Scorecard Project for Thai Oil provides protection to complainants. corruption: the 2ndnd consecutive year. Thai Oil provides protection to complainants. Chairman of Board of Directors When reported, the complaint recipient corruption: the 2 consecutive year. Chairman of Board or Chairman of Directors of CG Committee may andthe reported, Whenevaluate complaint process recipient the complaint Complainants may encounter these situations: Operated without a single •Complainants may encounter Violations of national these laws, Thai situations: Oil’s CG and or Chairman or of CG AuditCommittee Chairman of Committee may evaluate and process as appropriate, the complaint or transfer it Operated without a single • Violations of national laws, Thai or Chairman of Audit Committee as appropriate, or transfer it case of non-compliance code of conduct principles, etc.Oil’s CG and or Chief Executive Officer to relevant personnel, case of non-compliance code of that • Actions conduct possibly involveetc. principles, corruption or Chief or Executive Secretary of the Officer Company to monitor then personnel, relevantthe progress. or a case that may lead to • Actions that possibly involve corruption or Secretary of the Company then monitor the progress. or a case that may lead to corruption corruption Thaioil received the 2018 Best Energy Thaioil received the 2018 Best Energy Corporate Governance Thailand Award The recipient registers and Human Resource Audit Committee Secretary CEO-appointed Corporate Governance Thailand Award by the British magazine Capital Finance The recipient documents registersreceived the complaint and Human Resource Manager Audit AuditCommittee Manager Secretary of the Company CEO-appointed Committee documents the the complaint received Manager Audit Manager of the Company Committee by the British magazine Capital Finance to enable follow-up. Trained International or cfi.co. to enable the follow-up. International or cfi.co. 100%% Trained of all new of all new who employees Infringements of HR policy Actions believed Violations of national laws Complicated or employees who joined Thaioil Infringements of HR policy and practices Actions believed to be corrupt Violations and of national regulations, laws Thai Oil’s Complicated or multidepartment joined Thaioil Corporate Governance Manager and practices to be corrupt and regulations, Thai Oil’s multidepartment and Subsidiaries on corporate governance Corporate Governance Manager regulations and CG principle related matters regulations and CG principle related matters and and Subsidiaries anti-corruption measuresgovernance on corporate and anti-corruption measures Thaioil was scored “97” Cases that count as non-compliances or illegal conduct and cases that pose risk of corruption are handed to the Corporate Thaioil was scored “97” and ranked “Excellent” Internal Systems Audit Department for investigation. The Department is an independent body that reports directly to the and ranked “Excellent” (for companies scored 90-100 points) Audit Committee, and is tasked with investigating the truth and reporting all findings to ensure that stakeholders can remain (for companies scored 90-100 points) in the Corporate Governance Report confident in Thaioil’s ability to appropriately respond to all complaints. Encouraged in the Corporate Governance Report th of Thai Listed Company 2018 for the 10th Encouraged 100%% of Thai Listed Company 2018 for the 10 of all business consecutive year. of all business partners and consecutive year. partners suppliersand suppliers identified in the target group identified in the target group to take measures to contribute towards Investigating, Responding, and Monitoring Complaints Preventing Conflicts of Interest to take measures to contribute towards the fight against corruption and join the fight against corruption and join relevant anti-corruption activities In 2018, Thaioil received a total of 4 complaints. However, Thaioil requires that all employees report conflicts of interest relevant anti-corruption activities after these cases were thoroughly reviewed and investigated, through the Conflict of Interest Disclosure Electronic System Thaioil received 100 full points for Thaioil received 100 full points for 4 it was found that they did not count as non-compliances or every year. This platform serves to track potential conflicts of the evaluation of the quality of organized illegal conduct. There were no fines, non-monetary liability, interest in the organization. In 2018, 100% of our employees the evaluation of the quality of organized annual general meeting for shareholders nor case of corruption. responded to the conflict of interest disclosure forms. There Received awards annual general meeting for shareholders were 4 reported cases of potential conflicts of interest. Received awards (AGM Checklist) in 2018 from organizations that work on (AGM Checklist) in 2018 Nonetheless, Thaioil has taken additional measures this year However, after these cases were thoroughly reviewed and from organizations thatinwork by the Thai Investors Association. to increase the effectiveness of responding and monitoring corporate governance 2018.on by the Thai Investors Association. investigated, it was found that none of them posed conflicts corporate governance in 2018. all submitted complaints. We have also developed plans to of interest with Thaioil’s business activities. promote the awareness and use of these whistle blowing measures among employees. 26 Human Rights Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 27 Commitment Thaioil’s Human Rights Impact Assessment and Management Ensuring Stakeholders Can Access Human Rights Human Rights To ensure that CFP construction could be commissioned on time for further Thaioil and Subsidiaries have developed Declaration of Thaioil’s Human rights due Human rights impact assessments (HRIAs) a process to assess human rights risks Ensuringcommitment Stakeholders Can Accessdiligence to respect Human Rights enhancing national energy security, human rights Thaioil and Subsidiaries remain committed throughout our value chain based Declaration of Thaioil’s Human rights due Human rights impact Challenges, Risks and Impacts on human rights impact assessment commitment to respect diligence assessments (HRIAs) to promoting good human rights practices and management guidelines of the human rights Since the Universal Declaration on Human Rights established internationally throughout our value chain. We continue International Finance Corporation (IFC), Tools and Steps In Conducting The Human Rights Impact Assessments (HRIAs) agreed ideals on expected treatment of all individuals, the global community to operate as mandated by our Human the UN Guiding Principles, and our Alignment with Other associated steps, has been witnessing various developments in the area of human rights over Rights Policy and Supplier Code of internal risk management standards. Tools andtheSteps In Conducting Thefrom UN Guiding Human Rights Impact Assessments (HRIAs) the establishment the past 70 years. Mechanisms and tools, including those that allow proper Conduct. All our human rights-related Principles on Business of the scope of human assessment of human rights risks as well as those that promote monitoring to policies and procedures have been The Human Rights Impact Assessment Alignment with and Human rights risks steps, Rights Other associated to shed light on any violation that may occur, have been created and standardaligned with the UN Guiding Principles and Management (HRIAM) counts as the UN Guiding from the establishment ized to advance human rights. Nonetheless, despite unceasing efforts on the on Business and Human Rights, or one of our 7 steps in conducting the Principles on Business of the scope of human and Human Rights rights risks to part of human rights advocates, we continue to see cases of serious human human rights due diligence, namely: the UNGP, which guide us towards Establishing The Scopeof Human Rights Risks rights violations, such as the violations of the rights to privacy, family, food the protection of the human rights of and shelter, equality before the law, and freedom of expression. To respond Review of human Review of all of Thaioil Review of the human our employees, business partners (i.e. rights risks at the and Subsidiaries’ rights impacts of to this issue, both the private and the public sectors have had to step up Establishing The Scopeof Human Rights Risks their mode of operation to rise up to the challenge. It is also undeniable that business partners, subcontractors, organizational level business activities business partners Review of human Review of all of Thaioil Reviewthroughout of the human Thaioil and the successful protection of human rights will not be realized without strong customers), and local communities, rights risks at the and Subsidiaries’ rights Subsidiaries’ impacts of value chain international partnerships and unwavering commitments from the UN member as well as the human rights related to organizational level business activities business partners states, including, of course, Thailand as well. To that end, the Thai government resource use (i.e. soil, land, forest, throughout Thaioil and Human Rights Impact Assessment and Assessment Subsidiaries’ value chain of Likelihood has declared the human rights issue as a national agenda in 2017. forestry products, fishery resources, and unpolluted environments). We uphold our This underlying context places a demand on Thaioil and Subsidiaries to take Assessment of Assessment covers Stakeholder engagement responsibility with regards to our human rights performance. Furthermore, with commitment to ensure that our treatment Human human Impactrisks Rights rights Assessmentbasicandamenities Assessment andof Likelihood and engagement of our upcoming Clean Fuel Project (CFP), we are confronted with the challenge of all stakeholders throughout our value throughout Thaioil all business partners rights holders Assessment of Value Chain Assessment covers throughout Thaioil’s Stakeholder engagement of managing a large-scale investment project that will rely on many workers to chain meet and go above and beyond human rights risks basic amenities supply chainand and engagement of carry on labour intensive tasks for construction for a period of approximately human rights standards, such that Thaioil throughout Thaioil all business partners rights holders 4-5 years. Thus, our duty to protect and promote human rights increases in may be looked to as a leading international Value Chain throughout Thaioil’s supply chain Integration and Implementation scope and severity. practice on sustainability management. Implementation that Remediation of any Case studies (if any) follows with best adverse human rights Integration and Implementation human rights practices, impacts Management Approach Implementation that and identification of Remediation of any Case studies (if any) followsareas with for bestimprovement adverse human rights human rights practices, impacts Policy Commitment and identification of areas for improvement 02 03 Monitor Responsesand Communicate Mitigation Measures for Occurred Impacts Policy Commitment Engaging with stakeholders on Training employees on wide rang of human rights issue human rights and developing HRIAs Reports Challenges in their capacity on human right 01 02 03 Monitor and Action Plans Responsesand Communicatecommunicating results Mitigation Measures for Occurred Impacts Engaging with stakeholders on Training employees on Intergrateing human rights and developing Human Rights Impact HRIAs Reports Challenges in human rights wide rang of human rights issue their capacity on human right 01 into new and Assessments (HRIAs) and Action Plans communicating results methodology and process Integrating Human Rights Principles with All Policies and Procedures of existing policies Thaioil’s Business Activities Intergrateing 07 06 05 Human Rights Impact04 human rights Assessments (HRIAs) into new and Monitoring and Coordinating human rights activities Assessing human Evaluating risk throughthe Thaioil Group methodologyassesments and process Integrating Human Rights Principles with All Policies and Procedures of existing policies reporting on its rights impact in Thaioil’s Business Activities 07 performance Human Rights 06 Working Group 05 risk operations high 04 its activities across Monitoring and Coordinating human rights activities Assessing human Evaluating risk reporting on its throughthe Thaioil Group rights impact in assesments performance Human Rights Working Group high risk operations across its activities 28 Human Rights Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 29 Human Rights Risk Management in the Supply Chain Grievance Mechanisms Thaioil Thaioil Subsidiaries’Grievance andandSubsidiaries’ GrievanceMechanism MechanismProcedure Procedure Thaioil is committed to build the capacities of our suppliers in assessing human Thaioil and Subsidiaries’ grievance mechanisms have rights risks and avoiding human rights risks that may lead to non compliance been designed to receive grievances from all stakeholders Receiveand andregister registergrievance grievance issues, business disruption, and reputational damages related to environmental, throughout our value chain, including any concern our Receive social, and governance (ESG) issues. To that end, we have developed the Thaioil business partners may have. It is our hope that through Group Suppliers’ Code of Conduct (SCoC) to guide our suppliers in building good transparently accepting and responding to submitted human rights practices. grievances and concerns, we may appropriately handle Acknowledge and investigate grievance conflicts and secure our social license to operate, as well Acknowledge and investigate grievance Thaioil also uses the ESG Plus Verification program as a platform to collect data as strengthen relations with our business partners. on our suppliers’ ESG performance, including the identification and management of ESG risks, as well as the alignment of such measures to related Thaioil policies, including but not limited to our Procurement Policy, Quality, Security, Occupational Investigate grievance (Guidelines Investigate grievance Procedures) on Fair Investigation Health and Safety, and Environment Policy, Energy Policy, Social and Environmental Guidelines on CSR Practices in the Supply Stakeholders may access grievance mechanisms and (Guidelines on Fair Investigation Procedures) Responsibility Policy, Anti-Corruption Policy, Business and Human Rights Policy Chain for Suppliers submit grievances or concerns by explicitly noting the for Suppliers, the Supplier Code of Conduct, and Guidelines on CSR Practices in confidentiality of the document(s) and addressing the the Supply Chain for Suppliers. document(s) to the Chairman of the Board, Chairman of the Report results and resolve issue Report results and resolve issue To manage human rights risks in the supply chain, Thaioil has focused on Corporate Governance Committee, Chief Executive Officer communications and activities that build up supplier engagement. Our CSR in and President, Secretary, or to cgcoordinate@thaioilgroup. Supply Chain online communication program engages suppliers on Thaioil’s com. Our business partners can also submit grievances, requirements for 7 CSR issues, including corporate governance, human rights, concerns, or questions through the business partner relations labor practices, environment, fair operations, customer practices, and community website or to srm@thaioil.group.com. Resolve Appeal engagement and development. Subcontractors shall practice in accordance with Resolve Appeal the business contract built upon the expectations as general terms and conditions regarding occupational health and safety and environmental impacts. Follow up and close Follow up out and close out General Terms and Conditions for Subcontractors 30 of Thaioil and Female share 30 ofSubsidiaries’ Thaioil and Performance Femaleofshare total workforce critical suppliers Subsidiaries’ Performance of total workforce No concerns or complaints submitted by stakeholders No concerns or complaints human rights regardingsubmitted were processedcriticalthrough suppliers Total female employees 26 % violations in 2018 by stakeholders regarding human rights were ESG Plus Verification the processed through Total female employees 26 % case violations in 2018 theprogramas ESG Plus planned. Verification Total female management 35 % Results suggest 57% of critical case programas planned. Total management Total female female employees 35 % suppliers Results suggest high of have 57% ESG risks, critical of business units covered in Junior Management Employees 36 % of new business partners completed 100 human in theunits rights risk Total female employees an electronic assessedhave suppliers high ESG risks, of business covered in JuniorTotal female employees of new business self-assessment partners completed and will be further by experts and included % Management Employees 36 % 100% assessment in the human rights risk in Top Management Employees 32 % of environmental, social, and thebe Supplier andinwill furtherDevelopment assessed by Program for the 2019 plan. Total female employees an electronic governance self-assessment issues experts and included assessment in Top Management Employees 32 % of environmental, social, and in the Supplier Development Program for the 2019 plan. governance issues 30 Human Rights Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 31 Salient Human Rights Issues Human Rights Training for Employees 1. All Thaioil employees from every level and function must have a comprehensive understanding of the regulations In 2018, Thaioil and Subsidiaries assessed the human rights confirmed by related functions respond for each activity In 2018, Thaioil organized human rights training for managers related to their line of work and responsibilities. They risks of all business activities in our value chain, including along Thaioil’s value chain, and have been reviewed by the and employees to increase awareness and understanding must strictly comply with these regulations, and seek the both the activities that are part of our core business, as well Human Rights Working Team as well. of our policies and guidelines on human rights practices. It consultation of the Legal Department if they have any as the activities related to our other businesses. In addition is our hope that through this training, we will further reduce questions or concerns. Employees should comply with to apply our enterprise risk management framework to assess Additionally, these salient human rights issues have been human rights risks in our value chain, including the risk reviewed comprehensively in terms of impacts towards both regulations based on accurate understanding rather than these human rights risks, we also refer to the human rights of having complicity in the human rights violations of our personal interpretations. risk assessment criteria on likelihood and severity. internal and external stakeholders, such as our employees, business partners. business partners, customers, and communities. Results 2. Thaioil and Subsidiaries have compiled and categorized The human rights risk assessment done in 2018 pointed to from assessing the salience of these human rights issues regulations and regulatory requirements of public 2 main human rights salient issues. These issues have been are as follows: agencies for employees to study and understand, and also have organized training sessions on related Human Rights Risk Description Cases/Specific Risks Mitigation Measures regulations for employees. Issue 3. Thaioil and Subsidiaries must strictly operate according 1. Labour Practices and Working Conditions (Business Partners and Subcontractors) of to international human rights principles, increase the employees awareness and understanding of human rights principles Labor Practices • Business partners Thaioil’s Clean Fuel • Integration of the requirements of the Working of Alien Act, B.E. received training on human rights for employees such that they may apply these principles and Working who do not have good Project (CFP) 2551 as part of the supplier selection criteria Conditions labor practices and fair in their daily duties and responsibilities, and must not working conditions for • Accidents during • Integration of Thaioil’s Business and Human Rights Policy and construction Guidelines for Supplier Practices Regarding Business and support any activity that may violate human rights. their employees (i.e. wages that are lower Human Rights as part of supplier selection criteria • Likelihood of human 4. If employees have to work in foreign countries, they than minimum wages, rights violations of • Revision of the Manpower Supply Service Contract for further lack of occupational suppliers involved in oil alignment with labor regulations and Thaioil’s Human Rights should study the regulations, cultures, and traditions health and safety refinery construction Policy, as well as an extension of the Contract to include hours of the country of destination before traveling to ensure measures) consequences should there be a non-compliance that the products, product samples, equipment, and • Business partners of human rights training for • Revision of guidelines on proper labor practices for suppliers documents that they bring with them, as well as the who have illegal for the Procurement Team and the CFP Integrated Team to employment practices implement supplier management that aligns with regulations objective of the trip and the practices of the destination (i.e. use of child labor, and Thaioil’s Human Rights Policy where they intend to visit, do not violate regulations, migrant labor, and employees cultures, and traditions of that country. forced labor) • Inclusion of new requirements for Thaioil suppliers to arrange safe and healthy working environments in compliance with regulations and the Occupational Safety, Health, and As one of the management approach to one of our material Environment Act, B.E. 2554. sustainability issues employee retention we annually • Supplier acknowledgment on Thaioil’s Supplier Code of review the compensation and remuneration schemes for Conduct employees to ensure that they are competitive with peers • Vendor Risk Assessment and leading Thai companies. We also continue to ensure • Supplier Auditing that we support our employees in enjoying their freedom of Good Labor Practices (Labor Rights) association and collective bargaining. In 2018, Thaioil and 2. Safety, Security, Environment, and Communities (Migrant Labor) the Thai Oil Refinery Workers’ Union participated in collective Thaioil and Subsidiaries respect the human rights of our bargaining based on a bilateral system that builds on good Supplier • Supplier employment of Thaioil’s Clean Fuel • Organization of training sessions on basic Security, Safety, employees and other stakeholders through refraining from employment of security staff who have Project (CFP) Health, and Environment (SSHE) for all types of work for CFP labor relations. We did not need a third party mediator to migrant labor in not received adequate suppliers discrimination on the basis of personal opinions, nationality, mediate any dispute, and were able to reach an agreement • Violation of human rights the construction training (i.e. safety risks by security staff • Development of training manual in different languages for race, color, religion, sex, gender, age, disability, or any other regarding working conditions. of Thaioil’s Clean training, training on status that is their human right to hold. We apply human rights the use of violence on suppliers Fuel Project (CFP) handling protestors and principles that guarantee fair treatment to all stakeholders • Creation of safety signs and announcement boards in different criminals) languages in all our business activities, and are committed to eliminate • Supplier acknowledgment on Thaioil’s Supplier Code of unfair practices, discrimination, threats, and any form of Conduct human rights violation. • Vendor Risk Assessment • Supplier Auditing 32 QSHE Management Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 33 QSHE Management Challenges, Risks and Impacts With the expansion projects such as the Clean Energy Project (CFP), the Jetty This year, to promote the quality of life of they reviewed the five-year plan to make sure it was aligned Goal: 7 and 8 Expansion Project, construction of new office buildings including the our employees, community members, and with the company’s expansion plans. The policy guides that lab building, maintenance building, crude oil tank structure, all these projects any activity that occurs in Thaioil business operations will • Enhance level of Safety Maturity to be at level 4 within the other stakeholders to reflect the emphasis require demolition to prepare the space for structural work. This includes have risk assessments, preventive measures, and compliance year 2022 on human life and stakeholders expressed areas that currently have to be operating, therefore, Thaioil and Subsidiaries in our new vision – “empower human monitoring to check if operational practices are appropriate. • Safety statistics on Total Recordable Injury Rate (TRIR) are need to review and increase safety control measures in order to ensure that life through sustainable energy and And the policy also focuses on accident prevention by amongst the top 10% of the global oil and gas industry by 2022 normal operations can continue sustainably without any critical incidents or chemicals” – and our new mission – “To identifying and evaluating potential risks that could cause • Critical incidents or leakages of flammable or chemical subleakages of flammable or chemical substances from the main containers leakages (LOPC) in each area, along with defining preventive stances from the main containers or production processes that enrich stakeholders’ well-being and deliver or production processes that will have a severe impacts (LOPC Tier 1), in measures that include risk accounting, LOPC, and continuous will have a severe impacts (LOPC Tier 1), in accordance with sustainable returns built upon innovation, monitoring of the effectiveness of the preventive measures. accordance with API 754 requirements. API 754 requirements at Zero technology and resilient portfolio with Additionally, there are environmental changes, changes to the standards in top class management and accountable • 100% compliance with environmental laws and regulations occupational health and safety, and other external factors that are challenges corporate governance”. Furthermore, • Zero case of significant oil and chemical spills in operating with the goal of being “an organization that is free from accidents, increasingly stringent regulations and extending to employees, contractors and related stakeholders, and responds global trends towards sustainability pose to social expectations and environmental impact that may affect the health as additional pressures to improve our Management Approach of the surrounding community. management of quality, safety, health, Occupational Health and Safety and environment, and corporate social responsibility in all business activities Occupational Health and Safety Management System and future business expansion through Thaioil and Subsidiaries adopted the Enhanced Safety Management system, an international standard, to manage our safety the value chain. performance since 1961, and has integrated with the BS OHSAS 18011 system. Operational Excellence Management System Commitment (OEMS) focuses on using PDCA cycle in every work process and has a safety policy, safety manual, and safe operation methods that cover all activities with risk performed by employees, contractors, and other stakeholders involved in operations of Thaioil and Subsidiaries Thaioil and Subsidiaries are committed to running our business while carefully Health, and Environment Policy, Energy especially in relation to environmental managing quality, safety, health, and the Management Policy, and Corporate regulations, that may result in business Identifying work-related risks, assessment of risk, and investigation of events with risk environment such that all our operations Social Responsibility Policy, which disruption. This is expressed in the Thaioil and Subsidiaries provide a methodology in identifying hazards, risks, and opportunities for improvement by using What are in compliance with regulations and all guide Thaioil towards preventing, Thaioil Group Supplier Code of If and HAZOP strategies that cover activities performed by employees, contractors, and external factors that could impact the requirements, especially with regards managing, and mitigating any impacts Conduct (read more in our “Value Chain company. Thaioil prepared occupational health and safety plans to decrease and contain risks to be in acceptable levels at to having comprehensive measures that may occur from normal operating Management” chapter). all times. There is a plan to monitor and review risks every six months, and find opportunities to improve at least once a year to prevent any environmental impact. conditions, abnormal operating The executives of Thaioil and or when there are changes. Our management system covers the conditions, and emergency operating management of occupational health and conditions in both the present context Subsidiaries give importance to risk For jobs that do not occur regularly, there are risk assessments that cover work activities and work areas by methods like safety, emergencies and crises, quality, and future business expansion context. management and loss prevention in 3 What and JSA, along with defining prevention methods aligned with risks. Electronic Permit, or the SAP Permit, requires environment, and complaints, and the business operations of the organization communication through Toolbox meeting before starting work and there are safety checks consistent with requirements assessment of regulatory risks and Furthermore, Thaioil remains committed by supporting resources to develop a specified in the work permit. There is an analysis of results and recommendations of improvements. compliance. This management system to protecting our business partners five-year plan in occupational health, is enforced by our Quality, Safety, and suppliers from regulatory risks, safety, and crisis management. In 2018, 34 QSHE Management Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 35 Additionally, Thaioil has a campaign for employees in but they will be appreciated through the PIR of the Month Pa r t i c i p a t i o n , c o n s u l t a t i o n , a n d Occupational health and safety training operation areas to write a Potential Incident Report (PIR) project, which will enhance safety practices at work and lead communication with workers on occupational health and safety Thaioil sets the criteria in identifying needs in occupational health, safety, and fire prethat focuses on Unsafe Acts and Unsafe Conditions that to the safety culture in Thaioil and Subsidiaries. vention training, which is necessary for employees, and contractors that are involved in will be a preventative measure. In the event that the worker Thaioil gives importance to and has implemented projects The company has appointed a high-risk activities. We have prepared a training plan, evaluation plan, and documenta(employees and contractors) notices working conditions to develop and raise awareness of safety practices through safety, occupational health, and work tion in order to develop employees’ knowledge, ability, and understanding on things that that are life-threatening or could affect his/her own health, the Safe White Green strategy. This includes adding the Safe environment committee consisting are dangerous or could cause accidents, as well as methods to protect themselves and the worker may stop working and report to the supervisor. White Green strategy to the QSHE Roll Out, which circulates of representatives from employees contain hazards. The supervisor will check and find a solution that he/she is in various projects and work areas relating to construction involved in operations that make up at confident has improved the situation and is safe for the worker in order to promote awareness of workers in the area, and least 50% of the committee (excluding before the worker is allowed to continue working. As this is a fosters participation of workers involved in the activity under the Chairman) which will meet at least campaign for workers to report on unsafe working conditions once a month for news update, and through PIR reporting, which means it is not wrong for workers real working conditions. progress monitoring of future operations Promoting health of employees to stop working when they notice unsafe working conditions, plans. In 2018, the occupational health and safety management system was Thaioil provides services and supports employees in accessing medical services reviewed, along with work permits and for incidents that are not relating to work. Process of investigating work-related incidents high-risk work processes. Operational Scope • Employees at office and operation areas at Sriracha, Chonburi province, The reporting and investigation of accidents is the heart 24 hours. After that, there will be an appointment of a group safety checklists before working and risk and Bangkok office and operation units of pipeline distribution. of safety management system. The objective is to find the to investigate to find the root cause in order to systematically assessments were also implemented, • Contractors at the refinery true root cause and define preventative measures to avoid set measures to prevent such events from occurring again. and have been communicated to Medical services • Provide basic treatments and emergency treatments in the recurrence (OFI: Opportunity for Improvement) that occurs Therefore, the TRIPOD incident investigation was introduced relevant staff for them to be able to company medical unit by having a nurse available 24-hours every and is recorded systematically, which covers accident as a guideline in conducting investigations. Periodic follow-up lead efficient and appropriate practices. working day and doctor available on working days during cases, abnormal event cases, near-miss cases, and potential investigations have been conducted to ensure efficiency and There is a performance analysis and 13.0016.00 hours. incidents. However, when such events occur, people in the effectiveness of Lesson learned sharing to employees and learning from serious accidents that is • Provide advice relating to health through the company’s public event or those who have witnessed the event must write a contract employees through the company’s various media executed systematically. Additionally, relations channels and arrange for a question-and-answer session report to the supervisor of the area and others involved within channels. there are consistent checks and or a way to contact nurses available 24 hours a day identification of indicators to monitor compliance of recommended practices, • Provide annual health check-up and vaccination against influenza Occupational Health Services including continuous reviewing of safety for employees at work points such as process control rooms, in operations by senior management. office buildings, and engineering buildings. Maintaining and protecting the health of employees and Monitoring the work environment is one of the measures that contractors is the ultimate goal in the operations of Thaioil the company has adopted to evaluate safety measures that and Subsidiaries, especially operations in the refinnery area, may affect a worker’s health in normal operations, project Thaioil has voluntarily arranged a health project for employees, which can reduce which is an environment that could cause harm to the worker’s work, or maintenance work by comparing results against the the health risks that are not related to work operations as outlined below: health at any time. If safety control measures are defective, standard value. In the case that the results are higher than • The “healthy by company doctors for employees with NCD disease” project or workers are not following the rules or guidelines, the the standard value, Thaioil will implement a plan to improve • Weight loss project Heath Risk Assessment is one of the guidelines that are used and monitor systematically. internally to identify hazards and determine the impacts to • A project for exercises in working and resting areas Furthermore, Thaioil has arranged a specific function, worker’s health in order to define appropriate safety measures occupational health experts, and specialists in occupational Performance • Organizing annual activities that are beneficial for health twice a year to create a and reduce risks. health medicine for consultation and guidance to employees Healthy Awareness and contractors. • Thaioil has provided a reminder for employees to get a physical examination preOccupational Illness frequency 0 scribed by the doctor. Rate of all workers Furthermore, Thaioil also provides exercise equipment and facilities in places such case as the fitness rooms at the office building of Thai Lube Base Public Company Limited, per million Phubai Office Building, and Thaioil Club. workhours 36 การบริ QSHE ห ารจั ด การคุ ณ ภาพ Management ความปลอดภั ย อาชี ว อนามั ย และสิ่ ง แวดล้ อ ม Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 37 Prevention and reduction of occupational health and safety Performance Performance impacts from business partners In 2018, Thaioil was able to manage occupational health and Thaioil surveyed the needs and satisfaction of partners, carried safety according to our plans for safety operations. TRIR was In 2018, there were three incidents where out by a third party, which included occupational health and equal to 0.26 cases per million hours worked, which was better flammable substances were leaked Incident rate on process safety safety section. This includes defining indicators, defining than our goal of 0.50 or below cases per million working hours, from the main container or production per one million hours worked units responsible in looking after partners, analyzing and with no accidents that would cause lost time or illnesses from processes that have a severe impact from leakages of flammable or chemical 0.67 substances from the main container or other summarizing results of the survey, providing suggestions to work that resulted in fatality. (Tier 1 and 2) in accordance with API 754. production processes that have a severe impact Target improve issues, if any, and systematic monitoring of corrections. However, after investigation, we found (Tier 1) in accordance with API 754 less than 0.5 that the implemented detection system 0.38 and authority in charge were able to detect and therefore contain the situation 0.13 Contractors’ Loss Time Injure Frequency Rate (LTIFR) Employees’ Loss Time Injure Frequency Rate (LTIFR) in a quick and safe manner. unit: case per million workhours Cases per million hours worked Cases per million hours worked 2016 2017 2018 0.1 0.24 0.19 0.27 0 Target = 0 0 0 0 0 0 Target = 0 Environmental Management System 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Thaioil and Subsidiaries have referred from conducting feasibility studies create value chains that exhibit to the ISO 14001:2015 environmental and designing expansion projects to environmental responsibility throughout. management approach to enhance executing construction projects and our environmental management. This production processes. Through aligning To monitor, inspect, and assess our covers a series of steps, from assessing ourselves with sound references, we are environmental performance and its Process Safety and Integrity environmental impacts throughout the able to effectively reduce environmental alignment with designated policies, value chain of the production process impacts and respond to regulations and Thaioil refers to the ISO 14001 : Thaioil and Subsidiaries have integrated safety systems in our • Risk assessment and review of preventive safety measures 2015 environmental management production processes according to the OSHA requirements and by defining plans and preventive safety measures at various to the final end product. We have stakeholder expectations. established standards in operating, system framework. To that end, Shell Group’s practices, which helped us to operate business levels to cover serious risks, especially chemical leaks while Additionally, Thaioil’s Energy and Loss we are committed to continuous in a more sustainable way and become an organization that loading and unloading on ships. This is done by practicing as well as preventive and remediation measures for the following conditions: Committee oversees and monitors improvements based on inspection includes safety in our chain of operations. emergency routines and crisis management with external production processes to ensure energy findings from the Thai Industrial • Established a Technical Safety function to supervise the parties and governmental agencies in the area to protect Normal Operating Conditions: Thaioil conservation and loss reduction. The Standards Institute (TISI), sustainability safety management of production processes and reduce the impact on operations to ensure that Thaioil and Subsidiaries have established Supplier and Contractor Program was reporting audit and assurance based and Subsidiaries can manage and control serious risks. a set of standards to guide effective organized to provide our business on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) • Reviewed the five-year management and planning production processes, including reduce partners and suppliers with practical Standards, and results from the Dow to develop and enhance Thaioil and Subsidiaries • Campaign to write a Potential Incident Report (PIR) which focuses on unsafe acts and unsafe conditions which are releasing of water pollution, waste, air guidelines on environmental and social Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) management of safety against international standards by and greenhouse gas emissions, and the performance. This initiative, as well as assessments. We have also further focusing on preventing serious incidents preventative measures against accidents efficient use of resources based on the the Safe White Green activity, serve developed our data collection and • Identification and assessment of potential risk points • Campaign for employees to learn from incidents and best 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle). to promote and support suppliers and inspection system to reduce mistakes that can cause leakages (LOPC) in each area, including practices by reviewing and improving their knowledge business partners in aligning their in data distribution and to increase defining prevention and protection measures, LOPC risk on safety in production processes and in emergencies Thaioil has also continuously improved and practices with Thaioil’s Supplier Code of convenience in organizational data use. accounting, and continuous monitoring of effectiveness of to prevent serious accidents and develop their crisis and developed the environmental standard Conduct. Thaioil has also continuously the measures. This includes inspecting safety in production emergency management skills. specification to reflect regulations and participated in the CSR – DIW Project On top of that, Thaioil and Subsidiaries processes and suggesting preventative measures to avoid stakeholder expectations. We refer to show our commitment towards have a Compliance function that is recurrence. Additionally, management also reviews the to a variety of sources, including but corporate social responsibility, with the main function responsible for safety performance in production processes on a regularly not limited to regulations, regulatory our Procurement function developing a driving regulatory risk assessment and on monthly basis. authorities, international agencies, framework and guidelines for business developing tools and/or processes that and global best practices to guide partners to develop environmental may enhance the efficiency of such us in performing all our activities, management systems and together assessment procedures. 38 QSHE Management Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 39 Abnormal Operating Conditions: Complaints are managed Environmental Emergency Conditions: Significant aspects such clearly for more convenient through the Environment and Community Relation Committee, as oil and chemical spills are managed through preventive communication. Additionally, or ECRC. The ECRC works through the Community Engagement measures, mitigation measures that minimize environmental information in the system can also Program to increase community engagement. This includes impacts, and oil spill response and restoration plans in be linked to public and private conducting annual community perception surveys, tracking the event of an incident. We annually conduct oil spill and agencies, which should overall lead progress and performance, and monitoring environmental chemical spill cleanup exercises to ensure the most effective to more efficient processes. impacts to ensure minimum impacts to communities. The levels of crisis management that will minimize resource, ECRC meets monthly to evaluate concerns and suggestions environmental, and social impacts towards communities. 3.4) R e p r e s e n t a t i v e s f r o m P o r t submitted by communities in order to continuously improve The 3 main components of our management approach are Division were attended the Onperformance. described as follows: Scene Commander (IMO Level 2) training. This created various 3.2) The 10th National Oil Pollutants 3.3) At the Oil Spill Table Top Exercise benefits on comprehensive view Prevention and Cleanup Exercise organized by Chevron on 14th-15th of how oil cleanup procedures was organized alongside June 2018, attending employees are implemented. Moreover, the 1 Prevention conducted to accurately assess maintenance, including starting the Marine Department, other were able to gain various benefits, oil spill movement for the event of up the engines and inspecting in-depth details and techniques 1.1) All ship vessels’ safety documents related public agencies, the Oil especially through observing the of oil spill practices, and how shall be reviewed and crossan incident. spinning systems and hydraulic oil, Industry Environmental Safety use of the Incident Action Plan to guarantee equipment integrity. these details and techniques vary checked by captains of Thaioil and 1.6) Port Division employees shall attend Group Association (IESG), and Software (Software IAP) developed in different environments was PTT Group to ensure that each ship regularly meetings and participate The Occupational Health and other parties at the Sirindhorn by Chevron Exploration and Safety Team and Quality Team also shared. Meanwhile, the Oil Spill meets the safety standards of the in activities with the IESG-Marine Center for Geo-Informatics at Production (Thailand) Company Response Management (IMO Level PTT Group Ship Vetting System Safety to exchange knowledge conduct random audits to ensure Space Krenovation Park (Public Limited. This gave Thaioil a new that the equipment is always ready 3) enhance staff competency in and general safety standards for with expertise on marine safety, Organization) in Chonburi on 23thperspective in further developing forecasting to better manage an oil transport. and align their practices with to be used. 25th May 2018. our emergency response plans oil spill cleanup with necessary 1.2) The regularly maintenance of ports, international standards. from the currently manual system knowledge and abilities to carry buoys, and equipment used for oil 3 Personnel Development to IT system. We believe that the out their work. Both trainings were transfer such as oil pipelines, safety 2 Mitigation Thaioil and Subsidiaries heavily prioritize IT system may allow respondents organized by Oil Spill Response joints and ship ropes to ensure safe personnel development programs to to be able to understand the event Limited (OSRL) from Singapore. Thaioil and Subsidiaries commit to practices shall be done regularly by do not create any oil or chemical spill ensure that our employees are ready to our engineering team. into the ocean from our activities on execute our oil spill and chemical spill 1.3) The port manager regularly maintenance and repair equipment response plans. In 2018, we delegate Thaioil Plan 2019 conducts random Tanker Safety in the ocean e.g. pipelines and our employees to the following training 1. Provide Chemical Spill Management training by international experts for emergency teams which postpone from 2018 to Audits for both domestic and buoys. However, in the event that an sessions and seminars, located both in 2019 due to preparedness of coaches and as the course was tailor made for Thaioil and Subsidiaries foreign ships at Thaioil ports. Any unforeseen incident happens, Thaioil Thailand and overseas: 2. Develop an Incident Management Program Software that can support the responding to emergencies such as oil and detected defects will be notified to has the following mitigation measures 3.1) The Oil and Chemical Spill Table Top chemical spills, fires, etc. the ship captain and manager for to appropriately respond and minimize and Field Exercise tests attendees’ further correction to ensure that our impacts are: ability to respond to complex 3. Organize Loading Master Course and develop as an online course to develop, refresh, and update the knowledge and defects will not be repeated. scenarios with high difficulty levels. skills of loading masters who control oil vessel loading. 2.1) The emergency response plan 1.4) The maps of coastal natural allows us to contain the oil or In 2018, Thaioil brought the scenario resource of the Eastern Gulf Coast chemical spill and cleanup all of a fuel oil spill with petrochemical spill at the same time, which Performance has been studied to be aware our residue. This plan is also reviewed presented a difficult challenge potential impacts. To monitor how oil pollutants may affect these resources, the sensitivity area maps are also followed. and updated with environmental changes or new technologies. 2.2) All oil spill response equipment, for attendees to immediately strategize and respond to the situation appropriately. Based on 100% of environmental Zero complaints about compliance with environmental laws ISO zero major non-compliance from ISO Audit including both equipment stored in and regulations their performance, we are able to 100% quality monitoring environmental impacts 1.5) Database development projects the warehouse and equipment on the appraise the challenges and gaps found compliance with zero case of significant oil and from communities with spatial analyses, such vessel, is always ready to be used. in response procedures that can environmental regulations chemical spills since 2005 as trajectory maps, has been Thaioil organize monthly equipment be addressed and improved upon. and requirements 40 Climate Change Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 41 Commitment Management Approach Climate Change Thaioil and Subsidiaries are aware of and committed to prevent and mitigate environmental Thaioil used the risk assessment process as a tool to evaluate the business operation’s impacts due to climate change, thus covering regulatory risks, physical risks, and transition risks. and social impacts which may occur due to Challenges, Risks and Impacts climate change, in order to support the national policies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions Regulatory risks 3. Continuously participate in the Low The significance of climate change has been increasingly recognized, as with a target of 20-25% from the business as Emission Supporting Scheme (LESS) exemplified by the 23rd United Nations Climate Change Conference held Risks that may impose impacts on present operations and future investments include to support Thaioil’s and Thailand’s in 6-17th November 2017. The conference was organized to establish usual (BAU) scenario within 2030, according requirements for greenhouse gas reporting, implications of nationally determined to Thailand internationally ratified to the Paris contribution in reducing greenhouse gas standards, regulations, and new frameworks in order to undertake ambitious contributions (NDCs) on businesses, future use of economic mechanisms such as carbon emissions. efforts to combat climate change and mitigate the emissions of greenhouse Agreement, a part of the 23rd Conference of taxes and emission trading, and societal expectations on issues such as improving gases. Thailand took part in signing this agreement to reduce greenhouse the Parties (COP 23), where the internationals mass transportation. gas emissions (compared to the 2015 base year) by 20-25% within the year together agreed to control global temperatures Physical risk 2030, in addition to being committed to monitor, review, and report targets to be well below 2 degrees Celsius. Thaioil have established a strategy to control and mitigate greenhouse gas emissions contributing to tackling climate change every 5 years. to achieve our short and long-term targets, in efforts to preserve the environment and Risks that may have effects on water In line with Thailand commitment, Thaioil and support the government’s actions to reduce greenhouse-gas emissions. Since 2012, the sourcing for current production process Resulting from this, on the 6th of April 2018, the Prime Minister’s Office Subsidiaries has developed a management Energy Improvement and Loss Reduction Committee has been set up, comprising of released a notification under the name “Country Reforming Plan” requiring and for the expansion unit under ‘Clean approach through policies for quality, security, representatives from operations and managers in order to assess risks and develop an Fuel Project (CFP).’ Therefore, Thaioil related local authorities to develop and improve regulations regarding action plan to control production processes and systematically monitor the operational climate change for effective use within 3 years and then, after 5 years, to occupational health and safety, and environment and Subsidiaries have established a (QSHE), energy management, and corporate performances. holistic water management system to establish an appropriate mechanism to create economic incentives for the private sector to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and support actions social responsibility. Thaioil also use our For the short-term strategy for 2018-2022, Thaioil has analyzed the differences between minimize potential risks that may affect against climate change, such as the development and promotion of mass corporate risk assessment to identify risks due energy efficiency of Thaioil and other international companies to identify opportunities production and stakeholders, including the transportation. to climate change, whether these changes are to improve, and appropriately plan for operating energy conservation projects (details identification of methods to source water realized in the form of policies, government of the 2018 projects can be found in chapter “Operational Eco-Efficiency”), including during periods which are in risk of water All these abovementioned risks can affect Thaioil’s business transition considering to control the usage proportion of fuel which emits low levels of greenhouseshortages. Although our area of production approach. Which mostly comes from the way the local authorities are regulations, or introduced opportunities to replace fossil fuel use with alternative energy, gases during production to be higher than fuels which emits high levels of that gases. is located in the East of Thailand, where a studying potential policies, regulations, and new requirements to develop moderate risk of drought could be faced in mechanisms that will be used in the future, and together with physical risks and increase water stewardship practices to Furthermore, Thaioil is currently in the process of considering use of carbon pricing in our investment decision. 2018, Thaioil and Subsidiaries proactively in water management. Thaioil will need to adjust our activities, including prevent potential impacts of water scarcity. worked around this in collaboration but not limited to our production processes, expansion projects, and use Thaioil also support research and projects that For the long-term strategy, Thaioil is currently expanding the CFP Project by selecting with the PTT Group Water Management of technology, to accommodate the impacts these changes may bring. can improve energy efficiency and effectively highly efficient technologies and prohibiting the production of old units to achieve Committee to assess risks with mitigation reduce oil loss. In the future, Thaioil will significantly higher energy efficiency for the oil refinery plants. With new technological measures to prevent and handle possible implement the Clean Fuel Project (CFP) with the advancement, fuel oil can be changed into products with higher values such as diesel droughts. use of internationally best-in-class technologies or aviation fuel, directly reducing greenhouse gas emissions associated with end to increase efficiency and support the research consumption. Furthermore, our water management system has been strengthened with priority to reduce social and environmental impacts. Moreover, Thaioil closely monitor progress and policy trends in reporting about given to communities such that if a drought Thus, Thaioil takes a proactive approach to greenhouse gas emissions, as well as the government’s economic mechanisms, by occurs, the community will have access to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by setting studying and participate different government projects such as: sufficient volumes of water for their daily following target. requirements as well as agriculture work 1. Using information gathered from the Life-Cycle Assessment (LCA) as basis for joining the Product Carbon Footprint Project in order to ensure that information regarding the from the local authorizes. In other words, Short-term target Long-term target the water will be sent to communities product’s greenhouse gas emissions is readily available for consumers and used as 4% 6% part of their decision making process, 2. Examining guidelines and methods suggested by Thailand Voluntary Emission before Thaioil and Subsidiaries. In efforts to mitigate such situation, Thaioil and Subsidiaries have installed 6 desalination Reducing from BAU Reducing from BAU Reduction Program (T-VER), such that Thaioil is prepared to handle regulations, economic units which readily available to operate by 2022 by 2030 mechanisms, carbon pricing, and carbon credits, and enter a low carbon society in the to reduce the requirement of fresh water future, and resources and secure water demand. 42 Climate Change Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 43 Many other projects have also been implemented such Performance as the construction new reservoirs and pipelines to Water withdrawal Fresh water withdrawal Water withdrawal intensity withdraw water from Nong Ko Reservoir at Chonburi Direct Greenhouse Gas Emission Reduction (Scope 1) Unit: Million cubic meter Unit: Million cubic meter Unit: Million cubic meter per Province to Nong Pla Lai Reservoir at Rayong Province. ton throughput The pipe construction is undertaken in collaboration In 2018, Thaioil and Subsidiaries implemented a total of 25 with a water distribution company to support operation energy conservation projects to reduce the greenhouse gas Water withdrawal Fresh water withdrawal Water withdrawal intensity of the Clean Fuel Project and prepare for potential emissions, which resulted in a total reduction of 32,151 tons Unit: Million cubic meter Unit: Million cubic meter 4.98 Unit: Million cubic meter per of carbon dioxide equivalents. Moreover, continuous studies 23.26 22.94 4.63 ton throughput water shortage situations. 22.86 are conducted on the environmental impacts and life cycle 4.09 19.57 assessment (LCA) for each refinery’s product such that the 3.57 information gathered serves as a carbon footprint database 4.98 1.57 1.51 1.52 Transition risks 23.26 22.94 4.63 for Thaioil’s product and strives to expand the scope of study 22.86 4.09 1.32 Risks that may impact business operations due to to cover Thaioil and Subsidiaries in order to plan for effective 19.57 the fast technology advancement in replacing oil with greenhouse gas reduction measures. Nonetheless, the study 3.57 1.57 of carbon pricing has been studied for considering as part 1.51 1.52 alternative energy. Thus, it can be seen that presently, of the investment decision and preparation for carbon credit 1.32 the development and improvement of technologies for using alternate energy instead of oil come in all trading in the future. forms and occur speedily, such as electronic cars On the other hand, Thaioil has participated in the Low 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 and hydrogen fuel. In 2018, some governments Emission Supporting Scheme (LESS) for implementing across the world announced regulations to support Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reduction (Scopes 2 and 3) energy conservation activities which improves the efficiency the consumption of alternative energy, directly pushing Thaioil2015 and Subsidiaries do not emit organization-wide target 2018 has been consisting some car manufacturing businesses in Europe to of Thai Oil Public Company Limited, Thai Lube Base Public 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2015 of projects 2016 2017 as Digital such 2018 Company Limited, and Thai Paraxylene Company Limited. any indirect greenhouse gas (Scope 2) established to achieve zero waste to Workplace, Finance Transform, and reduce production targets or stop the entire production From selecting 5 energy conservation projects which help which originated from the consumption landfills by 2020. Other incentives Predictive Maintenance in order to of internal combustion engine. to increase efficiency, emissions of greenhouse gases was of external electric and steam power, as implemented to help reduce indirect escalate machinery efficiency and Due to such situation, the oil industry may not be able reduced more than 33,969 tons of carbon dioxide equivalent. the facility at Sriracha district, Chonburi greenhouse gas emissions are in relation lessen the consumption of electricity to adapt accordingly and be faced with decreases in In order to improve current statistics and further reducing province does not depend on external to transportation. The company supports and paper. incomes and growth rates in the long-term. Thus, Thaioil emissions, Thaioil isGascurrently Direct Greenhouse in the Emissions process 1) of studying to join (Scope energy sources. employees to use the carpooling option, shared vans, and employee Furthermore, projects concerning and Subsidiaries have determined a plan to adjust the Unit:Thailand the Million tonVoluntary Emission Reduction Program (T-VER). of CO2 equivalent As for other forms of indirect greenhouse the community and environment are production of gasoline to reflect the possible decrease service vans which complies with the gas emissions (Scope 3), the Energy rental contract standards for rented conducted continually. These comprise in demand and improve production efficiency by 2015 Improvement and Loss Reduction of the Community Forest to reduce investing in producing diesel and aviation fuel through Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1)2.54 vehicles. Additionally, employees 2016 3.65 Committee (E&L Committee) assesses are encouraged to use bicycles for Global Warming Project at Bo Phloeng the CFP. As well, investments in business which are Unit: Million ton of CO2 equivalent risks, establishes a work process, then District in collaboration with Department not influenced by the fluctuation in oil price have been 2017 travelling into the production plant and 3.40 manages and monitors operations to to conduct meetings through video calls of Forestry and Thailand Greenhouse increased as well as restructuring the investment port 2015 2.54 reduce greenhouse gas emissions Gas Management Organization (Public for increasing competitiveness through identifying new 2018 3.49 instead of commuting to the meeting. 2016 3.65 from indirect sources. Examples of Organization), Maejo Hydro Power opportunities for investments. This includes specialty this includes reducing crude oil losses Ultimately, the CFP project which uses Plant Project, and the Mangrove Forest products, the New S Curve Project, and researching 2017 Unit: Ton of CO2equivalent per ton throughput 3.40 during the transportation of crude advanced technologies to increase the Planting Project. Finally, the “WE to on investment in startup businesses through our 2018 2015 3.49 vessel to refinery (i.e. ocean loss) portion of produced diesel and aviation WORLD” program advocates for less 0.17 corporate venture capital team. Funds targeted for the and developing a network of pipelines fuel hence, has a higher value than the consumption of plastic bags and venture capital are funds which develop manufacturing 2016 0.25 to reduce greenhouse gas emission divested fuel oil, will result in a reduction cups while also creating awareness technologies in order to improve the operational Unit: Ton of CO2equivalent per ton throughput 2017 generated from vehicle in the product of greenhouse gas emissions at the end about climate change to employees 0.22 efficiency, environmental-friendly and human-oriented 2015 0.17 distribution. consumption phase. and subcontractors to help tackle this solution, and businesses or technologies which will 2018 0.23 issue. come in place of hydrocarbons. The objective of this 2016 0.25 Regarding waste management, Thaioil and Subsidiaries have enforced investment is to enhance Thaioil and Subsidiaries’ 2017 0.22 greenhouse gases emitted from projects to reduce indirect greenhouse income growth target. landfill disposal are also control. An gases through Digital Transformation 2018 0.23 44 Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 45 “Modern consumer needs are constantly changing. In order to preserve our society such that future generations can live good lives, and in order to drive Thaioil towards becoming a 100-year organization, we have developed a strategy for exceptional customer service excellence. Through this strategy, Thaioil cares for our customers, who constitute an important stakeholder group, and for suppliers who we consider as business partners that will grow with us.This strategy guides Thaioil in our management of organizational efficiency, in terms of managing costs and resources for maximum efficiency, as well as in terms of cooperation with our partners to achieve economic growth and contribute to energy security for society.” Mr. Chatapong Wungtanagorn Executive Vice President Corporate Commercial Thai Oil Public Company Limited Operational Eco-efficiency VALUE Value chain management ENHANCEMENT Value Enhancement strategy focuses on the development and improvement of operational efficiency and value chain management to build business competitive advantage and respond to customer demands. 82.5 562,075 GJ 113 % 54 million Baht 96 % 100 % Energy Intensity of energy saving from energy refining of cost reduction customer of new suppliers Index of Thaioil improvement projects, capacity from collaborative engagement acknowledged Refinery, better equivalent to direct GHG loading transportation with our group. Supplier Code of than the target reduction of of crude oil Conduct 32,151 tons carbon dioxides 46 Operational Eco-Efficiency Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 47 Management Approach Operational Eco-Efficiency Energy Efficiency Management Thaioil and Subsidiaries have implemented a Energy Intensity Index (EII) total of 25 projects for energy conservation that 2015 82.3 successfully reduced our energy consumption by Challenges, Risks and Impacts 562,075 kilojoules. This is equivalent to 32,151 2016 80.7 tons of carbon dioxide reductions per year. 2017 83.2 Increasing awareness of environmental changes and various external factors such as increasing water demand due to In 2018, Thaioil and Subsidiaries implemented economic and social growth, increasing stakeholder expectations for environmental management, increasing limitations of 2018 82.5 a number of noteworthy initiatives, including: natural resources in parallel with global economic and population growth, and the upcoming preparation for all the laws and Target regulatory requirements for expansion projects, together present a great opportunity for Thaioil to serve as a driver to help • Increased the capacity of high-efficiency < 84.2 reduce environmental impacts affecting the community. Thaioil does so through management systems and policies covering steam turbine generators in order to stop Remark The data covers Thai Oil Public Company Limited, Thaioil Power Company Limited, and TOP SPP quality, security, safety, occupational health and safety, and the environment (QSHE), energy management, and corporate operating low-efficiency steam turbine Company Limited. social responsibility (CSR). On top of these core management systems and policies, Thaioil implements initiatives that increase generators, Energy Intensity Index for TLB our use of technologies that meet global standards of efficiency and environmentally friendly fuels, reduce our environmental • Increased catalysts 1 and 2 to adjust impacts on air and water quality, increase Thaioil’s awareness of the implementation of relevant regulations passed by public incoming temperature from low to high at 2015 93.4 agencies, and keep us updated with global trends in environmental issues. Two of the main projects that illustrate these the octane unit initiatives are the Energy Efficiency Project and the Clean Fuel Project (CFP). Together, these initiatives help Thaioil identify 2016 93.5 opportunities to improve our environmental management system with the utmost effectiveness and efficiency. • Improved the cleaning process of plate heat 2017 85.5 exchanger in Crude Oil Distillation Unit 3 2018 86.7* • Reduced the removal of lighter components Commitment from diesel fuel at the Diesel Quality Target Improvement Unit 2 and 3 (HDS-2/3) < 86.0 Remark Energy efficiency of production unit decreased due to maintenance shutdown of the production • Sprayed steam into the air before entering unit. During the shutdown, the heat exchanger tool is cleaned and energy optimisation is Thaioil and Subsidiaries are committed to leading an environmental management system that can gas turbine generator to increase efficiency controlled constantly, causing the energy consumption unit to be slightly higher than target. reduce environmental impacts and increase operational eco-efficiency to ultimately support: in electricity generation Energy Intensity Index for TPX • Improved efficiency of the heating furnace Thaioil’s business growth Environmental Comprehensive The achievement of by reducing excess air at the furnace at the 2015 70.3 and our path towards performance that environmental impact our zero industrial Sulfur Production Unit 5 (SRU-5) becoming a global oil comply with all assessment alongside the waste to landfill 2016 70.0 and gas industry leader environmental laws complete implementation targeted by 2020. • Adjusted the level of steam at the vaccuum in energy efficiency, and regulations, of prevention and chamber of Thai Lub Base Public Company 2017 71.0 Limited mitigation measures 2018 70.0 • Adjusted the amount of extract used in the Target Parex Unit of Thai Paraxylene Company < 71.2 Limited Energy Efficiency for Labix • Reduced the pressure level of the kerosene oil separator and the oil stripper in the 2018 21.33 cleaning agent unit or LAB of LABIX Company Limited Target < 21.52 48 Operational Eco-Efficiency Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 49 Water Management Wastewater Management Total water consumption Thaioil and Subsidiaries have a water efficiency improvement Thaioil and Subsidiaries use a holistic wastewater management for our employees. We provided wastewater treatment system framework based on the 3Rs (Reduce, Reuse, Recycle) to Million cubic meter system that starts from applying the 3Rs to reduce water management training for relevant workers, and supported increase efficiency in water management. This framework Million cubic meter per ton throughput consumption all the way to ensuring that all treated wastewater research on micro-organisms and the selection of microdrives Thaioil in efficient water use throughout the production 4.13 4.34 have higher water quality than required standards. We use the organisms that are most suitable for biological wastewater chain. We have implemented a project to increase the cycle 3.81 Environmental Daily Dashboard to compile all data related to the treatment in our operations. Furthermore, a bio-filter project of water circulation in the Cooling Water Circulation System, monitoring and inspecting quality of the wastewater treatment has been implemented for the treatment of volatile organic as well as replaced old raw water pipes with new ones to 2.88 system, as well as the quality of treated water. A designated compounds of treatment units with high concentrations of decrease leakage from rusting and pipe deterioration. team also measures and monitors chemical oxygen demand hydrocarbon in large quantities of wastewater. This project (COD) in the treated water throughout the 24 hours that we helps decrease the amount of hydrocarbons and odors that report to the Department of Industrial Works. Additionally, we may affect surrounding communities and employees. also continuously implement human development programs 0.26 0.27 0.29 0.19 2015 2016 2017 2018 Management of NOx and SOx Emissions Thaioil and Subsidiaries have assessed the environmental installed a modern and high-efficiency Sulfur Recovery Industrial Waste Management impacts of NOx and SOx and have thus established preventive Unit (SRU) that can recover sulfur as liquid sulfur, thus and mitigation measures. These measures include employee reducing SOx emissions into the atmosphere. Monitoring Thaioil and Subsidiaries systematically manage our industrial waste through the Waste Management Procedure and by our training and education on environmental conservation, with a emissions released is also carried out daily through the Waste Management Committee. Our Waste Management Committee drives the development and implementation of waste focus on important policies on environmental management. Environmental Daily Dashboard, which indicates that Thaioil management policies, and also continuously monitor our waste management performance from source to disposal. Here, the We communicate such policies to employees – especially and Subsidiaries still maintain the release of Nitrogen 3R (Reduce Reuse Recycle) strategy is also implemented to help effectively and efficiently decrease the amount of waste to technicians, engineers, and those working in operations Oxides and Sulfur Oxides in accordance with regulatory landfill. – right at the beginning of their career with Thaioil during requirements and limits set during the environmental impact Every industrial waste disposal company that Thaioil and Subsidiaries conduct business with subject to onsite visits and are the employee orientation. With an aim to operate while assessment (EIA). Furthermore, Thaioil and Subsidiaries have assessed on their environmental, social, and good governance performance. This is to ensure that the standards outlined in also supporting sustainable development for surrounding commenced additional research studies in 2018. One of Thaioil and Subsidiaries’ Supplier Code of Conduct are met, and that all our subcontractors’ waste management practices communities, we strictly use high-performing technologies these studies explores air dispersion of stack emissions and correctly aligns with international standards and do not pose risks that may affect surrounding communities or the environment. of international standards such as the Ultra-Low NOx Burner. potential solutions to reduce impacts of pollutant dispersion Newer companies such as LABIX Company Limited, as well as on communities. Thaioil and Subsidiaries also continue to In 2018, Thaioil and Subsidiaries conducted a study on metal recovery from spent catalyst to ceramic pigment. This is to Thaioil, have also come to use these Ultra-Low NOx Burners. use our Continuous Emission Monitoring System to inspect increase the value of spent catalysts that are no longer reusable but still contain valuable metals. Through manufacturing these The replacement of new burners with new technology allows air quality from stacks every year, and move forward with catalysts into ceramic pigment powder and various other color substances, Thaioil can gain about 283,000 THB of return on for more efficiency and reduces NOx emissions. Moreover, our preparations to comply with upcoming oil standards investment. (This estimation is based on the distribution of 3 types and 122 tons of spent catalysts.) We also improved our Thaioil and Subsidiaries have controlled our emissions such established by the Pollution Control Department, which will Environmental Database: Waste Management system in order to analyze data and improve our management system for more that low-emission fuels that are environmentally friendly are require all oil refineries to produce fuels that meet Euro 5 efficiency, and ultimately achieve our goal of zero waste to landfill by 2020. used in more proportion than high-emission fuels. We have standards, or fuels with sulfur content of no more than 10 ppm. Total Waste SOx Emissions NOx Emissions Total waste (Tons) Waste to landfill (Tons) Metric ton Ton per throughput Metric ton Ton per throughput 7,205 2.86% 2015 140 4,902 5,125 4,419 4,444 4,497 2.96% 4,140 2016 185 6,276 3,491 2,855 2.63% 2017 119 4,517 1.76% 487 345 231 274 192 299 294 297 2018 229 13,013 Remark 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 Increasing of waste generated in 2018 was the result of demolition and ground preparation for the expansion project. Nonetheless, the amount of waste to landfill was controlled effectively as target. 50 Operational Eco-Efficiency Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 51 Management of Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) In recognition of the possible impacts that volatile organic in 2018, such as the study of the level of benzene drainage compounds, or VOCs, may have on surrounding communities, in each source including the Effluent Treatment Plant (ETP), Thaioil has assessed environmental impacts and applied apFlare, Combustion Units, Fugitives from operation, Tank, and propriate preventive and mitigation measures. Our measures Loading. We also study the air model to assess the pollutant include monitoring release of organic compounds from our dispersion, and appropriately establish preventive controlling production process through identifying as leaks with a photo and monitoring of dispersion to communities to take care of ionization detector (PID). This complies with international the overall communities’ health. standards and regulations. Findings are used to identify gas leaks that need to be addressed, as well as opportunities for In terms of future expansion projects, Thaioil and Subsidiaries improvement. Since 2012, we have been implementing VOC have evaluated the impacts of VOCs as well as preventive reduction measures that align with US EPA. measures through conducting an environmental impact assessment, and have chosen highly efficient technologies of Thaioil and Subsidiaries continue to use the Bio-filter Project international standards to reduce VOC emissions. In addition, to reduce the amount of volatile organic compounds from a project has been implemented to cover the wastewater production processes and wastewater treatment, while contreatments to reduce odor impacts and the amount of VOCs tinuously implementing the Vapor Recovery Unit (VRU) system in surrounding communities around Thaioil and Subsidiaries which is 99% effective in treating volatile organic compounds in the future. during product loading. More projects were also conducted Volatile Organic Compounds (VOCs) Metric ton Ton per million ton of raw materials 1,474 1,460 1,427 1,417 99 99 94 94 2015 2016 2017 2018 52 Value Chain Management Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 53 Value Chain Management Commitment Thaioil is committed to conducting business according to Management Approach procurement principles that are; Procurement Strategy Crude Oil Supply In 2018, Thaioil implements procurement strategies regarding Thaioil considers the impact of supply chain disruption, where Challenges, Risks and Impacts sourcing for both crude oil, material and contractors to support long crude oil is considered to be the initial factors of this supply chain term business growth with partners, including: procurement, and implement the procurement of crude oil from various sources around the world to decrease the volatility of crude The procurement strategy of Thaioil focuses oil levels by considering cost price competitiveness in the market. on supplier sourcing and capability Framework Agreements assessment such that our key construction a long term contracts of 5-6 years with business partners for In 2018, Thaioil implemented a project in collaboration with Clear Fair Professional projects and other works can be implemented product groups of high value and fluctuating prices. This is refineries in Thailand especially refineries of the PTT group with the desired quality and planned budget Clear Fair Professional to help Thaioil gain standard prices and maintain continuous to be co-loading partners for saving transportation costs. In and timeline, and this is especially relevant trading. Framework Agreements also help build good addition, the supply of crude oil through the company’s crude to the context of our Clean Fuel Project relationships with our business partners, and are considered oil buoy to other refineries in Thailand also continually help (CFP) that has completed the supplier with the aim of zero non-compliance in the procurement tendering beneficial for both sides. This can save the cost by 30-50%. to reduce procurement costs. In 2018, through collaboration selection process in 2018. In order to be process for all of our significant projects which are supervised with refineries as co-loading partners and through procuring approved for the Approved Vendor List through the internal audit process. crude oil through its crude oil buoy, we were able to reduce and Approved Contractor List, suppliers Collaboration with PTT Group expenses by a total of 54 million THB. and contractors must pass a series of a collaboration within the PTT Group to sign contracts with qualifications, including environmental, Moreover, Thaioil is also committed to conduct business with suppliers partners in collaborative material purchasing, giving Thaioil Thaioil uses the level of Ocean Loss as an indicator of oceanic social, and governance (ESG) factors. according to the Thaioil Group Suppliers’ Code of Conduct (SCoC), the bargaining power of high amounts of trading, and create transportation. In 2018, our performance was slightly better Furthermore, to strengthen stakeholder which envelopes environmental, social, and governance issues since good relationship for both PTT Group and partners, which than target, with Ocean Loss coming mainly from the main trust, we have improved our procurement 2015, which all new suppliers must sign their acknowledgement of the can save costs by 11-25%. pumping port. Thaioil and Subsidiaries have assigned a system for accountability, transparency, and SCoC. Our goal is to have 100% of strategic suppliers and 80% of key working committee to monitor and analyze the cause of Ocean ethics as committed to in our procurement suppliers sign their acknowledgement to the SCoC by 2019. We also are Procurement planning Loss during each trip and continually make improvement to guidelines. committed to support them in becoming a certified member of the Thai control the level of Ocean Loss within target. by analyzing the M-Budget of each major projects for planning Private Sector Collective Action Coalition Against Corruption (CAC). on sourcing and purchasing materials and services on time In terms of continuous performance development, Thaioil is committed according to projects’ plan. Ocean Loss Index to developing and enhancing the readiness of procurement staff by Ocean Loss Index organizing training sessions and communications through the sharing Using Green Procurement Target < 0.21 percent of employee experiences within the company. Thaioil also develop practices in catalyst purchasing to replace expired catalysts Target by volume was valued at 2,000 million THB. We assess the catalyst < 0.21 percent our professional competency systems in accordance with guidelines 2018 0.20 by volume of Thaioil and Subsidiaries’ Future People 4.0, all within the Thaioil qualities in terms of environmental effects such as energy 2018 0.20 Procurement and Contract Excellence Framework. and natural resource consumption as well as consideration of 2017 0.21 Catalyst Life Cycle Management, which is recovering metals 2017 0.21 or valuable metals from expired catalyst for further reuse. 2016 0.18 This enhanced value for business, and also reduce natural 2016 0.18 resource consumption. 2015 0.23 2015 0.23 2014 0.18 2014 0.18 54 Value Chain Management Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 55 Procurement Transparency ESG Risk Assessment In terms of procurement management, there has been a which supports the operation of procurement employees in Thaioil has identified the ESG Plus Verification system as a way to promote sustainable development practices within our business ethic assessment, risk management, supply chain biddings to go according to company code of practices. business partners’ activities. To that end, we have supported our key business partners in fully reporting and communicating management such as the Procurement Compliance Unit, Moreover, the e-Auction (Online) provides the opportunity for how their practices align with our policies which are Procurement Policy; Business and Human Rights Policy for Stakeholder; and announcement of policies supervising operations in partners to propose prices several times, allowing Thaioil to Anti-Corruption Policy; Quality, Security, Occupational Health and Safety, and Environment (QSHE) Policy; Energy Management accordance with company laws. The procurement system is procure at an appropriate price and fairness for all parties, Policy; and Corporate Social Responsibility Policy. This, of course, adds on to the Supplier Code of Conduct and the CSR in also improved to be transparent and auditable to increase while also developing price delivery through E-sourcing as Supply Chain standards. The process, namely “ESG Plus Verification Program”, is separated into 3 phases: 1) Verification by organizational efficiency to be competitive in global ground. well. Thaioil and Subsidiaries, 2) Third party assessment for high risk suppliers, and 3) Capacity building for business partners. The Proposal Tracking System for partners to submit bids, The process began in 2017, and we have continued to lead this process. In 2018, there were 30 suppliers who passed the giving partners clearance while also supporting transparent In sourcing crude oil, Thaioil uses the Commercial Excellence (COMX) System in approving procurement to ensure that the first phase of ESG Plus Verification, and we are still in the process of continuing to Phases 2 and 3. and auditable procurement and proposal system, along with developing the Thai Oil Group Tendering System (TOP TEN) crude oil procurement process is transparent and auditable. Suppliers who passed the ESG Plus Verification 2017 18 Supply Chain Risk Management 2018 30 Supply chain disruptions result in business risks that come from legal issues and related regulations, which may have an impact on our reputation. Thaioil thus acknowledges In 2018 100% 73% 49% of our new of strategic of key the importance of managing the supply chain effectively in suppliers suppliers suppliers relation to environmental and social issues, and business To manage risks in crude oil procurement, Thaioil has proceeded crude vender ethics according to our SCoC. In 2018, Thaioil’s procurement signed their online acknowledgement of the SCoC assessment that each vender has to register into our vendor list and comply with department had conducted Supplier Classification, a process our requirements, which do not only touch on financial status but also other areas that filter and group partners according to importance of Number of suppliers acknowledged SCoC by type of suppliers of non-financial performance. As a minimum requirement, vendors must provide product and service to manage the SCoC accordingly. evidence of their policies on managing environmental compliance, human rights, occupational health and safety, and good governance throughout their business 2015 260 activities. In 2018, Thaioil has developed e-Registration system for crude venders, Supplier Assessment 400 called “Counterparty Registration”. Vendors’ information will be maintained 2016 systematically in this system and can be audited all the time. The supplier assessment process began in 2015, where 520 2017 Aside from the above mentioned initial process of vendor assessment, Thaioil and Thaioil started the process through an electronic system that encapsulates suppliers and contractors. This process has 2018 369 277 55 701 Subsidiaries also examine the good governance information of crude oil suppliers a consistent and systematic approach where suppliers and through a media analysis (i.e. news, company website), including examination by contractors shall proceed as follows: other suppliers that the assessed suppliers continuously refer to. Sign their acknowledgement of Thaioil’s Supplier Code of Conduct In 2018, we found that none of the crude oil vendors registered in our vendor list 73% 49% 39% created adverse environmental and social impacts. Complete the electronic self-assessment survey This process allows Thaioil to assess and identify environmental, Strategic Supplier Key Supplier Managed Supplier social, and governance (ESG) risks and opportunities, Training for Procurement Employees including human rights risks that cover labour issues, child • High spending • High spending • Low spending with continuous • Moderate • Moderate – to – Low labour, working conditions, and forced labour. This supplier purchasing importan important product In 2018, Thaioil began an endeavor to increase the capacity of procurement employees through the PC Functional Competency assessment process is continuously implemented. • High important product organized by experienced procurement employees. This program provided training sessions of skills involved in procurement product for 11 courses, such as courses in procurement strategies, sales data analysis, cost reduction and spending estimation, knowledge of regulations and requirements, Thaioil’s own procurement policies and standards, cost analysis of ownership, and supplier relationship management. This initiative will be continued in 2019 as well. 56 Value Chain Management Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 57 Supplier Engagement Customer Relations Suppliers are placed as our partners In 2018, Thaioil conducted supplier perception In 2018, Thaioil focused on our services and satisfaction surveys. We found that • Meeting clients to build good to enhance qualified deliverables and In 2018, Thaioil conducted supplier perception in listening and responding to customers relations and report on current Performance create satisfaction for internal partners. and satisfaction surveys. We found that promptly and effectively, increasing market situation nationally and We have developed channels for supplier Supplier perception convenience for customers in reporting Performance Overall Overall Overall towards cooperation globally on a monthly and quarterly engagement and communication to image satisfaction satisfaction issues and suggestions by improving basis, of Thaioil towards Thaioil towards service with Supplier perception Thaioil and ensure that they are able to voice their Overall Overall Overall the Voice of Customer (VOC) system. The Clean Fuel Project (CFP) feedback and concerns and that Thaioil 97 image of%Thaioil 96 satisfaction % Thaioil towards 94 satisfaction % service towards towards cooperation Subsidiaries indicate overalland withanThaioil Customers are able to report problems • O r g a n i z i n g c u s t o m e r v i s i t s was able to begin operating is able to accurately perceive supplier sentiments. For example, one such 97% Satisfaction 96% Satisfaction 94% Satisfaction Subsidiaries satisfaction of indicate an overall the procurement and suggestions through the Thaioil website, and updates on the problem’s to our refinery, as well as providing information to enhance 1 The Clean Fuel Project (CFP) month was able earlier thanoperating planned to begin channel is our supplier perception survey towards procurement towards finance and Satisfaction accounting towards communications business of of satisfaction solution are constantly communicated understanding of production 1 due to the effectiveness earlier than monthselection of contractor planned process. 96% Satisfaction Satisfaction the procurement that explores suppliers’ perception service towards service towards finance coordination and towards to them. The Voice of Customer system process and oil distribution by due to the effectiveness of Thaioil’s practices in procurement 91 procurement % 95 % accounting and 95 communications % coordination business of collects information in a database which vehicle and by ship, of contractor selection process. management, service, transparency, and fairness. All feedback received will service 91% Satisfaction service 95% Satisfaction and 95to % Desire 96% can show historical files, view request status, summarize request type for the • Organizing activities to develop customer relationships by holding All important projects were completed according to plan be integrated in our decision-making towards pricing towards conduct business benefit of correct improvement and and All within plannedprojects important budget. and Satisfaction procurement transparency Satisfaction withDesire to Sports Day, for example a football were completed according to plan process and activities. development of service in various areas. policy 83 towards pricing and % procurement 96 fairness and towards transparency % fairness 98 conduct % business with • The Top Data Communication (TOP match, and within planned budget. The procurement strategy resulted in saving policy 83% and 96% 98% DCC) is a system that communicates • Participating in Bangkok Marathon Run activity with customers, and of costs and expenses from strategic planning, suchThe as procurement strategy resulted in saving information on trading between of costs for andthe expenses from strategic planning, Negotiation implementation All good governance activities are also continuously supported and promoted through campaigning and communication of Thaioil and customers, which • Holding leisure activities to help such as of the Framework Agreement Thaioil and Subsidiaries’ procurement policies and other relevant business continuity policies in order to align with the Clean Fair Professional principles. Some examples of these initiatives include: uses technology to facilitate data transmission as well as decreasing customers’ drivers feel relaxed. 30-50% Negotiation for the implementation of the Framework Agreement errors, time, and steps in a process, which have also won the Thailand A survey of customer engagement 30-50 Collaboration with PTT Group 11-25% % ICT Excellence Awards 2018. shows that from various operations, Collaboration with PTT Group 11-25 % 00 customer engagement with Thaioil and Subsidiaries is at 96%, which is better non compliance than targeted. on procurement practices non compliance on procurement practices Customer Engagement A total of Inviting a total or 40Inviting key suppliers Communicating CSR in Supply Chain through our website, which covers our policies and Communicating through relationship building activities to help suppliers be Customer Engagement 96 96 30 suppliers passed PlusofVerification process. A total 40withkeyrepresentatives to join the SME Executive Briefing a total or suppliers Communicating requirements our website, CSRthe regarding which in 7Supply covers social responsibility, namely, main topics our Chain through policies of and understand,through Communicating informed, building the spirit and comply activities to help of transparency relationship with suppliers be in Thaioil’s 96 96 30 the ESG suppliers passed the ESG Plus Verification process. Target 100 to join the SME Executive of Thaioil and Subsidiaries, requirements regarding the 7 main topics of informed, One procurement. understand, and comply such example is with • The Voice of Customer (VOC) Target 90 of procurement employees social responsibility, namely, system has been improved to 85 Briefing with representatives corporate governance 5 fair operation practices theGift the No spirit of transparency in Thaioil’s Policy. Target % passed the procurement 100% 1 of Thaioil Inviting a total and of Subsidiaries, procurement. One such example is increase effectiveness in listening to Target 90 of procurement training, which alsoemployees human rights customers and consumers 5 2 6 1 corporate governance 5 fair operation practices the No Gift Policy. customers’ voice so as to respond 85 passed procurement included ESGthefactors. key suppliers Inviting a total of 3 labor practices 7 community engagement human rights customers developmentand consumers within time. training, which also 5 to join the PTT Group and 2 6 4 environment included ESG factors. CG Day withkey suppliers PTT Group, 3 labor practices 7 community engagement Thaioil also values meeting clients Training sessions for relevant to join the PTT Group environment and development 4 regularly to listen to comments and managers were successfully CG Day with PTT Group, Training sessions for relevant organized. exchange perspectives so as to managers were successfully improve and develop future operations, organized. including: 2017 2018 2017 2018 58 Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 59 “To face the abrupt changes in today’s world, Thaioil needs major transformations within the organization. We need to elevate our innovation and technological development to drive the organization forward through further business diversification with a focus on development of environmentally friendly products, and through strengthening “human capital” and “work processes” by digital technology. These are necessary actions to take to ensure that we are ready for Product Stewardship changes and are able to adapt our investment strategy to find new business opportunities, ultimately bringing us to ensure future progress and sustainably create value for our communities and society.” Mr. Pongpun Amornvivat Executive Vice President Strategy, taking positions of Executive Vice President Innovation and Digitalization (Act.) and Vice Presidence Corporate Resources and Transformation Management (Act.) Thai Oil Public Company Limited SUSTAINABLE VALUE CREATION Our Society and Communities Sustainable Value Creation strategy focuses on using creativity and research and development (R&D) to innovate new initiatives for achieving long-term growth. This is realized firstly through developing the capabilities of the main driving force of our success – our employees. Through human capital development,Thaioil increases the capabilities of our employees to respond to changing contexts, and organizes knowledge management such that employees may innovate, research, and develop products that are environmentally friendly. Additionally, Thaioil also Human and Organization Development utilize technology and innovation, as well as collaborations within the organization and with surrounding communities, to create positive social and environmental impacts to all our stakeholders. Innovation Management 1,155% 5,162 million Baht 484 million Baht 28% 97.27% 55,304 persons Return on Human Values of applying Benefits from Proportion of low carbon Community Benefits from the use Capital Investment organizational commercialized R&D product sales per total engagement of Thaioi Group knowledge into and Innovation finished oil products, Community Health business practice equivalent to about 700K and Learning Center tons carbon dioxides reduced in the end consumption 60 Human and Organization Development Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 61 Human and Organization Development Commitment Thaioil and Subsidiaries continue to strive Industry 4.0 Organization 4.0 to care for and manage our people with Challenges, Risks and Impacts the belief in the value of human resources and the ideology that “stability comes With transforming business trends with determined people and refined that propel the economy, society, and Thailand 4.0 Culture 4.0 HR 4.0 energy creates value (Our Motto: Refining environment into the 4.0 era, disruptive Values)” by defining strategies for technology emerges as a risk that can personnel and organization ranging from create serious impacts to businesses. planning personnel structure, designing Prople 4.0 Infrastucture 4.0 This pressures businesses to adapt organizational structure, recruitment, by implementing new technology and implementing initiatives that increase innovation to create markets and value to employee engagement, and human capital their products and services. This includes development. By improving processes growing their businesses digitally to and bringing in digital technologies, our become flexible in operations that can employees will be able to produce work generate profits within a short time like to meet our organizational goals. Google, Facebook, or Tesla. Economy DRIVEN by Innovation & Technology Factors that are catalyzing change in • Collaboration between human and machine in advanced analysis; people and organizational management and automation helps drive development in productivity and decision to align with the digital transformation making era include: • The diverse talent market causes the creation of recruitment and employment strategies to attract personnel from the new generation • Development of new generation personnel equipped with new skills to be prepared for future work includes increasing capacity (Upskill), adjusting to new abilities (Reskill), and changing the way of working for Millennials and Generation-Z • Efficient and fast connections allow personnel to work whenever from wherever including developing products and services, creating innovation in shorter development periods (Learn Fast, Fail Fast), as well as creating a work environment that helps personnel communicate and collaborate with each other easier (4Cs experience: Connect, Collaborate, Communicate and Co-operate) 62 Human and Organization Development Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 63 Management Approach ACHIVEMENT Thaioil and Subsidiaries have developed 1-3-year plans in focusing on cultivating corporate culture and core competencies preparation to cope with upcoming human capital challenges. (TOP Core Competency) to support the vision, strategic These plans include upgrading our comprehensive strategy to plan, and develop Thaioil and Subsidiaries to become a high cover the planning process for strategic personnel, recruitment, performance and healthy organization that can grow sustainably development of personnel, creating and retaining personnel by through the following operational plans STRATEGY DEVELOPMENT High ATTRACTION Adjust human capital development strategy through creating 2023-2030 Performance integrated learning experiences for the duration of the personnel’s Long-term & Healthy Execute a strategic workforce planning that supports our business employment period through the AGILE Learning Experience direction and strategy, in which will allow us to maintain as a program by focusing on cultivating corporate culture, values, and Strategy Organization competitive workforce internationally. Thaioil have also developed the ATTRACTION DEVELOPMENT core competencies (TOP Core Competency) to support the Thaioil organizational structures to support digital projects, innovation, and vision and plans for business expansion in the digital age with investment in venture capital for future business expansion. various, modern development projects that support the learning needs of each age group and generation (Gen Z, Gen Y, Gen X, Sustainability Furthermore, Thaioil has prepared to elevate our proactive recruitment Baby Boom) such as: Organization strategy in order to obtain high-quality personnel to support future business expansion and to replace retiring personnel by applying Learning about basic knowledge, GREAT Leader Development Key Achivement digital technology in the recruitment process, and collaborating with core competencies, and Project to develop leadership educational institutions to share various technical knowledge in order organization values through and employee readiness for KNOWLEDGE online channels such as micro succession. to prepare students to enter the workforce. MANAGEMENT RETENTION learning, AR learning, People and e-learning. Dynamic Career Management Readiness Project to develop core Competitive Mobility Development competencies of the Leadershop Project to develop employee organization and DANCE+ on Digital RETENTION capacities and readiness competencies to prepare for CULTURE in commencing overseas business expansion in the Hr System operations. digital era. Reliability Develop the Hire to Retire Digitalization Project, a human resource management technology system, to effectively support current and future businesses by using technology and digitalization in managing human resource through a system as a basis of development, such as: Rhino Bot (Chatbot) project to HR Best Cost Anytime Learning Project Efficiency to create opportunities cater to the new generation and in Class for employees to access provide them with easy access modern and diverse channels to information services and of learning. employee benefits through KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT a mobile application. Employee Portal project for employees to access personnel Well-being @ TOP project to CULTURE Implement the Gen 2 Gen Knowledge Management Project enhance physical, mental, to retain important knowledge within the organization, from services online (Self-service at finger tips). financial, and societal Create a corporate culture and work ethic for personnel of all generation to generation, by creating a knowledge architecture The Best Ultimate Outcome well-being and achieve a levels, what we call Leader Drive Culture, in order to create map that links with functional competency and by defining the Employer balance in their work-life a culture of digitalization and innovation with employees knowledge that is important to the organization that need to be through a mobile application. consisting of iTOP organizational values which serves as a stored and passed on by professional expert with experience to Skillful, Good, strong foundation. new employees continuously. Love the Company 64 Human and Organization Development Performance Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 65 Performance Performance Recruitment ability Performance Recruitment ability ATTRACTION: Strategic Workforce Planning & Talent Attraction Recruitment ability Unit: % of total numbers of open positions DEVELOPMENT: Human Capital Development Recruitment abilitynumbers of open positions Unit: % of total Thaioil and Subsidiaries operate a framework on strategic workforce planning which aligns with our business direction and Unit: % of total numbers of open positions Performance Thaioil and Subsidiaries have established a framework in taking care and developing strategy with the goal of EBITDA per person being at the 75th percentile by 2023, as compared to international businesses Unit: % of total numbers of open 92%positions employees’ potential through a development strategy called “AGILE” which will accelerate in the same industry. Thaioil and Subsidiaries plan to increase productivity by 4.24% every year, so that we can continue to Recruitment 89% ability 92% 92% the development of the employee’s knowledge, abilities, and awareness of changes in the 85% 85% maintain our long-term competitiveness. Managing our organization under the strategic workforce framework will allow us to 89%89% Performance Unit: % of total85% 85% of85% numbers 85%positions open digital era. This includes the ability to respond to changing business strategies. According reduce costs relating to our workforce by approximately 400 million THB per year. Performance 92% to the “AGILE” development strategy, the development of employees’ potential would start 89% ability Recruitment 85% 85% even before they join Thaioil and Subsidiaries and last until their retirement by focusing Moreover, Thaioil has restructured the organization by developing the ‘Innovation and Digitalization’ function to support the Recruitment Unit: % of totalability numbers of open 92%positions on enhancing their learning experience to focus on modern learning methods and models 89% new vision, mission, and strategy for our transforming businesses. In search for future business opportunities, adapting the Unit: % of 85% 85% of open positions total numbers as shown in the picture. management and human resources structure will lead to operational and structural aspects aligning with current and future 92% AGILE Development Framework businesses. Increasing the capacity of professional services will increase the efficiency and effectiveness of business functions 89% AGILEAGILE Development Development Framework Framework 85% 85% 92% by separating strategic and operational tasks, as well as create better “partnership” interactions as shown in the picture below. 89% 85% 85% AGILE Development Framework Striker Midfielder Defender AGILE Development Framework Striker Striker Midfielder Midfielder Defender Defender BP-Business Partner SSC-Support COE People COE Organization BP-Business Partner SSC-Support Service &Midfielder Center COE People (Center of Excellence People)Defender COE Organization ATTRACT ADAPT GROOM INSPIRE LIFELONG EXIT StrikerPartner BP-Business SSC-Support & Service Center COE People (Center of Experience Organization) COE ofOrganization AGILE Development ATTRACT ADAPT GROOM INSPIRE LEARNING LIFELONG EXIT & Service Center (Center of Excellence People) (Center of Excellence People) (Center Experience Organization) ATTRACT Framework ADAPT GROOM INSPIRE LIFELONG EXIT BP-Business Partner Striker SSC-Support Midfielder COE People Defender (Center of Experience Organization) COE Organization OBJECTIVE : OBJECTIVE : OBJECTIVE : OBJECTIVE : OBJECTIVELEARNING LEARNING : OBJECTIVE : AGILE Development Framework OBJECTIVE : help OBJECTIVE OBJECTIVETo : unleash BP-Business Partner & Service Center SSC-Support (Center of Excellence COE -People) People (Center of Experience Organization) COE Organization ToATTRACT attract, OBJECTIVE : ToOBJECTIVE ADAPT new : : OBJECTIVE ToGROOM build : OBJECTIVE INSPIRE OBJECTIVE the : : ToOBJECTIVE OBJECTIVE :To engage LIFELONG engage : OBJECTIVE : EXIT OBJECTIVE : & Service Center (Center of Excellence People) (Center of Experience Organization) ATTRACTmotivate To attract, ADAPTstaff toTo help make GROOM a new employee INSPIRE To build potential LEARNING for theemployees’ ToLIFELONG unleash To engage employees’ EXIT To engage Striker Midfielder Defender To attract, talentedmotivate OBJECTIVE : To help tonew OBJECTIVE staff successful : aknowledge make To build OBJECTIVE employee : ensure talentthe unleash ToOBJECTIVE LEARNING potential To engage employees’ : for contribution OBJECTIVE To engage employees’ : contribution OBJECTIVE : OBJECTIVE motivate candidates : talented OBJECTIVE staff adaptive : make tosuccessful to OBJECTIVE a : and employee skill knowledge OBJECTIVE : potential and leader ensure OBJECTIVE fortalent : employees’ andcontribution OBJECTIVE : and employees’ ownership contribution Partner with Support and StrikerPartner Service BP-Business Midfielder SSC-Support People excellence People COEplanner Organization Defender excellence COE Organization To attract, talented To help successful new To build knowledge To unleash ensure the talent To engage contribution To engage contribution LinePartner Manager andmotivate expand candidates ownership and for and ownership Partner with with Provider Support Support & Service and and Center management People People(Center ofexcellence Excellence People) excellence management Organization planner (Center of Experience Organization excellence Organization) excellence To attract, ATTRACT candidates educational ToADAPT help newconform staff adaptive and toadaptive make GROOM a to to accelerate Totobuild To and employee and unleash skill skillthe capability INSPIRE To potential andengage LIFELONG leader andemployees’ leader for To EXIT engage employees’ and forownership employees’ and ownership sustainability Line Manager BP-Business Partner Service Provider SSC-Support management COE planner People management planner COE Organization motivate andstaff talented expand to able make a to strong conform successful employee and their to toknowledge accelerate potential for readiness ensure capability LEARNING employees’ contribution talent sustainability ownership for contribution Line Manager Service Provider management planner management planner ATTRACTopportunities. talented and expand educational ADAPT successful conform start able in and to strong GROOM knowledge accelerate performance their INSPIRE ensure talent to capability support readiness contribution LIFELONG EXIT contributionfor for on organization sustainability Partner with Partner with Support and & Service Center (Center of People excellenceExcellence People) (Center Organizationof Experience Organization) excellence OBJECTIVEeducational : candidatesOBJECTIVEable : to strong adaptive OBJECTIVE to : and OBJECTIVE theirskill : and OBJECTIVE leader readiness : OBJECTIVE and for : and ownership sustainability Line Manager Line Support and Peopleplanner excellence Organization excellence 2015 2016 2017 2018 adaptive working candidates opportunities. and expand to conform andinskill on current life. start to and leader business performance accelerate andbuildaccountability. support organization LEARNING and toengage sustainability and ownership ownership digital era. organization for on Manager Service Provider Service Provider managementmanagement planner management planner management planner and OBJECTIVEopportunities. To attract, expand : To help new conform OBJECTIVE and : start to workinginTo accelerate OBJECTIVE life. : performance ToOBJECTIVE unleash oncapability current the : tocapability growth.To support ownership business OBJECTIVE : on sustainability To engage for digital era. organization OBJECTIVE : organization digital on era. Additionally, Thaioil and Subsidiaries continue to focus on recruiting high-potential employees that are characterized as people 2015 2016 2017 2018 educational motivate educational staff to make ablea working to strong employee life. on their potential current for readiness employees’ business for employees’ organization sustainability digital era. 2015 2016 2017 2018 attract, Totalented able to strong their readiness accountability. for To growth. sustainability engage organization on digital era.organization on Todigital engage To opportunities. opportunities. successful start inTo build accountability. help innew startperformance knowledge To tounleash ensure performance talent support the togrowth. contribution support sustainability sustainability oncontributionera. on who are with high potentialPartner and company by using love the withskillful, good, andSupport the excellence People Buy, Borrow, 4B strategy (Build, Organization and Bring-in) excellence 20152015 201620162017 20172018 2018 motivate Genstaff candidates to adaptive Zsuccessful working make to a employee life.workingonlife. and skill Gen current Y potential and on current leader business for employees’ Gen business and X organization employees’ and ownership organization digital era.Baby Boom digital era. talented contribution contribution as a baseline strategy in recruiting Line Manager from a Servicegroup. target Provider management planner management planner and expand educational Genable candidates conform Gen Z and Z to strong adaptive to Empower knowledge to accelerateaccountability. accountability. and Gen skill Gen Y ensure Y lifeand talent capability growth. growth. on digital leader digitalization ownership andGen and for era.X on digital era. Baby Boom ownership Partner with Support and People excellence Organization excellence andHire their human readiness through Genfor X ownershipexperience sustainabilityBaby BoomRetire In 2018, however, Line Manager Service Provider management planner expand opportunities. conform start inand to accelerate tocapability sustainability for on organization Thaioil added a DRIFT strategy to attract the target group and instill confidence thatmanagement Thaioil and planner Subsidiaries 2015 2016 2017 2018 Gen educational Hire Hire Z Genable Z life. GenEmpower to strong working performance Empower Y on their Gen current humanY human life support life readiness business through Gen X digitalization through digitalization for X Baby organization Gen experience Boom sustainability digital era. Baby Boom Retire experience Retire create sustainable growth while investing in developing high-quality employees that are happy with their work. The strategy Generation Y & Z :Hire : Thaioil uses the ATTRACT opportunities. start working in Empower life. human & ADAPT performance accountability. life through on current strategydigitalization to to supportexperience support growth. business younger sustainability on digital generations era. organizationexperience attaining readiness inRetire organization digital era. on 2015 2016 2017 2018 Hire to enter the workforce. This strategy touches on not Empower human life only our new employees, through digitalization but also era.others who may benefit from this Retire is as follows: accountability. growth. on digital resource. Thaioil essentiallyGenuseZ digital channelsGen Y to communicate waysGen X this demographic in which Baby Boom can attain the necessary Digital recruitment: aim for reforming recruitment technology And Thaioil also give opportunities for students to enter the skills and capacitiesHireto best Genperform Z work.Gen theirEmpower Thaioil Y also human includedigitalization life through Genhelpful other X experience tips on adjustingBaby Boom Retirefor participating oneself by improving recruitment through social media. The use of QR selection process to become an employee. in the workforce, asHirewell as Thaioil valuesEmpower in orderhuman to ensure that these members life through digitalization experience of society can have a strong start in their Retire codes for candidates to fill out and submit their application career, especially if they choose to work with Thaioil and Subsidiaries. Furthermore, we use the GROOM strategy to develop International Sourcing: enhance proactive recruitment from the employees’ functional competencies, soft competencies, as well as mobility competencies. Thaioil believe this integration of form in the pre-screening stage as well as interviewing international labor market by recruiting experienced personnel applicants from around the world through Skype will allow different set of skills will enable our employees to accomplish their work assignment professionally. from abroad, regardless of them being Thai or foreigner. Thaioil and Subsidiaries to attract expatriates to participate Generation X : As a result of the global context and environments that they faced, this generation is often open-minded in our Mega Projects or the Clean Fuel Project (CFP). This will Fast Recruitment: implementing technology in recruitment individuals who aspire towards self-development and seek opportunities to learn new things. The large majority of them have also attract millennials and increase recruitment efficiency processes will quicken the selection process had some experience in the workforce, and may have already progressed towards senior positions. Thaioil and Subsidiaries TES Employer Brand: create shared inside-out experience to use the INSPIRE strategy to develop employees who have talent and potential in being a leader and/or successor. This Robust Partnership: expand our network of external partners strategy allows us to contribute to our employees’ career paths, such that they may grow in their positions. We also emphasize by MOUs with education institutions at the undergraduate and be passed on by Thaioil Ambassadors and seniors to share human capital development that is centered on LIFE-LONG LEARNING and a balance between different disciplines or ways vocational level by using frameworks that include: their experiences of their work-life under Thaioil culture at the of knowing. Through integrating knowledge and expertise from different dimensions in creating work, a balance between company and recruitment process on to external party or new work and life may be achieved, and employees may gain a happier lifestyle with Thaioil and find a long-term career with Providing knowledge aimed to develop academic knowledge coming employees. and skills that can be applied to work towards students and Thaioil more attractive. faculty through lectures at institutions and visits at the refinery The various activities according to our strategy will help in Baby Boomers : Baby boomers are determined in their work, and have accumulated valuable experiences that may be shared Giving opportunities by accepting student internships that are recruiting employees to support short-term and medium-term with younger generations. Thus, knowledge management is especially important in ensuring that this valuable knowledge project-based business plans as well as support employees retiring in the is not lost. Our EXIT strategy then is focused on encouragement and appreciation that can inspire this group of employees future. with pride as well as a motivation to share their knowledge, in order to store knowledge and transfer to another generations Granting scholarships to outstanding students to apply them. 66 Human and Organization Development Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 67 In addition, Thaioil and Subsidiaries have engaged in human capital Examples of key training courses according to AGILE framework development initiatives that respond to our endeavor to find new Return on Employee Development Investment Framework List of key training courses business and investment opportunities. Some highlights are: The Venture Capital Project, established the Corporate Venture 2015 on Employee124% Return Development Investment Adapt 1. Check in our future 2. Basic fire fighting Capital team and designed an investment process that is lean, 2016 483% transparent, and accountable. This supported Thaioil and 2015 124% 2017 704% Groom 1. Performer development program (PDP1-6) Subsidiaries in investing in the Applied Science and Engineering 2. Great development : Leadership lab fund, which is also one of our business strategies. 2016 483% 2018 1,155% 3. Expara CVC (Corporate venture capital) workshop 2017 The Research & Development Project allowed Thaioil and 704% 4. Update accounting standard and tax 2018 5. RPA201 Solving refinery planning problem Subsidiaries to gain new commercial innovation products. These 2018 Business benefits from applied knowledge 1,155% include the K-2 Device, a device that can open and close valves so Inspire 1.PTT leadership development program 1 that workers may operate with more convenience and safety, and the (Unit: Million THB) 2.Executive coach Cyclopentane, which is a hydrocarbon that can be used in producing Business benefits from applied knowledge 2015 484 3.Socialization development program plate heat exchangers. The Cyclopentane 80 is a new upgrade from 4.Leader as coach an existing product line to further satisfy customer demand. (Unit: 2016 Million THB) 1,956 5.Cross culture and host-country program 2015 484 2017 2,934 Lifelong Learning 1.Team building 2016 1,956 In developing leadership skills and soft competencies, Thaioil and 2018 5,162 Exit 1.Pre-retirement course (สุขกาย สุขใจ วัยเกษียณ) Subsidiaries organized development programs, including: 2017 2,934 2.How to lead healthy life above 50 Executive Coaching to empower executives and motivate them in 2018 5,162 working efficiently, and Employees who have completed IDP (IDP progress) Furthermore, Thaioil and Subsidiaries have come to value the With this principle, Thaioil and Subsidiaries have used an Leadership Lab for middle management employees to build their 10 (Education): 20 (Exposure): 70 (Experience) principle for integrated human capital development approach that is capacities in creating strong teams and caring for employees, as 2015 Employees who have completed IDP (IDP progress) 70% human capital development as follows: focused on tangible outcomes. Some projects include: well as their ability to identify employee strengths and apply these 2016 82% points to the organization’s and team’s advantage. 2015 70% 2017 85% 2016 82% The Linear Programming Model, or LP Model, Improvement 2018 99% Project has been continuously organized for employees. LP 2017 85% Model is a tool used in economic analysis, and can accurately reflect production processes. It is useful to increase efficiency in 2018 99% Employees with planned career paths planning production processes, as well as procurement of crude oil and other raw materials. 10 % Education Develop opportunities for education through organizing training sessions, workshops, and Thaioil and Subsidiaries also open up opportunities for employees 2015 Employees with planned career paths 2016 83% 87% 10 % seminars where employees may learn new ways Education of thinkingopportunities Develop enrich and theoretical theirtraining work. sessions, workshops, and organizing underpinnings for education throughthat can A research study project on accounting regulations, tax planning, and liability management was organized to increase efficiency in financial management and tax planning for Thaioil and Subsidiaries. to develop their capacities through our Anywhere Anytime Any Content initiative. Here, we offer online courses from SkillLane and organize micro-learning content, make use of artificial reality (AR) in 2015 2017 2016 2018 83% 87% 95% 98% seminars where employees may learn new ways these human capital development initiatives, such that our people 20 % ofExposure thinking and theoretical underpinnings that can Organize enrich theirexperiences work. where employees may gain exposure, such as networking events and site visits. This led to the establishment of Thaioil Treasury Center company limited (TTC), as well as our ability to register international headquarters (IHQ) to reduce costs. may receive the most recent knowledge and be aware of forefront global trends. 2017 Remark 2018 2014-2018, Thaioil and Subsidiaries were in a phase98% Between 95% of restructuring the organizational structure such that it aligns with business expansion strategy. 20 70 %% Exposure Experience Organize experiences where employees may gain Ensure exposure, employees thatsuch learn fromevents as networking andexperience their job site visits. From our use of the 10 : 20 : 70 integrated development principle, where we emphasize the practical application of lessons learnt, The IDP Progress plan was reviewed and updated for the present accordingly. Remark Between 2014-2018, Thaioil and Subsidiaries were in a phase of restructuring through providing on-the-job training, rotation The Energy Intensity Index (EII) Project was used to identify ways Thaioil and Subsidiaries were able to increase business value and the organizational structure such that it aligns with business expansion strategy. Reduced = 5.8 The IDP Progress plan was reviewed and updated for the present accordingly. 70 % opportunities, Experience and dynamic career track options. recruitment million THB Ensure that employees learn from their job experience to reduce costs and energy use, as well as manage the Financial return on employee development investment, and create benefits costs through providing on-the-job training, rotation opportunities, and dynamic career track options. Cost Saving Project, otherwise known as the Symphony Project, and the Orchestra Project for costs and expenses management. that have also been applied to business growth, by a total of 5,162 million THB. This is an increase of 76% from our 2017 performance. Reduced recruitment costs = 5.8 million THB Results are as follow: 68 Human and Organization Development Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 69 Employee training statistic by type Hours of employee training, broken down by type of training Employee training statistic by type Hours of employee training, broken down by type of training RETENTION & CULTURE: Performance Management Model Total training sessions for employees In 2018 were 597 courses. Unit: hours per FTE Performance Management Model Unit: hours per(10) FTE Total training sessions for employees In 2018 were 597 courses. Training Talent Retention & Engagement (DEC -M AR) Employee training statistic by type HoursTraining of employee (10) training, broken down by type of training (DE C MAR ) Coaching and On-the-Job training (20-70) Coaching and On-the-Job training (20-70) One factor in employee retention 1 Performance Management Model Development Unit: hours per FTE hour / head 1 KPI Setting Total training sessions for employees In 2018 were 597 courses. Development hour / head 269 is having a clear assessment and KPI Training (10) 264 269 evaluation of employee performance (DECSetting MAR ) 264 N)) 328 236 232and On-the-Job Coaching training (20-70) 328 232 236 as well as communication for mutual (DE(CDEC N PerSffooe1trrtm ance -JA-JA PerSettmiinnaggnce L) L) Development hour / head understanding. Because of this, 6 KPI Setting 2 (JU(JU 264 269 198 Thaioil and Subsidiaries designed a 6 2 Mid Year 206 198 Rewarding N) 206 214 Rewarding Mid Year Perform PerPfeorrfmorm 328 145 232 236 tool in evaluating the performance of Review 176 214 PLLPAAerSNNfoetrtminagnce -JA 145 176 Review ( JU employees in these 6 steps outlined ( D EC P Rewa anc RewReawaancanc DODO 6 2 L) 62 below: 206 62 198 Rewarding Mid Year rd e rd rde e 145 214 Review 87 176 1. KPI Setting Thaioil and Subsidiaries PLAN ACATCT 87 60 71 will determine indicators and goals at CK CHHEECK 1 60 50 71 5 DO 3 1 62 50 2015 2016 2017 2018 the corporate level which will reach Staff Report 5 C ati ati 3 Year End Online course In-house Domestic Oversea Staff Report on on Year End C C C Online course 2015 2016 2017 2018 employees through a Waterfall or Reading val u Review SkillLane) In-house training Domestic training Oversea Training Reading ACT P e r f o r m aCn Kc e EE v a l u OC OC D ED E -DE (excluding 87 Review (excluding1SkillLane) training training Training 60 50 71 Top Down method. Employees can P e r f o Cr mHEa n c e T NT N ) 5 3 determine additional indicators and ( NVO V (NOV ) Staff Report Year End(( (NO OV) O VO) V ) on Online course In-house Domestic Oversea 2015 2016 2017 2018 goals that align with the ones decided 4 Reading ati u Review training training Training 4 Staff PDiscussion val (excluding SkillLane) KNOWLEDGE MANAGEMENT at the corporate level through a Bottom Staff erfor m ance E Discussion & Ranking T-N The Readiness of Critical Knowledge through G2G: according to is one such location. At the same time, this knowledge is stored in up method. Supervisors and employees ) & Ranking OC ( current data, employee retirement is expected to increase over the various forms such as online documents, videos, interviews, and can agree on goals to work towards ( O C T N4 O V ) (OCT-N OV) following 10 years. At the same time, there will be new incoming summaries. All employees can easily access this information for their together in order to create participation Staff Discussion employees. This means there may be a gap in knowledge transfer. own learning and understanding. and togetherness. & Ranking Thus, during 2017-2018, Thaioil and Subsidiaries have started (OCT-N OV) accumulating critical knowledge of our employees and developed In 2018, Thaioil and Subsidiaries have commenced initiatives to 2 Mid-Year Review Thaioil and a knowledge architecture map for each function. This is done to increase the percentage of readiness of critical knowledge, or explicit Subsidiaries provide an opportunity identify critical and necessary knowledge that falls in the category knowledge from 65% to 72.08%, and have developed plans in 2019 for employees to review goals and of functional competencies. Additionally, this mapping exercise to continue this journey in order to embed knowledge management indicators in the middle of the year, and will also make efforts to develop employee capacities more easily into day-to-day business activities through the KM Ranger Project. support supervisors in coaching and are given an opportunity to evaluate their own performance with their supervisors organized and more integrated with existing systems. Our knowledge We will first start with a gap analysis of knowledge management giving employees feedback on their according to the goals both parties have discussed. architecture maps also come with information on where the knowledge performance of each function, then proceed to closing the identified performance. If there are any factors gaps. This is so that KM is not isolated but rather a part of work. 4. Staff Discussion & Ranking Thaioil and Subsidiaries require a transparent is stored. For example, the KM Portal Thaioil Intranet Share Folder that would prevent employees from performance evaluation process that is fair towards their employees by allowing meeting their goals, their supervisors employees to evaluate their own performance and supervisors presenting the may suggest a review of the plan, content at the department meeting. The CEO will be the president and the Vice Performance including indicators and goals. President will be a judge in the department meeting where performance will be Over 360 knowledge was created in the Wisdom System. 3. Year-End Review Thaoil and based on tangible results and will be evidence based. Subsidiaries give importance to 5. Staff Report Reading The supervisors will discuss employees’ performance with The ability to adopt best practices with excellent knowledge is an important corporate KPI that will drive reviewing employee performance by employees to developing towards best practice, or applying other best practice approaches into their own them in regards to achievements and suggestions for creative improvement as well providing advice and feedback in as guidelines on how to continue developing themselves in the following year. activities. This will ultimately increase our competitive capabilities. In 2018, we have 150 submitted practices order to ensure employees’ progress for “best practice” classification, of which 59 submitted practices have been categorized as best practices. towards a better performance. This 6. Rewarding According to the performance of the organization, and with the Examples include Crude Vessel Optimization, Transformation of Price Risk Management Operations, High includes reviewing achieved goals to approval of the human resources committee, Thaioil and Subsidiaries will raise Contamination Crude Purchasing Strategy, Deep Bed Filter Installation at HCU-2, TAM Anywhere, and TOP act as a basis in setting the following wages for employees which will act as an incentive for better performance and to Group The Best Labor Practice Process (BLP). year’s goals. Additionally, employees propel employees towards career advancement. Benefits from Wisdom & Innovation Project through developing best practices and applied practices accumulated in 2018 value over 3,380 million Baht. Performance Percentage of employees who were evaluated Employee Turnover Rate 70 Human and Organization Development Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 71 Performance Percentage 2015 of employees who were evaluated 100% Performance Percentage of employees who were evaluated Employee 4.57 Turnover Rate 2016 100% $ Financial Initiatives: Employee Turnover Rate 2015 100% Thaioil and Subsidiaries have 2017 2015 100% 100% 3.62 established the Savings Cooperative Fundamental Health Care Program offers annual health checks, 4.57 Performance Percentage 2016 of employees who were evaluated 100% $ Ltd.$ And Consumers’ Cooperative 4.57 3.26 2018 2016 100% 100% influenza vaccination, and weekend health activities. 3.14 Ltd. to contribute to the economic and Employee Turnover Rate 2.91 2017 100% The Special Health Care Program organizes doctor visits to 3.62 2017 100% social well-being of our employees. Thaioil to address chronic diseases such as blood pressure, 3.62 2015 2018 100% 100% These cooperatives create benefits 3.14 3.26 2018 for members through mutually running diabetes, and obesity through BMI Control. 4.57 3.14 3.26 2.91 100% 2.91 2016 100% $ business activities. A committee that The Mental Care Program includes employee visits and the will manage the activities of Thaioil happy clinic. 2017 100% 3.62 More importantly, Thaioil and Subsidiaries promote employee engagement from the Savings Cooperative Ltd. has also 2018 beginning (i.e. new employees) to the end (retiring employees). 100% Due to the diverse been established to lead the activities The Social Program includes the organization of activities for 3.14 3.26 generations that we engage with, each project and program is looked over by specific of the Cooperative such that our goals employees from various functions and sites to meet. These 2.91 groups of people, such as: are accomplished. range from happy hour events to special events and CSR events, where employees are encouraged to devote themselves towards 2557 2558 2559 2560 2562 Creation of a workplace environment for younger generations to meet, chat, Health and Wellness contributing to social good. Initiatives: Remark and engage in informal discussions, as well as modern co-working spaces where Turnover Rate includes death, retirement, dismissal, and resignation employees can participate in cross-function work, these spaces also have digital For A Good Life Activities include traditional activities that 2557 2558 2559 2560 2562 Thaioil and Subsidiaries have promote culture and heritage conservation. Some of these are 2557 2558 2559 2560 2562 technologies that may be used for communication and presentation, such as virtual renovated and expanded the Thaioil boards and real-time technologies. This also helps with reducing constraints in having Thai traditions and holidays such as activities for mental strength Remark Club, which is an area where members and meditation activities where employees can participate in Turnover Remark Rate includes death, retirement, dismissal, and resignation employees travel from Sriracha to Bangkok. can relax, exercise, participate in Turnover Rate includes death, retirement, dismissal, and resignation Vipassana Meditation together. meetings, celebrate, as well as Organization of new facilities in the Talent retention: To retain talented organize special events for each other Thaioil and Subsidiaries continue to foster and strengthen our 2557 2558 2559 2560 2562 Sriracha Refinery area, which are employees for a long period of time, and/or family members. Besides the corporate culture. In fact, one of our human and organizational planned to be completed in 2023. Over we have introduced additional benefits Remark Thaioil Club, we also have introduced strategies is to promote and drive this corporate culture. In Turnover Rate includes death, retirement, dismissal, and resignation the past year, we have constructed a new on top of the welfare and benefits that we other initiatives including: 2018, Thaioil and Subsidiaries focused on fostering a strong facility and commenced moving part of provide in line with other industry leaders. sense of consciousness and promoting transparent behavior the employees. The Engineering Building We have organized the Long Service Thaioil Health Management Program that is fair and free of corruption. Our Akanee Program allowed Center (EBC) which will span 22 Rai has Emblem Ceremony to demonstrate Program was designed to increase our employees to nominate employees who have capacities been completed. Meanwhile, the Thaioil appreciation and inspire employees who health balance for employees through in leadership, honesty, and integrity. This resulted in some Laboratory is still in construction and is have completed 10, 15, 20, and 40 years financial planning and physical, employees being identified as role models, and created an expected to be completed in the first of work in Thaioil. Through this ceremony, mental, and social activities that are awareness and appreciation of being gifted, awarded, and quarter of 2019. employees receive gifts of appreciation fitting for each age group. appreciated. This helps establish a set of desirable behavior from executives. that employees can look up to and follow with. Furthermore, Happy Retirement Project was Furthermore, Thaioil and Subsidiaries have promoted other employee benefits that designed to help employees prepare Thaioil reviewed a set of behavior related to innovation and may create value for employees outside of their work lives. These include financial for retirement for 2 years in advance digitalization to develop our corporate culture to meet with our benefits and health and wellness benefits, as outlined here: such that they may attain quality and future business mission, vision, and strategy. happy retirement lives. 72 Innovation Management Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 73 Innovation Our Commitment Odyssey: Digital Transformation Project Management In 2018, Thaioil and Subsidiaries focused on digital transformation within the organization by establishing the Digitization Thaioil and Subsidiaries enhanced the Task Force (called ‘Odyssey’) as a specialized unit to strategize the end-to-end process of digitization for transforming all Challenges, Risks and Impact management of innovation and technology Thaioil’s business activities within 2019-2021, and to conduct the Proof of Concept: PoC such that Thaioil will lead to increased by setting up, in 2018, the ‘innovation business competitiveness and production capacity. The 2018 was the year of transformations for Thaioil and Subsidiaries. The 2030 vison is and digital’ organization structure to developed and set with the focus not only on creating competitive advantage through focusing on transforming business into our core business, such as the expansion project i.e. Clean Fuel Project: CFP, and digital era, in order to increase business’s the strategy to advance business by digital transformation, but also on developing competitiveness. With an intention to new businesses to respond to and/or empower human life, which have a tendency to enhance core refining business into the In 2018, the following projects have passed change according to the new wave of economic, social, and environmental trends. economies of scale, the new refinery unit the proof of concept as pilot projects for the Odyssey Project: Performance In search of new business opportunities under this vision, Thaioil has necessarily under the CFP project is designed to be transformed our strategy, tools, structures, processes, and human competencies and able to add value to products by converting capability. Innovation is one of the key factors to drive a step change for transforming fuel oil to high quality products that meets business development into a way that aligns with upcoming trends such as Corporate Euro 5 standards, which have lower sulfur Venture Capital (CVC), startups, and accelerators. content and be environmental-friendly, To connect all equipment in the refinery through the wireless network, utilizing digital technology and in line with the government policy. This WIRELESS Internet of Things (IoT) to link functions of all equipment for better efficiency, such as the gas detector results in the needs of feasibility studies PLANT at lorry project, block culvert flooding monitoring project, and wireless instrument infrastructure test Management Approach project. and scientific research on best available technology, as well as the proof-ofStrengthening and enhancing competitiveness of core business concept study on how digitalization can The Pilot Plant of Residue Hydrocracker Unit (RHCU) Project come to increase efficiency of production To apply technologies – namely radio frequency identification (RFID) and face recognition – CFP DIGITAL in order to monitor and assess employees in the refinery for efficiency, safety, and accuracy performance. CENTER (CDC) The CFP’s main objective is to improve efficiency of refining capacity while increasing in operations. Examples include tracking solution for turnaround and face recognition finished product value. Thaioil thus designed the new refinery unit by selecting Apart from the core business, Thaioil for employee identification. advanced technology with potential to refine heavy crude oil, which is a cheaper seek for the new business opportunities raw material compared to light distillates commonly used in production today. By to strengthen our long-term competitive this, the costs of raw material sourcing is expected to reduce to 4-5 USD per barrel. capabilities by prioritizing the development To apply automation process technology to improve work processes and replace manual work, and commercialization of innovation FINANCE and increase effectiveness in responding to customers’ needs and henceforth customer satisfaction. However, as heavy crude oil is complex to manage and refine, it becomes the TRANSFORM Examples include the intercompany auto sale order/delivery order and the auto interface tank-meter, challenge that confronted us throughout our feasibility studies and the investment projects that provide tangible value to our which both gave employees more time to use in data analysis and development planning. decision-making process. Since the characteristics of the crude oil will impact business. This is through an integrated use not only on product quality but may also present a risk of unforeseen potential of tools and processes, including those that impacts on equipment lifetime, all crude oil used in our refining processes are thus promote creativity and Design Thinking required to pass technical assessments from relevant specialist matching with the process, research and development, To apply chatbot technology to upgrade the quality and efficiency of responding to employees. specification on technology before use. Thus, the process of testing new crude oil intellectual property application of DIGITAL Rhinos BOT is used to enhance employee’s access to and understanding of human resource before processing is the most important procedure. WORKPLACE regulations, welfare and benefits, and support employees to get access to such information technology and digital devices, and at anytime and anywhere. Although there are various plants that provide this crude oil testing service, the new type of business investment such supply of these services still does not adequately meet the high demand. Thus, the as CVC for the propose of commercial investment in our own pilot plant for crude oil research will enable us to effectively benefits. Thaioil and Subsidiaries have set conduct tests and research. The use of this pilot plant is expected to provide 260 a target to increase the portion of profits million THB (8.27 million USD) worth of returns on investment per year. generated from technology and innovation businesses to 5% of total profits by 2030. 74 Innovation Management Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 75 New Business Investments Through Corporate Venture Capital (CVC) Performance Performance To respond to our new vision and current trends of abrupt Performance changes, Thaioil has established a unit to seek out investment Performance opportunities in new businesses, in the form of Corporate Venture Capital (CVC). Thaioil has established investment proNumber of Patent registered 2 patents Thaioil has gathered innovative ideas Thaioil has gathered innovative ideas Number of Patent registered 2 patents cesses, organizational structure, investment portfolio, Growth In 2018, and projects exhibited at the Wisdom In 2018, and projects exhibited at the Wisdom and Investment Committee, and agreed on types of targeted Thaioil approved and Innovation Award event, where 11 Thaioil approved and Innovation Award event, where A document management system for project technology to be invested as follows: venture venture innovators came to discuss and innovators came to discuss and PROject DOcument PROject DOcument A document management system for project management with a unique edge in that it allows capital fund exchange ideas, and further developed Control System management with a unique edge in that it allows • Manufacturing technology capital fund exchange ideas, and further developed Control (PRODOC)System different contributors to work on the same document regarding applied science their innovative projects. In 2018, different contributors to work on the same document regarding applied science their innovative projects. In 2018, (PRODOC) at the same time. Contributors may edit and add • Technology for green and human life and engineering. and engineering. various recognition awards were granted. at the same time. Contributors may edit and add various recognition awards were granted. information on the document, and PRODOC will • Technology on hydrocarbon disruption For example, awards for those with information on the document, and PRODOC will For example, awards for those with assimilate all information into one document. outstanding creativity, awards for ones assimilate all information into one document. outstanding creativity, awards for ones who enhance knowledge, innovation who enhance knowledge, innovation awards for those that were applied and awards for those that were applied and generated value. Innovation Culture Fostering generated value. Terminal Automation A high-efficiency terminal management system Terminal Automation Management (TAM) A high-efficiency terminal management system Management (TAM) that includes functions to check purchase orders Thaioil and Subsidiaries continue to focus on building innovative culture in our organization, in order to develop employees’ System that includes functions to check purchase orders from anywhere, arrange queues of oil loading for System capacities and create an environment that encourages and promotes development of innovation as well as platform of innovative from anywhere, arrange queues of oil loading for maximum accuracy, and track transport vehicles. product development. Most importantly, Thaioil aimed at tangible benefits from commercialization of its innovations by setting maximum accuracy, and track transport vehicles. The linked modules of the TAM System can minimize the target of incomes gained from the commercialization of innovation projects as one of the corporate’s KPI. The linked modules of the TAM System can minimize time spent at loading terminals from more than 2 hours Benefits from commercialized time spent at loading terminals from more than 2 hours Tools to Promote an Innovative Organizational Culture: The 3E+E Approach, as Outlined Below: Benefits from commercialized to 45 minutes. Tools to Promote an Innovative Organizational Culture: The 3E+E Approach, as Outlined Below: projects in 2018 to 45 minutes. projects in 2018 Total Total 484 484 million THB million THB Number of commercialized projects 2 projects Number of commercialized projects 2 projects Cyclopentane 80 A collaboration project to produce the CP80, Cyclopentane 80 A collaboration project to produce the CP80, (CP80) which acts as a blowing agent in the production of Benefits of (CP80) which acts as a blowing agent in the production of Benefits of rigid polyurethane (PU). The CP80 is comparable to Educate Educate Expose Expose Execute Execute Evaluate Evaluate 38 38 innovation projects innovation projects from the Wisdom and rigid polyurethane (PU). The CP80 is comparable to the CP95, but costs lower and, if produced locally, the CP95, but costs lower and, if produced locally, can replace imports. Additionally, CP80 may be used can replace imports. Additionally, CP80 may be used Thaioil educates employees Thaioil organizes new Thaioil transforms creative ideas Thaioil evaluates from the Wisdom and as a replacement of CFCs (chlorofluorocarbons) Thaioil educates employees Thaioil organizes new Thaioil transforms creative ideas Thaioil evaluates Innovation Award 2018 as a replacement of CFCs (chlorofluorocarbons) experiences and designs into tangible business initiatives the outcomes of Innovation Award 2018 and HCFC (hydrochlorofluorocarbon), which are and increase their awareness and increase their awareness and understanding of and understanding of technology and innovation experiences and designs the working environment the working environment to inspire employees to inspire employees into tangible business initiatives through our Idea Development through our Idea Development Procedure. Through this Procedure, Procedure. Through this Procedure, the outcomes of innovation development innovation development in two aspects – the cost in two aspects – the cost 1,198 1,198 million THB million THB and HCFC (hydrochlorofluorocarbon), which are main contributors to the greenhouse effect. main contributors to the greenhouse effect. technology and innovation to think creatively and innovators may access funds for savings from application through regularly sharing to think creatively and innovators may access funds for savings from application through regularly sharing innovatively, and celebrates prototyping and product development. of the idea in the work communication materials innovatively, and celebrates prototyping and product development. of the idea in the work K-2 Device An equipment that assists in the opening and closing of communication materials employee innovation At the heart of this process is our process, and revenues K-2 Device An equipment that assists in the opening and closing of and organizing events employee innovation At the heart of this process is our process, and revenues gear system valves, and may be used to reduce time in and organizing events through showcasing such belief in using an open innovation generated from the gear system valves, and may be used to reduce time in and activities. through showcasing such belief in using an open innovation generated from the opening and closing big valves. and activities. initiatives in exhibitions environment where collaborators commercialization opening and closing big valves. initiatives in exhibitions environment where collaborators commercialization Number of innovators who participated at organized both domestically such as academic institutions, of the innovation. Number of innovators who participated at organized both domestically such as academic institutions, of the innovation. the Wisdom and Innovation Award 2018 and abroad. and abroad. experts, and startups from around experts, and startups from around the world may participate with us the world may participate with us in creating and innovating. 120 the Wisdom and Innovation Award 2018 120 innovators innovators in creating and innovating. 76 Innovation Management I n tรายงานความยั O i ษl ั ทP uไทยออยล์ T h a i บริ b l i c C o mจ�pำaกัnดy (มหาชน) e g r a t e d S u s t่ งaยืi nนaแบบบู b i l i t yร ณาการปี Limited R e p o r t 22561 018 77 Innovation Culture in 3E+E Model EXPOSE Sustainable Energy Technology Conference Confirmation: Project PTT Group Process Design National Engineering 2018 PTT Group Innovation Awards 2018 Future Energy Asia 2018 Asia 2018 (SETA 2018) Management Conference 2018 and Simulation Seminar 2018 1-3 November 2018, 8 November 2018, PTT PCL Head Office, 12-14 December 2018 21 – 23 March 2018, 24-25 May 2018 31 May 2018, IMPACT Forum Hall 9 Main Meeting room, 2nd Floor, Bldg. 3 Bangkok International Trade Bangkok International Trade and ExhiKameo Grand Rayong Hotel Holiday Inn Pattaya and Exhibition Centre (BITEC) bition Centre (BITEC) PTT WE CAN PRISM Lab to commercial: Digital Thailand Big Bang 2018 Field visit at PTTLNG Company Limited ITIChE2018 & TIChE2018 1 June – 20 July 2018 MOV & K1 by TOP 19-23 September 2018 13 November 2018 8-9 November 2018 PTT HQ 2 August 2018 Challenger Hall 2, Impact Thaioil Refinery A-One The Royal Cruise Hotel Pattaya CCR Building, PTT Tank, Rayong Muang Thong Thani EDUCATE EXECUTE EVALUATE Together We Share: Innovation Together We Share #3/2018 Commercialization: Cyclopentane 80 Commercialization: K2-device Thaioil Group Wisdom and Series #1/2018: “Thaioil and “We Did Machine Learning 9 November 2018 25 December 2018, Innovation Award 2017 Sriracha Innovation District (SID): Together” Innovation Series Thaioil HQ PTT Tank 11 July 2018, Thaioil’s Role in SID as 10 August 2018 Thaioil Refinery an Energy Leader Thaioil Refinery 5 April 2018 Thaioil Refinery 78 Product Stewardship Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 79 Product Commitment Management Approach Stewardship Thaioil focused on increasing the sale revenue of low-carbon fuels, including gasohol and biodiesel. Moreover, Thaioil and Subsidiaries Our refinery distributes gasohol and biodiesel in accordance with government cafeteria for the drivers. The objective is to ensure that truck drivers are fully carcinogens including benzene and naphthalene. have recognized a business opportunity within the growth of energy policy, with the share of 28% from all fuel rested, such that risks of accidents during • Develop products to replace Challenges, Risks and Impacts demand in Thailand, we have expanded our production capacity through sales in 2018. Additionally, in the same fuel deliveries may be reduced. Moreover, substance that have significant year, Thaioil also started distributing B20 Thaioil has a plan to expand the jetty areas impacts on environment, such as the Clean Fuel Project. We expect that when the CFP is operated in expandable polystyrene To promote sustainable growth and environmentally biodiesel for trucks and public buses in to accommodate more vessels. We aim friendly businesses, Thaioil and Subsidiaries 2023, Thaioil will be able to produce Euro 5 diesel fuels (which have low sulfur content at 10 ppm) and convert fuel oils from our production order to contribute to the reduction of air to build two additional loading points. As • Procure and develop bio-products continuously seek for opportunities to grow our that are compostable and have business and develop our products to become process to the kind of fuels that are more environmentally friendly. pollution and environmental problems a result, more vessels can get access to the loading point, and the jetty can better minimum impacts on environment. more environmentally friendly, by aiming to extend that have stemmed from incomplete our main business towards environmentally friendly As mentioned above, Thaioil is committed to safe and environmentally combustion. For the continuous growth accommodate large oil vessels. These • Monitor and conduct tests of heavy products. Especially in petrochemical business, friendly production and distribution practices in our petrochemicals in domestic fuel demand. The project improvements are to ensure that Thaioil’s metal contaminants which are business. The development of products, services and new innovations hazardous in accordance with Thaioil has identified trends in trade expansion to improve and expand truck loading facilities are ready to facilitate our clients, international standards such as and technology advancement that together have to increase value of the products and services are for the purpose terminals and increase storage capacities while maintaining their satisfaction in our ROSH and SVHC. made consumers more concerned of health, of responding to customer needs and demands. While we manage of storage tanks for fuels, ethanol, and services in the future. safety, and environmental impacts. Thus, TOP all production processes to minimize risks and impacts on the • Adopt and issue the Product Safety B100 have been implemented since 2017. Document, in accordance with the Solvent Company Limited has established policies environment, Thaioil also actively communicates to our customers to to ensure the quality and safety of our production, These improvements are to enhance our Globally Harmonized System. support them in making informed decisions and using our products competitiveness and meet the increasing TOP Solvent Company Limited has set procurement and distribution practices, especially a management approach that covers • Manage transport of dangerous properly and safely. We ensure that we do not withhold any necessary demands of customers. with regards to any potential impacts on the product development, monitoring and goods in accordance with the UN products. TOP Solvent prioritizes customers’ information and that the information we provide are free of distortion. tracking, and education that would most Recommendation on the Transport satisfaction with the purchased products and We also take feedback and recommendations from customers as inputs Thaioil is still aware of safety in product benefit our customers. The approach is of Dangerous Goods (UNRTDG). services, as well as the end consumers who use for further product improvements to improve products and services delivery. In 2018, we have developed outlined below: facilities at the truck loading terminals • Promote customers’ awareness and the products and services. that may best fit to the needs of different groups of customers. • Develop high safety products understanding of product usages, for truck drivers through renovating the through the elimination of storages, and product care for their accommodations and building a new hazardous substances, such as safety. Sales of low-carbon Share of low-carbon product sales Share of environmentally friendly Environmental friendly and safety product Performance products (Gasohol (e.g. gasohol, biodiesel) out of total product (TDAE, TRAE and AROS) by petrochemical business (TOP Solvent) and Biodiesel) fuel oil product sales sales out of total lubricant sales Unit: Million Liter Unit: % (Baht) Unit: % (Baht) 4,576 Cyclopentane 80, developed by Procurement and distribution 4,275 of the solvent with no carcinogens, collaboration project in Thaioil Group 3,778 used in production of glue, synthetic CFC HCFC through research and development. 3,174 27 28 rubber, and surfactant. 26 This substance can replace and reduce 23 the use of CFCs (Chlorofluorocarbons) 18 15 and HCFC (Hydrochlorofluorocarbon), Procurement and distribution of 13 13 which are both GHG emissions, other products used in food production in the production of heat absorbing industry, biodegradable detergent, and foam. This substance can contribute surfactant which received national 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 to reducing risks of global warming. innovation award. 80 Our Society and Communities Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 81 Our Society Management Approach and Communities The Board of Directors of Thaioil have Corporate Social Responsibility Corporate Social Responsibility Policy sets policies and framework to guide Strategy 1. Strive to develop business’s sustainable our corporate social responsibility work, 1. Select community development projects growth coupled with environmental Challenges, Risks and Impacts and also continuously monitors our with a focus on dimensions that are stewardship and care with due regards Thaioil, as one of the main businesses operating in the Sriracha area of Chonburi Province, consider our duty to operate with performance. As well, the Company set up aligned with Thaioil’s business direction. to the impact on the community and a sense of responsibility towards how our business decisions and activities create societal impacts and affect surrounding the specific dedicated functions to taking society as a whole. 2. Focus community development projects communities and environments. With this intention, we run our business with transparency and ethical values that promote care of community development and social on four priorities to support communities 2. Bring upon knowledge, experience, and sustainable development and coexistence with our stakeholders, complying with all regulatory requirements and aligning responsibility, which are responsible for towards achieving self-reliance and expertise in engineering and energy with international standards. To create an integrated organization-wide, we develop corporate social responsibility programs setting corporate social responsibility sustainability: education, energy business to support social development that can effectively solve society’s most pressing problems by considering various options and simulation scenarios of issues strategy, developing long-term plans, and natural resource, environmental with focus on the use of natural resources regarding the environment, public health, education, and quality of life uplifting, for both the communities surrounding our engaging with communities surrounding conservation, and quality of life. for utmost benefits under the Sufficiency operational areas and communities in remote areas around the country such that they can get ready for any economic, social, the operational areas and selected remote Economy Philosophy for self-reliance 3. Create networks and collaborate with and cultural changes that will result from future industrial expansion. areas, reporting performance to the Board sustainably PTT Group, research institutes, and of Corporate Governance every quarter, other organizations that have expertise 3. Implement corporate social responsibility and communicating to all employees in community development and are projects by focusing on community’s Commitment and workers for awareness and proper 97% Thaioil has set a 2019 target to achieve accepted by society. participation in collaboration with local community actions. organizations in the public sectors. Thaioil aspires to be a leading fully of our neighboring communities through 4. Promote the participation of important integrated refining and petrochemical centering our work on creating shared engagement stakeholders, such as community 4. Promote Thaioil Group employees’ company that also responsibly value, developing social development level of more members, government agencies, participation while instill corporate social operates with regard to social and programs, systematically assessing than or at least the same level as 2018, customers, suppliers, and employees. responsibility values and corporate environmental impacts. Our vision and evaluating our performance to through implementing projects such as culture is to do good business while also continuously mitigate our impact and the “Thaioil Job Training Community creating value and contributing to improve upon our work for the maximum Center” as part of the social enterprise the attainment of a good quality of benefit of our stakeholders, and fostering programs. Community Inclusiveness life for surrounding communities and participation with all related parties for Thaioil carried out various activities together with communities surrounding the refinery in Sriracha area, with the “3 Synchronization communities in other remote areas. a sustainable partnership. Model” and the “5 Together” Conceptual Framework in order to encourage engagement in community development and promote Thaioil attain the trust and acceptance self-reliance so that community could be strengthened. The activities were divided into four aspects: 1) social aspect which includes support for religion, tradition and culture, 2) health aspect, 3) education aspect, and 4) environmental aspect, based on holistic development principle. In 2018, Thaioil increased frequency of the 3 synchronization meeting for full team (all chairpersons of ten communities) into every 2 months. The purpose of the meetings were to communicate and discuss the progress of our expansion projects and to invite the representatives of each community to visit the areas where relevant to them. es Ten s ri urro ether Ac t T s idia Tog oge ommunities Sub Thin k th e ing c r Th ai o i l and 3 5 Together und Together D e v elo p T o g Synchronization Conceptual Model Framework ect o et h and orr ed cal g o v L r C e r n m e n tt i o n s e Learn uca tio n al i n stitu T o g eth er 82 Our Society and Communities Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 83 Value Creation framework for Society and Communities Development 2019 Project Implementation Plan by Project Type Priorities Education Environmental Energy and Natural Quality of Life Type Priority Status Objective (SDG target 4.3) Conservation Resource (SDG target 3.8) (SDG target 13.1) (SDG target 7.2) (SDG target 8.3) CSR Projects Around the Refinery (SDG target 13.3) Construction of Thaioil Building for Laem Quality of Life Hospital will operate To promote public health and quality of life of Chabang Hospital in Sriracha, Chonburi in August 2019 residents in Sriracha. CONNEXT ED Project to develop Education Continued in 2019 To develop leaders who can teach English leadership skills (part of the Pracharath skills, and to apply electrical engineering skills Project with PTT Group) in developing school infrastructure through the “Light for the Better Life”. Approach Support initiatives, Manage operational Develop alternative Support access to Job Training Community Center at the Quality of Life Feasibility study To provide job training for community collaborate with processes and reduce energy sources and employment and schools, and grant greenhouse gas promote energy promote public health Thaioil Health and Learning Center members and Sriracha residents at the Health scholarships emissions efficiency for local communities and Learning Center in purpose to increase employment opportunity Crab Bank Community Fishery Center Environmental MoU completed, to To systematically manage coastal resources Value Created to • Increased access to • Reductions in • Increased access to • Increased quality and Marketplace Conservation commence in 2019 without compromising the natural ecosystem Society education greenhouse gas clean energy level of local public through creating a crab hatchery and • Increased quality of emissions • Increased health conservation area where crabs may reside education • Increase in knowledge and • Increased before being released into the wild, and to environmental expertise on energy employable skills promote sustainable fishing practices • Increased number of students from conservation • Increased household Solar Panels for Koh Sichang Hospital Energy and Natural Feasibility study To use alternative energy sources instead disciplines that initiatives incomes Resources of diesel generators, which often come with contribute to national blackouts development Baan Khao Yhai Community Forest at Environmental MoU completed, to To grow a 1,283 rai (2 sq.km.)-forest to reduce Bo Thong with the Forestry Department Conservation commence in 2019 greenhouse gas emissions, to create a fire and the Thailand Greenhouse Gas prevention path, and to share information on Value Created to • Social license to • Social license to • Social license to • Social license to Management Organization (TGO) environmental conservation with communities Thaioil operate operate operate operate National Development • Developed human • Reduced • Increased number • Reduced capital with complaints related of employee complaints related Alternative Energy Developments at Baan Energy and Natural Feasibility study To promote the use of alternative energy business to environmental volunteers with to health impacts Jo Leu Nua, Mae Hong Son Resources sources through “community water turbines” knowledge and impacts expertise in energy • Increased and “innovation of solar energy for chili drying” expertise development community Alternative Energy and Philosophy of Energy and Natural Feasibility study To promote the use of alternative energy • Increased employee engagement Sufficiency Economy (PSE) Education Resources sources through the “Solar: The Light of experience • Increased capable Center at the Baan Huay Tong Border Education” project human resource to Patrol Police School at Nopphitam, the nation Nakhon Si Thammarat Huay Pong San Pik Hydro-electricity Energy and Natural Feasibility study To partner with the Department of Alternative Project at Baan Nong Hoi in Paang Resources Energy Development and Efficiency (DEDE) Ma Pha of the Ministry of Energy of Thailand to promote the use of alternative energy sources 84 Our Society and Communities Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 85 Type Priority Status Objective Highlights 2018 of Surrounding Community Development Programs Co-development project with PTT Group 1. Thaioil Group Dental Clinic for Schools Café Amazon for Chance at Laem Quality of Life To commence in To create job opportunities and provide Chabang Hospital in Sriracha, Chonburi April 2020 barista skill training for those with hearing Background: Cavities and other teeth issues create impacts on Figure 1: Percent of Gingivitis* disabilities and the disadvantaged in Sriracha health and quality of life for all from every age level, especially “OUR Khung Bang Kachao” Green Environmental Participation in To strike a balance between conservation children ages 6-12 years who are still physically and socially Space Development Project Conservation the working group and development, reduce risk of natural developing. Additionally, this is the age group where all 28 adult 50 on water resource disasters, and increase water resource teeth mature. 17.91 18.78 17.11 11.91 development and security and sustainability 25 erosion Activity: Organize “Dental Health Campaign” for primary school students (grades 1-6) in 8 schools around the refinery 0 Thaioil SE Shop (connected to the Job Quality of Life Feasibility study To support community product development 2015 2016 2017 2018 Training Community Center at the Health in terms of branding, marketing, and Objectives: To increase dental health for students and Learning Center) Social Enterprise packaging with communities from Laem Performance: Phase 2 Chabang and surrounding areas Figure 2: The Decayed, Missing, and Filled Teeth (DMFT) Index* • Thaioil has organized free dental health inspections, cavity filling, Promoting Employee Voluntary Culture tooth extraction, pit and fissure sealants, fluoride treatment, and scaling and root planning, as well as promoted tooth decay CSR Projects with New Employees Quality of Life Continued in 2019 To foster a corporate culture of volunteerism prevention at partnered schools since 2010. Results show that 2.5 1.97 while also applying expertise from new this program has resulted in better dental health for students. employees to contribute to communities 2 1.58 1.57 • The average rate of gingivitis for youth in the 10 Laem Chabang 1.5 Run and Have Fun for the Children: Quality of Life Continued in 2019 To foster a corporate culture of volunteerism communities who received dental health services was at 0.92 Collecting kilometers ran and/or walked and promote public health 1 to trade for athletic wear donations for 17.11% (Figure 1), which is better than the national rate at 66.3% (Table 3). 0.5 children • The decayed, missing, and filled teeth (DMFT) index for students 0 TOP Way of Conduct CSR for Thaioil Quality of Life To foster a corporate culture of volunteerism 2015 2016 2017 2018 Continued in 2019 across 8 schools was 0.92 (Figure 2), which is huge better than affiliates and advance the CSR practices the national rate of 1.4 (Table 3). * Dental health performance surveyed from 12-year-old sixth graders (Academic year 1/2018) from the 8 participating schools in ten communities in Laem Chabang district. Table 3 : The 8th National Dental Health Survey in 2017 (Country average rate of 12-year-old students) Performance Community Development Cavities and teeth decay Gums Dental care behavior Investments and Donations 161 million THB Frequency of cavities Gingivitis Never brush teeth after lunch CSR Activities 12 Volunteer Time 83,676 52 % 66.3% 55.3% activities volunteer hours Average cavity found Brush teeth before bedtime Number of Volunteers 721 volunteers 1.4 teeth/person Necessity of cavity remedy 38.6% Good teeth Pit and fissure sealants Drink sugar-sweetened beverage Beneficiaries Volunteer Values Community Engagement Score 66.7% 19.9% 1-3 days per week 57.4% 6 schools, 3 organizations 3.35 million THB 97.27% Without cavity 48% One-sided cavity filling 24% Eat snacks every day 32.6% 86 Our Society and Communities Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 87 Thaioil Group Dental Clinic Statistics Highlights 2018 from CSR Projects That Promote Volunteerism in Employees 6,154 1 Run and Have Fun for the Children 5,382 4,831 Background: This is a recurring initiative that has been organized Performance: In 2018, we organized an activity in Baan Klong 660 530 513 since 2015. Our employees walk, run, or exercise to collect Ko School in Kaset Suwan, Bo Thong, Chonburi. Our employee Total number Average costs kilometers that will be exchanged for clothes, shoes, and socks volunteers applied their engineering expertise to contribute of beneficiaries per person that will be donated to schools in Chonburi. to school development through designing and creating a lawn Objectives: To promote employee health and to organize an mower. Through this lawn mower, the school will be able to keep employee volunteer activity where Thaioil staff can collectively the soccer fields well maintained and reduce the risk of students 2016 2017 2018 2016 2017 2018 work to develop schools and fundraise for student lunches. getting snake bites while on the field. 2. Light for a Better Life Project 2015 2016 2017 2018 Baan Kong Background: The Light for a Better Life Project is a project Performance: Employees from the electrical engineering functions Baan Nern Tong Baan Klong Yang Baan Klong Ko School Pradoo under the CONNEXT ED Leadership for Sustainable Education of Thaioil and our suppliers volunteered in the inspection, Sriracha Bo Thong Bo Thong Koh Chan Project, which is also part of the Pracharath Project. Here, Thaioil maintenance, and repair of electrical systems in participating has brought the engineering expertise and experience of our schools. They also replaced faulty and unsafe electrical equipment, Teachers 7 5 9 7 employees to support community development. set up power system protection equipment and the electric shock protection system, and repaired the lighting systems within walking Students 80 70 93 108 Objectives: paths and classrooms. Additionally, our volunteers also promoted Runners 60 62 174 306 • To prevent electrical fires. energy conservation through the use of LED lamps. By 2019, • To reduce the risks of students and school staff getting this project will be implemented across a total of 10 schools, as Kilometers ran 4,316 4,485 13,824 29,407 electric shocks. stated follows. Employee volunteers 60 65 100 100 • To increase energy conservation through equipment replacement. • To provide basic guidance on maintenance and use of 2 CSR Projects with Our New Employees electrical systems. Background : This initiative was organized to help promote from used bicycles and old materials within the refinery. This volunteerism for new Thaioil employees. water bicycle will be given to students and children to use in their Year School Number of Beneficiaries sufficiency economy gardens. Thaioil also provided metal baskets Objectives : To apply employee expertise, especially in Teachers/ to Maap Prachan School at Baang Lamoong, Chonburi, with the Students engineering, in community development. Staff hopes that this will make it easier for students to correctly sort Performance : About 65 new employees in 2018 came together wastes. 2017 Baan Nong Song Hong School (Chon Buri Province) 173 14 with their expertise in engineering, and created a water bicycle 2017 Wat Don Sai School (Chachoengsao Province) 135 11 3 Communicating the Corporate Social Responsibility Policy through the TOP Ways of Conduct 2018 Wat Prasat Sopon School (Chachoengsao Province) 101 7 2018 Baan Nong Ka School (Chon Buri Province) 174 15 Background : Thaioil developed the TOP Ways of Conduct to • Determination and revision of corporate social responsibility establish important policies and standardize our management policy and strategy 2018 Baan Nong Kayad School (Chon Buri Province) 272 16 approach across Thaioil and Subsidiaries. The CSR Policy is one • Planned CSR projects and activities for the year, and their 2018 Wat Sanam Chan School (Chachoengsao Province) 217 9 of the policies that will be communicated to all subsidiaries for the alignment with Thaioil’s core business plan standardization of CSR practices. • Strategy for communicating social performance 2018 Wat Laem Chabang School (Chon Buri Province) 313 21 Objectives : To create a corporate culture of volunteerism and • Volunteerism culture and ability to systematically volunteer 2018 Wat Mhai Nern Payorm School (Chon Buri Province) 612 38 advance social work through using performance indicators, • Networks with stakeholders and collaborations in including: 2019 Wat Manorom School (Chon Buri Province) 1,232 63 community development projects 2019 Baan Sak Yai Jeen School (Chon Buri Province) 614 26 • Representation in the Social Working Committee 88 Our Society and Communities Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 89 Performance Highlights 2018 of Social Enterprise Projects Business Alignment : Thaioil supported the establishment of Cafe Amazon for Chance through making donations through Sarn 27 July 2017 7 December 2017 26 November 2017 Palung Social Enterprise Co., Ltd. We also participated in the Mangrove Forest Planting and RC Rallying CSR Colored Signs to Improve Scenery TS CSR Developing Quality of Life for development and execution of this Project, which is the main pilot in Parking Lots: Year 3 Primary School Students: Year 1 Location: HTMS Prasae Memorial, social enterprise of PTT Group in the Thaioil Haven for Community Klaeng, Rayong area at Laem Chabang Hospital. Location: Sai Jai Thai Foundation Under Location: Baan Kao Amnuay Sook School, Description: This activity increased green Royal Patronage Phanat Nikhom, Chonburi 2017 space around the Industrial Estate that Objectives : Thaioil operates in, and promoted Employee Volunteers: 180 volunteers Employee Volunteers: 40 volunteers Description: The initiative made merit for Description: Thaioil contributed to the improvement • To support the Pracharath Project for Society (E6), strengthen environmental conservation awareness. It was run following the standards of the Her Royal Highness Princess Maha Chakri of students’ quality of life through creating a clean communities, and increase incomes and quality of life by Ministry of Industry. Sirindhorn, who is also the chair of the space for brushing teeth, an area for the community establishing a fund to improve quality of life for the disabled. Sai Jai Thai Foundation. Thaioil also took farm for sufficiency economy and a storage room charge of preparations to welcome the for farming equipment. We also organized a coloring • To create a learning center where the disadvantaged – i.e. Princess for her visit in December. activity with the theme “Following Our Father’s the disabled, orphans, economically disadvantaged students, Footsteps” and improved playground facilities. teenage mothers – can access job training. • To create secure jobs that can increase incomes for project 28-29 March 2018 29 September 2018 26 November 2018 Cafeé Amazon for Chance at Laem Chabang Hospital beneficiaries and support them in attaining self-reliance and Channel 9 and Bangkok Post Visit Forest Tree Planting for the King and TS CSR Developing Quality of Life for Branch independence from families and welfare fund Releasing Crabs Into the Wild Primary School Students: Year 2 Background : Thaioil joined other PTT Group businesses – namely Location: SAKC / HTMS Prasae Memorial • To develop human capital and create at least 3 capable barristas Employee Volunteers: 30 volunteers PTT, PTTEP, PTTGC, IRPC, GPSC, and PTTOR – to establish Location: Chulachomklao Fort, Phra Location: Chulachomklao Fort, Phra per year Description: Planted trees in the Samut Chedi, Samut Prakarn Samut Chedi, Samut Prakarn the Sarn Palung Social Enterprise Co., Ltd (SPSE). SPSE was mangrove forest registered on September 8th 2017 with a registered capital of • To expand the business and create other branches in other Employee Volunteers: 80 volunteers Employee Volunteers: 56 volunteers areas in Chonburi in order to further support employment for 10 million THB. The purpose of SPSE is to run non-profit social Description: Through this activity, Thaioil Description: Thaioil promoted employee enterprises that solve social and environmental issues, including the disadvantaged and the disabled fostered good relationships with the Navy volunteerism and developed sanitation in while supporting conservation efforts and the school, and increased students’ quality the issue of local employment in areas of operations. As one of • To increase incomes for communities who supply bakery 26 July 2018 increasing crab population in the wild. of life through improving the infrastructure the founding members, Thaioil’s investment makes up 15% of the products or other locally-made products in Amazon Cafe Mangrove Forest Planting and of the primary school students‘ building, total investment. We are also tasked with the important duty of Driving Big Tree Tourism Culture leading efforts in a “big cleaning” activity, supporting SPSE in recruiting and/or developing social enterprises Performance : The store is undergoing construction and we are with the Prasae Community improved the area for brushing teeth, and currently in the process of selecting employees who have hearing working on some scenery improvements. to ultimately reach SPSE’s social enterprise target. disabilities. We plan to start operating in April 2019. Location: HTMS Prasae Memorial, Objectives : To create a space specifically for social enterprises Klaeng District, Rayong Province Thaioil’s CSR Approach to Supporting Laem Chabang Hospital: 2018 to rent and do their business, and to increase employment and Description : Thaioil increased green space income, and provide a source of inspiration for disadvantaged In line with the Ministry of Public Health’s policy for amenities and in 2018, did coastal cleaning, and participated 14 December 2018 Scenery Improvement (road surface groups and the disabled in the area. facilities that support patients and their visitors in hospitals, Thaioil in the cultural event promoting big tree created green spaces for relaxing for the Hospital’s patients and tourism in Thailand: “Our Arbors: National marking and petanque court renovation) Heritage Under the Shadow of the King” at the Through Creative Painting public visitors around the Cafe Amazon for Chance. twin takien trees at Wat Takian Ngam Temple. Location: Sai Jai Thai Foundation Under Royal Patronage Community Engagement in the Operating Areas and Grievance Mechanisms 15 September 2018 International Coastal Conservation Day Employee Volunteers: 175 employees (ICC Day) Description: Thaioil employees volunteered Thaioil and Subsidiaries have established procedures to respond to reported occupational health and safety and environmental to make scenario improvements in preparation incidents from surrounding communities. Complaints are processed through our grievance procedure for environmental impacts, Location: Hat Pla, Baan Chang, Rayong for Her Royal Highness Princess Maha Chakri with committed to providing a response to the complainant within 30 minutes of receiving the complaint. In 2018, Thaioil received Employee Volunteers : 50 employees Sirindhorn’s visit, and promoted active a total of 19 issues, and responded to all of them through systematically following the grievance procedure. However, from Description : Employee volunteers sports and overall health for veterans and investigation, it is founded that all issues did not result from Thaioil’s operations. By any means, Thaioil proactively advanced participated in coastal cleaning. Foundation staff. our grievance mechanism by appointing the Company-established Community Committee as a center of first-line issues and complaint receiving channel with the intention to respond to any issues in a timely and transparent approach. This brought in the result of 2018 community engagement score at 97.27%, which indicates that our efforts to engage community members have succeeded in strengthening communities and helping them achieve self-reliance. 90 Performance Summary Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 91 Occupational Health and 2015 2016 2017 2018 Performance Safety Performance (1), (2) Total hour worked Unit Hour Male Female 2,351,909 Male 1,945,471 Female Male Female 2,214,031 Male 2,072,882 Female Summary • employees Total hour worked Hour 2,064,168 287,741 5,192,527 1,684,378 261,093 5,629,968 1,822,245 391,786 3,772,751 1,844,465 228,417 5,753,718 • contractors 976,584 4,677,579 952,389 3,043,649 729,102 4,707,147 1,052,571 Work Related Injuries (3) Fatality as a result Case 0 0 0 0 Economic Performance Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 of work-related injury Case / 0 0 0 0 Economic Value Generated (1) • employees Million work hours Fatality as a result Case 0 0 0 0 Sales revenue Million THB 293,569 274,739 337,388 389,344 of work-related injury Case / 0 0 0 0 Economic Value Distributed (1) • contractors Million work hours Total recordable work-related 1 1 0 0 Operating cost(2) Million THB 273,819 247,261 305,386 373,128 injury rate (TRIR) Case 1 0 1 0 0 0 0 0 EBITDA Million THB 25,492 32,675 36,925 20,239 • employees 0.43 0.51 0 0 Case / Net profit/ [Loss] Million THB 12,181 21,222 24,856 10,149 Million work hours 0.48 0 0.59 0 0 0 0 0 Earnings / [Loss] per share THB/share 5.97 10.40 12.18 4.97 Total recordable work-related 3 3 1 2 injury rate (TRIR) Case Total assets Million THB 192,166 217,731 228,108 268,613 3 0 3 0 1 0 2 0 • contractors 0.58 0.53 0.27 0.35 Case / Total liabilities Million THB 97,009 111,597 127,148 126,472 Million work hours 0.71 0 0.64 0 0.33 0 0.43 0 Return on equity % 13.9 21.3 21.7 8.3 Lost-time injury frequency rate 0 0 0 0 (LTIFR) Case Return on assets % 6.5 10.5 11.4 4.2 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 • employees 0 0 0 0 Market capitalization Million THB 109,141 136,070 171,832 177,238 Case / Million work hours 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Employee wages and benefits Million THB 2,924 3,299 3,468 3,580 Lost-time injury frequency rate 1 1 1 0 (LTIFR) Case Remarks 1 0 1 0 1 0 0 0 1. Scope of reporting Economic Performance is in alignment with Financial Statement in Thaioil’s Annual Report 2018 • contractors 0.19 0.18 0.27 0 2. Operating costs are the expenses which are related to the operation of a business, or to the operation of a device, component, and piece of equipment or facility or location. Case / Million work hours 0.24 0 0.21 0 0.33 0 0 0 Near miss(4) Contributions to Organizations and External Type of Organization Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Case 3,237 3,697 3,138 3,393 • employees and contractors Associations Work Related Illness Oil Industry Environmental Safety Group Association (IESG) Trade Association THB 1,302,000 1,477,000 1,740,000 1,799,000 Fatality due to work-related illness Case 0 0 0 0 • employees Oil Spill Response Limited (OSRL) Trade Association THB 2,398,375 2,370,574 1,973,293 2,187,097 Fatality due to work-related illness Case 0 0 0 0 PTIT Petroleum Institute of Thailand Tax-Exempt Organizations THB 642,828 684,201 710,993 758,660 • contractors Thailand Environmental Institute Trade Association THB 250,000 250,000 250,000 250,000 Occupational illness frequency rate Case / 0 0 0 0 (OIFR) Million work hours The Federation of Thai Industries (FTI) Trade Association THB 42,800 121,980 209,760 132,680 • employees Inspectioneering Tax-Exempt Organizations THB 37,740 18,870 37,740 37,740 Occupational illness frequency rate Case / 0 0 0 0 (OIFR) Million work hours International Council of Large Electric System (CIGRE) Trade Association THB 19,598 18,743 20,348 0 • contractors The Association of Private Power Producers (APPP) Trade Association THB 42,800 82,033 85,600 0 Process Safety (5) Board of Trade of Thailand Trade Association THB 10,700 10,700 10,700 10,700 Number of Process safety Case 0 0 3 2 The Thai Chamber of Commerce Trade Association THB 24,610 24,610 24,610 24,610 events – tier 1 Case / Million work hours 0 0 0.5 0.26 Remarks 1. Contributions from Thaioil and Subsidiaries are calculated to be 97% of the total sale revenue Number of Process safety Case 2 1 1 1 events – tier 2 Case / 0.27 0.13 0.17 0.13 Million work hours Remarks 1. Thaioil and Subsidiaries follow standard statistical reporting of PTT Group in accordance with Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA). 2. Occupational health and safety reports are broken down to employees and contractors in order to illustrate social responsibility of Thaioil and Subsidiaries to operational contractors. 3. Small injuries that only require first aid is not included in the accidents record. 4. Thaioil and Subsidiaries report ‘Potential Incident Report (PIR)’ in combination with Near Misses (see the additional content in Occupational Health and Safety chapter) 5. Thaioil and Subsidiaries reported process safety in accordance with API RP 754 standard. 92 Performance Summary Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 93 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 People Performance Unit People Performance Unit Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female GRI 405-1 Employees (1) • Below 30 years old Person 14 4 11 7 9 4 8 7 Total number of employees Person 1,409 1,437 1,447 1,480 • 3050 years old Person 8 6 5 12 3 5 7 5 1,041 368 1,056 381 1,059 388 1,088 392 • Over 50 years old Person 14 5 10 0 21 5 12 4 Number of employees by level Turnover rate % of total 3.62 3.14 3.25 2.91 Permanent Contract employees 3.46 4.08 2.46 5.03 3.12 3.61 2.48 4.08 • Executives(3) Person 8 1 12 2 8 1 11 2 Voluntary resignation rate % of total 2.34 2.37 1.60 1.76 • Management(4) Person 94 51 94 51 91 50 94 55 employees • Non-Management Person 939 316 950 325 958 334 983 335 DJSI Employee engagement (8) Temporary Contract (7) Employee engagement score % 81 84 89 57 • Executives(3) Person N/A N/A 0 1 2 1 1 1 Employee satisfaction score % 84 83 92 75 • Management(4) Person N/A N/A 0 1 0 1 0 1 GRI 401-3 Parental leave • Non-Management Person N/A N/A 0 1 0 1 0 1 • Employee taken parental leave Person 20 16 40 35 Number of employees by age group (1) 14 6 12 4 24 16 20 15 • Below 30 years old Person 273 134 252 100 246 93 292 100 • Employee returned to work after parental Person 20 16 40 35 • 3050 years old Person 542 192 529 222 522 238 516 239 leave 14 6 12 4 24 16 20 15 • Over 50 years old Person 226 42 275 56 291 57 280 53 • Rate of employee return to work and stay % of employees 100% 100% 100% 100% Number of employees by area of work after using the parental leave taken parental leave 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Permanent Contract DEVELOPMENT • Depot Person N/A N/A 2 1 2 1 2 0 • Bangkok Person N/A N/A 46 128 49 131 49 135 GRI 404-1 Average training hours (1), (2) • Sriracha (Refinery) Person N/A N/A 1,008 249 1,006 253 1,036 254 Total training hours Hours 122,081 85,893 71,644 105,032 Temporary Contract (7) 94,307 27,774 60,019 25,874 52,340 19,304 81,804 23,228 • Depot Person N/A N/A N/A N/A 0 0 0 0 Average training hours for all employees Hour/Person/Year 90.6 75.5 57 68 49 50 75 60 • Bangkok Person N/A N/A N/A N/A 0 3 0 3 • Average hours of training for executives(3) Hour/Person/Year 415 324 102 145 42 269 110 27 • Sriracha (Refinery) Person N/A N/A N/A N/A 2 0 1 0 • Average hours of training for management(4) Hour/Person/Year 151 90 68 84 46 71 74 84 Number of employees by religion • Average hours of training for Hour/Person/Year 82 72 55 66 50 45 75 56 non-management employees • Buddhist Person N/A 1,401 1,415 1,449 Human Capital Development Performance • Christian Person N/A 20 19 18 Employees who developed Individual % 100 89 97 100 • Islam Person N/A 31 12 12 Development Plan (IDP) • Atheist Person N/A 0 1 1 IDP Progress % 70 82 85 99 ATTRACTION Employees who have a Career Path % 83 87 95 98 GRI 401-1 New employees hired (1) Rate of internal promotion(9) % 17.81 19.28 20.18 15.36 Total number of new employees hired Person 100 66 55 70 Development expense Million THB 391 405 417 447 66 34 40 26 32 23 53 17 THB/person 277,175 282,427 288,182 302,640 • Below 30 years old Person 59 26 34 17 27 17 51 12 Values from applied knowledge into business Million THB 484 1,956 2,934 5,162 • 3050 years old Person 7 8 6 9 5 6 2 4 practice (KM) • Over 50 years old Person 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 Return on employee development % 124 483 704 1,155 Total new hire rate % of total 7.10 4.60 3.80 4.73 RIGHTS employees 6.34 9.24 3.79 6.88 3.02 5.93 4.87 4.34 Employee Grievance Ability to recruit employees % of the total number 89 85 85 92 Number of grievances about corruption Case 0 0 0 0 of position available for recruitment • Resolved grievance Case 0 0 0 0 RETENTION • Under investigation Case 0 0 0 0 GRI 401-1 Employee turnover (1), (5) Number of grievances about labor practices Case 1 3 0 1 Total turnover Person 51 45 47 43 • Resolved grievance Case 1 2 1 1 36 15 26 19 33 14 27 16 • Under investigation Case 0 1 0 0 94 Performance Summary Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 95 2015 2016 2017 2018 Environmental Performance Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 People Performance Unit Male Female Male Female Male Female Male Female Refinery fuel consumption intensity GJ/ ton throughput 2.78 4.06 3.79 3.89 GRI 102-41 Labor Union • Natural gas Million GJ 18.69 31.60 35.11 37.28 Employees supervised under labor union(6) % 79 76 74 72 • Fuel oil Million GJ 5.40 6.33 2.53 3.19 Remarks • Fuel gas Million GJ 16.47 21.19 18.72 17.48 NA: Not Available 1. Consolidated data of employees assigned from external organizations, both permanent contract and temporary contract. • Coke Million GJ 0.82 0.82 0.97 0.92 2. The data excluded paid education leave funded by Thaioil-supported scholarships. • LPG Million GJ less than 0.01 less than 0.01 less than 0.01 less than 0.01 3. Executives include CEO, president, senior executive vice president, and executive vice president. 4. Management includes vice president, department manager, and section manager. • Diesel Million GJ 0.01 0.01 less than 0.01 0.015 5. Turnover rate includes employees with voluntary resignation, employees with normal retirement, employees who have asked to be resigned, layoffs and fatalities. • Gasoline Million GJ less than 0.01 less than 0.01 less than 0.01 less than 0.01 6. Scope of reporting includes only Thaioil Public Company Limited. 7. Employees on temporary contracts are full-time employees since Thaioil does not hire any part-time employees. • Ethanol Million GJ less than 0.01 less than 0.01 less than 0.01 less than 0.01 8. In 2018, there has been a change in the method used to assess and calculate the employee engagement and satisfaction score to the organizations. A more challenging method has been adopted to help improve employee’s engagement to the organization in the future. This caused the results for this year to be lower than the previous. Electricity consumption Megawatt Hour 967,063 987,728 1,026,841 1,053,508 9. Due to the past 5 years (2013-2017), as Thaioil has been operating according to the strategy to expand the business, numerous employees have been hired in preparation, whereby Electricity purchased from external supplier Megawatt Hour 0 0 0 0 majority of the employees do not have experience. Nonetheless, employees who have been working with Thaioil for a certain period of time and have experience illustrated an improvement in performance. Thus, in 2016 and 2017, the number of employees promoted was higher than any other years as employees from both categories were seen to be qualified Electricity sold (4) Megawatt Hour 294,526 1,171,414 1,583,839 1,580,035 for a promotion and further growing in the organization. Reductions in energy consumption GJ 477,741 470,699 383,009 562,075 Society and Community Development Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total amount invested in renewable energy Million THB 1,380 1,298 1,212 1,381 Number of beneficiaries who used Thaioil Group Person 56,245 56,967 51,649 55,304 Direct Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 1)(3) Million ton CO2 2.54 3.65 3.40 3.49 Health and Learning Center in Sriracha equivalents Indirect Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scope 2)(3) Million ton CO2 0 0 0 0 Community Engagement Score % 98.20 97.98 93.50(1) 97.25 equivalents Number of employee volunteer hours Hour 5,344 7,168 17,672 (2) 8.376 Greenhouse gas intensity (Scopes 1 and 2) Tons/ throughput 0.17 0.25 0.22 0.23 Greenhouse gas emission reduction (Scope 1) (3) Tons 26,827 26,406 21,487 32,151 Remarks 1. From 2017 onwards, the Community satisfaction score has been changed to Community engagement score to the organization. Air Emissions (5), (6), (12) 2. Employee volunteer hours were higher in 2016 as it was during the royal funeral ceremony of His Majesty King Bhumibol Adulyadej. Nitrogen oxide (NOx) emission Thousand Tons NOx 2.85 4.42 4.44 4.50 Sulfur oxide (SOx) emission Thousand Tons SOx 5.13 7.21 3.49 4.14 Value Chain Management Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 Volatile organic compound (VOC) emission Thousand Ton 1.47 1.46 1.42 1.43 GRI 308-1 and GRI 414-1 Suppliers Waste Disposal by Type New suppliers that were screened using the criteria % 100 100 100 100 Total hazardous waste disposal Ton 4,902 5,922 4,276 7,369 for social and environmental aspects • Landfills Ton 21 24 18 47 Number of grievance about social and Case 0 0 0 0 • Recycle Ton 1,661 884 1,031 1,425 environmental aspects from suppliers and contractors • Recovery Ton 2,764 4,685 3,134 5,754 GRI 414-8 Customers • Others(7) Ton 202 329 92 143 Number of grievance about customer data Case 0 0 0 0 Total non-hazardous waste disposal Ton 254 354 238 306 leakages/loss • Landfills Ton 119 161 100 182 Customer engagement (1) % 100 91 96 (2) 96 • Recycle Ton 78 95 82 57 • Recovery Ton 46 47 39 67 Remarks 1. Scope included Thaioil, Thai Lube Base, Thai Paraxylene and Thaioil Marine. • Other(7) Ton 11 51 20 0 2. From 2017 onwards, the Customer satisfaction score has been changed to Customer engagement score. Total non-routine waste disposal(13) Ton 0 0 0 5,338 • Recovery (including energy recovery) Ton 0 0 0 5,338 Environmental Performance Unit 2015 2016 2017 2018 • Landfills Ton 0 0 0 0 Refinery throughput (1) Metric ton 14,870,915 13,905,501 15,121,269 15,132,708 Oil and Chemical Spills Investment regarding energy conservation Million THB 23 43 26 0 Significant oil and chemical spill-land Case 0 0 0 0 Energy Management and Greenhouse Gas (2), (4), (12) Significant oil and chemical spill-marine(8) Case 0 0 0 0 Total energy consumption (2) Million GJ 17.62 27.39 29.41 31.60 Legal Compliance Refinery energy intensity GJ/ ton throughput 1.19 1.85 1.95 2.09 Fines for non-compliance with environmental laws Million THB 0 0 0 0 Total fuel consumption (2) Million GJ 41.39 59.95 57.33 58.89 Number of violations of legal obligations/regulations Case 0 0 0 0 96 Performance Summary Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 97 Water withdrawal Water from areas Environmental Performance Unit with water stress 2015 2016 2017 2018 2018 (9) Water Water withdrawal by Total Seawater (10) Million m3 16.0 19.17 18.23 17.96 17.96 source • Freshwater (≤1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Million m 3 0 0 0 0 0 Solids) • Other water (>1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Million m3 16.0 19.17 18.23 17.96 17.96 Solids) Total water withdrawal from other sources Million m3 3.57 4.09 4.63 4.98 4.98 • Freshwater (≤1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Million m3 3.57 4.09 4.63 4.98 4.98 Solids) • Other water (>1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Million m3 0 0 0 0 0 Solids) Total third-party water Million m3 Million m3 4.98 withdrawal by withdrawal source Million m 3 Million m 3 0 Million m 3 Million m 3 0 Million m 3 Million m 3 0 Total Water Consumption From all water sources Million m 3 19.57 23.26 22.86 22.94 22.94 Water discharge by Discharged into the sea Million m 3 16.69 19.45 18.73 18.60 destination Total water discharge(10) All discharge destinations Million m3 16.69 19.45 18.73 18.60 18.60 Water discharge by level Freshwater (≤1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids) Million m3 0 0 0 0 0 of treatment Other water (>1,000 mg/L Total Dissolved Solids) Million m3 16.69 19.45 18.73 0 18.60 Water consumption Total water consumption Million m3 2.88 3.81 4.13 4.34 4.34 Remarks 1. Refinery Throughput includes crude oil and other feedstock. 2. Total energy consumption covers TOP, TPX, TLB LABIX, TP and TOPSPP. The amount of fuel, steam, and electricity was accounted as per GRI G4 Manual of EN3. All energy conversion factors were specific value from Thaioil and Subsidiaries’ laboratory. 3. Thaioil and Subsidiaries follow standard statistical reporting of PTT Group in accordance with WBCSD GHG Protocol. The greenhouse gases include CO2, CH4, and N2O. 4. There was no steam sold to outside the organization. 5. Thaioil and Subsidiaries follow Health, Safety, and Environmental Performance Monitoring and Report developed by Shell International Practice Standard. 6. Thaioil and Subsidiaries do not purchased ozone depleting substances including CFCs, HCFCs, halons, and methyl bromide. 7. Other waste disposal covers incineration and external wastewater treatment services. 8. Oil and chemical spill at sea greater than 1 Barrel is considered significant. 9. Data exclude portable water consumption which has very small volume compared to water consumption in production process. 10. Both water withdrawal and discharge include the rejected seawater of desalination unit. 11. Referring to Aqueduct Water Risk Atlas according to GRI Standard’s requirement 12. The refining capacity of Thaioil in 2018 was more efficient than the previous year as the result of the efficiency of equipment maintenance compared to aged lifetime, including higher numbers of planned shutdown and the increase in ratio of fuel oil, resulting in the increase in all environmental parameters. 13. Non-routine wastes in 2018 were from ground preparation for the expansion project. LRQA Independent Assurance Statement  Interviewing TOP‘s management representative to understand and obtain data and information associated with high level strategic management approach. Relating to Thai Oil Public Company Limited’s Environmental and Social Observations Disclosures within the Sustainability Report for the calendar year 2018 Further observations and findings, made during the assurance engagement, are:  Stakeholder inclusivity: This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Thai Oil Public Company Limited in accordance with our contract but is The stakeholder engagement process provides TOP with a valuable learning tool; routinely input from stakeholders intended for the readers of this Report. has contributed to the strategic management. However, we believe that the stakeholder engagement process should also capture the needs and expections of other vulnerable groups, such as migrant workers. Terms of Engagement  Materiality: We are not aware of any material issues to be excluded from the Report. TOP has maintained its process of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by Thai Oil Public Company Limited (TOP) to identifying and determining material issues, which takes into account local and global issues, and uses this provide independent assurance on the environmental and social disclosures within its Sustainability Report 2018 (“the information to make informed business decisions that improve TOP’s sustainability performance. For example: Report”) against the assurance criteria below to a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional local issues relating to the mega project expansion include: judgement using LRQA’s verification procedure. LRQA’s verification procedure is based on current best practise and disruption associated with the construction phase which is being addressed through a number of management uses the principles of AA1000AS (2008) inclusivity, materiality, responsiveness and reliability of performance data and processes, and processes defined in ISAE3000. compliance with more stringent environmental regulation which is being addressed through the introduction of ‘state of art technology’ to replace current but aging refining processes that enables TOP to reduce their impact Our assurance engagement covered TOP’s operations and activities in Chonburi, Thailand, including six subsidiary on issues such as water shortage and production of cleaner fuels companies and specifically the following requirements:  Responsiveness:  Reviewing whether the selected environmental and social disclosures within the Report have taken account of the TOP has demonstrated their commitment towards improving sustainability performance by putting in place policies GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards and strategic management approaches that address the impacts associated with the material issues. For example:  Evaluating the reliability of data and information for the selected environmental and social disclosures listed below: 1: Energy efficiency projects to address climate change challenges, and Environmental: GRI disclosure 302-1, 303-3 , 303-4 , 305-1, 305-2, 305-7, 306-2, 306-3 Health assessments to improve the well-being of subcontractors. Social: GRI disclosure 403-9 a and 403-9b , 403-10a and 403-10b  Reliability: Note: For safety performance data (disclosure 403-9, 403-10), it also covered TOP’s operations and activities in Bangkok, Thailand. TOP has an established internal verification system which ensures the data reliability and accuracy across the Group. Our assurance engagement excluded TOP’s operations and activities outside Chonburi, Thailand, any project expansion within Chonburi, Thailand and the data and information of its suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. LRQA’s standards, competence and independence LRQA implements and maintains a comprehensive management system that meets accreditation requirements for ISO LRQA’s responsibility is only to TOP. LRQA disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end 14065 Greenhouse gases – Requirements for greenhouse gas validation and verification bodies for use in accreditation footnote. TOP’s responsibility is for collecting, aggregating, analysing and presenting all the data and information within or other forms of recognition and ISO/IEC 17021-1 Conformity assessment – Requirements for bodies providing audit the Report and for maintaining effective internal controls over the systems from which the Report is derived. Ultimately, and certification of management systems that are at least as demanding as the requirements of the International the Report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of TOP. Standard on Quality Control and comply with the Code of Ethics for Professional Accountants issued by the International Ethics Standards Board for Accountants. LRQA’s Opinion LRQA ensures the selection of appropriately qualified individuals based on their qualifications, training and experience. Based on LRQA’s approach nothing has come to our attention that would cause us to believe that TOP has not: The outcome of all verification and certification assessments is then internally reviewed by senior management to ensure  Met the requirements above that the approach applied is rigorous and transparent.  Disclosed reliable performance data and information for the selected environmental and social disclosures as no errors or omissions were detected The verification is the only work undertaken by LRQA for TOP and as such does not compromise our independence or  Covered all the issues that are important to the stakeholders and readers of this Report. impartiality. The opinion expressed is formed on the basis of a limited level of assurance and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier. Signed Dated: 14 February 2019 Note: The extent of evidence-gathering for a limited assurance engagement is less than for a reasonable assurance engagement. Limited assurance engagements focus on aggregated data rather than physically checking source data at sites. Consequently, the level of assurance obtained in a limited assurance engagement is substantially lower than the assurance that would have been obtained had a reasonable assurance engagement been performed. Nit Tanasuthiseri, LRQA Lead Verifier LRQA’s Approach LRQA’s assurance engagements are carried out in accordance with our verification procedure. The following tasks On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance though were undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement: Lloyd’s Register International (Thailand) Limited 22nd Floor, Sirinrat Building, 3388/46 Rama IV Road  Assessing TOP’s approach to stakeholder engagement to confirm that issues raised by stakeholders were captured Klongton, Klongtoey, Bangkok 10110 THAILAND correctly. We did this through reviewing documents and associated records.  Reviewing TOP’s process for identifying and determining material issues to confirm that the right issues were LRQA reference: BGK00000275 included in their Report. We did this by benchmarking reports written by TOP and its peers to ensure that sector specific issues were included for comparability. We also tested the filters used in determining material issues to evaluate whether TOP makes informed business decisions that may create opportunities that contribute towards Lloyd's Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, sustainable development. employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as 'Lloyd's Register'. Lloyd's Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided,  Auditing TOP’s data management systems to confirm that there were no significant errors, omissions or misunless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd's Register entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any statements in the Report. We did this by reviewing the effectiveness of data handling procedures, instructions and responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. systems, including those for internal verification. We also spoke with those key people responsible for compiling the data and drafting the Report. The English version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. 1 GHG quantification is subject to inherent uncertainty. This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the Report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2019. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group. This document is subject to the provision on page 2. . 100 Awards and Recognitions Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 101 Awards 01 05 06 07 and Recognitions Gold Class level of RobecoSAM Sustainability Award 2018 for The Governance, Environment, and Safety Award was awarded to The 2018 Asset Triple A Asia Infrastructure Awards The Best Public Company of the Year 2018 from the Resource Group the 5th consecutive year Sak Chaisidhi Company Limited for the Power Deal of the Year was was awarded in the Money & Banking with a “White Flag-Green Star” awarded to Thaioil Public Company Awards 2018 event. distinction in 2017 and “White Flag-Gold Limited and TOP SPP Company Limited Star” distinction for the 6th consecutive by The Asset magazine, with Thaioil year by the Industrial Estate Authority of Public Company Limited also receiving Thailand. the Power Deal of the Year-Highly Commended Thailand Award. 02 Member of Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) 2018 for the 6th consecutive year 03 04 08 09 10 The 2018 Energy Sector Executive The 2018 Thailand ICT Excellence The 2018 CSR-DIW Continuous Award On the 27th of August 2018, Certificate received for participation of the Year Award was awarded to Award for Business Enabler Projects for the 11th consecutive year Thaioil Public Company Limited in the Low Emission Support Scheme our CEO was awarded for our TOP Data for the Light for a Better Life project, held an Extraordinary General Meeting (LESS) by the Foundation for Thai Society and Communication Center (TOP DCC) an initiative under the Pracharath Project for shareholders regarding the Clean Fuel through the submission of 4 energy the Local Development Institute. Project – a system that automatically to develop basic education and build the Project (CFP), and received approval conservation and energy efficiency sends and receives sales-related data to leadership capacities for Department of from shareholders to invest in CFP. projects in the “2017 100 Hearts and from our business partners. The TOP Industrial Works officials. To Reduce Global Warming” initiative DCC Project is also a pilot project to work organized by the Thailand Greenhouse towards commercial excellence, received Gas Management Organization by the Thailand Management Association. (Public Organization). 102 Awards and Recognitions Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 103 11 12 13 17 18 The regional-level 2018 Strongest The Sustainability Awards The 2018 Best Company A full 100 points awarded for The ESG 100 Certificate awarded Commitment to Sustainable Energy of Honor was awarded for the 2nd Performance Awards the evaluation of the quality of for the 4th consecutive year in Southeast Asia Award was awarded consecutive year from the 2018 SET for listed companies with market organized annual general meeting by the Thaipat Institute. for the 7th consecutive year, Sustainability Awards, and Thaioil capitalization of over THB 100 billion, for shareholders (AGM Checklist) with the Best Senior Management IR was also listed as a sustainable the Outstanding CEO Award, and in 2018 Support Award and Best Strategic investmentin the Thailand the Outstanding Investor Relations Award by the Thai Investors Association. Corporate Social Responsibility Award Sustainability Investment (THSI) list from the 2018 SET Awards organized by the Stock Exchange of Thailand. also awarded in the national level, by the Stock Exchange of Thailand. by the Alpha Southeast Asia magazine 14 15 16 19 20 The 2018 Best Energy Corporate The Leadership Excellence Award The 2018 Excellence Sustainability Ranked “Excellence” The TOP 50 ASEAN PLCs Governance Thailand Award and the Sustainable Development Report Award in the Corporate Governance Report (TOP 11-30) Award was awarded was awarded by the British magazine / CSR Excellence Award was awarded by the CSR Club of the of Thai Listed Company 2018 by the ASEAN CG Scorecard project Capital Finance International or cfi.co. or the 2nd consecutive year from the Thai Listed Companies Association, for the 10th consecutive year for the 2nd consecutive year. Thailand Corporate Excellence Awards in collaboration with the Securities and by the Thai Institute of Directors. 2018 event organized by the Thailand Exchange Commission of Thailand and Management Association with Sasin the Thaipat Institute. Graduate Institute of Business Administration of Chulalongkorn University. 104 GRI Content Index and UNGC Principles COP Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 105 GRI Content Index TOPIC SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES UNGC PRINCIPLES COP Thaioil Material Topics GRI Topics Disclosures Page or Website Comments/ Omissions External Assurance 103-1 20 GRI 103: Management 103-2 21-24 Fight Against Approach Corruption 103-3 21-25 GRI 205: 205-3 24, 93 Anti-Corruption GENERAL DISCLOSURES 103-1 26 GRI 103: Management GRI External GRI External 103-2 27-31 Approach Page or Website Page or Website 103-3 27-31 Standard Assurance Standard Assurance GRI 405: Diversity and Equal 405-1 28 Organizational Profile 102-26 14-15 Opportunity Human Rights GRI 412: Human Rights 412-1 29 102-1 1, 5 102-29 10-13 Assessment 412-2 31 102-2 5-9 102-30 15 GRI 308 Supplier Environmental 28-29, 308-1 Assessment 55-56 102-3 6 102-31 16 GRI 414: Supplier Social 28-29, 414-1 102-4 6 102-32 16 Assessment 55-56 102-5 6 102-33 16 103-1 32 GRI 103: Management 103-2 37-39 102-6 6 102-34 92-93 Environmental Approach Management System 103-3 37-39 102-7 6-7, 90-93 102-35 Annual report (Remuneration) GRI 307: Environmental 307-1 39 Compliance 102-8 91-93 102-36 Annual report (Remuneration) 103-1 32 102-9 6-7 102-37 Annual report (Remuneration) GRI 103: Management 103-2 33-36 Approach 102-10 6-7 Stakeholder Engagement 103-3 35-37 403-1 33 102-11 32-39 102-40 10 403-2 33 Occupational Health 102-12 1, 26, 107, 108 102-41 92-93 403-3 34 and Safety GRI 403: Occupational Health 403-4 34 102-13 90 102-42 10 and Safety 2018 403-5 35 Strategy 102-43 10 403-6 35 102-14 2-3 102-44 12-13 403-7 35 403-9 36, 91 yes 102-15 2-3, 12-13, 18-43 Reporting Practice 103-1 32 Ethics and integrity 102-45 1 GRI 103: Management 103-2 36-37 Process Safety and Approach 102-16 5, 14-17, 20-25 102-46 1, 10-13 Integrity 103-3 36-37 G4-OG13: Asset Integrity and 102-17 14-15, 24 102-47 12-13 G4-OG13 37-91 Process Safety Governance 102-48 12 103-1 40 GRI 103: Management 103-2 41-43 102-18 14-17 102-49 1, 12 Approach Climate Change 103-3 42-43 102-19 14-17 102-50 1 GRI 201: Economic 201-2 40-43 102-20 14-17 102-51 1 Performance 103-1 40 102-21 18 102-52 1 GRI 103: Management 103-2 41, 48-49 Approach 102-22 14-17 102-53 1 103-3 43, 48 Water-Related Risks 303-1 41 102-23 14-17 102-54 1 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 303-2 41 102-24 Annual report (Nomination) 102-55 104-107 2018 The standard, methodologies and consumptions 303-3 43, 97 yes 102-25 24 102-56 98-99 used to calculate water withdrawal are not reported. 106 GRI Content Index and UNGC Principles COP Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 107 TOPIC SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES TOPIC SPECIFIC DISCLOSURES Thaioil Material Page or External Thaioil Material Page or External GRI Topics Disclosures Comments/ Omissions GRI Topics Disclosures Comments/ Omissions Topics Website Assurance Topics Website Assurance 103-1 46 103-1 78 GRI 103: Management Product Stewardship / GRI 103: Management 103-2 46-50 103-2 78-79 Approach Low-carbon Products Approach 103-3 46-50 103-3 78-79 To avoid double counting, Thaioil does not report energy consumption / sold of electricity, heating, 103-1 80 302-1 94-95 yes GRI 103: Management cooling, and steam, since all were self-generated from 103-2 81-89 Operational primary fuel. Only electricity was sold out to external. Approach GRI 302: Energy 103-3 82-89 Eco-efficiency 302-3OGSD 94 Corporate Citizenship 413-1 81-89 302-4 95 and Philanthropy GRI 413: Local Communities 302-5 59 413-2 81-89 GRI 203: Indirect Economic 203-1 82-89 GRI 303: Water and Effluents 303-4 48, 97 yes Impact 203-2 82-89 2018 303-5 48, 97 GRI 201: Economic 305-1 42, 96 yes Business Performance 201-1 90 Performance 305-2 43, 96 yes 305-3 43, 96 GRI 305: Emissions 305-4 96 UNGC PRINCIPLES COP 305-5 96 305-7 49-50, 96 yes United Nations Global Compact Principles 306-2 96 yes 306-3 38-39 yes Principles Page 103-1 52 Human Rights Principle 1 : Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally 26-31 GRI 103: Management proclaimed human rights Approach 103-2 52-57 Principle 2 : Businesses should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses 26-31 103-3 52-57 Value Chain Management GRI 308 Supplier Environmental 308-1 55-56 Labor Principle 3 : Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective 31, 93-94 Assessment 308-2 54-56 recognition of the right to collective bargaining GRI 414: Supplier Social 414-1 55-56 Principle 4 : The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour 31 Assessment 414-2 54-56 103-1 60 Principle 5 : The effective abolition of child labour 31 GRI 103: Management 103-2 60-71 Approach 103-3 60-71 Principle 6 : The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation 31 Human Capital 401-1 92 GRI 401: Employment Environment Principle 7 : Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental 32-39 Development 401-3 93 challenges 404-1 93 GRI 404: Training and Principle 8 : Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 46-50 404-2 66-67 Education 404-3 70 Principle 9 : Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly 72-79 103-1 72 technologies Innovation GRI 103: Management Management Approach 103-2 72-77 Anti-corruption Principle 10 : Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including 20-25 103-3 72-77 extortion and bribery 108 SDGs Progress Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 109 Thaioil assesses the social and environmental impacts of our main business activities in our assessment 2018 Progress SDGs of sustainable material issues. We prioritize the issues based on both negative and positive impacts, and define targets that are in alignment with the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals. Thaioil’s Progress assessment, monitoring, and reporting process has been developed in reference to GRI’s and UNGC’s “Integrating the SDGs into Corporate Reporting: A Practical Guide”. UN Sustainable Development UN Sustainable Development Goal Corresponding Thaioil Targets Progress in 2018 More Information Goals Targets Thaioil’s Commitment SDG 3: 3.8 Achieve universal To support in public Thaioil Group’s Health and Learning Center Our Society Good Health health coverage, health service and and including financial risk accessibility of • 55,304 persons benefited from the use of Communities: Well-being protection, access communities in Laem the Health and Learning Center page 80-89 Company sets priority in improving Company sets priority in to quality essential Chabang district, • 6,154 persons benefited from energy efficiency by achieving the top promoting health and safety health-care services Chonburi Province, quartile of Energy Intensity Index (EII) for community by supporting participating in Thaioil’s Dental Clinic among global oil and gas industry on quality healthcare service and access to safe, and other remote Project by 2023 (7.3) accessibility (3.8) effective, quality, and communities. affordable essential The construction of Thaioil emergency medicines and building for Laem Chabang Hospital was Company sets priority Company sets priority in enhancing Company sets priority in vaccines for all completed and will be operated in 2019 in promoting sustainable national scientific R&D by increasing 5% supporting basic service procurement by adopting profits generated from innovation and accessibility in remote areas SDG 7: 7.3 Double the global To be ranked as the Refinery Energy Intensity Index at 82.5 Operational green procurement technology business by 2030 (9.5) by providing infrastructure and practice and enchance building local capability for Affordable rate of improvement in top quartile of Energy Eco-Efficiency: suppliers’ ESG sustainable living (11.1) and Clean energy efficiency. Intensity Index (EII) page 47 performance (12.7) Energy among global oil and Creating gas industry by 2023. Raw materials Company operations Society and End-Product Use Minimizing Company sets priority in protect Company sets priority SDG 8: 8.8. Protect labour To achieve a total TRIR at 0.26 cases per million workhours QSHE human rights and promote safe and secure in preventing environmental Decent rights and promote recordable injury for all workers, better than the target of Management: working environment by implementing impact to society by conducting Work and safe and secure frequency rate (TRIR) less than or equal to 0.50 cases per million page 33-37 human rights due diligence and by public hearing and EIA for Economic reducing accident rate to zero for all all significant projects (11.6) working environments among first 10% of oil workhours workers (8.8) Growth for all workers, and gas industry by including migrant 2022. Company sets priority in achieving workers, in particular efficient use of natural resources by women migrants, and To maintain zero of LOPC Tier 1: 2 events achieving operational eco-efficiency those in precarious Process Safety Events: target (12.2) employment. Loss of Primary and minimize environmental impact Containment (LOPC) Tier 1 released to air, water or ground (12.4) To implement the 100% of employee trained about human rights Human Rights: human rights due page 26-31 diligence process 100% of Thaioil operations subject to human Company sets priority in strengthening rights risk assessment resilience and adaptive capacity to for 100% of Thaioil climate related by reducing 4% direct operations and to 100% of new suppliers responded to ESG GHG emission from BAU by 2023 (13.1) assess human rights self-survey risks for all critical suppliers. 30 critical suppliers participated ESG Company sets priority in preventing risk Plus Verification Program for ESG risk on non-compliance and ABC by maintaining zero fraud and corruption assessment at site level. incidents (16.5) 110 SDGs Progress Thai Oil Public Company Limited Integrated Sustainability Report 2018 111 UN Sustainable UN Sustainable Corresponding Thaioil Progress in 2018 More Information UN Sustainable UN Sustainable Corresponding Thaioil Progress in 2018 More Information Development Development Goal Targets Development Development Goal Targets Goals Targets Goals Targets SDG 9: 9.5 Enhance scientific To promote innovation Established ‘Innovation and Digital’ Innovation SDG 12: 12.2 Achieve the To achieve target of 4.34 million cubic meter of total water Operational Build research, upgrade culture and enhance organization structure to focus on Management: Responsible sustainable environmental consumption Eco-Efficiency: resilient the technological the business research and development, innovation page 72-77 consumption management and parameters and to page 48-50 infrastructure, capabilities of opportunity in area of and technology and efficient use of natural maintain zero of 4,140 tons of SOx emission promote industrial sectors innovations. production resources environmental inclusive and in all countries, 2 patents filling incidents. 4,497 tons of NOx emission sustainable 12.4 Achieve the including encouraging 2 R&D projects commercialized environmentally sound industrialization innovation and 1,427 tons of VOCs emission and foster 484 million THB in cost savings and management of substantially chemicals and all 229 ton of waste to landfill, equal to 1.76% innovation. increasing the revenues generated from commercialized R&D and innovation wastes throughout of total waste generation number of research their life cycle, in and development accordance with Zero significant spill of oil and chemical QSHE workers per 1 million Innovation ideas initiated in Wisdom & Innovation Award event can be applied into agreed international Management : people and public frameworks, and page 37-39 and private research 38 improvement projects, value at around 1,198 million THB significantly reduce and development their release to air, Ocean loss index at 0.20% by volume, Value Chain spending 120 innovators enrooted in Wisdom & water, and soil in better that the target of less than 0.21% by Management : Innovation Award order to minimize their volume page 53 adverse impacts on SDG 11: 11.1 Ensure access To enhance 6 schools and 3 organizations benefited Our Society human health and the Sustainable for all to adequate, communities’ quality from projects for remote communities and environment Cities and safe, and affordable of life through Communities: Communities housing and basic promoting basic Project Light for a Better Life under page 80-89 CONNEXT ED to provide knowledge 12.7 Promote public To promote green Announced Supplier Code of Conduct: Value Chain services and infrastructure and procurement practices procurement practice SCOC since 2015 and continued in 2018 Management : upgrade slums. knowledge on energy on electricity system and energy conservation for 10 schools in Chonburi and that are sustainable, in the organization page 53-57 and engineering to in accordance with and enhance 100% of new suppliers acknowledged ultimately create Chachoengsao provinces SCOC and responded to ESG self-survey national policies and environmental, social self-resilience. Provided expertise in engineering, and priorities. and governance (ESG) Not any crude suppliers in approved list created a water bicycle for schools in practice with suppliers. present environmental and social impacts Baang Lamoong, Chonburi Considered environmental impact along life Support employment of people with hearing cycle in the green procurement practice, disabilities in Café Amazon for Chance project pilot with catalyst. 11.6 Reduce the To minimize 100% of significant capital projects passed QSHE SDG 13: 13.1 Strengthen To reduce GHG 0.23 tons carbon dioxide equivalent per ton Climate adverse per capita environmental impact public participation of concerned Management : Climate resilience and emission from business throughput Change Risk: environmental impact to community and stakeholders page 37-39 Action adaptive capacity as usual by 4% by page 40-43 of cities, including by conduct a proper to climate-related 2022 paying special attention public participation for Clean Fuel Project was approved. hazards and natural to air quality and all significant capital disasters in all municipal and other projects. countries. waste management. 112 SDGs Progress UN Sustainable UN Sustainable Corresponding Thaioil Progress in 2018 More Information Development Development Goal Targets Goals Targets SDG 16: 16.5 Substantially To have a clear, Maintained zero corruption and fraud Fight Against Peace, reduce corruption transparent and fair incidents. Corruption : Justice, and bribery in all compliance system in page 20-25 and Strong their forms. place and to maintain 100% of new employees trained about code Institutions zero corruption and of conduct and anti-corruption. fraud incidents as well 100% of employees reported conflict of as to take position interest. of no corruption acceptance in any Established ‘compliance unit for procurement’ Value Chain cases. function for transparency and auditability. Management : Utilized digital system for both suppliers page 53-57 and customers for transparency and fair treatment.
