UN Global Compact Communication on Progress – February 2019 “Over the past 12 months, the role of business in society has never been more relevant nor more passionately debated. Many renowned voices have argued that a healthy society is not at odds with a prosperous private sector and that, on the contrary, the two are intrinsically linked. This emerging consensus has increased interest in how firms like ours are responding. Articulating how we behave as a responsible business is now fundamental; to clients, potential recruits and neighbours. Our new statement of purpose and a refreshed set of values have strengthened our own language, broadening our people’s understanding of where we are now and raising their expectations of what we do next. I welcome this challenge and am proud to reiterate our commitment to the Global Compact; alongside many others, together we can prove unequivocally that business is a force for good.” Charlie Jacobs, Senior Partner and Chairman Collaboration has been a recurring theme in the past year, through Through these connections and our ongoing commitment to the established networks and also in direct engagement with clients, Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), our focus this year is on communities and hundreds of not-for-profit organisations. Our stronger measurement and more effective communication. We have longstanding belief in the UK’s Living Wage now extends to advocacy done well in many areas but, if we are to progress, we need more for equivalent movements elsewhere in the world, while a new global detailed knowledge of where we are getting it right and why we are programme on social enterprise is bringing new opportunities and getting it wrong. Similarly, although we have become better at sharing new ideas to five cities around the globe. These partnerships bring our stories with a wider audience, there is much more we can do us new and exciting connections, offering a rich seam of challenge to engage those around us in our work. Partnership – and not least and inspiration. This leads to innovation, illustrating once again how the UNGC network – will be at the heart of our learning and we look diversity in thought – whether in our people or our partnerships – forward to playing our part in bringing SDG 17 – “Partnerships for the only adds to the capabilities of our business. Goals” – to life in the coming 12 months. Key contacts:  Owen Clay, Partner, Chair of Corporate Responsibility Committee owen.clay@linklaters.com Matt Sparkes, Global Head of Corporate Responsibility matthew.sparkes@linklaters.com 1. Human Rights – Linklaters supports and respects the We encourage our people to consider potential or actual adverse protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. human rights impacts in their work. Our internal guidance on Our statement of intent on human rights makes explicit our human rights at the firm provides for a discussion of actual and commitment and clarifies our ambition. The statement endorses the potential human rights impacts as part of existing consideration of United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights wider business risk and reputational issues, particularly for higher and supports the principles contained within the International risk areas. Our Business and Human Rights Group has extensive Bill of Human Rights and the International Labour Organisation’s expertise in how multi-national corporations should address human Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. The rights risks and opportunities in their operations and is often asked statement is approved at the highest level, is publicly available and to give training to clients. Internal training again took place this is communicated internally and externally. It remains under regular year through a series of sessions across our global network to raise review, as does the extensive supporting material provided for awareness of business and human rights concepts among our additional internal guidance. broader legal and business teams while we contributed to a number of external conferences and seminars. Our international Business and Human Rights Group continues to advise clients on developing human rights policies, due diligence, We continue to raise the importance of human rights as an issue impact assessments and supply chain risk management. In within our supply chain. Our Sustainable Procurement Policy particular, we advise many large multi-national corporations on and Statement is available online and sets out our commitment the implementation of the Guiding Principles and on the nonto respond to human rights concerns, not only in the selection of financial disclosure requirements around human rights policies suppliers but also in their ongoing management. Focus continues and considerations. Recent work includes assisting a number of to be primarily placed on suppliers to our UK offices, where to date companies in the energy, infrastructure and shipping sectors on no concerns have been identified. We will continue to track this human rights due diligence for the purposes of M&A transactions; through our supplier governance. A review exercise of key suppliers advising a major ICT company on the design and implementation across our international offices also highlighted no areas of concern. of a global human rights compliance programme; advising a client Commitment: We will maintain the momentum of recent work by on the identification and management of human rights impacts establishing sustainable procurement as a norm across our office in the context of a high-risk, high-value contract in a challenging network and, with the help of internal experts, ensuring that our market; advising lenders and sponsors on the management of approach remains appropriate and effective. human rights risk in project finance documentation and assisting 3. L  inklaters upholds the freedom of association and the effective several companies in their engagement with supranational human recognition of the right to collective bargaining. rights bodies and non-government organisations. We have a firm-wide policy in place that we maintain employment We continue to provide pro bono advice to further human rights. arrangements and agreements that do not prohibit or discourage During 2018 we were delighted to receive recognition for our work freedom of association or collective bargaining. informing Acid Survivors Trust International’s campaign for crucial changes to the law in England and Wales to tackle acid violence Commitment: We will continue to implement this policy across (commended by the Financial Times European Innovative Lawyers all our operations. Awards). We were also recognised for our role as an early adopter 4. Linklaters upholds the elimination of all forms of compulsory of “eyeWitness to Atrocities”, an innovative programme ensuring or forced labour, and photo and video evidence uploaded to a “virtual evidence locker” app is admissible in proceedings (Group Member Award, 5. Linklaters  upholds the effective abolition of child labour. International Bar Association). eyeWitness reached a major We have a firm-wide policy in place that we will not use, be milestone in 2018 when audiovisual evidence captured through complicit in, or knowingly benefit from forced, compulsory or the app was submitted to a military tribunal prosecuting two child labour. We will engage our people on the basis of recognised militia leaders for atrocities in the Democratic Republic of Congo. partnership, employment, collaboration and consultancy Other noteworthy projects have included: arrangements established through national law and practice. >> securing success for LGBTI individuals claiming asylum For several years, we have been advising clients on the implications in the UK or U.S. where they have faced persecution in their of the UK Modern Slavery Act. We continue to review our own country of origin operations to ensure that we are already complying with the new >> collaborating with EY and the Office of the United Nations High legislation, not only in setting out a policy, but also in monitoring our Commissioner for Human Rights (“OHCHR”) to examine the suppliers and by being prepared to act where we have concerns. international framework for the rights of older persons, along Our Modern Slavery Statement (expanded, in fact, to cover broader with legal and policy frameworks across a number of countries human rights) and interactive guide to the legislation remain freely available on our website. Our priority in the first 24 months was >> presenting a multi-jurisdictional review of extractives sector our most high-risk supply chains in London, notably in catering regulations, in order to enhance UNICEF’s understanding of (sourcing of food), merchandise and IT. We have now begun to how companies are required by law specifically to respect, extend this scope to include our international offices. protect or otherwise consider, children’s rights when undertaking extractives projects Again, pro bono activities support this principle: Commitment: We will review our internal guidance to ensure it >> through Lawyers Without Borders, our lawyers have created remains relevant and, in particular, the processes we have in place a suite of training materials to equip lawyers, judges and to monitor the firm’s performance in addressing human rights risks. prosecutors in Liberia and Tanzania in appropriately identifying We are committed to sharing our commercial expertise pro bono and dealing with human trafficking cases and will continue to grow this aspect of our programme. >> we provided support to a coalition of local NGOs in Nepal, providing input on improvements in child labour law. 2. Linklaters  makes sure that it is not complicit in human The resulting amendments are in the process of rights abuses. parliamentary ratification In line with the UN Guiding Principles, we strive to avoid causing or >> we maintain our support for Thomson Reuters’ annual Anticontributing to adverse human rights impacts on our people and, Slavery Summit in Hong Kong, where last year we were part of a through the running of our offices, those who work for us through panel on C-suite and director duties regarding slavery risk our supply chain. We also commit to addressing such impacts immediately should they occur. Commitment: We will continue to extend the reach of our modern slavery and human rights policy through our supply chain. We will build on our expertise in this principle and use that to inform our own practice as well as that of pro bono clients. 6. Linklaters upholds the elimination of discrimination in respect To truly have an impact and act as a responsible business, we use of employment and occupation. our size, resources and capabilities to effect positive change in the Linklaters opposes all forms of unlawful discrimination. We are world around us. In the UK our lawyers assist with queries received committed to providing equal opportunity to everyone in all aspects by Working Families helpline, advising on topics such as maternity of work, including recruitment, selection, training, promotion, and paternity leave, rights to time off in an emergency and shared redeployment, performance improvement measures, disciplinary parental leave. In Asia, we participated in an intervention in the QT and grievance procedures, redundancy situations and terms and case in Hong Kong, which ultimately led to equal immigration rights conditions of employment. We believe that individuals should be for same-sex couples and we also contributed to a legal analysis of treated on their merits and that employment-related decisions same-sex marriage under the Japanese Constitution. We are also should be based on objective job-related criteria such as aptitude the pro bono legal supporter of the Gay Games Hong Kong 2022 and skills. Additionally, Linklaters is committed to ensuring that organising committee. all professional dealings with third parties will be free from any Our community investment activity seeks to promote equal access discriminatory behaviours. to opportunities to create a fairer and more inclusive world. In We are committed to ensuring a safe working environment, New York, we run mock trials with local NGO Legal Outreach. In free from bullying or harassment. Our bullying and harassment Stockholm, our people mentor immigrants who seek a career in law policy (applicable to employees and contractors) sets out the while in London, our Careers Conversations programmes supports responsibilities of individuals and managers in reducing workplace those who speak English as an additional language. We help to bullying/harassment, as well as explaining what support is available. increase their awareness of the UK job application and interview The policy is published on our intranet and is regularly referred to in process and their confidence in speaking English in a work setting. core skills training for managers and in internal communications. Commitment: We commit to gathering data, training and educating We know that we must also ensure that our culture enables people our people, and maintaining sponsorship of our D&I Action Plan at to raise issues promptly, confident in the knowledge that they will the most senior level. feel supported and that issues will be dealt with swiftly, sensitively 7. L  inklaters supports a precautionary approach to and in accordance with our values and local law/regulation. environmental challenges. Naturally, the firm has an internal global whistle-blowing policy for The Environment and Climate Change Group advises clients on employees to raise concerns in the public interest, while protecting climate change, policy, emissions abatement, product stewardship them against suffering any detriment. In 2018, we launched two and decommissioning legacy management. The group is well new mechanisms to support this: 1) SpeakUp, an alternative, known for its stand-alone expertise across law, regulation and soft external whistleblowing hotline which supplements the systems law application to environment issues, and functions seamlessly we already have in place. It is currently available to everyone with market-leading corporate, projects, financial regulatory and working in the UK, Americas and Asia, and will be rolled out derivatives teams. further; and 2) new guidance on managing relationships at work. Our own firm-wide Environmental Policy commits us to Our Global Diversity and Inclusion (D&I) Strategy and Action Plan minimising the harmful effects of our services and operations help us to give people an enhanced understanding of D&I through on the environment and ensures we focus on a programme of specific initiatives, training, engagement and communications. continual improvement. A consistent approach to managing this Our strategy is governed by our most senior leadership bodies has been achieved through a global Environmental Management – Executive Committee, Partnership Board and our People System (EMS), with the governance of this system overseen Committee. Key activities include: by a sub-committee of the Partnership Board. The in-house >> Setting targets – in addition to our gender targets, establishing environmental sustainability and energy team manage and drive targets for other diversity strands the integration of the EMS to support our Responsible Business >> Developing global metrics – measuring progress with a diversity commitment. Five environmental focus areas concentrate on our scorecard for each business unit and developing an inclusion greatest impacts and where we have the biggest opportunities for index for the firm achieving change: resource conservation, climate change, waste >> Collecting global data – measuring how effectively we attract, management, supporting biodiversity and pollution prevention. retain and progress diverse talent against each of our priority We report our progress publicly via the Carbon Disclosure Project diversity strands. We must navigate any legal restrictions to (CDP) supply chain module, with our greenhouse gas emissions collecting data and build our people’s trust and confidence externally assured to the ISO 14064 standard, ensuring accuracy in declaring their personal diversity data and build their and transparency. For the second year, we have retained a CDP understanding of why we need this information score of A-, placing the firm in a leading position for the legal >> Starting early – educating our people about the importance of sector globally. D&I at the firm, from when they start with the firm and at every After 10 years of efficiency projects and energy management stage of their careers, including pre-joining; and offering career focus, it is now harder to achieve further reductions. To development support to men and women at every stage complement our efforts, the firm became Carbon Neutral in >> Continuing to deliver unconscious bias and inclusive leadership 2017, offsetting the unavoidable carbon emissions resulting from training – supporting each office to develop a locally relevant energy use, business travel and waste. In 2018, we committed D&I plan. Embedding diversity and inclusion in all our learning to a new three-year carbon neutral project, working with a and development programmes range of partners on the Gola Rainforest Conservation Project in Sierra Leone. This “Reducing Emissions from Deforestation and >> Engaging D&I partners and D&I champions – leveraging the Degradation (REDD+)” programme delivers both environmental global network of D&I partners and appointing senior leaders and social benefits through developing sustainable livelihoods to support the priority diversity strands (eg including executive – particularly in cocoa production – and through expert and committees and our director group). Creating D&I champions informed conservation. at all levels of the firm – we can learn from work in London, where associates are leading diversity strands in conjunction Commitment: We will continue to advise our clients on with local network groups environmental issues, will focus on our five priorities and commit to being a carbon neutral business by supporting >> Increasing scrutiny of the diversity mix of lateral hires and the Gola Rainforest Conservation Project. leveraging this as an opportunity to increase the number of female partners in the firm. The same principle applies to other strands of diversity 8. L  inklaters undertakes initiatives to promote greater Telepresence facilities in our Frankfurt, London, Hong Kong environmental responsibility. and New York offices, combined with global video-conferencing We are one of only two global law firms to have achieved facilities continue to provide an alternative to business travel. ISO 14001 certification of our EMS comprehensively across our Over a period of three years, use of these facilities has increased global operations. In May 2018, we completed the global transition by 60%, with further technology upgrades planned. Moreover, to the latest ISO 14001:2015 standard and the firm was awarded electric car charging points were installed in the firm’s UK office a new Certificate of Registration, valid until May 2021. The firm’s car parks during 2018. operational teams continue to implement efficiency initiatives, Commitment: We will continue to consider environmentally for example by investing a further £124,000 in energy efficiency efficient technologies in our operations, and willingly share upgrades, including LED upgrades during 2017/18, saving our experience and learn from others to encourage adoption of circa 121,000 kWh per annum. similar schemes by us and others. In support of the firm’s Sustainable Procurement Policy, we 10. L  inklaters works against corruption in all its forms, are now implementing a new secure printing solution that including extortion and bribery. builds awareness around good and bad printing habits, implementing best practice “follow me” printing globally. Linklaters’ work in risk, regulation and governance addresses This solution reduces paper use, energy consumption and many of the most critical challenges faced by our clients, bringing transport-associated impacts. In addition, since September together a broad range of expertise, specialist knowledge and 2018, no single use paper or plastic cups are provided in innovative thinking to enable us to offer holistic advice in any our UK offices, with reusable cups sold and used instead. given situation. Of particular note is the team’s work advising on the application of anti-bribery frameworks in new and developing We continue to work with our clients, staff and suppliers to markets. Recent matters have included: ensure the evolving green and circular economies prosper. In 2018, our World Environment Day (WED) was supported by our >> performing a governance review of a multi-national company global network of over 150 environmental representatives and operating in the FMCG sector, which included an assessment champions and 24 teams around the world. Every office joined of its policies and procedures for the management of antiforces to promote this theme of “Beat Plastic Pollution” with some bribery and corruption risk locations adopting additional initiatives; for example, the yearly >> advising an oil and gas services company in connection with “bike to work” competition in Germany; the “build a beehive the second ever civil recovery settlement obtained by the SFO workshop” in Poland and “Green Week” across our Asian offices. We continue to champion good governance in international As executive members of the Legal Sustainability Alliance, development and are shortly expecting the publication of a report we continue to communicate and report our environmental on CAMA, a pan-African movement that is redefining international performance publicly. We also engage with a number of development through young women’s leadership. We provided sustainability reporting portals. In addition to CDP, we use the financial and pro bono support for this report. Ecovadis sustainability benchmarking platform to share our In providing advice to clients on these themes, we must, of performance with clients and were delighted in 2018, to course, take steps to encourage our people to show leadership score 80 out of 100 in the Environment category. in every jurisdiction in which we operate. We have robust Commitment: We will build upon the renewed firm-wide ISO policies and procedures on anti-bribery and corruption and 14001:2015 EMS to maintain our progress. We will use World these are under regular review. Our people are encouraged to Environment Day to engage with our clients and our people raise concerns quickly and confidentially, and our Risk function and we will continue to report on our activity to clients, provides 24/7 support to our lawyers wherever they may be. In regulators and other stakeholders. 2018, we revised and for the first time shared publicly online – “Our Ethical Code” – which includes significant guidance on 9. Linklaters encourages the development and diffusion of anti-bribery and corruption matters including whistle-blowing. environmentally friendly technologies. Commitment: We will use the recent uplift in internal Linklaters’ expertise in environmentally friendly technology awareness of “Our Ethical Code” to ensure that there is covers a full spectrum of relevant projects, including onshore and consistency between our advice to clients on anti-bribery offshore wind, solar, biomass, biofuels, wave/tidal, geothermal, and corruption and the approach we take to this issue within hydropower, waste and waste to energy. By way of example, we our own operations. advised Anglian Water on its £250m debut issuance of Green Bonds, the first such issuance by a UK utility. As well as external alignment, we have reviewed our own environmental sustainability programme against the Sustainable Development Goals, notably: affordable and clean energy (Goal 7), responsible consumption and production (Goal 12), and climate action (Goal 13). Since 2010, Linklaters GHG emissions have reduced by 27%, supported by a 25% reduction in emissions from water use, a 34% reduction in electricity, a 2% reduction in business travel and procuring at least 60% of electricity from renewable sources. Our offices in the UK, France, Germany and Sweden procured 100% renewable energy in the financial year 2017/18. linklaters.com GC15170A_F/01.19 Linklaters LLP is a limited liability partnership registered in England and Wales with registered number OC326345. It is a law firm authorised and regulated by the Solicitors Regulation Authority. The term partner in relation to Linklaters LLP is used to refer to a member of the LLP or an employee or consultant of Linklaters LLP or any of its affiliated firms or entities with equivalent standing and qualifications. A list of the names of the members of Linklaters LLP and of the non-members who are designated as partners and their professional qualifications is open to inspection at its registered office, One Silk Street, London EC2Y 8HQ, England or on www.linklaters.com and such persons are either solicitors, registered foreign lawyers or European lawyers. Please refer to www.linklaters.com/regulation for important information on our regulatory position.
