2018 C O M M U N I CAT I ON ON PR OGR ESS More Than Mail table of contents iii About This Report 8 Delivering to Our Environment Report Scope 9 Highlights References Statistics & Future Goals Assurance iv Company Snapshot 10 Delivering to Our Community v Corporate Structure Overview 11 Highlights Direct Management Approach Future Goals vi From the Executives Donations vii Report Breakdown 12 Associations & Memberships 13 Performance Highlights 1 Delivering to Our Associates 15 UNGC Reporting Index 2 Associate Highlights 16 GRI Indicators Associate Benefits 17 Compliance, Ethics & Anti-Corruption 3 Health & Safety 18 Contact 4 Improving Our Work Environment Future Goals 5 Delivering to Our Customers Services 6 Highlights 7 Statistics & Future Goals ii 2018 Communication on Progress about this report references NAC became a signatory of the United Nations Global Reference to “NAC” within the scope of this report Compact (UNGC) in 2008. Over the past 10 years, the refers to “NAC and its partner companies, NAMS, NAMS UNGC Ten Principles have been thoroughly integrated Direct, and NAC Logistics, LLC”. References to “NAC in NAC’s best business practices, company policies, and facilities, operations, systems, and locations: refers to reporting structure. In addition to the UNGC Ten Principles, “NAC, NAMS, NAMSdirect, NAC Logistics, LLC facilities, NAC utilized the Global Reporting Initiative’s G4 Guidelines operations, systems, and locations, unless otherwise to assist in assembling and organizing the information stated. Use of the words “we” and “our” within the in this report. The specific locations of the UNGC Ten scope of this report means of, belonging to, or on behalf Principles and GRI Indicators within this report are outlined of “NAC and its partner companies, NAMS, NAMS Direct, in indices found on pages 21-22. and NAC Logistics, LLC”. report scope assurance The 2018 Communication on Progress (COP) encompasses NAC is committed to providing accurate information to company performance information, initiatives, and our stakeholders. At this time NAC has chosen to forego statement for North American Communications (NAC) and seeking outside assurance for this report. its partner companies, North American Mailing Services (NAMS), NAMSdirect, and NAC Logistics, LLC. This is NAC’s seventh annual COP. Its boundaries are limited to January 2018 to December 2018. Company statistics are calculated per reporting period and represent all U.S. and Mexico locations. Statistics referenced in this report represent combined averages of data sets from all NAC facilities for January 2018 December 2018, unless otherwise stated. 2018 Communication on Progress iii company snapshot 85 years ago Abe Herman embarked on a journey that we now call NAC. With one machine and a drive for success, he paved the pathway for two generations of leadership to grow from a small envelope company to one of the largest direct mail manufacturers in North America. We understand that being a leader means celebrating our triumphs and learning from our missteps. To continue our success, we need to look beyond our bottom line and develop innovative solutions and processes that effect positive change within our associates, supply chain, communities and planet. We pledge to make our commitments a reality and strive to be a company that is more than mail. iv 2018 Communication on Progress corporate structure overview NAC is a privately owned U.S. company operating in North America. The NAC Board of Directors is comprised of current owners. The Board of Directors steers the overall vision for NAC and offers guidance to aid in and promote strategic growth. direct management approach NAC has compiled this report based exclusively on the areas of interest of our stakeholders. NAC’s board of directors, clients, associates, and local communities, all play crucial role in defining which of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Aspects are material to our organization. Our stakeholders also aid in determining which economic, environmental, and human rights goals are prioritized for future pursuit. When an Aspect is highlighted by a stakeholder, NAC ensures that all necessary steps are taken to incorporate this Aspect into the NAC framework. This includes the creation of new reports, tracking mechanisms, the development of new policies and procedures, and the training of associates and management as needed. 2018 Communication on Progress v f r o m t h e e xe c u t i v e s To our fellow stakeholders, It’s hard to believe that it’s been 10 years since we first signed the United Nations Global Compact. From that day forward, we started a journey to reshape our processes and procedures in a way that not only positively impacted our business, associates and customers, but our planet and communities. We set both short-term goals and long-term aspirations. While we’ve made strides, we’ve also had setbacks. By being honest and transparent, we remain humble and vigilant to ensure that we continue to make responsible improvements in all areas. It is our pleasure to reaffirm NAC’s commitment to the United Nations Global Compact. The progress that we’ve made is encouraging. Throughout the last decade we’ve saved over 864,700 trees by recycling paper, expanded our compliance arsenal to include SOC2® and HiTrust® certifications, created a Safe Sleep Program for our associates and donated time and resources to hundreds of local groups and nonprofit organizations While we are proud of our all that we’ve accomplished, we know that we can do more. We will continue to focus on the 10 principles of the UNGC in the areas of human rights, labor standards, environment and anti-corruption. Here’s to another decade of leading the way to improving our business, our planet and our community for generations to come. Sincerely, Rob Herman Nick Robinson President & COO CEO vi 2018 Communication on Progress report breakdown Delivering to Delivering to Our Associates Our Customers Delivering to Delivering to Our Environment Our Communities 2018 Communication on Progress vii delivering to People matter. Since our founding, we’ve surrounded ourselves with talented individuals whose skills and ideas combine to give us our biggest competitive our associates advantage. While we produce over 1.5 billion pieces of direct mail annually, at NAC we believe it’s not just made by machines. We understand that true innovation and success occurs in a culture that understands and complements unique talents and abilities. By providing an inclusive and safe workplace with shared values, vision and purpose, our associates feel empowered to ignite change within themselves, the company and their community. 1 2018 Communication on Progress associate highlights • A  n internal recommendation competition to incentivize associates to recommend family and 37 friends for vacant positions was held in the 4th quarter of 2018. The top 3 associates with the most candidates that successfully completed their introductory training period received a food voucher to S*Mart, a local grocery store chain. •  nnually, associates nominate colleagues for awards in the following categories: employee of the A year, rookie of the year, innovation, manager of the year, and overall merit. Selected associates receive monetary bonuses, plaques, and polo shirts. •  his year for the holiday season, NAC invited associates and their children to visit and get their T photo taken with Santa Claus. Each child received a goodie bag and the associate was gifted A S S O C I AT E S W I T H company apparel. 30+ YEARS •  s a part of our dedication to the principles of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we A OF SERVICE continue to release an NAC Associate Handbook to all employees upon hire. The Handbook reflects our commitment to equal opportunity, freedom of association, elimination of forced labor, child labor, employee discrimination, harassment and workplace violence. associate benefits •  AC encourages associates to give back to their community by providing one paid day off to N 68 volunteer. In 2018, associates sacrificed their time to help collect food for the less fortunate, plant trees at the Flight 93 Memorial and raise money for the National Ski Patrol. • Perfect Attendance bonuses are given to qualifying hourly associates. •  AC offers two academic scholarships to associates and their children/grandchildren. Awardees N receive $500 toward tuition at their respective school. •  ssociates who plan to get married receive two additional paid days off so they can enjoy their time A as newlyweds. • E  ach month a deserving associate is recognized through the NAC Above & Beyond Program. A S S O C I AT E S W I T H 20+ YEARS Nominated by colleagues, the associate receives one paid day off, $100 dollar bonus, NAC t-shirt and $25 NAC bucks. OF SERVICE • In celebration of associate birthdays, NAC provides donuts each month and associates receive balloons and a banner from Human Resources. $5.00 is also added to their Company Kitchen card. 2016/17 Communication 2018 Communication onon Progress Progress 2 health & safety 6 •  edical and Human Resources departments educated associates on M RECORDABLE INCIDENTS THAT various general health & safety issues throughout the reporting year. Emails, REQUIRED TIME OFF WORK brochures, posters, and computer based information was distributed company wide. Topics included: organ donation, blood donations, importance of mammograms and prostate exams, flu prevention, the ZIKA 0 virus, healthy eating habits, family planning, oral hygiene, treatment of migraines, tobacco addition, allergies, obesity, HIV, dehydration, vision and hearing protection, acid reflux, etc. INCIDENTS OF •  nce again, NAC hosted an educational and interactive health fair. Various O DISCRIMINATION third party vendors offered free services to associates such as breast exams, weight control consultations, blood sugar tests, vaccinations, optical exams, and dental exams. 0 •  lu shots were offered to associates in October 2018. Those with UPMC F insurance were given the vaccine at no cost and those without were charged GRIEVANCES FILED ABOUT just $25. All associates who received a flu shot obtained a coupon from a HUMAN RIGHTS IMPACTS local grocery chain. • 6  8 associates were administered hearing tests at 500, 1000, 2000, 3000, 4000, and 6000 Hz. There were no threshold shifts in hearing. safety committee 51% 49% 4% members of committee of committee of total workforce members are members are represented on the non-management management safety committee 3 2018 Communication on Progress Our Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) is a score based on the total number of recorded accidents in relation to the hours worked. improving our work environment JANUARY DECEMBER • T  he option to work remotely was expanded to Data Processing, Customer Service and Business Development departments. We implemented of systems and process to facilitate the 0.82 Avg. across all facilities communication of management of remote workforce, including mobile time keeping mechanisms and collaborative tools for project management and oversight and monitoring. • Our Mexican location offers the following additional bonuses for employees: »» Shift differentials future goals »» Attendance & punctuality bonuses »» Monthly Perfect Attendance Bonus • Introduce programs aimed to actively »» S*Mart Food Coupons integrate veterans, persons with disabilities »» Seniority Bonus into work force by collaborating with regional »» Recommendation Bonus Office of Vocational Rehabilitation and »» Savings fund workforce development resources »» Tutor Bonus • Update training strategy to include additional »» Quality at the Source bonus technological methodologies and use of • Every month cafeteria chefs create and serve a special dish that is e-tablets. not normally on the menu. • Develop a company ride sharing application • Gardeners of all experience levels are encouraged to take to accommodate associates who live more advantage of the 15 on-site plots in the NAC Garden. By than 20 miles from NAC maintaining their own area, associates are able to reap the • Introduce “Lunch and Learn” seminars benefits of fresh produce while learning new skills or lessons that that focus on educating and refreshing out can be applied in the office. associates’ skills and knowledge in areas • To show associate appreciation, NAC provides various events, such as Adobe Suite, Microsoft Office, luncheons and rewards/treats throughout the year. In 2018 the Compliance, Safety, Quality, etc. celebrations continued with events/recognition for retirements, • Collaborate with local high schools’ Father’s Day, Mother’s Day, Children’s Day, Halloween, Cooperative Education programs to bridge Thanksgiving and Christmas. We also held a World Cup viewing the gap between education and employment. party that allowed associates to watch matches that took place NAC associates will mentor the incoming during scheduled work hours. Refreshments and a t-shirt raffle students to help students learn on the job were provided by the company. training and skills. 2018 Communication on Progress 4 services Creative Services Data Processing Offset Printing Envelope Converting delivering to Foil Embossing our customers Imaging/Personalization Digital Printing Inkjet Printing Bindery Lettershop Our customers have always been the driving force behind everything we do. As Commingling their needs and behaviors change, NAC has been quick to adapt our services to better serve our loyal customer base. By signing the UN Global Compact ten Postal/Logistics years ago, we made a commitment to be transparent about our environmental, social and corporate governance. As we continue to grow, so do will our plans, processes and ideas. Yet, producing quality direct mail packages while respecting our associates, environment and communities will not. sectors served Financial Insurance Healthcare Telecommunications Non-profit Marketing 5 2018 Communication on Progress highlights •  AC continued its participation in cyber security awareness initiatives with the National Cybersecurity Awareness Month Champion N Program (NCSAM). • In May/June 2018, we successfully completed the SOC 2® Type II independent auditing to certify NAC’s controls within the 5 Trust Principles are effective and operating as intended. •  AC provided local students with internships to gain valuable industry experience related to highly specialized disciplines such as N cyber security, engineering, compliance and IT risk. • IS Partners performed an interim audit during our second year under HiTrust CSF® v8.1 certification. • A  new ethical training program was developed to preserve a positive culture and provide an understanding of how to respond as dilemmas arise. • P  rovided sexual harassment training to all management. The program defined sexual harassment, reinforced company policies and reminded employees how to report incidents. 2018 Communication on Progress 6 2 361,438,905 98.51% ¹ fa c ilit ie s m ail units p r o d uced mail u n its p rodu c ed w ith n o errors 46 15 100% cu s t om e r i nqui res/ custo m er co m p laints c u s tomer c omp lain ts 2 3 c o m p la i nts warranting actio n rec tified 2 0 1  he numbers we report regarding the percentage of units produced with no errors is T representative of our throughput quality rate. This takes into consideration our internal quality rate, including rework performed to ensure all products released into the mail stream are accurate and meet specifications. 2 Complaints are defined as any inquiry made by customers regarding either accuracy or subjective quality characteristics of products or services. c us t om e r c o mpl a i nts info r m atio n security ³ Action is defined as the significant modification or implementation of permanent controls, processes, procedures, or solutions specifically designed to address the root cause of a du e t o lo s s of da ta / b reaches id entified complaint. b r e a c h of pri va cy future goals •  pdate and implement a new NAC Code of Conduct that is focused on employees understanding their personal role in shaping the company’s goals and shared values. U • Continue to work toward 0 recordable incidents at all facilities and maintain an average TRIR of 0.7 or below. • Develop a specific plan for enhancing the customer experience from onboarding, communication and third party management • Re-evaluate social audit strategies to determine relevance and value to our stakeholders • Further develop topical training related to unlawful harassment, human rights, labor, environmental, community outreach and anti-corruption 7 2018 Communication on Progress As a leader in direct mail marketing, we understand that the health delivering to of our planet has a direct impact on our business. Without trees our environment and water, there is no paper. Without paper, there is no mail. That is why we continue to rethink our processes, implement new initiatives and examine our operations. We believe we all have an unspoken responsibility to the Earth and together, even the smallest gestures can make a huge difference. 2018 Communication on Progress 8 recycling stats 13,717,899 highlights PONDS OF PAPER OR • N  AC consolidated waste providers to one core group who offers 116,601 TREES • additional environmentally friendly solutions. W  ater collected from our Water Reuse Program was used to water the vegetation surrounding the facility all year long. • O  nce again, NAC associates planted trees at the Flight93 Memorial Recycling paper does not only save trees. in Stoystown, PA. They are a part of 600 volunteers that help By recycling paper we have also saved: reforest 23 acres of with 15,000 seedlings. This effort helps to create a memorial designed to honor the passengers and crew of 2,482,920 gallons of oil Flight 93 and their brave actions on September 11, 2001. 21,562 cubic yards of space in landfills • A  s a company who has held Chain of Custody Certifications 25,789,400 kilowatts of energy through the Forest Stewardship Council® and the Sustainable 46,101,650 gallons of water Forest Initiative® for over 10 years, NAC has the ability to provide sustainable paper options to our customers. Recycled Cardboard: 707,470 pounds Recycled Plastic: 660 pounds Recycled Window Film: 2,160 pounds Recycled Magazines: 1,110 pounds future goals Water recycled: 2,562,980 gallons •  reate an environmental management team to steer company C 62,827,786 mail pieces produced using FSC® certified materials4 • strategy and look to create committee of our associates to participate in development initiatives E  xpand our capabilities to include additional products or technology that reduces our environmental impact 29,223,875 mail pieces produced using SFI® certified materials4 9 2018 Communication on Progress delivering to For 40 years, NAC has believed that making a difference in our communities locally and globally is an important part of our corporate our communities culture. We strive to empower and encourage our associates to give back to causes that matter most to them. By operating in two countries, our local connections give us a geographic advantage toward making positive impacts in both places that we call “home.” In Kind Donations in the form of business cards, brochures, 39,283 and mail pieces were given to the following organizations: »» Blair County Respiratory Disease Society mail pieces produced »» Phoenix Fire Company as in-kind donations for »» Geeseytown Fire Co »» Martinsburg Volunteer Fire Company »» Operation Our Town EIGHT ORGANIZATIONS »» »» Hollidaysburg School Foundation Duncansville EMS 2018 Communication on Progress 10 highlights donations •  AC President Rob Herman served as a mentor for a student in the Penn State Altoona N Entrepreneur in Resident (EIR) program. The program provides students with opportunities to Allegheny Township Fire Co expand their network and get feedback on their career goals. Blair County Respiratory American Express • Sadly in 2018, California was devastated by the deadliest wildfires in the state’s history. In lieu DMAW-EF Silent Auction of holiday gifts, NAC made charitable contributions to the California Fire Foundation & the Child Evangelism Fellowship Humane Society of Venture County. Home Nursing Agency • N  AC purchased holiday cards from Paper Culture, a sustainable company that uses 100% postCalifornia Fire Foundation consumer recycled paper instead of cutting down trees to create their product. With every Humane Society of Ventura order, Paper Culture plants a tree. We dedicated our tree to those impacted by California County wildfires. The Pink Zone Frankstown Elementary School future goals • E  xpand our community outreach by looking for additional organizations that are in need of volunteers. • Strategize for a renewed emphasis on local spend as part of our diversity spend reporting 47% 30% 21% 2% community health & social education culture & arts outreach services 11 2018 Communication on Progress memberships & associations 2018 Communication on Progress 12 performance highlights Total NAC facilities 4 Average Total Workforce 774 Male 56% Female 44% Total number of management positions 51 WORKPLACE Percentage of management positions occupied by women 24% Percentage of senior management positions occupied by women: 25% Percentage of total workforce comprised of women: 44% TOTAL RECORDABLE INCIDENT RATE (TRIR): Average across all facilities 2017 0.82 SAFETY COMMITTEE COMPOSITION Total number of associates on the Safety Committee 36 % of Safety Committee Members in management positions 53% % of Safety Committee Members in non-management positions 47% LABOR MANAGEMENT Number of Employees under the age of 18 0 Number of Incidents of Discrimination 0 HUMAN RIGHTS Number of Human Rights grievances filed against NAC 0 MARKETPLACE VALUE Number of Mail Units Produced 361,438,905 Percentage of mail units produced with no errors1 98.51% Number of Customer complaints due to loss of data/breach of privacy 2 Number of Customer inquires/complaints2 46 Number of Customer complaints that warranted action3 15 Percentage of customer complaints rectified 100% Information security breaches identified 0 13 2018 Communication on Progress ENVIRONMENTAL Gallons of water recycled 2,562,980 Pounds of Recycled Paper 13,717,899 Number of trees saved due to paper recycling initiatives 116,601 Gallons of oil saved due to paper recycling initiatives 2,482,920 Reductions in landfill space due to paper recycling initiatives (cubic yards) 21,562 Reductions in energy consumption due to paper recycling initiatives (kilowatts) 25,789,400 Gallons of water saved due to paper recycling initiatives 46,101,650 SUSTAINABLE MAIL PRODUCTS Percentage of corporate production facilities with FSC® Chain-of-Custody Certification 100% Percentage of corporate production facilities with SFI® Chain-of-Custody Certification 100% Number of mail pieces produced using FSC® certified materials 62,827,786 Number of mail pieces produced using SFI® certified materials 29,223,875 GLOBAL COMMUNITY STATS Number of mail pieces produced as in-kind donations 39,283 Number of organizations that received in-kind donations 8 ANTI-CORRUPTION Number of instances of fines, sanctions, or legal actions taken for non-compliances with 0 environmental regulations, product-use regulations, product health and safety codes, or anti-competitive behavior The numbers we report regarding the percentage of units produced with no errors is representative of our throughput 1  quality rate. This takes into consideration our internal quality rate, including rework performed to ensure all products released into the mail stream are accurate and meet specifications. 2 Complaints are defined as any inquiry made by customers regarding either accuracy or subjective quality characteristics of products or services. ³A  ction is defined as the significant modification or implementation of permanent controls, processes, procedures, or solutions specifically designed to address the root cause of a complaint. 2018 Communication on Progress 14 un global compact reporting index As a United Nations Global Compact signatory, NAC has integrated all ten principles into its best business practices. The index below lists all ten principles and their location within this report. PRINCIPLES PAGE Principle 1 Protection of Human Rights 1-4 Principle 2 Complicity in Human Rights Abuses 17 Principle 3 Freedom of Association and Collective Bargaining 2, 13 Principle 4 Forced and Compulsory Labor 2, 13 Principle 5 Child Labor 2, 13 Principle 6 Discrimination 3, 13 Principle 7 Precautionary Approach 8-9 Principle 8 Environmental Responsibility 8-9 Principle 9 Environmentally Friendly Technologies 8-9 Principle 10 Anti-Corruption 14, 17 15 2018 Communication on Progress gri reporting index SECTOR/INDICATOR PAGE # SECTOR/INDICATOR PAGE # STRATEGY & ANALYSIS ENVIRONMENTAL G4-1 vi EN10 9 EN29 14, 17 ORGANIZATIONAL PROFILE G4-3 iii LABOR PRACTICES & DECENT G4-4 iii, 5 WORK G4-5 18 LA5 3, 13 G4-6 18 G4-7 v HUMAN RIGHTS G4-8 5 HR3 3, 13 G4-9 3, 13 HR12 3, 13 G4-10 13 G4-15 iii, 10-11 SOCIAL DISCLOSURE G4-16 12 SO7 17 G4-18 iii SO8 17 G4-28 iii G4-30 iii PUBLIC RELATIONS G4-31 18 PR2 17 G4-33 iii PR8 7, 13 ETHICS & INTEGRITY G4-56 17 2018 Communication on Progress 16 compliance, ethics & anti-corruption statement NAC upholds the strongest commitment to meeting all of our legal, regulatory, and contractual obligations. Beyond ensuring compliance with all government mandated regulations, NAC adheres to many voluntary codes promoting ethical business practices. In the 2018 reporting period, NAC had 0 instances of sanctions, fines, or legal action for non-compliances with environmental regulations, product-use regulations, product health and safety codes, or anti-competitive behavior. Within all NAC operations, our core values promoting honesty, integrity, and transparency are actively executed and processes are designed to eliminate the opportunities for corrupt practices. Our Code of Ethics guides all business transactions and stakeholder interactions. Reinforcing our commitment to anti-corruption and ethical practices across our supply chain, NAC participates in programs designed to promote anti-corruption and transparency through adherence to practices governing security, customs, and fiscal responsibilities, including certification through the Customs Trade Partnership Against Terrorism (C-TPAT) and Esquema de Empresas Certificadas (NEEC) programs. disclaimer The contents of this report are correct to the best of our knowledge, information, and belief. The data contained herein is for informational purposes only. It is not represented to be error-free, and is subject to change. 17 2018 Communication on Progress company headquarters NAC Administrative Headquarters 7 Edgemont Road Katonah, NY 10536 other corporate locations NAC East 141 NAC Drive Duncansville, PA 16635 814-696-3553 North American Mailing Services Avenida Enrique Pinocelli #9019 int 1 y 2 Parque Industiral Aerojuarez, Cd. Juarez, Chih. Mexico 32695 NAC Logistics, LLC 9660 Joe Rodriguez, Suite 2 El Paso, TX 79227 contact Questions regarding the content of this report may be directed to: marketing@nacmail.com 2018 Communication on Progress 18 141 NAC Drive Duncansville, PA 16635 www.nacmail.com
