We’re Impact Report Vol. 1 here 20 euro Impact Report Vol. 1 We’re here and we’re here to stay 2 Impact Report Contents 4 Dear Reader : A message from Bas van Abel Our Our Company Movement We are Fairphone Why We’re a Movement 10 The Fairphone story 102 Who makes up our movement? 12 Highlights in Fairphone history 105 Creating a Community 14 Fairphone is a social enterprise 106 Community members share their stories 110 Life on the road : Connecting with our audience Meet the Team across Europe 16 2017 Team at a glance 18 Fairphone governance structure W  hat our movement moves : impacting our 20 Growing up and moving on industry 116 Press coverage puts our work in the spotlight The Business Case 118 Leading and learning with academia 22 From start-up to scale up : ­Fairphone’s evolution 120 Combined efforts create bigger results from 2013 to 2017 121 KPI : A fairer industry 23 The backbone of our business ­model 23 KPI : Number of phones sold 24 Who buys Fairphones? 124 Our Future : 25 Growing our market with a limited supply of phones A message from Eva Gouwens 26 External funding helps F ­ airphone scale up 28 Reaching new markets with like-minded partners 126 Thank you 30 Long waits and tricky tickets 127 Colophon 32 Experimenting with circular business models Our Impact Long-lasting Design Good Working Conditions 38 Why we need long-lasting products 76 Why we want better working ­conditions 38 How we’re making an impact 76 How we’re making an impact 41 Meet the world's first ethical, ­modular phone 77 To figure out where we’re going, 42 5 reasons why modularity makes sense we have to know where we’re ­starting from 44 The Fairphone 2 gets an upgrade 77 KPI : People benefiting from our interventions 47 The challenge of keeping spare parts in stock 78 Finding a like-minded partner with Broadway 48 Software : The unsung hero of smartphone longevity 81 Collaborating with Hi-P to create a better working 49 KPI : Active users environnment 52 Ending support for the first Fairphone 85 Other 2017 worker welfare highlights Fair Materials Reuse and Recycling 56 Why we need fair materials 88 Why we need to increase reuse and recycling 56 How we’re making an impact 88 How we’re making an impact 57 Our phone : what materials are inside? 91 How to recycle our phones? 61 Our supply chain : where are the players? 94 The best recycling scenario for the Fairphone 2 62 What materials have we sourced more responsibly? 96 Collecting used phones, from Africa to Europe 65 KPI : Sustainable sourcing of focus materials 97 KPI : Return rate for reuse and recycling 66 Building a foundation for more ­responsible gold mining in Uganda 70 The Challenges of cobalt sourcing in the DRC 4 Impact Report Contents 5 Dear Reader If you ask me how I define myself, can make a positive impact on our industry. These changes and improvements will help us ‘entrepreneur’ is not the first word that comes Transitioning a business from startup to scaledo a better job of focusing on our mission : mak­ to mind. I’m a maker. A d­ esigner. A campaign­ up can be a daunting process. It feels a lot like ing electronics fairer for everyone involved. er. A creative. Somebody who takes stuff apart my awkward teenage years — filled with mood In 2017, besides moving forward on complex to figure out how it works, and then finds ways swings and growing pains, and plenty of projects like cobalt and gold sourcing, we to make it better. adjustment issues. But as a team, we face our published an impressive selection of research, challenges head on and do what is necessary including an in-depth study of the materials Entrepreneurs are people with nerves of steel. to become a healthier business. found in our phones, research on the best way People who can make an endless string of deci­ to recycle the Fairphone 2, and investigating sions, large and small. Resilient people who So what were some of the defining moments new sales models. And the launch of our new keep getting back up, no matter how many times of our evolution in 2017? camera modules was a particularly high point, they are knocked down. When I first started marking the first time in smartphone history Fairphone, I wasn’t sure that I had any of these There’s no denying it : we had some rough that owners could upgrade a core function of qualities. But when you’re passionate about something, you’re willing to learn on the job. moments on the product side. The primary issue was related to the availability of individual their phone by themselves — proving that the Fairphone 2 is indeed the first phone that gets We want to pull Over the past five years, I’ve certainly learned components, leading to major production delays and lots of waiting for Fairphone o ­ wners. better with age. back the curtain a lot about how to set up a company. Fairphone isn’t just any company. With everything we do, While we sold out of everything we produced, the total sales number was lower than hoped. Together with our team and supervisory board, we developed six key performance indicators and show you and every decision we make, we need to balance our desire of creating a better world Unsurprisingly, these challenges had a direct impact on our finances. Thanks to a round (KPIs) that reflect our ambitions as a social enterprise. It was an intensive process that what it takes to with the realities of running a business. of investments from existing shareholders and new impact investors (including Pymwymic required us to rethink some assumptions and reflect on what our core efforts should be. run a business Looking back, I say that our approach was like attempting to build a plane while flying it at and the DOEN Foundation) totalling €6.5 million, we got the financial breathing room For an external perspective, we worked with consultancy firm Sustainalize to review our with a social mission the same time. In the span of just a few years, we successfully built a community, created two we needed to start making progress on our business goals. thought process and methodology. The resulting figures cover everything from phone sales and — warts and all. generations of phones and made impressive recycling rates to industry influence and direct supply chain improvements. As our business One of the immediately visible improvements beneficiaries. Now and in the future, they will gained momentum, we plowed full-speed was in our company’s governance. When we serve as reminder of our vision, a benchmark ahead and invented, implemented, and quickly started Fairphone in 2013, we had just five of our progress, and a gauge to show us where patched whatever wasn’t quite working. That employees. By the end of 2017, we were up to we need to improve. worked for a while, but at a certain point, it 65. In the years between, teams grew and became clear that quick fixes weren’t the way evolved, people came and went, responsibilities Which brings us to the document you’re to build a sustainable company. shifted, and my leadership skills were put to reading right now — Fairphone’s first impact the test. One thing was certain : I couldn’t keep report. Until now, we've never compiled a So in 2016 and 2017, we took a hard look at what leading Fairphone on my own. I had to spread comprehen­sive report on our achievements. we wanted to achieve, and began figuring out the weight of running a company across a While we’ve measured individual activities how to restructure our processes to support our larger team. So in 2017, we began creating a in the past, this is the first time we’ve catego­ success as we continue to grow. The key take­ stronger, more professional structure for the rized the information into a few key areas, away was that while our mission and vision company, including hiring Eva ­Gouwens as collected supporting data, and translated it hadn’t changed, we needed to focus more on Managing Director and installing a supervisory into an accessible document. the business side of the equation. Because if board and workers’ council. our business isn’t in order, there’s no way we 6 Impact Report Dear Reader 7 Our Company We want to pull back the curtain and show you what it takes to run a business with a social mission — warts and all. We want to share our financial details, our achievements, and the dilemmas we face on a daily basis. We want to be transparent with our community, while holding ourselves accountable. Finally, we want to properly document our journey — because in an industry that’s always moving forward, sometimes it’s important to look back. Whether you just skim the headlines or dive into the articles in depth, I’d like to thank you for your interest in Fairphone and what we’re trying to do. I hope you put down this report feeling inspired — or at least informed — about how we’re strengthening the foundations of our company to make a greater impact. With gratitude, Bas van Abel We believe in a better way of doing business 8 Impact Report Our vision is a fair economy. We foresee a world where consideration for people We are Fairphone and the environment is a natural part of doing business. Together, we’re building momentum to design a better future. To create a fairer economy, we started by making a phone. We uncover production systems, solve problems and use trans­ parency to invite debate about what’s truly fair. Our expanding platform gives a voice to people who care about social and environmental values. By establishing a viable market for ethical consumer electronics, we’re motivating the entire industry to act more responsibly. 10 Impact Report The Fairphone story …to making phones After a couple years of campaigning, Waag Society’s Creative Director Bas van Abel realized that raising awareness isn’t the same as creating alternatives. Drawing on his background as a designer and m ­ aker, he knew that making a phone was the best way to under­stand the issues and influence change. To improve the electronics industry, he had to become a part of it. In 2013, he founded Fairphone : a social enterprise determined to make phones in a way that was b ­ etter for people and the environment. The Fairphone 1 was launched in December 2013, followed by the ­Fairphone 2 in December 2015. Step by step, the company continues to work towards its mission of creating fairer electronics, developing new relationships between people and their products, and showing the rest of the industry what’s possible. From conflict minerals… In 2010, Waag Society partnered with ActionAid and Schrijf-Schrijf to spread the word about conflict minerals in consumer electronics. A small team traveled to the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) to ­experience firsthand the mining conditions there. Back in the Netherlands, they shared what they learned with consumers to help people see — and ­better understand — the minerals inside their phones. 12 Impact Report Our Company 13 Highlights in January 2013 We partner with Conflict Free Tin Fairphone history Initiative and Solutions for Hope February 2011 October 2012 for conflict-free tin and tantalum. A fact finding mission visits We decide to take the plunge the Democratic Republic of the into making phones. We post With a €400,000 investment September 2009 Congo, meeting with miners a sign-up list on our website to we become a social enterprise. We start a petition to listen to their ideas for see who would be interested in gainst conflict minerals. improvements. buying the first Fairphone. February 2014 Mid November 2013 May – June 2013 Together with Closing the Loop, We’re stunned when all 25,000 We start a pre-sales campaign we start an e-waste recycling project phones sell out. We deliver to fund the production of the in Ghana, collecting 75,000 scrap this first batch and create first phone. 20,000 wonderful phones for safe recycling. a subscription list to gauge people invest €325 and their interest for a se-cond batch trust in Fairphone — a company of Fairphones. that has never made a phone before. May 2015 July 2015 May 2014 Fairphone is now a Certified B The Fairphone 2 is available for In China, we establish a Worker Corporation. B Corps are for-profit pre-order in our online shop! As January 2016 Welfare Fund with our Fairphone 1 organizations that meet a high a community-backed initiative, Fairtrade certified gold production partner, Guohong. standard of social and environwe’re excited to show that is incorporated into the mental performance, transparenthere’s a strong demand for Fairphone 2 supply chain, cy and accountability. fairer electronics. after two years of work. March 2016 October 2016 June 2016 As Fairphone grows, we start partWe launch pre-orders for the reBy incorporating conflict-free nering with other businesses across freshed Fairphone 2. The new cover tungsten, we now have traceApril 2016 Europe to expand our distribution. design and color selection reflect our able supply chains for all four We publish an open second step for long-lasting design : internationally recognized version of Android for customization. The Fairphone 2 is the conflict minerals : tungsten, tin, the Fairphone 2 to first smartphone to receive the Blue tantalum and gold. increase transparency, Angel certification. longevity and ownership. July 2017 September 2017 Fairphone comes to a heartbreakWe introduce two brand With new investment ing conclusion : We can’t restock new camera modules! we grow our staff to over parts for the Fairphone 1 and have The Fairphone 2 is now the 65 Fairphoners, and inApril 2017 to stop supporting our first phone. first smartphone with an crease our ambition for Join the movement Android 6.0 Marshmallow is now upgradeable core function. the Fairphone mission. available for the Fairphone 2. The upgrade improves functionality, security and battery life. and help contribute to a fairer future. 14 Impact Report Our Company 15 Fairphone is a social enterprise Meet Fairphone is a certified B Corporation Fairphone is part of a community of change-makers the Team From the beginning, we’ve structured Fairphone as a social enterprise to use our business as a force Fairphone’s aim of making fairer, more ­responsible for good. Social entrepreneurship means that we’re electronics is backed by a range of independent ­employing commercial strategies to enable social member­ships of relevant organizations, including : and environmental improvements. B-Corp Certified B Corporations are for-profit organizations Circle Economy that meet a high standard of social and environmenClean Electronics Production Network tal performance, transparency and accountability. Dutch Agreement for Responsible Gold You could compare it to a Fairtrade or organic certiEuropean Partnership for Responsible Minerals fication, but for an entire company, as opposed to a MVO Nederland single ­product. Responsible Minerals Initiative Social Enterprise NL This internationally recognized certification is overUN Global Compact seen by B Lab, an independent non-profit organizaVoor de Wereld van Morgen tion. There is a consistent set of parameters used to evaluate all potential B Corps, and once a company has been certified, it must be reviewed every two years to ensure it still qualifies. Their rigorous assessment process covers everything from our high-level ambitions and business practices to very specific details like employee benefits and even the type of cleaning products we use. In June 2017, two years after earning our initial B Corp certification, we were recertified by the B Lab. To date, more than 2,500 companies have become certified B Corporations to show that they are using their businesses to address social and environmental issues. Being part of this select group gives us the ­opportunity to share inspiration and best practices, and potentially find new partners to help us further our objectives. Behind every Fairphone, there’s a motivated team that’s striving to make a difference 16 Impact Report xxx 17 2017 Team at a glance We come from : What’s it like to work at Fairphone? • Running, yoga and bootcamp keep our muscles Oldest as fit as our minds employee : • In-house bike repairs ensure our two-­wheelers 49 24 People joined • are in top shape Kilos of homemade h ­ ummus keep our protein 65 levels up • Our international team ensures lots of fun converYoungest employee : 18 People left • sations and unusual office snacks Dutch classes help us have a gezellig time with We all work in Amsterdam (except for one e ­ mployee other Amsterdammers 21 in China and one in Singapore). • Making an impact across the globe keeps us inspired every day Regular employees + 3 Interns 33 Female 35 Male Management team 35 Job openings 4 female + 2 male 3 Interns became full-time ­ employees with an average of 72 ­applicants for each * All figures are as of 31 December 2017 18 Impact Report Our Company 19 Fairphone Shareholder overview governance structure Who owns Fairphone? In 2016, we began looking for additional investors. But we didn’t want just anyone : we were interested in 10% To understand Fairphone’s ownership structure, you impact investors — individuals and organizations who Others employees, need to take a trip down memory lane. It all starts want to generate benefits for society alongside profits. 6% other individuals and with Fairphone's origins as an awareness campaign Our search led us to our first external equity investBethnal Green Ventures about the use of conflict minerals in consumer elecment from impact investor Phalanx Capital Holdings LLP tronics. Supported by ActionAid and SchrijfSchrijf, BV. And in 2017, we were very pleased to welcome two Eso Es BV this campaign sprung up within Waag Society, a founnew impact investors : Pymwymic and DOEN Particowned by Bas van Abel dation that focuses on using emerging technologies ipaties. as instruments of social change. 31% Waag aims to bring its most relevant concepts to market through its sister organization, Waag Products 7% Waag Products BV BV, a social impact incubator. So when Fairphone Doen Participaties founding organization, connected to Waag Society decided to transition from a campaign to a company, BV it was only natural that we would be supported by Waag Products — our founding investor. The financial support from Waag Products was quickly followed by funding from Nomis Beheer en Beleggingen BV — a 10% seed investor closely connected to Waag Products. At Nomis Beheer en around the same time, Bethnal Green Ventures (BGV) Beleggingen BV founding impact/seed investor, accepted Fairphone into their accelerator program connected to Waag Products BV for tech startups with a social mission, and received shares of the company in return. Finally, some of ­Fairphone’s team members also have shares in the company — either directly, like founder Bas van Abel, or indirectly, through certificates in Waag Products. 16% 20% Pymwymic’s Stichting Healthy Ecosystems Phalanx Capital Impact Fund Holdings BV represented on the supervisory represented on the supervisory board board by Rogier Pieterse by Anthony Tabatznik Founding investors Joined in 2016 Joined in 2017 Note : For the sake of clarity decimals have been rounded up to whole numbers. 20 Impact Report Our Company 21 Growing up and moving on The Business Fairphone began in 2013 with five employees. By the end of 2017, we had grown to a team of 65. As is to be Supervisory Board Case expected, this evolution was not without its growing The supervisory board, finalized in 2017, plays an pains. While the company developed, our HR needs ­important role in protecting the interests of the comand processes developed too. It meant the shifting of pany and its social mission. It guides and monitors roles and responsibilities, lots of hellos and goodbyes, the executive board’s performance towards the misand lessons learned the hard way. These ­experiences sion and helps provide continuity for the company. made us realize we needed to expand in a more controlled fashion. In 2017 we took significant steps to create a stronger, more professional structure for the Workers’ Council company, including hiring a managing director, installing a supervisory board and electing a Workers’ In June 2017, Fairphone staff elected their first-ever Council. Workers’ Council. From a pool of eleven talented and enthusiastic candidates, five were voted in as the founding members of our council — affectionately Managing Director Eva Gouwens known as the WoCo. 2017 was a year of change and growth. For the compaThe WoCo represents the interests of all the employees ny as a whole, this meant improving our business opat Fairphone. The council’s mission is to contribute erations and expanding our team. From account manto a fair, productive and fulfilling work environment. agement to customer support, we added experienced, Besides providing a neutral place for employees to motivated employees to nearly every department. share their ideas and concerns, they also give input But our most anticipated hire of the year came at the to the executive board on organizational matters that highest level : in September 2017, Fairphone hired a may affect employees and their work. managing director to join CEO Bas van Abel on the executive board. After being established, the WoCo spent the remainder of 2017 participating in trainings, delegating roles Prior to joining Fairphone, Eva Gouwens headed up a and getting the core structure in place. Their first fellow B Corporation with exemplary fair credentials : major assignment was advising on the recruitment of Tony’s Chocolonely. As their former “First Lady of the new managing director in August — a challenging Chocolate”, she not only has great taste, but she also task and clear indicator of the WoCo’s influence. comes with a deep understanding of how to successfully lead a growing social enterprise. For Fairphone, making the world a better place Right: Adminstrators calculating the value of mined tungsten, Rwanda. starts with a viable business model. 22 Impact Report From start-up to The backbone of our Key performance indicator : Number of phones sold scale up : Fairphone’s business model evolution from 2013 Why it’s important Every Fairphone 2 sold is a vehicle to 2017 that helps us move closer to our goal of a more ethical electronics industry. As a KPI, this figure is a Why we sell phones clear way to demonstrate the demand for more ethical phones, and We don’t want people to buy new phones. We want by extension, the viability of social them to keep using the phones they have (Fairphone entrepreneurship in electronics. The or not) for as long as possible. But since we know they more phones we sell, the more we can create positive impact in our will buy phones anyway, we want to sell them a fairer supply chain and beyond. phone. Here’s why : 2013 2017 Where we are in 2017 — 25,310 Fairphone 2s sold in 2017 The more phones we sell… We count the number of new The more we show there’s demand for more ­Fairphone 2s sold either to a reseller/ ethical phones. distribution partner or directly via our website. We don’t include refurThe more we prove our business model, bished phones, or orders that are Small-sized Medium-sized canceled or returned within 14 days (5 employees starting (65 employees gain respect in the industry, and embolden of delivery. in January 2013) end of 2017) like-minded people in other companies and organizations. Overcoming production challenges The more negotiating power we have with Have made and sold suppliers and manufacturers to get their help In 2017, customer demand exceeded Never made two generations with improving working conditions and susour production capacity. Due to a a phone before of Fairphones tainability. variety of issues in our spare parts supply chain, the number of devices The more we can invest in social improvewe could produce and sell was ments, worker satisfaction and the communiseverely reduced. To increase phone 135,000 phones sold ties linked to our supply chain. sales, one of our key focus areas 25,000 phones sold (including both is the improvement of our supply Fairphone 1 and 2) chain management with more staff, The more we learn about how our industry better processes, increased funding works so we can better challenge it. and better supplier/manufacturer relationships. The more we can improve our phones and Widespread services so people can use them longer (and Pre-sales only online European distribution buy new ones less often). through network with Fairphone.com 226 points of sale (online and offline combined) The more Fairphone owners there are, starting conversations about the fairer world we all want, and growing the movement with us. Every Fairphone sold contributes to our ambitions for a more ethical electronics industry. 24 Impact Report Our Company 25 Who buys Growing our market Fairphones? with a limited supply of phones Get to know our market • B2C : Business to Consumers. We sell phones 2017 sales challenges and achievements Online sales show potential ­directly to individual consumers through our for new and existing products Every year, our community of Fairphone owners ­website. One of the unifying themes of 2017 was growth. This keeps growing! New partnerships help us offer indiapplied to the company as a whole, but especially to While production and stock issues meant our online viduals and business customers an increasing number • B2B : Business to Business. We supply phones to our goals for increasing sales and reaching new marsales figures were lower than projected in 2017, we of options for finding our phone throughout Europe. a variety of business customers, including : kets. While moving closer to profitability was certainly managed to sell 9,545 phones via our webshop to new Here’s an explanation of who buys our phones : — Institutional/procurement : Companies and one of the motivators, at a higher level, our sales goals customers who patiently stood by us through frequent organizations purchasing phones for their were directly tied to proving that the Fairphone 2 is delivery delays. During the periods when the phone ­employees a viable choice for mainstream consumers, increaswas unavailable, 35,000 visitors signed up to receive — Resellers/distributors : Companies that sell ing demand for ethical products, and expanding our alerts when the phone was back in stock — proving our phone to consumers or businesses as part ­impact. that consumer demand is still strong. Finally, the of a wider product selection new, upgraded camera modules were a major hit with — Operators/Mobile Virtual Network ­Operators However, the realities of running an industry-changexisting Fairphone 2 owners. (MVNOs) : Companies that sell our phone to ing business meant we faced continuous challenges consumers or businesses, often including a that stood in the way of reaching our sales ambiservice contract tions. Our biggest issue in 2017 can be summed up Huge promise for expanding in one word : production. From quality issues with our business market components and suppliers running out of parts to unexpected pauses in manufacturing, we struggled Inconsistent inventory also posed a major challenge all year long to keep the Fairphone 2 and spare parts for our business-to-business sales partners, which in stock. This meant we were unable to offer a consisincludes operators, resellers and distributors, as well Revenue from product sales in 2017 tent supply of products through our own online store as other business buyers (procurement). In total, we or through our various partner channels. In turn, sold 17,314 through these channels in 2017, (which our lack of inventory also led to delivery delays and represents a 29% increase compared to 2016), but Revenue accessories € 478,296 plenty of disappointed customers. Finally, it forced the potential was far higher. Regardless, there were Revenue spare parts  € 625,915 us to make tough decisions about how to allocate our still lots of reasons to celebrate in 2017. Thanks to ­limited stock among our online store, our sales parta new partnerships with Mobilcom-Debitel (end of ners and our repair center. 2016) and Orange France (2017), we increased our year-on-year operator/MVNO sales by more than 50%. Reseller sales increased by 25% thanks to new partners including Belsimpel in the Netherlands and Revenue B2B (phones)  € 7,123,195 Total MediaWorld in Italy. In addition, 29 companies and organizations added the Fairphone 2 to their portfolio € 11,697,899 of company phones for employees in 2017. In summary, 2017 showed us that there is certainly sufficient demand for fair electronics and there are promising opportunities to keep expanding our market. But in order to reach our true potential, we need to keep striving to resolve the production issues that Revenue B2C (phones) € 3,470,493 are holding us back. 26 Impact Report Our Company 27 External funding helps Fairphone scale up In the long run, Fairphone aims to finance the com­ 2017 company-wide investments : The investments will also enable us to scale up our 2017 project-specific investments pany’s activities with the sales of our phones. How­ever, €6.5 million production volumes, which will give us more l­ everage during our current phase of rapid growth, we also with suppliers and therefore more opportunities In 2017, Fairphone also received external funding for need the support of external funding. The funding we In March, existing shareholders provided €3 million to negotiate a healthier, more future-proof supply two specific impact-related projects : received in 2017 can be split into two types : investin funding. We were fortunate to also attract new chain. It will place us in a better position to put our ments that support the operational side of our busilike-minded investors in 2017 who provided an addi­principles into practice, including improving the The Netherlands Enterprise Agency (Rijksdienst voor ness, and investments for specific impact projects. tional €3.5 million in September. availability and lifespan of spare parts, sourcing fairer Ondernemend Nederland, or RVO) pledged a total of materials and improving working conditions. And €405,610 to a consortium of organizations including From bank loans to venture capital, there are a variA big share of the investments came from the generbesides producing our existing devices, it gives us the Fairphone, UNICEF, Solidaridad, Fairtrade Foundaety of options available when it comes to financing a ous commitment of two impact investing pioneers, financial space to continue developing new ones. tion and Hivos, coordinator of Stop Child Labour. In growing business. However, as social entrepreneurs, Pymwymic and DOEN Foundation. 2017, the RVO allocated €19,637 to Fairphone. This we prefer to seek out investors who feel connected to Finally, from the operational side of things, the investment is supporting the set up of a responsible what we’re trying to achieve. In 2017, we were pleased Pymwymic (the Put Your Money Where Your Meaning invest­ments were used to further professionalize gold supply chain in Uganda. The resulting gold will to receive funding from impact investors who share Is Community) is Europe’s oldest impact investing and expand our team. be incorporated into Fairphone’s supply chain and the our vision of generating social and environmental group. In 2016, the group created the Impact Investwider electronics industry. benefits alongside profits. ing Cooperative to bring together wealthy individuals and families who want to make a positive impact. Its Fairphone also received €27,850 from the European first thematic sub-fund, ‘Pymwymic Healthy Eco­ Commission to support our participation in a program systems Impact Fund’, focuses on disruptive and called SustainablySMART (in full : Sustainable Smart innovative business models that restore and conserve Mobile Devices Lifecycles through Advanced Re-­ our ecosystems. In 2017, they selected Fairphone to design, Reliability, and Re-use and Remanufacturing be the recipient of their very first investment. Technologies). By sharing lessons learned and providing samples phones, we’re contributing to optimizing We also received funding from DOEN Participaties, the design, production and recycling of consumer the investment fund of the DOEN Foundation. electronics. ­Established in 1991, the organization is focused on supporting initiatives that are working towards a green, socially inclusive and creative society. The DOEN Foundation also played a role in Fairphone’s External funding received in 2017 initiation, providing capital to help us transition from an awareness campaign to a company in 2013. Funders Investment type Amount € Purpose Both these investments were vital in helping us kick off our latest growth phase. Existing shareholders Equity 3,000,000 Growth Part of the funding is being used to keep reaching new audiences to increase the awareness of, and New shareholders High equity 3,500,000 Growth demand for, fairer electronics. Specifically, we have Netherlands enterprise been working to expand our distribution network in Project subsidy 19,637 Responsible gold supply chain agency (RVO) Europe to respond to a growing interest from mainstream commercial channels like operators, resellers European Commission Project subsidy 27,850 Sharing product and design learnings SustainablySMART and business-to-business procurement. 28 Impact Report Our Company 29 Reaching new markets with likewhy! open computing was created in answer to the planned obsolescence in IT. We are minded partners therefore very proud to be associated with Fairphone for the sale of smartphones that address the same concern. This kind of initiative is necessary, not only to satisfy the demand of consumers aware of the issues, but above all to show that it is possible. When we started selling our first phone in 2013, the 2017 sales partner highlights Nicolas Guignard, why! open computing SA Fairphone website was our primary sales channel. However, since the launch of the Fairphone 2, we’ve 226 total points of sale (23 online, 203 physical stores) been expanding our sales channels to grow the overall market for fairer electronics — because we believe The Fairphone 2 is available in 11 countries : strong customer demand is an important driver for Austria, Belgium, Switzerland, Germany, Finland, other electronics manufacturers to follow our lead. France, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, We also want to show that our phone isn’t just a niche Sweden, UK. product, but fits perfectly in mainstream commercial environments. Through our partners : 1&1 Our ever-expanding network of resellers, ­operators, A&C Systems mobile virtual network operators, and business ­buyers Avocadostore are essential to helping us achieve our ambitions. Belsimpel While we’re convinced that selling Fairphones can BTC Teleconsult help these partners expand and differentiate their Circle Shop product offering, we also know that our phone and Concorde Spa values-driven buyers require a different sales mindset. Digitec We’re grateful to each and every one of the partners Ecosto coming along on the fair electronics journey with us. ETC Mobil Faircustomer Fairmondo GoGreen Store KPN MediaWorld IT Memo Mobiel.nl Mobilcom-debitel Mobitel Orange The PhoneCoop Post Telecom Luxembourg Sinndrin Sosh Surfspot T-Mobile Austria Vireo Why! Opencomputing 30 Impact Report Our Company 31 Long waits and tricky tickets 56,462 Hi! The system for your returns is too complicated and isn’t working Total number of as it should. But all the persons incoming I talked to were super nice. support tickets Customer support works hard To deliver a better level of service, we focused on deto help Fairphone owners veloping new tools and processes, as well as growing the team. Back in 2016, we also began working with Behind the scenes, customer support plays a crucial an external party — Xtrasource — to help us tackle our role in the success of our phones and the satisfaction backlog of support requests. From July 2017, we exof Fairphone owners. To give our growing customer panded our collaboration, and they started handling base the help they need, our in-house support team all of our first-line incoming calls. Since then, we’ve of 23 people works tirelessly to manage all the incombeen able to officially support four languages on an ing requests. ongoing basis (Dutch, English, French and German) and added local phone numbers to make sure all our Besides fielding questions by email and phone, the customers could reach us affordably. 82.9% team frequently updates the troubleshooting advice on our website. The wider Fairphone community Going forward, we’ll continue to find new ways to also pitches in, giving lots of informal advice and professionalize the department, boost customer answering questions on our online forum. As staff, satis­faction and speed up response times. And we’d community and phone owners find creative ways like to once again thank all the Fairphone owners for to fix problems together and it creates a strong their patience when they needed to wait longer than feeling of team spirit. ­expected for our reply. Our customer support team gave it their all, but 2017 Average satisfaction rating showed that we still have a lot of work to do. Besides based on customer survey ongoing support requests, production and delivery with a scale from 0 to 100 delays created an even bigger backlog of tickets than we had anticipated. As a result, we often struggled to provide solutions as fast as we’d like to. This was ­partly due to trying to find a balance between giving our customers in-depth, personal attention and simply offering quick and efficient service. While we pride ourselves on being nice, we recognized that we had to improve our speed and accuracy. Everyone’s very friendly, but I didn’t get a reply for about 3 weeks — even a brief update would have helped to reassure me that something was happening. I just love this movement. With all the economical limitations and cultural barriers, still you have patience and understand customers like other human beings and not numbers only. It’s my third request for my Fairphone 2, and I keep on this journey with you guys! 32 Impact Report Our Company 33 Our Experimenting with circular business models Fairphone 2 New Life Edition When we designed the Fairphone 2, we focused on longevity. Besides helping our customers keep their phones working for as long as possible, we believe that longer-lasting devices translate directly into ­environmental benefits. The longer you can keep Fairphone as a service : A special pilot project just for businesses Our phones are designed with a circular economy in mind, but to succeed would also demand a change in mindset about ownership, and a different approach to selling our products. Impact using and reusing the phones (and materials!) we ­already have, the better we can preserve resources Towards the end of 2017, Circle Economy and and avoid unnecessary mining and manufacturing. ­Fairphone formed a community of practice with ­financiers (such as Sustainable Finance Lab, ABN With those ideas in mind, in 2017 we tested a new AMRO, ING), accountants (NBA), data experts sales concept to keep our phones going even l­ onger : (Circularise) and lawyers (Allen & Overy) to start inthe Fairphone 2 New Life Edition. Each of these vestigating a more resource-efficient business m ­ odel phones was refurbished in the same factory where — one that ensures the intrinsic value of the phone they were originally made, underwent rigorous stays as high as possible for as long as possible. Our testing and met the same quality standards as our research resulted in one clear idea : Fairphone as a new phones. The phones were sold for a lower price service. of €429 and included a new battery and two-year ­warranty. This means asking business customers to move from buying a phone (ownership) to renting (services). We offered this unique opportunity to Fairphone 1 We’ve set up a pilot project with the Dutch PGGM owners and selected reseller partners such as Phone (a pension fund asset manager) and explored other Co-op in the UK, and quickly sold out of all 1566 small and medium-sized companies to help us test phones. this concept “in the wild”. Putting ownership in the hands of the ­manufacturer can be a win-win. On the customer's side, they achieve maximum flexibility by buying the phone's real value : the services that a phone provides. And Fairphone would be in a better position to take ­advantage of the circular economy. If we lease the phone instead of selling it, we can ensure that all the resources inside are used optimally over the course of the phone’s life cycle, including when it’s time to be used by another client or recycled. Positive change doesn’t follow a linear path ; sometimes it’s two steps forward, one step back and a huge detour to the left. 34 Impact Report xxx 35 When it comes to making a phone, we’re doing things differently. We aim to create positive impact in four key areas : • Long-lasting Design • Fair Materials • Good Working Conditions • Reuse and Recycling We’ve got big ambitions, but everything we do is a work in progress. Because we’re disrupting centuries-old production models and deeply ingrained consumer habits, change won’t happen overnight. Our activities help us keep improving the status From the mines to the factories, consumer quo one step at a time. With every person electronics production is filled with who commits to keeping their phone longer, questionable practices. We’re showing with every supplier who questions where the industry that it’s possible to take their materials come from and with every a more responsible approach. factory that encourages worker dialogue, we’re moving in the right direction. Tungsten treatment facility in Rwandan mine. 36 Impact Report 37 Long-lasting Design Most people replace their phones within two years. We think that’s a design flaw. 38 Impact Report xxx 39 Why we need How we’re long-lasting making products an impact Consumer electronics are often viewed as semi-­ To reverse the trend of short replacement cycles, disposable objects, to be upgraded or discarded as we’re creating products that can last longer and are soon as something better comes along. We’re fighting designed to be repaired. We believe in the maker’s against a market trend where the average phone is manifesto : “If you can’t open it, you don’t own it.” replaced within two years, creating a huge environWe want people to build relationships with their mental impact. phones and take responsibility for keeping them in good working order. But even if consumers want to keep their gadgets ­longer, current product design practices and services The Fairphone 2 was the first phone we designed often stand in the way. Many of our modern d ­ evices completely from scratch. We introduced our modular are impossible to open, difficult to fix or need to phone in 2015, and it’s still going strong. It delivers be abandoned when the software can no longer be on our aims for longevity with easy do-it-yourself ­updated. repairs, a variety of covers for customization and frequent software updates, including a full system upgrade to Android 6. We’re also extending the lifespan of our phone by investing in the long-term availability of spare parts. As part of that aim, we had an ­exciting achievement in 2017 : we launched new camera modules, making the Fairphone 2 the first phone with a core function that’s easily upgradable by existing users. Finally, we worked to share lessons learned from the Fairphone 2 in the hope that it helps others in the industry to optimize the design, production and recycling of consumer electronics. 40 Impact Report xxx 41 Meet the world's first ethical, modular phone Launched in 2015, the Fairphone 2 Durable construction embodies our ambitions for fairer with a protective electronics. cover that is customizable in different colors. The new camera Replaceable modules hit the 5-inch 1080p market on 31 August display 2017. They made the Fairphone 2 upgradeable – a company (and industry!) milestone. 32 GB storage included, Removable, expandable up replaceable to 64 GB battery It’s easy to open and repair. Modules can be replaced with a simple screwdriver or just your Two SIM slots for hands. work or travel Android 6.0 Conflict-free tin, tungsten Marshmallow and tantalum and (released in Fairtrade gold initiatives April 2017) 42 Impact Report Our Impact : Long-lasting Design 43 5 reasons why modularity makes sense 1. 2. 4. The Fairphone 2 is easy Longer-lasting design helps It’s the first phone with to repair and upgrade cut CO2 emissions a Blue Angel certification The Fairphone 2 modules allow customers to repair Our 2016 LCA report shows that using a Fairphone 2 The Fairphone 2 is one of the 12,000 products and and upgrade their phones by themselves. Thanks to for five years (and repairing it as necessary with spare services that have earned this well-known German the Fairphone 2’s easy-to-open modular design, iFixit parts) results in 30% fewer CO2 emissions than buyecolabel for aspiring to better environmental stangave it a perfect 10 for repairability. ing a new phone every three years. dards. It was the very first smartphone to receive this honor. 30% Life with a #fairphone : Microphone broken. Order part. Microphone module replaced in 2 mins. Microphone fixed. @Fairphone Enables 30% reduction in CO2 Spare parts sold in 2017 emission accross Fairphone 2 Hugh Knowles on Twitter, life cycle 14 August 2017 3. 5. It’s raising the bar! It supports recovery of precious materials Fairphone earned the top score in Greenpeace’s 2017 Our recyclability study showed that based on the Guide to Greener Electronics. The report specifically ­variety of materials recovered and the effort rementioned our modular d ­ esign, focus on easy DIY quired for processing, the best option for recycling repairs, recycling research and our goal of making the ­Fairphone 2 relies on partially dismantling the longer-lasting devices. ­Fairphone 2 and its modular components. That’s a strong argument in favor of our modular design ­approach! 7721 8760 5007 2796 2944 2020 Battery Bottom Module Display Camera Bundle Camera Module Top Module 44 Impact Report Our Impact : Long-lasting Design 45 The Fairphone 2 gets an upgrade With two new camera modules, To share this proud moment with stakeholders, it’s the first phone that gets better with age ­experts and industry media, we launched the camera upgrades in August at the annual consumer electronics conference, Internationale Funkausstellung Berlin One of our highlights of 2017 was unveiling two (IFA). Thirty-three journalists from ten countries brand-new camera modules, making the Fairphone 2 joined us there to hear what our founder and CEO, the first smartphone with a core function that owners Bas van Abel, and CTO, Olivier Hebert, had to say. can upgrade by themselves. Previously, the Fairphone The resulting media coverage produced 685 mentions 2 came with an 8 MP rear camera with single flash, and 413 full articles, catapulting our longer-lasting and a 2 MP front camera. The updated modules condesign ambitions into the wider world. tain a 12 MP rear camera with dual flash and a 5 MP front camera. With these new camera modules, we’ve accomplished something very special : a phone that actually These new cameras represent something much bigger gets ­better with age. By simply replacing two small than better pictures : they mark the latest step in our ­modules, Fairphone 2 owners can keep their phones ambition to create longer-lasting phones. First we ­longer without having to compromise on quality. used modular design to make the Fairphone 2 easy We’re proud to have reached this milestone, and are to open and repair. Then we customized the phone so grateful to everyone who helped us get there! by offering new slim covers. And now, with two new camera modules, the Fairphone 2 is upgradable as The first batch of modules went on sale on 31 ­August well. Best of all, Fairphone 2 owners can complete 2017. By the end of 2017, Fairphone sold 5,289 rear the upgrade with just a screwdriver. In a world where camera modules, and 3,541 front-facing camera most people replace their entire phone every couple ­modules. of years, this is a revolutionary idea. Creating our upgraded modules was only possible thanks to the amazing support of a collection of supply chain partners. We’d like to applaud their collaboration, patience and contribution to the delicate juggling act required to make new components fit into an existing design. The key players who helped us achieve this milestone include Hi-P, OmniVision, AT&S, Shangai Laimu Electronics, Harman, Sunny Optical Technology Group, CCL, OSRAM Opto Semiconductors and Qualcomm. 46 Impact Report xxx 47 The challenge of keeping spare parts in stock The availability of spare parts is essential to our goal Sometimes, your original supplier decides to comof creating longer-lasting smartphones, but the ecopletely stop manufacturing the part you need. In our nomic system we operate in isn’t yet set up with prodconstantly innovating industry, it’s simply a matter uct longevity in mind. of supply and demand, with parts being discontinued to make way for the next thing. When this happens, Over the course of 2017, we fought a persistent battle we often buy up as much of the remaining stock as we to keep spare parts in stock. Just like all the other ways can, while at the same time looking for new suppliers. we’re trying to make electronics fairer, we can only make progress one step at a time. And that often leads to frustration for our customers (and ourselves) when a part is out of stock or reaches its end of life. Electronic devices can contain hundreds of different parts. During initial production, the manufacturing partner usually handles the sourcing of all the different parts. However, the longer a product is used, the harder it can become to get the right parts. And for us, as a small company, stocking spare parts often comes with three intertwined challenges : cash flow, mini­ mum order quantities and discontinued components. One way to secure the availability of spare parts is stockpiling. To do this, you need to have enough working capital to be able to invest now in stock that you expect to need later. At the same time, you also want to avoid buying too many parts — you run the risk of wasting money and having a huge environmental footprint due to buying parts that will never be used. Some manufacturers require you to order a m ­ inimum number of components, and that number may ­increase as the component gets older. That amount is often far more than we need, plus an unmanageable financial burden for a company of our size. Sometimes we’re able to piggyback off the order of a larger buyer to cover a supplier’s minimum order requirements. However, if this type of deal falls through, as it did in 2017 with our display module, we would have to place the order alone… forcing us to renegotiate or seek alter­natives, which aren’t always available. 48 Impact Report Our Impact : Long-lasting Design 49 Software : The unsung Key performance indicator : Active users hero of smartphone longevity Why it’s important On average, consumers use their mobile phones for two years before replacing them. Because we promote longer-lasting electronics, When it comes to longer-lasting phones, our repairMonthly updates Open source code we want Fairphone owners to keep able design often gets all the glory. But software is using their phones for as long as just as important in keeping our phones working well We aspire to follow industry best practices and offer Openness ties directly into our goals for longevity. possible. To benchmark our perfor­ for the long term. Behind the scenes, the Fairphone monthly updates, as they are essential for fixing bugs, We believe that our community should have access mance, we measure how many software team is constantly focused on fixing bugs, providing security patches, improving the overall to our source code to make improvements, add new Fairphones are actively in use, commaking our phones more secure and improving perstability of the phone, and offering a great user expefunctionality and extend the usability of our phone. pared to the total number sold. formance to ensure great functionality — now and rience to our customers. We also b ­ elieve that releasing the code will prolong well into the future. the life of the phone — external parties, developers Where we are in 2017 — and our community can create fixes and keep our 53.68% of Fairphone 2s in use software up to date, even if we’re no longer able to. versus the number of Fairphone 2s sold Number of regular security We originally released the Fairphone Open Source OS We define active users as those who updates in 2017: in “easy-to-use” format in April 2016 on a dedicated have our Fairphone Updater app website: code.fairphone.com. It includes the standard 13 installed and have connected to Android operating system, but does not include any the internet at least once in the last Google Mobile Services (GMS). Throughout 2017, we month. So far, we can only measure Total number of made sure our Open Source OS received the same active users who use our standard security fixes: ­support, updates and security fixes as our “normal” operating system with Google 370 Common Vulnerabilities operating system. Mobile Services, not those using Fairphone Open OS or other alternatives. Another issue in measuring and Exposures this indicator is the fact that all the (CVEs) phones our reseller partners have in their inventory count as “sold” in the eyes of Fairphone, but are not yet “in use” by a customer. Improving usability for owners Android 6.0 Marshmallow On top of the pitfalls in measuring In April 2017, the software team released a full system this indicator, throughout 2017 we upgrade for the Fairphone 2: Android 6.0 ­Marshmallow. faced a number of issues that may It required significant investment and resources, have led to a decrease in active ­including securing the licenses to the complete ­users. For example, several produccode base and the tools required to do the majority tion delays meant that specific spare parts were not always in of the development and maintenance work for the stock, which prevented people from ­Fairphone 2. quickly performing repairs, possibly forcing them to (temporarily) stop The release gave us much better control over the using their Fairphone 2. Our ambi­entire software base, and enabled us to deliver solution for 2018 is to increase active tions faster and more easily going forward. For users, phone users to 70%. To ensure the the upgrade delivered enhanced security, including Fairphone 2 offers reliable funcimproved app permissions. It also contained features tionality and a satisfying user to improve battery life, enhance multitasking and experience for as long as possible, ­optimize storage. we’re focusing on a combination of repair­ability, customization, upgrades and software. 50 Impact Report Our Impact: Long-lasting Design 51 Fast KRACK response Often, the goal of software updates is to protect users from the latest security threat. In October 2017, we were alerted to a flaw in WPA2, a protocol that secures Wi-Fi networks. It meant that any Wi-Fi enabled ­device was vulnerable to KRACKs (key reinstallation attacks) which could allow attackers to access sensitive information as well as install malicious programs like ransomware. Again! @Fairphone one of the The Fairphone software team immediately took actions first Android suppliers to fix security issues! Thanks! to protect our owners against KRACKs. We released a #krack#androidupdate security patch in record time on 24 O ­ ctober 2017. #wearefairphone Joachim @fodinabor on Twitter, 25 October 2017 Just out: Security update for @Fairphone 2. This addrresses #KrackAttack vulnerabilities, so update now! fairphone.com/release-notes#KRACK Franz Geiger @justfortherec on Twitter, 24 October 2017 Currently installing @Fairphone OS Update. Pretty good reaction time!#KRACK Jorg Pfrunder @joergpfrunder on Twitter, 19 October 2017 52 Impact Report Our Impact : Long-lasting Design 53 Ending support for the first Fairphone In 2013, we embarked on a journey to shake up the Setting the stage for bigger ambitions industry with the Fairphone 1. Thanks to the pioneers who supported our mission, we were able to start With the Fairphone 1, we took our first steps toward building a movement for fair electronics. achieving our vision of fairer electronics. We started sourcing conflict-free minerals directly from conflictWe are very proud of our first device and everything it affected countries and integrated them into our helped us achieve. But after supporting the ­Fairphone ­supply chain. We kicked off our first worker welfare 1 for three and a half years and the Fairphone 1U for fund with our manufacturing partner. And by being nearly two and a half years, we had to a make a difthe first phone company to offer spare parts in our ficult call ; in July 2017, we announced that we were ­online shop and working with iFixit to create repair no longer able to keep supporting our first phone. tutorials, we began moving towards making our On a practical level, that meant we would no longer ­devices last longer. sell spare parts for the Fairphone 1, and stopped our ­efforts to develop the Android 4.4 software upgrade. The lessons we learned while making and supporting the Fairphone 1 had a direct impact on how we apThis choice was forced upon us by the realities of proached the Fairphone 2. The design and spare parts electronics manufacturing and the design of our Fairphone 1 Fairphone 2 struggles we faced with our first phone confirmed Launched May 2013 Launched May 2015 phone. The Fairphone 1 wasn’t designed by us — it the need for having more control over our phone’s was a licensed design from a Chinese manufacturer, End of software maintenance and spare Ongoing sale of spare parts in our shop design. As a result, the custom, modular design of where we could only make a few improvements. After parts announced July 2017 the ­Fairphone 2 not only expands the options for retwo years of production, our manufacturer stopped pairability, it also gives us more flexibility in sourcing Licensed design Custom, modular design making phones. So at that time, we needed to build spare parts and allows us to build stronger relationup a stock of spare parts. We estimated the amount The Fairphone 1 design was licensed from The Fairphone 2 was our own design, ships with suppliers. The value chain achievements we would need in the future and purchased what we a manufacturing partner. We had limited which we made modular for easy repair. of the Fairphone 1 also laid the groundwork for us to could with the financial resources we had available. control over the design and limited access Owning the design gives us greater access expand our ambitions for fair materials, reuse and to suppliers for long-term spare parts to suppliers and makes it easier to source orders. spare parts. ­recycling and worker welfare. However, in early 2017, it was clear that we were running out of Fairphone 1 spare parts. At this point, As our company continues to grow in size and ambi­ most of the original parts were not longer being manu­ Product longevity Product longevity tion, it’s only natural that our products will evolve factured. And other parts were completely unaffordReplaceable battery Modular design enables repair to help along with it. While we may no longer be able to supable due to the small volumes we required. With no Created free repair manuals with IFixit phone last longer port the Fairphone 1, many owners are still happily ­Fairphone 1 hardware support available after midto encourage DIY repair Spare parts for sale in our online shop using theirs to this day. We’d like to thank them and 2017 (and a decreasing number of FP1 users vs FP2 Spare parts sold in our online shop Update to Android 6 all of our supporters for contributing to the first steps (first in the industry) New slim cover for customization users), we also had to discontinue software support of our journey towards fair electronics. of the Fairphone 1 due to the limited capacity of our small software team. Repairability score Repairability score 7/10 10/10 54 Impact Report Our Impact : Long-lasting Design 55 Fair What if you can’t find a fair supply chain for your materials? If you’re Fairphone, Materials you find some eager partners and figure out how to set it up yourself. 56 Impact Report xxx 57 Why we need How we’re making Our phone : fair materials an impact what materials are inside? Smartphones contain dozens of different materials We care deeply about the materials that go into our Scoping study helps us understand which In May 2017, we published our Material Profiles — and many of them enter the supply chain straight phones. How can you change what you don’t know? materials offer the greatest potential for ­Report, where we provided detailed information for from the mines. From dangerous working conditions You can’t. That’s why making things better starts positive change the 10 materials mentioned above. The publication and child labor to poor wages and pollution, the minwith gathering information. To gain a deeper undercoincided with the 2017 OECD Forum on Responsiing sector can have its share of social and environstanding of the complex consumer electronics supply In 2017, we worked with The Dragonfly Initiative to ble Mineral Supply Chains, a high-level conference mental challenges. And often, the most in-demand chain, we have been busy trying to map all the differdevelop a framework to assess 38 of the m ­ aterials where industry and (non)governmental represenmaterials come from regions with limited regulation ent materials and manufacturing locations involved found in our phones. Together, we looked at the ­social, tatives met in Paris to discuss the most challenging and oversight. in creating our phone. environmental and health-related issues for each ­issues in mineral sourcing. Fairphone was also present ­material to determine where our efforts could make and the material report helped to steer discussions Beyond issues at the mines themselves, we also need One material at a time, we’re working with a range of the biggest difference. In addition, the results are about possible solutions forward. to recognize that many of the essential materials partners to address the issues, source from mines that used to contribute to setting the agenda across the used in phones are a limited and dwindling resource. positively impact vulnerable communities, increase ­industry by bringing more awareness to materials To i­ ncrease sustainability, the industry needs to find our use of recycled materials and reduce our use of that need urgent attention. alter­natives to virgin mining and ways to conserve hazardous materials. As we incorporate these fairer and reuse the materials already in circulation. ­Ideally, resources into the supply chain of our phones, we’re The outcome of The Dragonfly Initiative’s methodolowe would have an economy that operates 100% on also focusing on increasing industry and consumer gy was a shortlist of priority materials that we selected the principles of circularity, where materials only awareness to influence lasting change. for further investigation : copper, cobalt, gallium, stem from recycled sources. However, that dream gold, indium, nickel, tantalum, tin, tungsten, and rare remains far from becoming reality, which is why we earths. There were a wide variety of reasons for pickmust continue to focus on responsible mining in the ing these specific materials, but some of the high-level meantime. criteria include the fact that these materials are all frequently used in the electronics industry, have a range of mining-related issues, and are not likely to be substituted in the near future. Guide to the Scoping Study Previous page: Fairphone's first peek in a cobalt mine, DRC 2011 58 Impact Report Our Impact : Fair Materials 59 Component approach Total weight of our focus materials Distribution of focus materials in Fairphone 2 in the Fairphone 2 (in rounded grams) modules (in rounded %) leads us to refine Gold : 0.024 Tin : 1.515 our selection Tungsten : 0.44 Copper : 9.08 Cobalt : 6.48 Neodymium (Rare Earth) : 0.14 Camera Module Lithium : 4.21 Gold : 0.5% Plastic : 32 Tin : 3% Our next layer of investigation led us to an important Copper : 3% Neodymium : 14% conclusion : for maximum impact, it’s not efficient to simply focus on individual material supply chains — we have to consider them within the context of our phone. Therefore, our final prioritization was based on which materials were used in large concentrations in a single component, and which components contained multiple materials from supply chains that could be improved. This component-led approach will helps us narrow our focus and meaningfully collaborate with a more limited set of suppliers. In turn, it creates a strong incentive for suppliers to make an impact, create ­differentiated products and expand their market. Top Module Bottom Module Battery Finally, focusing on components makes our impact Gold : 4% Gold : 5% Cobalt : 100% more concrete — and easier to demonstrate to conTin : 9% Tin : 8% Lithium : 99% sumers and our peers. Copper : 4% Tungsten : 99% Copper : 10% Neodymium : 86% With all this in mind, as of the end of 2017, our updated list of materials to focus on in the coming years includes : cobalt, copper, gold, lithium, neodymium, plastic, tin and tungsten. But as always, this list is a guideline, and not something set in stone. So as the industry, awareness and initiatives continue to evolve and change, we expect our list of focus materials will keep changing and growing as well. Core Module Display Case Gold : 88% Gold : 2.5% Plastic : 50% Tin : 67% Tin : 11% Tungsten : 1% Copper : 3% Copper : 80% Lithium : 1% 60 Impact Report Our Impact : Fair Materials 61 Our supply chain : Final assembly manufacturer Assembles the components to create the phone where are the players? By making a phone, we want to uncover and meet the • 103 suppliers have been identified as part of our different actors involved. We’re mapping our supply supply chain (final assembly, componentand chain based on a combination of desk research and material manufacturers). direct communication with suppliers. And in line with Component Distributors Distributors Component the OECD Due Diligence Guidance for Responsible • 97% of the suppliers we contacted shared infor­ manufacturers manufacturers Supply Chains of Minerals from Conflict-Affected and mation and listed a total of 288 smelters and High-Risk Areas, we publish and regularly update our ­refiners for the four defined conflict minerals : tin, Component manufacturers list of suppliers, smelters and refiners. tungsten, tantalum and gold. Assemble the individual components to make a phone All the details shared here are accurate to the best • 238 of the 288 smelters and refiners are verified of our knowledge at the time of publication. While to be in compliance with the standards of the we know so much more than when we first started, Responsible Minerals Initiative (RMI) or one of there’s still plenty to do when it comes to mapping our the cross-recognized certification programs that supply chain. We’re continuously working to improve checks company processes to identify conflict our system for collecting and assessing information. minerals originating from the DRC. The remaining 50 have committed to undergoing an audit, have failed to proceed with the certification process, or still require further outreach to join a certification program(s). Traders Traders Material Material manufacturers manufacturers 68 suppliers reported the locations of their Smelters and refiners production facilities : Refine minerals into usable materials for component m  anufacturing China : 45 Asia excluding China : 20 Europe : 3 The smelters and refiners for tin, tungsten, tantalum and gold are located in : China : 74 Asia excluding China : 133 Europe : 30 Fairphone North America : 23 South America : 27 Suppliers, Other : 21 Traders Traders Smelters and 29 smelters and refiners are known to source tin, Mines Refiners tungsten, tantalum or gold from the DRC. Minerals are extracted from many different mines August 2018 7 smelters and refiners are known to source tin, tungsten, tantalum or gold from neighbouring countries of the DRC. 92 smelters and refiners are known to source tin, tanThis graph is a simplified reflection of the Fairphone supply chain. In electronics, a variety of set-ups is possible and this graph should not talum, tungsten or gold from recycled sources. be taken as a one-size-fits all for other products and brands. 1 List of suppliers 62 Impact Report Our Impact : Fair Materials 63 What materials have we sourced more responsibly? When we founded Fairphone, we initially focused on Cobalt Copper Gold finding more responsible sources of the four d ­ efined conflict minerals — tin, tantalum, tungsten and gold. What’s up with this supply chain? What’s up with this supply chain? What’s up with this supply chain? But of course, challenges (and opportunities!) in At present, more than 50% of the In certain parts of the world, copper Because tiny amounts of gold are ­material supply chains go far beyond these four and global mined cobalt production mining is connected to dangerous extremely valuable, this mineral comes from the DRC. Even though working conditions, considerable is very prone to smuggling. Even touch on many other issues besides conflict. Over the cobalt is not classified as a ­conflict health risks and pollution of the outside of conflict and high-risk years we’ve therefore expanded our scope. On the mineral, the mining conditions surrounding environment. ­Despite regions, gold mining poses a wide ­following pages you can see what we have achieved are often associated with severe issues related to mining, the good variety of social and environmental so far. human rights violations, ­including news is that copper is easily recychallenges, such as land disputes, child labor. However, it is not curclable, offering opportunities to unfair pricing, unsafe working rently possible to fully substitute move away from virgin sources. conditions, child labor and mercury cobalt in electronics, nor is there a pollution. sufficient supply of recycled cobalt, Where is it found in the phone? which means mining will remain the Printed circuit board (PCB), conWhere is it found in the phone? basic source of supply for the near nectors, integrated circuits, flexible Printed circuit boards (PCBs), intefuture. Actions to improve the minprinted circuits, and many other grated circuits and in tiny amounts ing sector are therefore urgent. components. in many more components. Where is it found in the phone? What have we done so far? What have we done so far? Battery. We’re raising awareness in our In 2016, we became the first supply chain for increasing the use electronics company to source What have we done so far? of recycled copper. Together with gold from Fairtrade certified Way back in 2011, before Fairphone our PCB manufacturer AT&S, we artisanal mines, specifically from became a social enterprise, we learned that 30% of the copper ­Minera Sotrami S.A (Sociedad took our first trip to the Democratic in our PCBs comes from recycled de ­Trabajadores Mineros S.A.) in Republic of Congo (DRC) to visit sources. In addition we’re actively Peru. It is mined following rigorous cobalt mines and learn more about increasing the supply of recycled regula­tions, including child protecWhat are conflict minerals? the working conditions. In the years copper available to the industry by tion policies. that followed, we returned several collecting and recycling phones. times to meet parties on the ground With the help of our partners AT&S While the entire mining sector In an attempt to address this where we can have the greatest and maintain a close eye on oppor­ (printed circuit board), Zhoajin is often associated with social ­issue, the Dodd-Frank Act reimpact. That’s why we initially tunities to open up and improve Kanfort (gold salt) and Valcambi and environmental abuses, tin, quires that companies traded on focused on finding traceable our cobalt supply chain. In 2017 we (refining), we mapped our gold suptantalum, tungsten and gold US stock market report whether sources of these four materials co-hosted a workshop in DRC with ply chain and carried out extensive have been singled out as being their products contain minerals directly from the DRC and surlocal and international parties and research to be able to set up this especially problematic. These coming from these regions. As rounding countries. After setting had concrete conversations with supply chain. four materials are known as an unintended consequence, up more responsible supply supply chain players to work to“conflict minerals” because they many companies stopped sourcchains for these minerals, we’re gether on creating positive change. have contributed to funding ing from this part of the world now tackling material sourcrebel groups and supporting on-­ altogether. However, instead of ing challenges that go beyond going conflict in the Democratic turning away from regions with conflict. Republic of the Congo (DRC) and a high risk of conflict, Fairphone surrounding countries. wants to do business in areas 64 Impact Report Our Impact : Fair Materials 65 Key Performance Indicator : ­Sustainable sourcing of focus materials (cobalt, copper, gold, lithium, neodymium, plastic, tin and tungsten) Why it’s important Corrupt warlords. Child labor. Plastic Tantalum Tin Tungsten Deadly working conditions. Unfair wages. Limited alternatives. For us, What’s up with this supply chain? What’s up with this supply chain? What’s up with this supply chain? What’s up with this supply chain? more responsible materials means Plastic is a significant pollutant When the development of miniaTin is considered a conflict mineral Tungsten is classified by law as a going straight to the areas where in landfills and is an increasingly turized capacitors led to increased because its mining is associated conflict mineral, and has also been we can make the biggest positive problematic ocean pollutant. Its demand for tantalum, the mineral with financing armed groups in the associated with poor working conimpact. We want the materials in extreme durability means it can realso attracted the attention of rebel DRC. Artisanal tin mining is associditions in artisanal and small-scale our phones to come from more main in the ecosystem for centuries, groups in the DRC and is now classiated with poor working conditions, mining. sustainable sources — which include where it negatively impacts natural fied as a conflict mineral. serious health problems and envirecycled, Fairtrade, conflict-free or habitats and wildlife. ronmental pollution. Where is it found in the phone? other sources that deliver social and Where is it found in the phone? Vibration motor. environmental benefits. Where is it found in the phone? Tantalum capacitors. Where is it found in the phone? Back cover, various plastic parts The majority of the tin used can be What have we done so far? Where we are in 2017 — in the components of the phone, What have we done so far? found in the solder. It is used to “glue” After tungsten was classified as a 25.37% of the total weight of packaging materials. We worked with Solutions for Hope, components to the ­Printed Circuit conflict mineral by the Dodd-Frank our eight focus materials was who developed the first closed-pipe Boards (PCBs). Small amounts of tin Act, trade from East Africa ground sustainably sourced in 2017 What have we done so far? supply chain for tantalum, origican be found in many other passive to a halt — it was easier for comFor products like smartphones, it’s nating from Katanga in the DRC. components in our phone, such as panies to source from other regions Because we recognize the compleximpossible to completely avoid The pilot project proved what was in the camera and semiconductors. than to implement traceability ity of electronics supply chains, we plastic. So we’re focusing our efforts possible, and the initiative was later schemes. As a result, many miners started by mapping how much of on making better decisions about expanded to involve more mine What have we done so far? were deprived of their livelihoods. In each focus material we use in our how much and what kind of plastic sites as part of the iTSCi Program. Fairphone was the first phone com2016, we contributed to re-starting phone, based on information we we use. We’re also looking more We still use this tantalum in our pany to join the Conflict Free Tin tungsten exports from this region by gathered from suppliers. Next, we closely at who we work with for supply chain. Initiative (CFTI). A pilot program set connecting our supply chain to the added up the total weight of each sourcing and production. up to show it was possible to source New Bugarama Mining Company of the eight focus materials. Finally, tin from conflict-free validated in Rwanda via Austrian smelter for each of the materials, we comWe currently use 50% post-consumer mines in the Democratic Republic Wolfram Bergbau und Hütten AG. pared the weight we’ve responsibly recycled polycarbonate (the best of the Congo (DRC). After successBesides supporting mines that consourced to the total amount used option available), regular polycarfully achieving this, the project tribute to the local economy, this in our phones to determine the final bonate (the only transparent plastic concluded in 2014 and transitioned project was also a good example of percentage of sustainable materials. that meets our quality requirements) to a scale-up phase. Since 2015, the how artisanal and small-scale minand thermo polyurethane. iTSCi Program continued to ensure ing can transition to more responsiBuilding better Our packaging material is conflict-free sourcing from the ble semi-industrial practices. material supply chains made of PaperFoam®, which is region and expanded the initiative In addition to supporting fairer compostable and uses much less to include many more countries and mining practises in Rwanda, we While we do painstaking research, energy to produce than plastic, mine sites. We still use this tin in our learned from our smelter Wolfram we are often limited by the informaregular cardboard or paper pulp. supply chain. Bergbau und Hütten AG that tion suppliers are able or willing to the tungsten they supply for our share with us. In addition, for some Fairphone 2 vibration motor also of our focus materials, ­sustainable includes 50% recycled tungsten. sources do not yet exist — so we must find ways to build more responsible supply chains with a network of partners. Our goal for 2018 is to sustainably source 40% of our target materials. Gold and cobalt will get special attention due to partnerships that are already in progress. 66 Impact Report Our Impact: Fair Materials 67 Building a foundation In 2017, we kicked off an ambitious gold project — an innovative for more ­responsible new partnership to proactively support more responsible gold gold mining in Uganda sourcing. By uniting industry influencers with different areas of expertise, we aim to work with artisanal and small-scale mines (ASM) in Uganda to establish a sustainable, traceable gold supply chain that creates a better future for miners and their families. The origins of this new partnership started with the gold covenant, an initiative spearheaded by the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs which aims to increase the supply of responsibly sourced gold. The covenant brought ­together a variety of parties with an interest in the gold sector, ­including commercial businesses, industry boards and non-profit ­organizations. Left : Artisanal gold miners in Uganda. Right (from top to bottom) : Laura meeting the head of a gold mining cooperative ; A duty roster in SAMA gold mine cooperative ; A ball mill breaks down large rocks to increase productivity and miners’ income. 68 Impact Report Our Impact : Fair Materials 69 Our discussions resulted in someTherefore, to contribute to more thing special : a new partnership responsible gold mining in U ­ ganda, focused on practical ways to create we will take a multi-pronged apa more responsible gold supply proach. At the mines themselves, chain. Besides Fairphone, initiawe want to increase economic tors include Hivos, coordinator of prosperity with capacity buildStop Child Labour (SCL), UNICEF, ing trainings and (financing for) Fairtrade Foundation, Solidaridad better mining equipment. And and Royal Philips. Our activities to ensure sustainable production are supported by funding partner and profits, we intend to provide RVO (Rijksdienst voor Onderlong-term access to international nemend Nederland). markets by including this gold in the Fairphone supply chain and In the next two years, our partneractively seeking other buyers in ship will focus on sourcing more the electronics sector. Throughout responsible gold from Uganda, the course of our activities, we will which has a significant concentraalso evaluate and share our results tion of artisanal and small-scale to encourage other supply chains gold mines. Besides smuggling and industries to replicate best and environmental damage, the practices and expand the overall sector is associated with ­human impact. rights abuses, including child labor. In fact, up to 30% of the workers in Uganda’s mines might be children. From top to bottom : Using a forklift to retrieve the mined gold ore ; Working hours From top to bottom : Artisanal gold miners are managed well in SAMA gold mine in in Uganda ; Moving gold ore to the washing Uganda ; Mining the surface for gold. area ; Washing gold in SAMA mine, Uganda. 70 Impact Report Our Impact : Fair Materials 71 The challenges of cobalt sourcing in the DRC Left: Artisanal miners digging for cobalt. Right (from top to bottom): Large-scale industrial mining in the DRC ; Industrial mining of cobalt. 72 Impact Report Our Impact : Fair Materials 73 As part of the Fairphone journey Selected mines will need to meet to improve mineral sourcing, certain baseline criteria including ­cobalt has always been close to legal registration, having systems our hearts. In April 2017, we co-­ in place to prevent child labor, and organized a two-day workshop showing that the cobalt can be in Lubumbashi, in the South of directly traced to the individual the Democratic Republic of the mine. In addition, Fairphone and Congo, ­together with German Huayou have committed to workdevelopment organizations BGR ing directly with selected mines to and GIZ as well as the Congolese further improve health and safety IDAK. and the miners' ability to generate a fair income. The aim is to outline About 40 local and inter­national a clear roadmap to c­ ontinuously parties attended, including improve conditions at these mines. govern­ment authorities, mining cooperatives, individual miners We are proactively inviting other and NGOs. In this workshop, we industry players to join us and discussed the practices and issues there are already concrete signs of we had seen during on-site visits commitments from other brands and shared opinions on possible to partner with us in setting up solutions, including existing prothis new supply chain. grams on the ground. Also in 2017, we began conversations with refiner Huayou Cobalt to start setting up a traceable supply chain for cobalt in the ­Fairphone 2 battery, originating from a selection of artisanal and small-scale mines in the DRC. From top to bottom: Fairphone team memFrom top to bottom: Cobalt oxide ready ber Laura and the provincial Minister of for export ; Mine guard ; Cobalt miners on Mines ; Cobalt straight from the mine ; Price top of their game. list for cobalt and copper at a trading house. 74 Impact Report Our Impact : Fair Materials 75 Good Working Conditions For ideas on how to improve working conditions, we go straight to the experts : the factory employees themselves. 76 Impact Report xxx 77 Why we want better How we’re making To figure out where Key Performance Indicator : People benefiting from working conditions an impact we’re going, we have our interventions to know where we’re Why it’s important starting from Exploitation and dangerous working conditions are just some of many human rights abuses in the Electronics supply chains contain a seemingly ­endless We aim to improve working conditions for the ­people Before we can make collaborative plans for improving life cycle of electronics. Improving number of steps — creating a complete disconnect involved in making our phones, including the peo­ple worker welfare, we need to understand the existing working conditions all the way between the people who make products and the peoworking at the assembly lines. We use a ­workersituation. down our supply chain remains a ple who use them. When it comes to smartphones, driven improvement approach which goes beyond core Fairphone goal. We’re listening the vast majority are manufactured in China. But the standard compliance and audits. By conducting emOur initial factory assessment programs were limited to workers about what they want, country’s fast, affordable production often comes at ployee satis­faction surveys and stimulating dialogue to first tier partners. However, in 2017 we continued and which of our interventions are a cost to workers. between employees and factory management, we to expand our focus to include second tier (compomost welcome. Worker surveys that enable ­workers to gain influence on topics such as nent) manufacturers. Throughout the year, together establish what conditions workers actually want to change — rather Insufficient regulations and lack of recognition for health and safety, working hours, and wages and with third-parties, we conducted a total of eight than those we presume should workers’ rights can contribute to everything from benefits. Investing in employee satisfaction results ­assessments with six of our (potential) suppliers. change — have proven extremely dangerous working practices to unlawful job conin a more stable, motivated workforce, which leads useful. tracts. We want to improve working conditions at the to lower recruitment costs and higher production We use a combination of third-party assessments, heart of the electronics sector, including health and quality — it’s a ­win-win for both factory management ­audits, employee surveys and dialogue sessions to Where we are in 2017 — safety, worker representation and working hours. and employees. gain insight into working conditions and worker satis5,200 people faction, as well as factory health and safety standards. In addition, as active members of the platform Clean We count the cumulative number Electronics Production Network (CEPN), we advocate of people directly benefiting from for zero exposure to toxic chemicals in manufacturing ­Fairphone’s social, environmental throughout the electronics industry. and/or economic interventions with supply chain partners. Examples might include improved health and safety, receiving an increased income, or the implementation of an employee representation committee. We don’t double-count people targeted twice (for example, by multiple projects at the same mine or factory). And we don’t count family members who may benefit from increased income or security of miners or factory workers. Collaborating to increase worker satisfaction We’ll continue to work with our partners to improve dialogue between employees and management and pursue new ways to mutually benefit workers and companies, one step at a time. Throughout this journey we’ll gather and share insights and collaborate with suppliers and labor rights experts. Previous page: Factory workers taking a break in the canteen at Broadway, one of our production partners. 78 Impact Report Our Impact: Good Working Conditions 79 Finding a like-minded partner with Broadway With the development of the Fairphone 2, we aimed Steps taken to improve Health and safety improvements Better meals and a bonus to expand the reach of our worker welfare projects employee representation beyond our final assembly manufacturer to include To ensure a safe working environment, independent Finally, the food got better. Worker representatives selected second-tier (component) manufacturers. • Offered training sessions to employee representhird-party assessor Golder performed an Industrial created a committee to review and improve the food tatives and management on constructive comHealth Assessment at Broadway in April 2017. Broadservice offered. Broadway opened a second canteen In 2016, we kicked off a partnership with Broadway to munication and problem solving, including tools way performed extremely well within the defined with food provided by a different caterer to increase produce colorful new cases for the Fairphone 2. They and methods for collecting opinions from the safety parameters, but to completely eliminate risk of competition and give workers more choice. Hygiene were an ideal candidate to collaborate with on creatworkforce. exposure, they still decided to replace certain chemihas also been improved by replacing all cutlery and ing a better working environment — they saw the val• Organized new elections to expand the group of cal solutions. They have also introduced a new system dishes as well as introducing better cleaning equipue of the project and were willing to invest time and worker representatives and better reflect the actual for keeping track of all the information about the ment. These might seem like small changes, but money in achieving our shared ambitions. composition of the workforce (e.g., office workers chemicals used. they’re concrete improvements that make it easy for vs. assembly workers). management and workers to see the benefits of worker An independent third party, Economics Rights Insti­ • Made the election process more transparent by Chemical safety results representation. tute, conducted an employee satisfaction survey and publishing a list of candidates before the elections employee interviews. From this we learned that in and giving candidates better opportunities to • 20 samples were taken at work stations to test for All in all, Broadway has proven to be a receptive and general the employees are quite positive — giving intro­duce themselves and their ideas. exposure to hazardous substances. collaborative partner in improving worker welfare. a 7 out of 10 for overall worker satisfaction. When • 18 of the samples contained no trace of hazardous We’re very pleased with the progress we made together asked what could be improved, employees mentioned chemicals ; two showed minor exposure but well in 2017. food service, increased benefits/remuneration, and within safety limits. improved communication with colleagues and super• One chemical solution (n-hexane) was replaced, visors. We also discovered that there was already a even though exposure fell within safety limits. group of worker representatives in place, but both the management and employees felt that it was not working as well as it could. 2,824 employees Over the course of 2017, we focused on two main ­areas (81% of the workforce) for improving worker welfare : employee/manager voted for new worker communication, and the use of unsafe chemicals at representations the factory. 40 employees held ­dialogue sessions with their managers 34 employee representatives were elected. (Roughly 1 representative for every 100 employees.) 80 Impact Report Our Impact : Good Working Conditions 81 Collaborating with Hi-P to create a better working environment Reflecting on our efforts to set up The challenges were plenty, and the solutions few. A collaborative audit and mobile survey a Worker Welfare Fund We faced continuous legal and bureaucratic obstacles offer new insights into worker satisfaction from Chinese union laws and banking requirements. To fulfill our goal of making a lasting impact on workAdd to that component shortages and irregular Audits are one of the most common tools used for ing conditions and worker satisfaction, Fairphone Fairphone production, and we found ourselves surevaluating worker welfare. But because they often works closely with selected suppliers to assess their rounded by complicated issues without a clear middle focus on checking company policies, licenses and current situation and make a collaborative plan for ground. These challenges translated into more than administ­ration, and frequently involved a limited improvement. One such supplier is the final assembly two years of discussions and negotiations regarding number of workers, we suspected that the informamanufacturer for the Fairphone 2, Hi-P International the fund. Despite a genuine willingness to explore the tion gathered doesn’t fully capture the perspective Limited. topic of worker welfare together, in the end we decided and satisfaction of the employees. So to test our to end this specific initiative at Hi-P. ­hypothesis, we partnered with KPN and Vodafone to When we began working with Hi-P in 2015, we partcommission and fund an audit and mobile employee nered based on a shared commitment to improve This experience taught us some valuable lessons for satisfaction survey at Hi-P. It was completed by indeworking conditions. One of our first steps included our future approach to improving worker welfare. For pendent third parties and led to concrete recommena TAOS assessment which reviewed factory condiexample, we’re presenting our partners with a clear dations and improvements. tions and pinpointed a few areas for improvement. business case for implementing improvements, and Throughout our working relationship, many areas adding key performance indicators on working condiThe employee survey, facilitated by Laborlink, took ­related to worker safety were improved, including tions to the manufacturing contract. an innovative approach by enabling employees to give every­thing from printing information about evacua­ feedback using their mobile phones. This made partion routes to providing additional protective equip­ Even though this was not the result that we hoped for, ticipation more convenient for workers and allowed ment. They also improved payment of agency ­workers we are grateful to Hi-P for the time they invested in them to share their honest opinion of the workplace. and stopped the use of disciplinary fines. this process, and for their receptiveness to work with The results were quite positive : a majority of employees a small new client like Fairphone. We will continue to (86%) would recommend working at Hi-P to family Beyond improving basic working conditions, we also work with them to produce the Fairphone 2 and related or friends and 97% said they always feel safe at the planned to implement a Worker Welfare Fund. This spare parts. factory. fund aims to promote dialogue between employees and management, which includes training employees The other half of this project was the Joint Audit to voice their suggestions and concerns as well as ­Cooperation (JAC) audit, which was conducted by contribute to implementing improvements. However, SGS. It included a review of the administration, conboth parties soon found that making progress was fidential interviews with a group of employees and an harder than we had anticipated. on-site observation (visiting the factory and looking around). The audit found 10 points for improvement, of which five were successfully solved by 31 Dec 2017. Motivational poster from Hi-P factory. 82 Impact Report Our Impact : Good Working Conditions 83 One of the major points for improvement discovered While this was only our first attempt with mobile by the audit was related to working hours across the ­employee satisfaction surveys, this pilot project clearly entire factory. During peak seasons, there was evidemonstrated that they can reveal helpful new insights dence of employees working up to 70 hours a week. that go beyond the findings of standard audits. We There were also instances where employees worked plan to keep experimenting with innovative ways of for 14 days in a row without a day off. While these assessing employee satisfaction, and would like to long hours weren’t related to Fairphone production, thank Vodafone and KPN for helping make this project they were still cause for concern. Our goal is to improve possible. whole industry, after all, not just our own product. To us, those numbers sounded excessive. But this is an excellent example of how conventional auditing does not always reflect the perspective of ­employees. While we believe that no one should have to work such long hours, the mobile employee survey revealed that 72% of the employees want to work as many hours as possible, and 100% of the employees confirmed that all overtime was voluntary. So what do we do when our ideas about improving working conditions don’t align with the opinions of the factory employees? As long as the hours remain While we believe that no one should have this extreme, we believe it is our responsibility to continue striving for better working conditions. However, to work such long hours, the mobile we have also realized that it’s important for us to keep listening, and to keep improving the workers’ ability employee survey revealed that 72% of to speak up for themselves. We have not yet found a solution to this issue, and monitoring of working the employees want to work as many hours hours is ongoing. As part of this, Hi-P shares working hours with Fairphone on a monthly basis, including as possible, and 100% of the employees working hours on non-Fairphone production lines. We remain committed to supporting Hi-P in finding confirmed that all overtime was voluntary. ways to manage working hours. Applying the finishing touches on one of our cases at Broadway. 84 Impact Report Our Impact : Good Working Conditions 85 Other 2017 worker The dilemma of working long hours : a quick look at a complex issue welfare highlights The findings on working hours un­ One major issue is that factories Finally, unreasonably short covered by our mobile ­employee are often located in cities, where production timelines imposed by survey highlights a recurring daily life is expensive. The legal electronic brands, as well as late culture clash in our efforts to imminimum wage isn’t adequate deliveries of components from prove working conditions. We, like to cover the cost of living there. suppliers, put additional stress Fairphone’s Ways of Working Together 3Sun : A great start ends too soon many other brands and consumWorking 40 hours a week for this on manufacturers. Long working ers, believe that an ideal work wage would make difficult to pay hours are therefore often a sympFairphone wants to work with partners who underIn 2016, we began a new partnership with 3Sun week consists of about 40 hours the bills — driving workers’ desire tom of other systemic issues in stand our ideals for creating a fairer economy. Our ­Electronics to produce the batteries for the Fairphone of work, spread over five working to work extra hours. the electronics industry, which goal is to build lasting relationships based on trans2. 3Sun is a component manufacturer who was keen days, with two days off. However, takes time to address. parency and trust. to collaborate on improving working conditions at at our manufacturing partner, Beyond the low levels of pay, age their factory. An early audit had identified a number 72% of the employees surveyed and long-term goals may play Obviously, we still feel that no Fairphone’s ‘Ways of Working Together’ document of ­possible points for improvement. A 2017 follow-up said they want to work as many a role. Many young, ambitious one should need to work such summarizes our expectations regarding the policies audit, carried out by the independent third party hours as possible, and 100% of workers move from small towns long hours to earn a living. But and operational practices of our various partners, and ­Impactt, found that 80% of the points for improvethe employees confirmed that to work in factories with the aim we’ve also learned that simply all the overtime they worked was of earning money as quickly as is used as a framework to assess and increase responment were solved or had made progress. cutting working hours is not the voluntary. So why is there such a possible. Some might be saving right approach to improving sible business practices. If the ideal conditions aren’t mismatch between our Western up to finance future plans. Others worker satisfaction. Together met at the start of our business relationship, we will Key steps taken : concept of work/life balance, and might need to support their with our partners, we’ll continue work collaboratively with our partners to identify the • Set up a union to encourage workers to voice the perceptions of many Chinese parents or put younger siblings to search for ways to make increroot cause of the issues and develop a plan for sus­concerns and suggestions factory workers? through school. Regardless, mental improvements. tainable improvement. • Implemented a bonus system to encourage workers are often keen to put in ­positive behavior There are many complex factors long hours… and due to the labor The latest version of our Ways of Working Together • Implemented a new hours registration system at play, and we certainly don’t shortage in China, employers document was updated in September 2017. that also alerts human resources if an employee have all the answers. H ­ owever, strive to give them what they is working excessive hours our increasing experience workwant. Employees in China are • Developed a policy for grievance mechanisms ing with Chinese ­manufacturers known to quit their jobs if over• Improved the suggestion box review process as well as discussions with experts time hours aren’t available. in our field has provided more insight into the reasons behind the A change in 3Sun’s manufacturing focus (ending drive for longer working hours. smartphone battery production) meant an end to our partnership, but we’re still pleased with the progress we made together on worker welfare. A still from documentary Zeit Für Utopien, team members Laura and Remco discussing factory life with a worker representative at Broadway. 86 Impact Report Our Impact : Good Working Conditions 87 Reuse and As a manufacturer, we’re part of the e-waste problem. Recycling That’s why we need to collect more than we create. 88 Impact Report xxx 89 Why we need to How we’re making increase reuse and an impact recycling Every year, consumers throw away millions of ­mobile Our goal is to maximize the use of the materials in our phones. And when that happens, we’re literally phones and keep them at their highest possible value throwing away gold… And titanium and lithium and for as long as possible. We’re working to develop soludozens of other resources that have years, decades, tions from two different angles ; first, we’re focusing or even centuries of life left in them. Part of this is on repairability and recyclability, which for us go ­driven by our desire to constantly upgrade our ­devices, hand in hand. That means we’re looking at ways to but it’s also down to a linear production model that optimize the recyclability of our products when they accelerates the flow of resources from factory to concan no longer be used. In 2017, our biggest achievesumer to waste. ment in this area was an in-depth study to examine the best recycling methods for the Fairphone 2. We believe that there’s a better way. Fairphone envisions a circular economy — where resources are Second, we’re using reverse logistics to improve the used and reused in an infinite loop. But the industry reuse and recycling of smartphones — both Fairphones isn’t built to support this goal. Current take-back and specifically and phones in general. As part of this ­recycling programs aren’t sufficient, and far too much goal, in 2017 we began selling the Fairphone New electronic waste ends up in landfills or is recycled Life Edition (a factory-refurbished Fairphone 2) and ­under dangerous conditions. On top of that, only a researched a new business model for Fairphone as a small percentage of phones are ever sent in for recyservice. Finally, we’ve continued our efforts to collect cling — the rest are stuck in drawers around the world. old phones in Europe and Africa for reuse and safe recycling. Every year, the industry puts more than ten million tons of electronics into the market* and only a third of it is actually reused or recycled**. That figure is even lower for small devices like smartphones, but there are currently no official statistics. As demand grows and resources diminish, we have to do better! Previous page: A sample from our collection program in Ghana. Right: Electronic waste piling up in * 10,091,198 tons in 2015 Agbogbloshie, Ghana. Source : Eurostat ** 3,803,187 tons in 2015 90 Impact Report Our Impact: Reuse and Recycling 91 How to recycle our phones? Complex products like smartphones are much trickThis recyclability study was made possible thanks ier to recycle than most people realize. Electronics to funding from the European Union’s Horizon 2020 re­cycling relies on a combination of dismantling, research and innovation program as part of the shredding, physical sorting and further metallurgic ­SustainablySMART project. processes (read : melting!). But no matter which method is used, it’s impossible to extract all the maThe first step in the process was to compare various terials that originally went into making the phone, recycling methods and to investigate if a modular mostly due to thermodynamic constraints. In short : ­design would enable the most efficient recovery of the you win some, you lose some. In addition, recycling greatest amount and variety of materials. In addition, also consumes energy, meaning to material recovery we also looked at the environmental footprint of each still comes at a cost to the environment. of the methods, to find out what would be the most sustainable route. As part of Fairphone’s goal of moving towards a circular economy, we wanted to learn more about the options at the end of our phone’s usable life. We also wanted to contribute to the industry’s overall understanding of recycling options. By introducing Fairphone 2 as the world’s first modular smartphone, we figured that this design could potentially improve recycling and recovery of precious materials. But the validity of that claim still needed to be proven. So, in 2017, we commissioned experts Dr. A ­ ntoinette van Schaik (MARAS B.V.) and Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. Markus A. Reuter (Freiberg, Germany) to conduct a study on the recyclability of the Fairphone 2. As ­expected, the calculations were far from simple. The experts had to deal with a complex product containing a huge range of materials, as well as completing a detailed analysis of energy use at each step of the various recycling processes. Right: Phone collection in Ghana is calculated by weight. 92 Impact Report Our Impact : Reuse and Recycling 93 Three potential recycling routes The study identified and analyzed three different Route 1 : Total smelting Route 2 : Dismantling Route 3 : Shredding ­recycling routes that could potentially be used for the Fairphone 2, based on current options using the best Feeding whole ­Fairphones into a This route allows for selective Physical processing and metallurgy : available techniques. high-temperature metallurgical smelting : separating Fairphone 2 removing the battery and feeding furnace, recovering the materials modules and putting them through the rest of the phone through a While recycling offers a wide range of benefits for mainly as metals, alloys and inorthe most suitable metallurgical cutting mill. The resulting scrap a circular economy, it’s not necessarily the panacea ganic compounds while also using and plastic recovery processes. is then separated into the relevant it’s made out to be. Electronics recycling requires a embodied energy of plastics. processing streams (metallurgy, great deal of energy — meaning that it also comes refining and plastic recovery). with an environmental cost. Our experts considered energy use, metal depletion and the role of plastics. While plastics can sometimes be recovered in a reusable form, they can also be used as fuel or reductant during the recycling process. So plastics can actually create energy and offer an environmental advantage in the recycling routes TSL Furnace 94 Impact Report Our Impact : Reuse and Recycling 95 The best recycling Route 2: Material recovery rate scenario for Ag Al W the Fairphone 2 Ta Au How did the three routes compare? So which route is the best option? Sn Co • Route 1 (smelting) offered the lowest percentage Based on the combination and variety of recovered of recovered materials by weight (14% metal materials and the effort that has to be put into physi­ recycling, 25% total material recycling and 36% cal processing, recycling route 2 is the best option recovery [= recycling + energy recovery] for all for recycling the Fairphone 2. Not only in terms of materials), as well as a poor range of materials ­recovered. Also, route 1 uses all the plastic as fuel material recovery; it shows the best balance of energy creation and plastics recycling while minimizing CO2 Pt Cr or reductant, meaning none of the plastics are emissions. ­recovered after recycling. Because this method relies on partially dismantling • Route 2 (dismantling/selective smelting) offered the Fairphone 2 and its modular components, it also greater recovery of materials by weight (19% ­metal recycling, 28% total material recycling and offers a strong argument in favor of our modular ­design approach. Pr Cu 31% recycling/recovery) as well as the widest variety of materials recovered. Some of the plastic can By completing this study, we’ve gained new insights be used as fuel and some can be recovered and into the best way forward for our recycling and circureused as recycled plastic. lar economy goals. The findings will help shape how • Route 3 (shredding) offered the highest ­percentage we manage the end of life of our products, such as the types of recycling partnerships and methods we Pd Dy of materials by weight (22% metal recycling, 30% pursue in the future. The results will also influence total material recycling and 31% recycling and our ongoing product design decisions, like continuing ­recovery). It means this route is the best for recovto explore the benefits of modularity. The study has ering bulk (non-precious) metals, normally presbeen valuable for revealing the limits of recycling and ent in large quantities such as copper or steel. But has strengthened our conviction that repairability Ni Fe the variety of materials recovered was more limand lifetime extension are just as important when it ited than route 2. In route 3 most of the plastic is comes to getting the maximum value from the mateused as fuel or reductant ; very little is recovered rials used in our products. as usable plastic. Nd Ga Mg In Li Right : This graph shows the percentage 0-10% 20-30% 40-50% 60-70% 80-90% of m­ aterials recovered using Route 2, ­developed by Van Schaik and Reuter. ­Percentages are based on weight of all 10-20% 30-40% 50-60% 70-80% 90-100% 20 selected materials. 96 Impact Report Our Impact : Reuse and Recycling 97 Collecting Key Performance Indicator : Return rate for reuse and used phones, from recycling (per device sold) Africa to Europe Why it’s important Globally, it’s estimated that less than 10% of all phones are returned for recycling. This represents a masAt Fairphone, our aim is to improve the entire lifeOur initial collection efforts started in 2013. With the As a result, in 2017, we helped Closing the Loop ­collect sive waste of usable components cycle of mobile phones. Modular design and easy support of Fairphone owners, our first e-waste project 18,000 scrap phones and PCBs from Uganda and and rare minerals, not to mention reparability help to reduce e-waste, but we also need helped our partners collect three tons of waste phones Rwanda. In July 2017, Fairphone joined Closing the unnecessary resource depletion to create ways of encouraging people to recycle their in Ghana, where no formal recycling infrastructure Loop, press and interested companies to celebrate the and carbon emissions caused by old and broken phones. With an estimated 1.6 billion yet exists. The e-waste was recycled in Belgium by arrival of the shipment in Antwerp. After ­being recycreating and shipping new phones. To reduce the amount of electronic unused phones languishing in drawers and cabinets Umicore, reclaiming a range of reusable materials. cled, the containers of e-waste enabled us to reclaim waste generated by our product all over the world, this is no small task. To achieve We have since launched new projects with these same an estimated 75 g of gold, 403 g of silver, 4 g of palla— and the electronics sector as a our ambition of a circular electronics industry, we’re two partners, who are busy collecting old phones in dium and 83 kg of copper. This was another great step whole — we aim to increase the working with a variety of partners, including C ­ losing Uganda, Rwanda and Ghana. in preventing e-waste from ending up in landfills, plus return and recycling rate of phones the Loop, a Dutch social enterprise, and Recell ­Ghana, an important message to the i­ ndustry that it’s possible from the Fairphone community. a Ghanaian entrepreneur. to successfully collaborate with like-minded partners to get closer to a circular economy. Where we are in 2017 — 0.52% return rate (per Fairphone 2 sold) We’re promoting our recycling program in Europe through our website, in the Fairphone community, and via our new user welcome emails. This targets all old and obsolete phones (not just Fairphones) that are sent to our partner, Teqcycle, from countries where we operate. This indicator represents the number of phones sent in for recycling from 1 July 2017 to the end of the year, divided by the number of phones sold from 1 July 2017 (the moment we actively starting pushing the recycling program) to the end of the year. Our target for 2018 is a 7% return rate. Increasing return rates in Europe We’re researching potential economic incentives for our customers, as well as take-back initiatives with our sales partners. In addition, since our inception in 2013, we are supporting return and recycling of e-waste in Africa and have gathered close to ten tons of old phones Left: Sylvain and Miquel (left) opening the ­container of scrap phones in Antwerp so far. But for this key performance with Closing the Loop's Reinhardt and indicator, we don’t include those Joost (right). phones : we only measure the Top: Checking out the phone collection impact of our efforts within our own program at our partner Recell Ghana. markets in Europe. 98 Impact Report Our Impact: Reuse and Recycling 99 Our Similarly, we’re also supporting phone collection in Ghana with our partner Recell Ghana. In September 2017, two members of the Fairphone team — Lina Ruiz and Miquel Ballester — traveled there to learn more about what was happening on the ground, assess the status of the project and discuss future activities. Creating phones and collecting e-waste Movement Accompanied by representatives from Recell, they visited the e-waste site Agbogbloshie, got new insights into the collection process, and learned more about local livelihoods and the role of electronics repair and recycling. They also stopped at five of the collection points and inspected the warehouse full of phones that had already been collected. During their research trip, Lina and Miquel were 27,421 8,546 accompanied by a journalist for France 24. Lina and Phones placed in the Miquel also made and shared a total of 7 video diaries market (Kg) Phones taken back (Kg) for our community on ­Facebook, to give people firsthand insights into this important work on the ground. By the end of 2017 Recell Ghana’s collection efforts resulted in almost four tons of mobile phones, to be shipped to Europe for safe recycling in 2018. In Europe, despite the fact that there are plenty of responsible options for getting rid of old or broken phones, not enough people take advantage of them. With our recycling program, we encourage the use of local drop-off points for older phones, and for newer phones we ask Fairphone owners and fans to send their phone to us by providing them with a free shipping label. These phones can be reused or recycled (depending on their condition). E-waste is a massive issue that can’t be solved by ­Fairphone alone. But despite the daunting task ahead of us, we’re slowly exploring new solutions and findMovers. Shakers. Makers. ing ways to innovate, with the goal of stimulating the electronics recycling industry as a whole. Coders. Hackers. Techies. Leaders. Fighters. Activists. These are just a few of the members of the Fairphone movement. 100 Impact Report We’re a movement, because our mission is to make something move. Together we Why we’re a movement can create a shift in how the electronics industry operates. We won’t stop until “fair” is just a natural part of doing business. Until then, we’ll continue to (and so much more than just a company) unite our community of supporters, customers, business partners and industry collaborators under the rallying cry #WeAreFairphone. 102 Impact Report 103 Who makes up our movement? 177,446 social media followers 130,050 Facebook, 32,265 Twitter, 9,154 Instagram, 5,977 LinkedIn Our vocal collection of fans, friends and followers help us amplify our successes, plus debate challenging topics to keep us on our toes. 25 150,000 (cumulative) B2B partners When companies believe that ­business and ethics can be ­compatible, it’s a major step in the right direction. Fairphone owners The people who put their hardearned money into our phone and what it represents, proving that 59,495 there’s a market for ethical choice newsletter subscribers and an entire community of people hungry to change their relationship A collection of like-minded souls to technology. They’re the ambaswho want to be the first to hear sadors of a new era. our news, and help us spread our ­message far and wide. 17,678 forum members Our most active community members discuss big ideas, come up with creative solutions and offer each other a helping hand. 104 Impact Report 105 Creating a community Partners and friends Once we started selling phones, it was our community Fairphone Angels that helped make production possible. The fact that Everything is better when you do it together. Our our first phone was crowdfunded solidified this growFairphone Angels are truly heaven-sent. These ex­expert partners help us achieve far more than we ing sense of community ; while everyone was waiting tremely active community members took the initiaever could on our own. for the phone to be produced, they turned to each tive to create a special network of s­ uper-helpers who ­other to talk about the mission and the product. offer assistance to Fairphoners in their local area. 3SUN PYMWYMIC Their hard work is helping us to build local networks ABN Amro Recell Ghana Many Fairphoners are essentially extensions of our and to spread the word about the power of longevity, ActionAid Responsible Minerals Initiative enterprise, solving technical issues for other users, all while assisting the Fairphone Support team with AIM Rijksdienst voor Ondernemend Nederland building operating systems, testing new products updates, repairs or simply showing people how to Allen & Overy Royal Philips and sharing knowledge outside of the immediate make the most of their phones. Alpha Seymour Powell ­Fairphone community. It’s the mission behind the ASN Bank Signify phone that brings people into the community ; it’s the Free Libre & Open Source Community AT&S Social Enterprise NL future inspired by the phone that keeps them here. AVX Solidaridad Fairphone happily embraces the open source moveB-Corp Solutions for Hope ment for fully transparent, shareable, user-tweakable Bethnal Green Ventures SOMO software. Besides aligning with our “open-it-up-toBetter Sourcing Program Stop Child Labour understand-it” mentality, longer-living phones and Broadway Sustainable Finance Lab increased security are just some of the benefits open CCR CSR Teqcycle source software has to offer. Circle Economy The Dragonfly Initiative Circularise The Impact Facility The Fairphone 2 comes with two standard operating Clean Electronics Production Network Unicef system (OS) choices : Fairphone OS (which includes Closing the Loop Valcambi Google Services and other non-open software), and DOEN Participaties Vodafone Fairphone Open, which comes with the tools to enDutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs Voor de Wereld van Morgen able root access and no Google Services installed. In Economic Rights Institute Waag Society addition to these, the Fairphone community has built European Partnership for Responsible Minerals Wolfram Bergbau und Hütten AG four other operating systems for our phones : Fairtrade Foundation Fraunhofer Institute for Reliability and • Sailfish OS ­Microintegration IZM • Lineage OS Hi-P • UBports OS Hivos • Postmarket OS (currently in alpha) iFixit iTSCi The real power of open source for Fairphone is that ING when we can no longer support a phone, our commuKPN nity still can. Postmarket OS, for example, is an operKOTL ating system specifically designed for older devices LaborLink that may struggle to run a more up-to-date OS. These Max Havelaar types of community projects enable people to use MVO Nederland the same hardware for a longer period, empowering Nederland Circulair ­Fairphone to achieve its goals from the ground up. New Bugarama Mining PGGM 106 Impact Report Our Movement 107 Community members share their stories In late 2014, I was contacted by The initial conception of the proI had always used iPhones before, In 2017, I loved visiting ­Amsterdam another Austrian Fairphone owner gram itself was time-consuming, but when planned obsolescence and the Fairphone team on our for help repairing a broken screen. but now that everything is in place kicked in, I did some research for Community trip. We have also We decided to host a meetup in and workflows have settled, it’s a more ethical option. I quickly fell been busy in Austria, with meetVienna — the very first ­Fairphone not too much work. We started in love with the Fairphone. It gave ups, festivals and the newly imcommunity meetup in the world. the pilot phase of the Fairphone me a good feeling owning a deplemented Angels Program. And This led to the foundation of ­Angels program in Vienna in vice that was built under ­better of course I have been very active the Austrian Fairphoners that March 2017 and by March 2018 circum­stances than all other smartin the forum. There were a lot of ­Decem­ber. As a group, we found we had handled about 50 requests phones. When the F ­ airphone 2 great moments there : the launch that many issues with your phone (only a few had to be rejected became out as the very first modular of the (now official) Lineage OS can best be resolved locally and cause we didn’t have that spare smart­phone, that blew my mind. community port for the Fairphone in ­person. So, one major motivapart in stock). ­After I purchased one, I used my 2, the new community logo, and tion for the Angels program was ­Fairphone 1 as a secondary device the introduction of the forum’s to ­relieve the Fairphone Support One of my favorite moments of until I donated it to our Austrian marketplace. My favorite moment team by enabling local support involvement with the program Fairphoners’ spare parts stock. might have been when I came out from fellow Fairphoners. was attending a meetup with I couldn’t imagine ever going back as transgender to the community some Hamburg Fairphoners, to an Unfair Phone! and all the support and approval Stefan Austria Secondly, the Angels Program ­empowers us to professionalize which evolved into a local Angels group with three members! My Paula Austria Every day on the forum I learn I got in return. the Fairphone community. It’s dream is a strong network of local new things. After just a week of In the coming year, I hope that a small skill-sharing network of Fairphone communities all over owning the Fairphone 1, I joined Fairphone manages to improve Fairphone 1 owner, Fairphone 1 owner, forum member, dedicated community members, Europe, and maybe someday in Fairphone 2 owner, the forum to proudly post about spare parts availability and Fairphone Angel, who offer to serve as a contact perother parts of the world too. At the forum member, all the cool free software apps I shorten the response time in the active community son in their town or region. This time of writing this, there are 27 Fairphone Angel, was using and how easy it was to support team. Of course I also member since : August 2014 benefits the community as a whole Fairphone Angels in 17 so-called active community avoid big companies that harvested wish for a Fairphone 3, and that — active members and passive “heavens” (cities/regions), eight member since : your data. There were a lot of Fairphone manages to increase Fairphone owners — because it of them in Germany. December 2014 discussions about many different their positive impact in the world. makes it easier to get in touch with subjects, like sustainability, (free) I wish Fairphone and our commuother ­Fairphoners in your area. In the future, I would love if software and DIY stuff. I really nity all the best for 2018! ­Fairphone could make the phone liked the feeling of community Last but not least, the Fairphone more affordable for young people spirit at the first meetup I was Angels program is a way to foster (FIRST UNDERAGE BONUS FOR invited to in Vienna. I also liked engagement by community memA SMARTPHONE FTW!). I’m that the Fairphone was a device bers who already are very active in also excited to see how support that was quite easy to repair, and the forum, but haven’t made the for the Fairphone 2 progresses — people on the forum all seem to be “jump” to the real world. I still have my Fairphone 1 but I willing to do that rather than send hope to be able to recommend the the phone somewhere for repair or ­Fairphone 2 to my friends because even get a new one. it is still well supported after over two years. 108 Impact Report Our Movement 109 I observe a way of how things are Soon after I received my ­Fairphone I am a big fan of fair and sustainI believe that OpenSource is the being done : reality. I am inspired 2 I participated in the Community ably produced goods and products, future of modern technology. by a way of how things could be trip to Amsterdam. That summer plus I like new and complex In 2018, I would love it if Fairdone : possibility. was very important for me and my technology. The Fairphone is a phone released the schematics of connection with the Fairphone combination of both and I found ­modules. It would make repairs I saw in Fairphone a group of huCommunity. My participation in that appealing, so I bought a used easier and additional hardware man beings, creating a company the forum and with the CommuFairphone 2, which was in perfect could be better adapted to the as a means to move towards new nity in general has increased after condition. specifications of the phone. I possibilities ; a new way of doing that. I felt that I was accompanied would also love to see hardware things ; a new way of developing by other “partners” ; I know and The Fairphone community is a updates for the core modules to a product ; a new way of building a can connect with them, and feel very open and friendly one ; the keep the phone more up-to-date. company that cares and contributes like we are a team. I feel part of perfect environment for ideas Fair and sustainable electronics to a more sustainable life and a not only a “movement towards and problem solving. You can get are the future and definitely an more empowered society that cares fairer electronics”, but a movehelp with your problems and it important step to a better world. for all. By owning a Fairphone, ment towards a fairer and smarter feels very good to help others with Furthermore I hope that more I develop a personal step to align world becoming real. problems they have in return. As people join the DIY movement, my action to my vision. And I conI started tinkering with the phone, start creating their own extenIratxe Basque Country (Spain) tribute my energy to the healthy development of a group of allies In 2017 I helped to organize a local community meet up in Christoph Germany I began to post on the forum and discuss my ideas with ­community sions, and teach others how to do such things! that are putting their energy to ­Vitoria-Gasteiz, helped to set up members. Many people were move real boundaries towards the Bilbao Fairphone Angels, and ­highly interested in my ideas Fairphone 2 owner, Fairphone 2 owner, forum member, a fairer possibility. ran a workshop at the #EFCT17 forum member, about possible extension boards. Fairphone Angel, (the Fairphone Community meet DIY techie extraordinaire, active community It was important for me that up in the Amsterdam office). After active community Last year I built two extension member since : ­Fairphone sees itself as a “workthat workshop we agreed to start a member since : October 2017 boards for the Fairphone. The August 2016 in-progress” company ; improving new initiative in the Community : first one added touch buttons to and improving, step by step, to SYNAPSE inspired by Fairphone the back of the Fairphone 2, and widen their real impact. I deeply movement. the second one is a development resonate with that effort, with the board, which makes it easy to aspiration behind it. In the future, I would like realize and build your own ideas. ­Fairphone to improve their cusQuite a few of the boards I detomer support and maybe a veloped were shipped to other battery that could live longer. In community members and I hope 2018 I hope Fairphone continues many others will join this DIY thriving (as I think it is). I hope movement. In 2017 I also took part Fairphone makes an even bigger in Jugend Forscht (a German comimpact, and I hope the company petition for young, science-loving successfully sustains the vision people) with the boards I made of its beginning while growing for the Fairphone 2 and won the in team members, users and ­second place in my category. ­challenges! 110 Impact Report Our Movement 111 Life on the road : Connecting with our audience across Europe Whether we’re explaining modularity, discussing responsible supply chains or just demonstrating easy repairs, sometimes the best way to show what makes Fairphone different is to do it face to face. That’s why going to events is such an important part of what we do. It’s an effective way to share our vision with a global audience while growing the demand for fair electronics and inspiring the wider industry to act differently. And besides making new connections, Left: Team member Michiel at festival events provide great opportunities to catch up with de Beschaving , Utrecht, Netherlands. existing community members that form the core of Right (from top to bottom): Team memour movement. ber Lina at Heldenmarkt, Berlin, Germany ; Team members Luke and Tina-Marie at an Orange Convention, Deauville, France. Next page: Team member Monique discussing electronics recycling at Mobile World Congress 2017. 112 Impact Report Our Movement 113 Where did we go in 2017? Putting sustainability on the global tech agenda at MWC 23 4 13 Event Presentations Workshops Exhibitions Including: Including: Including: National Sustainability Congress, Urban Mining workshops Danish National Museum for The Netherlands Circular Economy workshop ­Science and ­Technology, Empodera Live, Spain Elsinore, Denmark AMSXtech, Netherlands London Design Museum, DINAcon, Switzerland Emerge, University of Oxford, UK 9 Fairs & trade shows London, UK Museum Boijmans van Beuningen, MakeMunich, Germany ­Rotterdam, ­Netherlands Including: COMM — Museum for CommunicaCID (Orange), France tion, The Hague, Netherlands Mobile World Congress, Spain Landesmuseum, History of Heldenmarkt, Germany ­Technology ­Gallery, Linz, Austria Fa La Cosa Guista, Italy IFA, Germany The Next Web, Netherlands “The Mobile World Congress is For us, the other theme of One highlight of the event was all about trends, and we believe the MWC was partnership : at the coverage of Fairphone on that the next major trend should the Ubuntu stand, our partners CNN, putting modularity and be sustainability,” said Bas van UBports showed off a Fairphone sustainability on the global tech Abel of the 2017 MWC in Spain. 2 running Ubuntu. Teclib shared agenda. This was the first year we had our booth for a day to demonour own booth at the Congress, strate their Uhuru Mobile on the and we did our best to put the Fairphone 2 and security solumessage of sustainability front tions. iFixit and Fraunhofer IZM and center. This included parparticipated in a panel at our ticipating in the Mobile Social press conference. And the Dutch Congress, NEXTech lab, Mobile pavilion, run by the Enterprise Sunday, Urban Mining Workshop Summit, helped us generate lots and press conference, offering of attention from business audigreat opportunities to share our ences. During the event, the city mission and points of view. of Barcelona announced that the Fairphone 2 will be included in their mobile portfolio for senior executives. And we also announced partnerships with Mediaworld and Gogreenstore in Italy! 114 Impact Report Our Movement 115 What our movement moves : impacting our industry We set out to prove that it’s possible to make a phone Our industry influence may be challenging to quanAwards and other external recognitions let us know 2011 — 2016 in a fairer, more ethical way. But the movement tify, but in the five years we’ve been active in the that we’re setting an example and raising the bar for • German Environment Foundation we’ve built isn’t really about Fairphone ; it’s about market, there is ample evidence that we’re making an the electronics industry and our peers in the sustainGerman Environmental Award 2016 for our ­inspiring others to make our industry — and our impact. Our numerous awards prove we’re raising the able business sector. founder Bas van Abel whole e ­ conomy — fairer. bar and gaining recognition for our efforts. Our ­global • The Lovie Awards 2016 media coverage and inclusion in research papers 2017 Lovie Emerging Entrepreneurs shows we’re putting important issues on the agenda • Fairphone earned the top score in Greenpeace’s • European Business Awards for the Environment and stimulating public debate. Finally, the collabora2017 Guide to Greener Electronics (EBAE) 2016 tions we’re part of and the comments we receive from • The Fairphone 2 won Gold at Cannes Lions 2017 The International Business Cooperation Award our industry (and far beyond) confirm that others are for Product Design in the category Sustainability • d&ad 2016 starting following our lead. We want other brands to and Environmental Impact White Pencil in Service Innovation and Graphite join us, and work with us ; to make what is “special” • Green Product Award in the category “Consumer Pencil in Product Design and “unique” about Fairphone the industry standard, Electronics Newcomer” • Dieline Outstanding Achievement, for Fairphone instead of the exception. • Premio Natura — for Fairphone 2 in category 2 Packaging in the Technology, Media, Office, & “Telefonia” Self Promotion category (2016) • International Business Cooperation Award — • The Next Web 2015 2016/2017 European Business Awards for the Tech5 — Fastest Growing Tech Startup in Europe ­Environment • GreenTec Awards 2015 ProSiebenSat.1 • 10/10 iFixit + Greenpeace repairability score in • Accelerator Start Up Prize 2017 report for Fairphone 2 = highest score • UN Momentum for Change Award 2015 ICT Solutions Theory of Change • Sustainia 2014 Fairphone produces an ethical phone to raise the bar, • Community Award thereby creating a market for the electronics industry. • ASN Bank, Voor de Wereld van Morgen ASN Wereldprijs (2011) Stimulate supply Collaboration with suppliers makes fairer components Demand + Supply Fairphone ­available = Market raises the bar By establishing a market Tangible improvements for ethical products, and innovations we’re ­motivating the in ­Fairphone's products entire industry to act and business model Stimulate more responsibly demand Growing the number of consumers who want fairer electronics 116 Impact Report Our Movement 117 Press coverage puts our work in the spotlight The Guardian’s Observer Tech Crunch ZDNet Spreading the Fairphone word outside of our immedi2017 media coverage Best Gadgets 2017 : ate community is one of the most important ways to raise awareness of what we’re doing and to influence 5166 mentions “Fairphone.com is the ethical “Meet the tiny phone company “Fairphone, the Dutch smartphone the change we want to see. We’re proud that our hard 1918 full articles ­market leader — it not only uses that's making modularity startup that began life in 2013, work makes the Fairphone story so compelling ; peoReach : 5,363,680,363 conflict-free minerals but is a sustainable.” has made a habit out of doing the ple really want to be a part of that story, and, thanks to Value : €49,625,468 ­modular product designed to be sort of thing that even some of the our radical approach to transparency, journalists want Interviews given by Fairphone team members : 138 repairable.” ­biggest hardware manufacturers to cover it. For a small company without a significant Sent out 10 press releases and hosted two big press in the world haven't been able to advertising budget, we have still earned an impresevents (IFA and MWC) pull off.” sive amount of media exposure, both for our products and the issues we work on. In 2017 our ­media coverage Another day, another film crew was worth over €49 million in equivalent advertising value. Bringing the discussion about fairer electronics Over the years the Fairphone team has become inter­ Team member Bas being interviewed into the mainstream is a crucial contribution to our view experts, pausing to share our message with by Deutsche Welle during IFA 2017 movement, amplifying Fairphone’s message and inthe press at events, fairs, presentations and more. spiring wider industry change. But the in past couple years, we’ve had to wrap our heads around a new level of coverage : being followed around by film crews! We’ve now become accustomed to quickly tidying up our desks as soon as a camera appears in the office, but in 2017 some of our team members got a taste of fame when film crews joined them on the road. For example, a French journalist joined us on a trip to Ghana for the latest update on our e-waste projects, while a German crew covered us everywhere from our HQ in the Netherlands to the mines in the DRC for “Zeit für Utopien”, a documentary hitting theaters in 2018. 118 Impact Report Our Movement 119 Leading and learning with academia G20 Insights report on the Circular Elements Magazine on GeoScienceWorld : Conference paper for Delft University of Sharing knowledge to expand our mission Economy : Better Products by Design Responsible sourcing of critical metals : Technology’s PLATE conference : What’s In fact, we receive so many requests for support hot, what’s not : the social construction of Mentions in research papers & publications: ­related to research publications and theses that we product obsolescence and its relevance for 34 (2017 only), 144 (2012 end 2017 cumulative) decided to launch a monthly Research Webinar. In “Phones that last longer would be “Some manufacturers, such as strategies to increase functionality 2017, we hosted ten of these info-sharing sessions. good for people and the planet. Fairphone have attempted to Fairphone Research Webinars: Approximately 50 research groups participated British consumers spend £1.1 understand their supply chain and “The design of the Fairphone 10, with 50 research groups throughout the year, ranging from Masters students billion on fixing broken screens, to connect consumers with the raw offers different stimuli — like to industry professionals. Not only is it a chance for and keeping a phone going for just materials used. For most complex the transparency of physical Fairphone aims to set an example for a different way people to learn directly from Fairphone ; it’s a chance one extra year can cut its overall products, though, it is hard for the properties, the invitation “yours to make a phone, and a better way to do business in for us to learn from them, and — somewhat rare for carbon footprint by a third. … consumer to make a connection to to open” and the pre-installed app general. We believe that sharing knowledge is crucial a research webinar — for the whole group to learn Easily replaceable screens already the mines that have produced the from iFixit — that target the user’s to furthering our mission and bettering our industry. from each other. It’s just one more way we’re trying to exist : … Fairphone 2 : screen repair raw materials.” practical understanding of the That’s why we’re so proud when others cite Fairphone actively live our mission and prove that transparency takes less than one minute, and product’s functioning or at least as an example in their work. Since 2012, we have been and knowledge-sharing can form the backbone of this costs £70 :” his or her curiosity. What does it mentioned in a total of 144 research papers and publiindustry’s future. make with users if they can easily cations, with 34 of those mentions occuring in 2017. look inside their phones, if they are invited and supported to physically Team member Miquel at a workshop in “enter” into their devices? Based conversation with interested participants. on our previous reflections we can hypothesize that the accordances in this scenario to get to know the object and to repair if needed 2017 Mentions in Research Papers and enlarges the scope of practical Publications understandings and creates a new meaning around maxing out the Publication type Mentioned in device.” Books 12 Conference papers 4 Master's thesis 2 PhD thesis 1 Reports 5 Research papers 7 Academic articles 3 Total 34 120 Impact Report Our Movement 121 Combined efforts Key performance indicator : A fairer industry create bigger results Why it’s important Our goal isn’t just to make our own phones fair ; we want to catalyze change across the entire electronics sector. We actively encourage other companies to adopt our methods, A fairer electronics industry cannot be achieved “In recent years, we’ve noticed “Signify is cooperating with “Using the provided full bill follow our lead, and work with us alone. Working alongside partners and motivated that the improvements at NBM ­Fairphone to create a responsiof materials (BoM) and full in partnerships to trigger more ­parties is the best — and often only — way to advance and long-term commitment of ble supply chain for small-scale material declaration (FMD) transparency and improved social our mission of systemic change. This is what our shareholders have made miners ­cobalt mining as Fairphone’s Fairphone has shown how and environmental performance KPI for a fairer industry is all about. A quantitative more loyal and proud to work here. commitment brings a lot of simulation-based design in the industry. Choosing to make measure­ment of this is something we’re still perfectBy working with Fairphone, we’ve ­added value in terms of knowledge, can help to improve designs, this an explicit, quantifiable KPI ing, but hearing from experts in our industry about gained recognition as a model network and creative thinking improve resource efficiency was an important decision for us, our impact is the type of qualitative feedback that inmine in Rwanda, which helped us on very complicated issues. I’m and therefore innovate the as tracking — and growing — our spires us and pushes us onward ; Fairphone is making convince global buyers to renew confident that by joining forces circular economy. Personally, industry influence is at the heart of a difference, and that difference is apparent. their interest in sourcing from this we will positively impact ­global I have been in true awe of the the entire Fairphone endeavor. part of the world.” supply chains and improve contrust placed in us to use their Where we are in 2017 — ditions in small-scale cobalt IP embodied within the BoM — Quentin Lamarche, Specialty Metals Defining methodology and mining.” and FMD to transparently ­Resources (SMR) measuring influence show what the recycling rate of At the launch of the Gold Covenant, with — Carla Neefs, Director Supplier Sustaincomplex products are. I have the Measuring industry influence is the Dutch Minister of Foreign Affairs and a ability & Audits, Signify (formerly Philips Lighting) deepest respect for this honesty somewhat arbitrary. There are invisvariety of gold sector stakeholders working to jointly improve every step of the gold and their drive to make the ible results we’ll never know about, supply chain, from mining to recycling. circular economy work.” and creating a standard way to measure our impact isn’t easy. — Prof. Dr. Dr. h.c. mult. Markus Reuter, Director ­Helmholtz Institute Freiberg We settled on a point system for for Resource Technology key players from the electronics industry that participate in and/ or follow Fairphone initiatives. This can be, for example, a collaborative project between Fairphone and a “By becoming the first opera­ “The smartphone market is specific electronics industry player, tor in France to offer the dominated by a few giants. or when certain approaches are ­Fairphone 2 as an alternative Their flagship products have independently adopted by electronto customers, we’re taking our one thing in common : they are ics industry players. The bigger the commitment to sustainability becoming increasingly fragile player, the higher the points when to the next level. To us, this is with the goal of pushing faster we move them toward fairer matea way to make a sus­tainable, replacement cycles. For Digitec, rials or practices. By the end of 2017, ­e thical and longer-lasting Fairphone is a refreshing brand we had accumulated 6 points with smartphone more mainstream.” that helps us differentiate our four companies working alongside Fairphone to improve our industry. portfolio, but more importantly, — Isabelle Gherardi, Head of Devices it offers an environmentally ­Portfolio, Orange France Ambitions for the future conscious alternative to the aforementioned phenomenon.” We are working to improve this methodology, tracking industry — Hendrik Blenken Blijdenstein CCO Digitech movement as closely as possible and building a comprehensive understanding of influence on a case-by-case basis. 122 Impact Report Our Movement 123 124 Impact Report Our Movement 125 Our future The title of this impact report sums it up nicely: stability of the supply and quality of our We’re here, and we’re here to stay. But that phones, we’ll continue to improve product statement isn’t about sitting back and celebrat­ engineering and supply chain management ing our accomplishments. Fairphone is built to throughout the company. be around for the long term ; we’re a movement that will keep growing, thriving and making We’re striving to make our impact scalable a greater impact in every part of the electronics as well. To build on our existing achievements, supply chain. To achieve that, we can’t just stick we want to contribute to initiatives that can around and stagnate ; we need to expand and be replicated, expanded and taken to the next evolve — and I’m e ­ xcited to be part of that level — not just by Fairphone, but by anyone The simplest way evolution. in our industry. Our gold partnership in Uganda is a strong example of that. Our primary goal I can say it is: When I joined Fairphone in the fall of 2017, is to make it easy for other parties to join in I was enthusiastic about the company, its values purchasing this gold to create a more consistent, we’ll keep what’s and my role as managing director. Together sustainable market for responsible minerals. with Bas and the management team, we worked working and improve to develop a clear vision for ­Fairphone’s future In addition, as our company matures and grows, and what it will take to get us there. Our plans we’ll continue to communicate our successes, what isn’t, and goals are always guided by Fairphone’s as well as our stumbling blocks. However, as mission: by establishing a viable market for we reach new audiences and customers, we want with the aim of ethical consumer electronics, we’re motivating to ensure that everyone can relate to the s­ tory the entire industry to act more ­responsibly. behind their phones, no matter how much they making everything know about electronics. So what can you expect from us in the years we do scalable. ahead? The simplest way I can say it is: we’ll In closing, I’d like to thank you once again keep what’s working and improve what isn’t, for your interest in ­Fairphone and what with the aim of making everything we do we’re trying to achieve. I’m grateful to be part scalable. of such a motivated, talented team, and am confident that we’ll continue to reach exciting For example, we’re refining internal systems new milestones together in the years ahead. and processes to create a stronger operational foundation. We’re formalizing structures, We’ve shared so much information in this encouraging better collaboration between report, but there’s still lots more I can’t wait departments and throwing around new to discuss. I’m looking forward to all of our (to Fairphone) acronyms like OGSM and KPIs. future conversations — on our blog, on social Meanwhile I also want to be careful not to media, on stage and in person. organize away our company’s personality. It’s important to protect the creativity, entre­ With warm regards, preneurship and “let’s do it” mentality that got Fairphone where it is today. Eva Gouwens On the product side, we’ll keep focusing on longer-lasting, repairable phones while work­ ing to correct issues that stand in the way of a great customer experience. To increase the 126 Impact Report Our Future 127 Thank You Colophon We’re grateful to each and every one of you Editorial Copyright Statement from our consultant Thank you Thank you Sustainalize to all the people and organizations to Fairphone 1 and 2 owners Editor in Chief Under Creative Commons license who first brought us together and who dared to vote with their wallets, Bibi Bleekemolen Attribution-NonCommercial-ShareAlike “The purpose of our examination was inspired our way of thinking. and stood by our side even when CC BY-NC-SA. to advise Fairphone on how to improve Contributing Editors its ­reporting processes and to enable it required unbelievable patience. Andrew Davies We believe in the power of sharing. People manage­ment to safeguard the quality of Thank you Liz Keel are welcome to expand, remix, tweak and the data for the Key Performance Indicato our community for believing in us, Thank you build upon the work we’ve done, as long tors (KPIs) presented in the 2017 Impact spreading the word about to all external parties who provided input Copywriters as you credit Fairphone and license new Report. We performed interviews and Brian Fitzgerald creations under identical terms. document walkthroughs and reconciled fair electronics and keeping us on our toes. and shared their experiences for this report. Liz Keel creativecommons.org/licenses the reported data with underlying supMaeve Simons porting documentation on a sample basis. Thank you Thank you Following our examination, together with to the miners, smelters, factory employees, to the Fairphone team members Contact Fairphone we reached a mutual conclusion Design on the KPI figures presented in this report. suppliers, distributors, logistics specialists, for their contribution to this report, especially Fairphone B.V. recyclers and every single person who contributes Andrea, Bas, Charlotte, Dirk, Douwe, Esmée, Art Direction Jollemanhof 17 Our recommendations to improve future to making our phones. Eva, Fabian, Gersom, Joëlle, Katinka, Gabrielle Pauty 1019 GW Amsterdam data reporting process include : 1) To Laura, Lina, Miquel, Monica, Monique, The Netherlands improve consistency in data reporting by Graphic Design KvK : 55901964 setting clear boundaries and definitions Thank you Olivier, Remco, Teemu, Tina and Tina-Marie. Ayumi Higuchi www.fairphone.com per KPI and 2) To formalize and autoto all of our project partners And an extra special thank you Gabrielle Pauty mate reporting processes by limiting the who make it possible to transform our ideas to our data ninjas Chinghih, Riccardo and Sylvain amount of manual data processing, which for fair electronics into reality. for collecting and cross-checking the figures. Commissioned photographers Disclaimer is prone to errors. Bart Oomes Blommers & Schumm The Fairphone Impact Report, Volume 1 As we are not bound by assurance Thank you Thank you Lonneke van der Palen was first published in November 2018. standards, we do not provide external to our distribution partners to all the other team members, The content is primarily based on 2017, assurance on the reported data.” who bring our product to markets who reviewed, reviewed, and then reviewed contextualized with information from Printing and binding previous years where necessary. All inforwe’d never be able to reach on our own. this report “just one more time”. mation was accurate to the best of our This report was printed climate neutral knowledge at the time of publication. Thank you And finally, thank you by Zwaan Printmedia. to our impact investors who believe for reading this report. It’s people like you, By using CyclusOffset and CyclusPrint that it’s possible to build a ­successful business filled with curiosity and ­determination, (paper from 100% post-consumer and create positive impact at the same time. who make all of this possible. reclaimed materials, certified by Blue Angel, FSC Recycled and EU Ecolabel) rather than a non-recycled paper, the environmental impact of this report was reduced by 427 kg of landfill, 101 kg CO2 and greenhouse gases, 693 kg of wood, 10,538 liters of water and 1,309 kWh of energy. 2 018 128 Impact Report 129 ANGELS COMMUNITY DESIGN MINING PARTNERS TRANSPARENCY CHANGEMAKER COPPER GOLD MODULARITY PIONEER WORKERS COBALT CREATIVITY IMPACT MOVEMENT RECYCLING xxx 131 and we're here to stay
