SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 communication on progress to the united nations global compact STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE MANAGING DIRECTOR Providing global access to quality medical care by supplying high quality and cost effective medical products & solutions to our customers and their beneficiaries living in low resource settings. This has been our mission from the start. In everything we do we try to add value to the lives of people living in low resource settings. In 2020, we will celebrate our 40th anniversary. In the past 40 years one thing has never changed, which is the reason why we get up every morning to provide global access to quality medical care. After all, the best medicine is useless if it cannot get to where it is needed, when it is needed. Over the past decades, we have seen many changes within our own organisation as well as in the supply chain. One of the most prominent changes we have seen, and still see, is the increasing awareness of doing sustainable business. We have incorporated sustainability in our strategy and started using the SDG industry matrix and the SDG Compass as a source of inspiration and benchmark going forward in our continuous effort to improve our sustainable business model. At each principle in this report we state the sustainable development goals that align with the measurements we take in our journey towards sustainability. This is our communication on progress over the year 2018. It reflects the progress we have made and the concrete measurement of outcomes. It also reflects our plans going forward in our ambition to become a sustainable business partner for all our stakeholders. We hereby reaffirm our commitment to the UN Global Compact and the 10 principles. Lelystad, the Netherlands , 6th of June 2019 Niek F. Zee Managing Director 2 CONTENTS Statement of continued support.......................................................................................................................................................2 Contents...............................................................................................................................................................................................................3 About Imres.......................................................................................................................................................................................................4 1 Human Rights...................................................................................................................................................................................................6 2 Labour....................................................................................................................................................................................................................8 3 Environment.......................................................................................................................................................................................................12 4 Anti-Corruption................................................................................................................................................................................................14 3 ABOUT IMRES Imres is a leading global supplier of high quality and affordably priced pharmaceuticals, medical consumables, hospital equipment and medical kits. We are making a global impact on healthcare in low resource settings by providing high quality and cost-effective medical products and solutions for our customers and their beneficiaries. Mission It is our mission to provide global access to quality medical care by providing high quality and cost effective medical products & solutions for our customers and their beneficiaries living in low resource settings Vision Imres has the ambition to deliver a recognizable, global contribution to the availability of safe, effective, affordable quality medical products and food supplements by utilizing our knowledge and innovating our skills in the humanitarian supply chain for the benefit of people living in low resource settings. Our products and services Our starting point has always been and still is our customer. We have build up our expansive product portfolio based on their unmet needs. Today we have a wide range of pharmaceuticals and medical products, from basic essential medicines and consumables to a full range of medical instruments and hospital equipment that encompasses everything from small thermometers to large CT machines. Our products include our own range of pharmaceuticals and food supplements. At Imres we strive to continuously improve, expand and innovate. We constantly source new products, manufacturers and suppliers. This ensures that we keep our range up to date, and that we consistently provide our customers with the best prices, products and quality Our logistic expertise Imres has made logistics an integral part of the services we offer. Over the years, we have become logistics experts, because we understand that our work and our responsibility does not end with the supply of pharmaceuticals and medical consumables. It only ends when our high quality products reach the patient, on time and uncompromised. We know that delays can cost lives, so our logistics solutions are designed for speed and efficiency. We always keep in mind, however, that many of the aid agencies and NGOs that we serve face cost constraints, so we continuously keep a keen eye on affordability. Imres strives to consistently provide fast, environmental friendly, effective and cost-efficient logistics services that include numerous delivery and transport options for our customers. We work with carefully selected and pre-qualified freight forwarders and other logistics service providers that share our commitment to logistics excellence and seamless service. We have an established network of partners whose specific in-country experience and expertise we can rely on. Our facilities Imres’s state-of-the-art infrastructure includes 10 000 m2 0f climated controlled Good Distribution Practices (GDP) and GMP certified warehouses located in the Netherlands. These offer a total of 10 000 pallet locations. We have offices and facilities in the Netherlands, Dubai, India and China. Our production areas include a GMP room for secondary packing and a Class D clean room for primary packing, as well as a 650 m2 kit production area. 4 ABOUT IMRES Our uncompromising quality Worldwide, counterfeit medicines and medical products is a growing concern. Imres’s customers and patients benefit from our outstanding and well-tested capability to identify and rate vendors and manufacturing facilities, and to guarantee the quality of our pharmaceuticals and medical supplies. We do not take any chances when it comes to the quality of the supplied products, or to safeguarding the health of patients. To this end, we have implemented an uncompromising set of quality controls, including a dedicated quality control department and independent testing in WHO pre-qualified and ISO/IEC 17025:2005 certified laboratories. Imres visits and screens vendors around the world as part of our stringent vendor rating system. Manufacturers must prove that they meet our high, internationally recognised standards, and those of our customers, and that they adhere to the necessary quality control processes to qualify as an Imres approved vendor or manufacturing facility. All of our products are screened to ensure the quality of every item that we supply. Some of the other measures that we employ in order to guarantee the quality of our products are specially designed logistics boxes, GMP audits by our qualified pharmacists and re-analysis and contra-analysis of pharmaceuticals. Imres is a fully licenced, GDP certified wholesaler and is audited by the Dutch Ministry of Health. FACTS & FIGURES 100+ Employees 14 nationalities Our projects Our freight 5 Principle 1: We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: We make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses HUMAN RIGHTS Our biggest contribution in safeguarding human rights is our daily effort to provide global access to quality medical care by supplying high quality and affordable medicines and medical products to people in low resource settings. We recognize that the highest risks of violation of Human rights lies in the supply chain, beyond our direct control. We have put a comprehensive set of measurements and guidelines in place, both for our internal organisation as well as for our suppliers and other partners in the supply chain to minimize the risk of violation of these rights. Human rights within our own company Imres is continuously growing as a result of an increasing demand from the market. The international nature of our business and the diverse geographical markets in which we are active require employees with various cultural backgrounds to support our customers in the best possible manner. With this growth the responsibility to ensure that every employee can work in an environment of respect and care increases. We have a strong sense of integrity and respect which is part of the company’s culture. There still is room for improvement however, as most of the values we share are unwritten, thus not always visible to everyone. Measurements of outcome: • A clear policy on work– life balance, safeguarded by the contents of our employment contract that exceed the minimum legal requirements; • A clear policy on privacy, safeguarded by a Privacy Protection Officer; • A clear policy on respect and integrity, safeguarded by our confidential counsellor; • In 2019 we will develop a set of clear, recognisable values that translate our unwritten strong sense of integrity and respect into a SMART set of rules of engagement. 6 Principle 1: We support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2: We make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses HUMAN RIGHTS Human rights within the supply chain Imres is positioned in the middle of the supply chain, upstream are the manufacturers and suppliers, downstream are our customers, varying from global NGO’s to local central medical stores and Ministries of Health. As stated above we do not have direct control over human rights in the supply chain. However, we have a stringent set of precautions to minimize the risk of conducting business with parties that violate human rights. Every supplier, sub-contractor or agent must sign our code of conduct before we do business with them. Measurements of outcome: • Each year we conduct random audits with our suppliers and manufacturers to ensure they live up to the quality standards and our Code of Conduct. In 2018 we randomly audited 7 supppliers. We have found zero human rights related incidents; • We are developing a comprehensive review process for our agents, which will be conducted on a yearly base. In 2019 we will have the first formal reviews with our agents. IMRES FULLY SUPPORTS THE UNITED NATIONS UNIVERSAL DECLARATION OF HUMAN RIGHTS 7 Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 3: We uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the rights to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour LABOUR Labour rights in our own operation Imres strives to be a great place to work. We believe our employees are our biggest asset and by taking good care of them, they will take good care of Imres. With our steady growth, the number of employees has increased with approximately 10 percent per year to over a hundred employees now. Being located in the Netherlands means that there is solid legislation regarding labour rights for all employees. There is freedom of association and child labour or forced and compulsary labour is absolutely forbidden. We have comprehensive processes in place regarding safety, health at work, and development. We yearly conduct multiple internal audits which address all processes including safety at work, internal communication and working conditions. IMRES’ EMPLOYEES IN NUMBERS Age structure Gender structure Length of employment 8 Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Principle 3: We uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the rights to collective bargaining. Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour LABOUR Labour rights in our own organisation In 2018 Imres has taken several initiatives to create structural improvements going forward in a growing organisation that facilitates employees in their well-being, development and sense of inclusivity. Safety and Health at work Imres has a dedicated prevention officer at our HR department. In order to mitigate labour related risks, a first, structured questionnaire has been send to all employees to survey the need for adaptions at the workplace. These adaptations vary from specialized keyboards to specific chairs and special screens. Education and development Imres is actively motivating employees to develop themselves. In so-called personal development conversations the team leaders discuss the developments of the employees and the possible need for education so they stay motivated and fit for their job. New employees introduction Imres has set-up a special program for new employees. Each quarter all the new employees that were hired follow a program in which they get to know the history, culture and departments within Imres. We are developing a compact and clear value chart, which will further strengthen inclusivity and shared values within Imres. Works Council The Imres works council exists of 7 persons from different departments. They have had meetings with the management to discuss the Imres strategy going forward and the implications the strategy has for the employees. The outcome of these meetings were positive and added to a shared sense of inclusivity. 9 LABOUR Measurements of outcome: • 3 employees received adaptations in their workplace; • Several employees started a form of education, either a course, coaching or training on the job to further develop their skills; • A first session for new employees was conducted, the outcome was positive and led to more structural improvements on this program; • The works council had constructive meetings with the management. • 1 safety incident was reported 10 LABOUR Labour rights in the supply chain Imres’ control regarding labour rights in the supply chain is limited. We acknowledge our responsibility to do sustainable business and have a zero tolerance policy when it comes to child labour, discrimination, forced labour or any other violations of labour rights. We have taken precautions to minimize the risk of Imres doing business with a partner that violates labour rights. Code of Conduct Every suplier that wants to do business with Imres is obliged to sign off our code of conduct. In our Code we have the labourstandards according to principles three to six layed-out that our suppliers must comply with. Audits In 2018 we have performed 7 random audits with suppliers. Measurements of outcome: • In 2018 no labour rights related incidents were reported; 11 Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies ENVIRONMENT With our increasing growth, our sense of environmental awareness is also growing. As we stated in our 2017 COP we are only at the beginning of this journey. We used the past period to identify our own footprint and developed plans to concretely reduce it. We also continuously search for more sustainable solutions in the supply chain. In our own operation We have identified four focus points to reduce our footprint going forward. These are directly linked to our internal organisation. The first steps are to quantify our energy consumption, recycling and incineration as part of our Green Office initiatives. Green Office initiatives A better environment starts with us and reducing our footprint can be done by taking small steps at a time. Things we already have in place: • All water for consumption comes from the tap, we do not use bottled water; • We use glass and cups in our canteen for tea, coffee and cold drinks. There are no plastic or paper cups; • We encourage the paperless office; • We use modern communication techniques like Skype and Webex to communicate with our customers abroad. This strongly reduces the need for traveling. Energy and recycling 12 Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmental friendly technologies ENVIRONMENT Measurement of outcome: • We have increased our recycling with 10% by re-using packaging materials; • We have invested in an electrical company car; • We are in the process of placing two electrical car charge stations at our premises; • We are investigating the replacement of our roofing material with environmental friendly material that is produced with 100% green energy and has a 20% CO2 reduction. 13 Principle 10: We work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery ANTI-CORRUPTION Imres is against all forms of corruption. We believe that the only way to achieve sustainable succes is by acting integer both in our own company and in the supply chain. We focus on continued quality for the best price, innovative sollutions for our customers and adding value to their lives. In our own operation We have an anti-bribery and anti-corruption policy in our quality system that has to be read, and agreed upon by all our employees. We have a zero tolerance policy on corruption and have yearly audits, both from our accountants and from key NGO customers. In the supply chain We are aware that anti-corrupution and anti-bribery control in the supply chain is less visible than in our own operation. All our Agents need to sign our anti-Bribery and anti-Corruption Policy and the fees charged need to be market conform. Also here we have a zero tolerance policy in place. From 2018 and further we check with our agents if their operation complies with our policy. Measurement of outcome: • In 2018 no corruption related incidents were reported. 14 www.imres.nl This report is available on the UN Global Compact website, on the Imres website and in our internal Q-link information system. Report profile Reporting period: 2018 Reporting cycle: Annual Publishing date: June 2019 Publisher and design : Imres B.V. Contact for socially responsible business operations: Dian van Uythoven, vanuythoven@imres.nl IMRES | Larserpoortweg 26, 8218 NK Lelystad, Netherlands Phone +31 (0) 320 296969 | www.imres.nl | Email info@imres.nl
