WOORI BANK Annual Report 2018 Since this year is 120th Woori Bank’s anniversary(exceeding 100 years of age, we are now reborn ‘in our Twenties with Youthful sprit’ going global), we have selected as a new spokesmodel BLACKPINK*, who have grown to become the leading Korea’s international girl group in their twenties. BLACKPINK BLACKPINK has become the 1st K-pop group to have a music video titled ‘Ddu-Du Ddu-Du’ with more than 800 million YouTube views. BLACKPINK, who debuted in 2016, already made history when its latest single, ‘Kill This Love,’* charted on Billboard’s main singles chart, the Hot 100, making it the 1st female K-pop group to record such an achievement. * ‘Kill this Love’ was released on April 5, 2019 and exceeded 300 million YouTube views in early May 2019 Woori Bank(WOORI means ‘our’ in Korean) was established in 1899 as the nation’s 1st and the only traditional bank to believe in our customers potential to prosper with the Korean economy for 120 years. Woori Bank started anew as Woori Financial Group Inc. this year and will continue to actively support the financial industry in Korea. Woori Bank will provide a diverse range of secure financial services by taking the lead in the 4th industrial revolution in finance and create a convenient financial environment for customers by applying new digital technologies to the world of finance. We will serve as a robust financial partner that fulfills its social responsibilities and promote the coordinated development between the banking sector and the society, therey ensure that our society positively grows together with us. Going beyond the No.1 financial group with comprehensive services in Korea by supporting/believing in our customers potential to achieve their best performances, we will become a representative bank in Asia and will also take the lead in global financial markets. CONTENTS Woori Overview 006 special story 012 Message from the CEO 016 Board of Directors 019 Corporate Governance 022 WOORI FINANCIAL GROUP INC. 028 history of 120 years 036 News Highlights 040 Company Structure 041 Awards 2018 042 Financial Highlights Business Operations 046 Retail Banking 048 Real Estate Finance 050 Wealth Management 052 Corporate Banking 054 SME Banking 056 Institutional Banking 058 Global Business 062 International Trade Business 064 Investment Banking 066 Trust & Pension Business Business Support / Social Responsibility 070 Employee Satisfaction 073 Financial Market Business 076 Digital banking 079 IT Support 080 Information Security 082 Risk Management 084 Consumer Protection 086 Social Contribution Activities 089 Woori Smile Microcredit 090 ethical & compliance management 092 Anti -Money Laundering Financial Review 096 Management’s Discussion and Analysis 110 Independent Auditors’ Report 244 Organization 246 Global Network We believe that with Woori, our customers can make their dreams come true BLACKPINK _ Jennie Me Dreaming We We believe that with Woori, our customers can overcome any challenges and become stronger BLACKPINK _ Rose Me Challenging We We believe that with Woori, our customers can enjoy their everyday lives to the fullest BLACKPINK _ Lisa Me Enjoying We We believe that with Woori, our customers can continue to ongoingly take the lead in setting & achieving their goals BLACKPINK _ Jisoo Me Continuing We For MyungSung Placon going global with the best-in-class agricultural equipment, Woori Bank is a forever companion. MyungSung Placon strives for exclusive agricultural management for farmers for almost 20 years as a producer of hot water protective curtains, while engaging in rockwool culture for agriculture. It could be what it is today in the challenging Jung, Yeong Hun We Believe in Your Potential environment thanks to its unwavering efforts and passion for CEO of MyungSung Placon Ltd. high-efficiency agricultural management and “Woori Bank” – a reliable partner at all times. MyungSung Placon is a 100 percent exporter, and generates over USD 70 million for export income per year. It currently exports to Uzbekistan, but Woori Bank wishes for the company to achieve outstanding results in different parts of the world and the two could continue to play roles as partners for shared growth to a Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 greater extent. Woori Bank will support the company to foster technical prowess and passion of MyungSung Placon through solid partnership built up especially in times of hardship. www.msplacon.com Woori Bank endorses next-generation startups that are spotlighted by one and the only enterprise L Fin Co., Ltd. that deal with Mobile Communication Base Transceiver Station based technologies, which is highly authenticated and safe from forgery, alteration, and counterfeiting. Woori Bank's WiBee Fintech Lab fosters start-ups and provides them opportunities to learn and acquire know-how related to banking and finance. Woori Bank has reaffirmed its firm posiPark,Young Kyung tion as a stepping stone for start-up growth. We are eternally CEO of L Fin Co., Ltd. grateful to the staff of Woori Bank for helping us out in many areas. We hope to generate favorable performance by benchmarking such cases later when we work with other companies in the financial sector. We think that by fostering the growth of new enterprises, the bank will help many companies transcend borders. We at L Fin look forward to future successes in partnership with Woori Bank. http://www.lfin.kr/ 10 AIZEN Global, which provides Massive-model Financial ‘AI Chip’ called ABACUS, is moving forward with Woori Bank Jang, Hye Ree Director of AIZEN Global Woori Bank has been the main sponsor of AIZEN from the early stage, by providing premises and financial support. As a strategic partner of Woori Bank, AIZEN provides AI-based delinquency prediction platform and is designated by Korea’s Financial Services Commission(FSC) to conduct AI underwriting along with Woori Bank. Woori Bank is leading the digital transformation in the banking industry with AIZEN’s technology. AIZEN combines data from multiple sources (from Banks to Non-banks like e-commerce and telco) and converts into ‘Credit’ data in Finance that add values in the Data Economy. We believe Woori Bank can be an We Believe in Your Potential innovation hub for banking technology and a great supporter of startups like us. www.aizenglobal.com There is an artisan that preserves Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 traditions by operating a Hanbok Lee, Seo Youn (traditional Korean dress) shop near CEO(Designer) of Gyeongbokgung Palace. Lee Seo Youn Hanbok Woori Bank supports the passion of dressmakers preserving and creating custom-made traditional cloting Hanbok , restrained in style with beautiful vivid colors. Lee Seo Youn Hanbok might seem to be an ordinary Hanbok shop, but it is different from other shops in that the designer designs clothes and uses selected materials to make clothing as well suited to people as their own skin. The shop highlights the new charms of Hanbok that go beyond the traditional style. As a customer, I am impressed that Woori Bank puts its customers needs first at all times and value their reliable and friendly services. The designer that dreams of making custom-made Hanbok for people from all works of life fosters yet another dream with Woori Bank. seoyoun2200@hanmail.net 11 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 We Believe in Your Potential Message from the CEO 12 Woori Bank set its management goal for 2019 as ‘Together with Our Customers for 120 Years, Emerging as a Great Bank.’ First of all, I would like to extend my warmest gratitude to our valued shareholders and customers for their continued support of Woori Bank. 2018 was a rewarding year for Woori Bank. It was a year in which the prestige of Woori Bank was enhanced: we recorded outstanding performances in all aspects including profitability, growth and soundness, achieved our best-ever financial performance, ranked No. 1 in global networks and saw our global credit ratings improve. The efforts of all employees at Woori Bank to raise shareholder value and the generous support of shareholders and customers contributed to the bank's outstanding performance. In addition, we upgraded our corporate value through successful conversion into a holding company structure after four years of planning. I would like to sincerely thank all shareholders for fully supporting the conversion, and promise that Woori Bank will do its utmost to generate profits for shareholders and customers by making concerted efforts going forward. Distinguished shareholders, This year marks the 120th anniversary of the founding of Woori Bank. The history of Woori Bank is that of finance in Korea built up by our customers and shareholders. Everything that we have achieved is, in part, thanks to our shareholders and customers who have trusted and encouraged Woori Bank. Against this backdrop, Woori Bank set its management goal for 2019 as ‘Together with Our Customers for 120 Years, Emerging as a Great Bank.’ To this end, we will provide customized products and services for customers, and proactively develop our presence in asset management, CIB and innovative growth as new growth drivers for the future. By doing so, we will do everything possible to better satisfy shareholders and customers through unparalleled competitiveness. 13 Son, Tae Seung Chairman & CEO, Woori Financial Group Inc. President & CEO, Woori Bank Woori Bank is to write a new chapter in its history through its transformation into a new financial group from this year. Furthermore, we will protect the assets of our customers through reinforced risk management and internal controls and improve our best-in-class global competencies in Korea, thereby positioning ourselves as Korea’s leading global bank. With confidence in our status as the number one financial institution in Korea, we will continue to fulfil our social responsibilities through continued support for the financially underprivileged and SMEs this year. Esteemed shareholders, As you are well aware, Woori Bank is to write a new chapter in its history through its transformation into a new financial group from this year. It is expected that more income will be returned to shareholders by strengthening the group's non-banking business and corporate value through M&As. I would like to ask for your keen interest in the growth of Woori Bank, and unwavering encouragement and support. On a final note, from the bottom of my heart, I wish all our shareholders and customers continued health and happiness. Thank you. 14 It is expected that more income will be returned to shareholders by strengthening the group's non-banking business and corporate value through M&As. I would like to ask for your keen interest in the growth of Woori Bank, and unwavering encouragement and support. 29 15 BOARD OF DIRECTORS We Believe in Your Potential Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Son, Tae Seung Oh, Jungsik Ro, Sung Tae Park, Sang Yong Chairman & CEO, Woori Financial Group Inc. Standing Audit Committee Member / Outside Director, Woori Financial Group Inc. Outside Director, Woori Financial Group Inc. President & CEO, Woori Bank Director, Woori Bank Outside Director, Woori Bank Outside Director, Woori Bank •Head, Global Business Unit, Woori Bank •CEO, KB Capital •(Current) Chairman, Samsung Dream •(Current) Professor Emeritus, Yonsei University •Executive Vice President, Head of Global Busi•Managing Director, Commercial Banking Scholarship Foundation •Civilian Chair, Public Fund Oversight Committee ness Group, Woori Bank Business Head, Citibank •President, Hanwha Life Economic Research •Dean, School of Business, Yonsei University •Managing Director, Head of Financial Market •Senior Director, Risk Management Division, Institute •MBA and Ph.D. in Business Administration, Business Division, Woori Bank Citibank •President, Korea Economic Research Institute New York University •MBA, Aalto University School of Business •B.A. in International Economics, •M.A. and Ph.D. in Economics, Harvard University, •B.A. in Business Administration, •LLM, Seoul National University Seoul National University The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences Yonsei University •LLB, Sungkyunkwan University •B.A. in Economics, Seoul National University 16 Woori Financial Group Inc. Woori Bank We Believe in Your Potential Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Chung, Chan Hyoung Park, Soo Man Kim, Joon Ho Tian, Zhiping Outside Director, Woori Financial Group Inc. Outside Director, Woori Bank Outside Director, Woori Bank Outside Director, Woori Financial Group Inc. Outside Director, Woori Bank •(Current) Advisor, POSCO Capital •(Current) Attorney, Park Soo Man Law Firm •(Current) Professor of Industry-Academia •(Current) Vice President, Beijing FUPU •CEO, POSCO Capital • Attorney, Kim & Chang Law Firm Collaboration Foundation, Chung-Ang University DAOHE Investment Management Ltd. •Vice Chairman, Korea Investment •MBA, University of Oxford •Voluntary Restraint Chairperson, •Vice President, Industrial and Management •LLB, Seoul National University Korea Financial Investment Association Commercial Bank of China(ICBC) Middle East •CEO and President, Korea Investment •Senior General Manager, Korea Post, Ltd. & ICBC London Ltd. Management Ministry of Science and ICT(MSIT) •Vice President, ICBC Branch of Sichuan Province •MBA in Finance, Korea University Business School •Ph.D. in Science of Public Administration, •IMBA, University of Hong Kong / MBA, •B.A. in Business Administration, Kwangwoon University Southwestern University of Finance and Korea University •B.A. and M.A in Urban Public Administration, Economics Dongguk University •B.A. in Government Economics Management, Shanxi University of Finance and Economics 17 BOARD OF Woori Financial Group Inc. Woori Bank DIRECTORS We Believe in Your Potential Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Chang, Dong Woo Bae, Chang Sik Lee, Jae Kyung Outside Director, Woori Financial Group Inc. Non-Standing Director, Woori Financial Group Inc. Non-Standing Director, Woori Bank •(Current) CEO, IMM Investment Corp. •Senior General Manager, Human Resources and •(Current) Head, Collection General Dept., •Representative Partner, IMM Investment Corp. Administration, Korea Deposit Insurance Corp Korea Deposit Insurance Corp. (KDIC) •ABAS Leader-AKT, Samil Accounting Corp. (KDIC) •Head, Personnel Support Dept., KDIC •LLB, Hanyang University •Head of Human Resources Development, KDIC •Head, PF Asset Recovery Dept., KDIC •Head of Settlement and Recovery Planning 2, •B.A. in Business Administration, KDIC Dankook University •B.A. in Trade, Hankuk University of Foreign Studies 18 corporate 2018 Performance The BOD held 13 meetings in 2018 to discuss a total of 44 agenda governance issues and 52 briefings which all required decisions to be made. Directors from a variety of fields collected information through internal and external activities, and then offered real-world advice by utilizing their expertise to contribute significantly to improving management. As experts in economics, business administration, accounting and law, directors contribute their expertise and information gathered from years of experience in the field to enhance the management efficiency of the bank and increase shareholder value. As of the end of December 2018, Woori Bank’s During regular quarterly meetings in 2018, the BOD was informed of quarterly business results, reviewed current issues, and delibBoard of Directors (BOD) consisted of eight exerated on the bank’s management plans. ecutive directors: two standing directors, and Major agenda items of discussion included comprehensive briefone non-standing director and five outside direcWe Believe in Your Potential ings regarding major loans; briefings on NPLs; progress reviews tors who were appointed to increase the relevant and reports on review results concerning the implementation of expertise and independence of the BOD. orders handed down by the BOD; and a rundown of activities at all the committees that fall under the BOD. The five outside directors and one non-standing At the December meeting, the Board of Directors also held indirector were selected based on their experience depth discussions about major issues facing Woori Bank amid constant market changes, as well as giving final approval to the bank’s Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 in the fields of finance, management, law, etc. 2019 draft management plan. Many of them are also well-known public figures. Committees under the Board of Directors In their respective capacities, they support and In order to ensure the efficient operation of the Board of Directors, monitor Woori Bank’s strategic decision-making Woori Bank has established a Board of Directors Management process and overall business affairs on a regular Committee , Audit Committee, Risk Management Committee, Compensation Committee, and Officer Candidate Recommendation basis. Committee. Board of Directors Management Committee The Board of Directors Management Committee actively supports the activities of the BOD by studying and reviewing its overall function and operation, while also establishing and reviewing succession and training plans of the management team, including directors. Audit Committee The Audit Committee establishes and executes internal audit plans, makes outcome evaluations, carries out follow-up measures, and provides improvement plans to evaluate and enhance the appropriateness of the internal control system and management performance measures. 19 Risk Management Committee 2019 Plans The Risk Management Committee makes decisions about risk-reIn 2019, Woori Bank will make significant improvements to its manlated policies and strategies in response to changes in the financial agement by discussing major agenda items at BOD meetings. environment. It meets at least once every quarter, or on an ad hoc basis, to deliberate on risk management strategies and policies, The quarterly BOD meetings will continue to focus on agenda items risk tolerance levels and exposure, allowing it to predict measure such as carrying out an analysis of management performance reand monitor overall risks arising from the bank’s management or sults and reviewing the draft 2019 management plan, with ad hoc transactions in a timely manner. meetings also being held whenever needed to deal with agenda items related to various matters, such as management goals, orCompensation Committee ganization and financing. The Compensation Committee monitors the design and operation of the bank’s performance-based compensation systems and is in In 2019, Woori Bank will maintain its position as a reliable banking charge of independently establishing compensation policies. partner that excels and grows through transparent and efficient management innovation. Officer Candidate Recommendation Committee The Officer Candidate Recommendation Committee recommends candidates for the positions of President & CEO, outside We Believe in Your Potential directors, and members of the Audit Committee. Type of No. of No. of Major Meeting Agenda Issues Briefings Issues Shareholders’ Meeting, 9 3 General shareholders’ meetings; corporate governance issues; BOD and Corporate Governance, etc. management plans and strategies (establishment and implementation) Accounting/ 7 5 Approval and revision of closing financial statements; reporting and Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Financial Management planning of financial results; bond issuance planning (including bonds in foreign currency) and limit controls Portfolio & Risk Management/Investment/ 2 18 Integrated report on major loans; status report on bad loans; audit and internal Audit & Inspection/ Gov. Regulation control issues HR/Organizational 2 2 Appointment and dismissal of Compliance Officers; appointment and Management dismissal of persons responsible for major responsibilities; appointment and dismissal of executive vice presidents and managing directors Others 24 24 Total 44 52 20 Board of Directors We Believe in Your Potential 10 8 6 7 9 11 5 2 1 3 4 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 1. Son, Tae Seung Chairman & CEO, Woori Financial Group Inc. / President & CEO, Woori Bank 7. Kim, Joon Ho Outside Director, Woori Bank 2. Oh, Jungsik Standing Audit Committee Member / Director, Woori Bank 8. Tian, Zhiping Outside Director, Woori Financial Group Inc. 3. Ro, Sung Tae Outside Director, Woori Financial Group Inc./ Outside Director, Woori Bank 9. Chang, Dong Woo Outside Director, Woori Financial Group Inc. 4. Park, Sang Yong Outside Director, Woori Financial Group Inc. / Outside Director, Woori Bank 10. Bae, Chang Sik Non-Standing Director, Woori Financial Group Inc. 5. Chung, Chan Hyoung Outside Director, Woori Financial Group Inc. / Outside Director, Woori Bank 11. Lee, Jae Kyung Non-Standing Director, Woori Bank 6. Park, Soo Man Outside Director, Woori Bank Executive Vice President Managing Director Cheong, Chai Pong Business Promotion Unit / Retail Banking Business Group Suh, Young Ho Global Business Group Kim, Jeong Ki Business Support Unit / Human Resources Group Song, Han Young International Trade Business Group Lee, Dong Yeun IT Group Kim, Jeong Rok Investment Banking Business Group Ha, Tae Joong Corporate Banking Business Group Weon, Jong Rae Operation & Support Group Lee, Jong In Risk Management Group Lee, Choong Ho Corporate Restructuring Division Lee, Won Duk Management & Finance Planning Group Ko, Young Bae Trust & Pension Business Group Go, Jeung Hyeun Information Security Group Deputy Executive Vice President Kim, Sung Jong IT Planning Division Choi, Hong Sik Institutional Banking Business Group Kim, Ho Jung Real Estate Finance Business Group Cho, Su Hyeong Consumer & Brand Group Cho, Byung Kyu Compliance Officer Park, Hwa Jae Credit Support Group Hwang, Weon Cheol Digital Banking Business Group Shin, Myung Hyuk Small & Medium Corporate Banking Business Group Jeong, Jong Sook Wealth Management Group Kim, Jong Deuk Financial Market Business Group * As of the end of April, 2019 21 Reliable Financial Group Shaping the future Woori Financial Group Inc. 22 Woori Financial Group Inc. declared its new goal of becoming “Korea’s number one comprehensive financial group” at its launch ceremony. About 500 distinguished guests from Korea and abroad including the group’s top management, government officials including the Chairman of the National Policy Committee and the Chairman of the Financial Services Commission, and shareholder and customer representatives were in attendance to celebrate the launch of Woori Financial Group Inc. With the launch of its new corporate structure, Woori Financial Group Inc. can now compete on an equal footing with other financial groups. The Group will work to establish itself as a global giant that captures the world’s attention, while achieving its goal of becoming the number one comprehensive financial group in Korea through the intensive restructuring of business portfolios and implementation of global strategies. In addition, the Group will play a key role in the transformation of Korea’s financial market through digital innovation, and stand at the forefront of corporate social responsibility for the financially underprivileged, innovative companies and SMEs. The Group will implement the CIB model to fully leverage its strengths including corporate banking capabilities and Korea’s largest overseas network, and provide customized asset management services to enhance customers’ finances through innovation in products and services. Woori Financial Group Inc. will make concerted efforts to become the best-in-class comprehensive financial group. 23 Group Network Woori Financial Group Inc. offer a variety of financial services to customers Address Building A, The-K Twin Tower, 50, Woori Financial Group Inc. is divided into four Units, two Divisions, and eleven Departments(including a secretariat) based on essential operations required at launch. The Group has about 110 employees selected Woori Jong-ro 1-gil, Jongno-gu, Seoul Card Phone 82+ 1588-9955 both internally and externally. Its six subsidiaries are: Woori Bank, Woori FIS Co., Ltd., Woori Finance Research Website sscd.wooricard.com Institute Co., Ltd., Woori Credit Information Co., Ltd., Woori Fund Services Co., Ltd. and Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Ltd. In the near future, Woori Card Co., Ltd. and Woori Investment Bank Co., Ltd. are to be incorporated into the Group as subsidiaries of the holding company.(Co., Ltd. omitted from here on) Woori Financial Group Inc. (as of the end of Taking the Lead by Strengthening Internal Stability Mar. 2019) Woori Card will always be an encouragement for our customers financial convenience. Woori Card values our customers most, and all of our employees are doing their best to be the companions that go forward together with our customers. 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% The eyes and heart of Woori Card are always open to our customers. The employees of Woori Card will lead ahead in Woori Woori Woori Finance Woori Credit Woori Fund Woori Private Equity Bank FIS Research Institute Information Services Asset Management providing useful products and convenient services so that they can experience the best value in every moment. 100% We will be the credit card company that leads change. Woori Card will surely become the financial company that Woori TUTU Finance-WCI Woori-Hanwha Eureka Woori Smart Finance IndusMyanmar Private Equity Fund try no.1 Private Equity Fund swiftly adapts to the fast changing digital environment and offer new, differentiated benefits to our customers. Card 100% 0.8% 2.14% 59.83% Woori Bank Woori Bank PT Bank Woori AO Woori Bank Woori America (China) Ltd. Saudara Indonesia1906. Tbk. (Russia) Investment Bank 100% 100% 79.88% 100% 99.87% Banco Woori Woori Global Markets Woori Bank Wealth Development Korea BTL Bank do Brasil S.A. Asia Ltd. (H.K) Vietnam Ltd. Bank Corp. (Philippines) Infrastructure Fund 100% 100% 100% 51% Woori Finance Woori Finance WB Finance Co., Ltd. Woori Bank Europe Overseas Cambodia Plc. Myanmar Co., Ltd. (Cambodia) GmbH (Germany) Subsidiaries 100% 100% 100% 100% Woori Woori Address Woori Bank Myeongdong Finance Center Address 51, Sogong-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul Phone 82+ 2-2002-3000 Investment 3F, 42, Myeongdong-gil, Jung-gu, Seoul Bank Phone 82+ 2-2000-6600 Bank Website www.wooribank.com Website www.wooriib.com The lifelong partner bank supporting our customers and shareholders The Top Investment Bank, Providing Total Financial Services for over 120 years Woori Investment Bank is the one and only total financial subsidiary of Woori Bank, representing the nation’s traditional banking services. Woori Bank was the first Korean bank to be established in 1899 with national capital for the purpose of facilitating the flow of funds and contributing to the development of the national economy. Woori Bank has prospered along Woori Investment Bank is committed to being a faithful asset management partner by providing upgraded products with the development of the Korean economy to serve as a solid backbone for the Korean financial industry. and services to clients, using diversified licenses, credit ratings, and the network of Woori Financial Group Inc. Woori Investment Bank promises to put in all efforts as a companion to achieve an abundant future for our customers. Based on our strong relationship with our customers for over 120 years, Woori Bank will continue to provide financial services that help customers, shareholders, and all of society to build a future of happiness, and to undertake our social responsibility as a lifelong, reliable financial partner. Woori Address 3rd Floor of Donghwa Building, 15, Eulji-ro 11-gil, Jung-gu, Seoul Credit Phone 82+ 2-2262-5800 Information Website www.wooricredit.com Address Woori FIS, Woori Financial Sangam Center, 17, Woori World Cup buk-ro 60-gil, Mapo-gu, Seoul FIS Phone 82+ 2-3151-7000 Website www.woorifis.com The Best Companion to Accomplish a Credit Society The nation’s first credit information company that leads the market with a long history and expertise. Woori Credit Information is the first domestic company to specialize in credit information, debt collection, and lease investigation, and was established in 1991 with full investment by Woori Bank. The company acquired the A+ rating from the Enterprise Credit Rating, winning shareholders’ confidence. Moreover, the company takes part in social contribution activities(for example, the 1 Company 1 2020 Global Finance ICT Partner Village Country Love initiative), and also supports activities related to socialwelfare, and environment protection. Being a strong financial partner to creditors and a supportive partner to debtors for credit recovery, Woori Credit Information will be As a comprehensive financial services ICT company, Woori FIS is able to provide One-Stop services from development planning stepping stones for them and the best partner to accomplish a credit society. to execution, based on expertise and hands-on experience derived from numerous projects working with banking, credit card, fund, insurance, and other related companies. Woori FIS is the first South Korean company to successfully implement a total IT outsourcing model from development to IT infrastructure management. By acquiring three major international qualities of development, management, and security, our excellent ICT management system was internationally renowned. Woori Address 3rd Floor of Woori Financial Sangam Center, 17, Based on these strengths, Woori FIS is leading the innovation of customer business value by supporting stable global servicFund World Cup buk-ro 60-gil, Mapo-gu, Seoul es to over 300 foreign branches in the U.S., China, and others and playing key roles in building the WiBee Bank in the FinTech Phone 82+ 2-3151-3510 wave. Services Website www.woorifs.co.kr Accomplish Trust of 200 Trillion KRW in 2020 We will continue to serve and impress our customers, who are the most valuable to us, for the next hundred years. Woori Fund Woori Services provides various administration services including fund accounting and reference price computation for collective investment vehicles and general administration for real estate investment trusts. As an affiliate of Woori Financial Group Inc., Finance Address 12th Floor of Seoul City Tower, 110, Huam-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul Woori Fund Services successfully completed the development of “FundOne”, a next generation administration system, in August of 2014, and has exerted ongoing efforts to develop systems and talent to provide better services. Research Phone Website 82+ 2-2173-0500 www.wfri.re.kr Institute Woori Private Equity Address 6th Floor of Seoul Finance Center, 136, Sejong-daero, Jung-gu, Seoul The Insight Provider of Woori Financial Group Inc., Asset Phone 82+ 2-6730-1200 The Opinion Leader of the Korean Financial Industry, Management The Think Tank Leading the Global Financial Industry! As the think tank of Woori Financial Group Inc., Woori Finance Research Institute supports the decision-making of executives and consults development strategies for affiliates, seeking balanced development of the group’s industry portfolio. Private Equity Asset Management Company, Leading Advanced Finance with Competitiveness Established in October 2005 to develop a company specializing in private equity fund management representing Korea, by As the opinion leader and a specialized research institute leading financial industries both at home and abroad, we also share registering with the collective investment of private equity funds it added the business of managing hedge funds to the our research results through various types of reports, seminars, and press releases. existing business of managing private equity funds. 120 years Woori Bank As the first financial group listed in Korea, Woori Bank established the foundation of Korean modern finance and led financial history by opening the first foreign branch. 120 years have passed, generating values every year and overcoming daily challenges. Starting from “Daehan Cheonil Bank”(meaning ‘number one bank under the sky’) to Woori Bank(meaning ‘our bank’) as of now, our bank has been the leading bank in the Korean banking sector for over 120 years, contributing to the development of Korean history and finance. Woori Bank will continue to take the lead in developing Korea’s wealth and economy for the next centuries to come. Birth of Korean financial history 1899 1954 1899. 01 Established 1932. 12 Daehancheonil Bank Established (originally Chosun Trust Company Commercial Bank) (originally Hanil Bank) 1899 1910 1930 1950 1909. 07 Built Gwangtonggwan, the first modern bank building among national banks (currently Woori Bank's Jongno Branch) A reliable companion of economic development 1955 1997 1968. 11 1956. 03 1st among Korean First public banks to open 1982. 02 offering on stock an overseas branch First in Korea to exchange (Tokyo, Japan) install online ATM 1955 1970 1980 1995 1959. 06 1977. 09 Opened vault First in Korea to start for ladies online business between Seoul and Busan A New start of Woori 1998 2005 2001. 04 2003. 06 Inaugurated Opened office Woori Finance Holdings in Moscow Co., Ltd. 2005. 11 2003. 08 Opened Woori Finance 2001. 12 Acquired the FRB Plaza, the first Division-merger with approval for taking over comprehensive finance Peace Bank Panasia Bank in the US center in Korea 2000 2005 1999. 01 2002. 05 2004. 07 Merger of Commercial Changed name to Opened Bank Bank and Hanil Bank, Woori Bank and CI History Museum, inauguration of (Corporate Identity) the first museum in Hanvit Bank Korea to specialize in bank history 2002. 12 1999. 12 Opened Ho Chi Minh Finished building office in Vietnam 2004. 12 Hoehyun-dong main First to open Kaesong office and relocation Industrial Complex Branch after the division of Korea Taking the lead as the top global finance group 2006 2012. 04 2019 Awarded as Best Bank in Korea by The Asian Banker for two consecutive years 2010. 03 2008. 01 China WooriBank First among Korean 2012. 08 qualified for financial institutions international Established local to establish local settlement of yuan as branch in Brazil business corporation the first Korean bank in Russia 2012. 11 2010. 11 Awarded first 2008. 11 Woori Bank IT Grand Prize of 2006. 12 Selected as Department acquired “Anti-Money Established “Best Bank in Korea” ISO 27001 Laundering” by the Hong Kong Woori by The Banker for two Certification in all Financial Services Investment Bank consecutive years departments Commission 2006 2009 2012 2007. 01 2009. 01 2011. 04 Awarded 2006 Deal Woori Bank Awarded as Best Bank of the Year establishment in Korea for Foreign by The Asset documents, Currency Department “Establishment & by The Asian Banker Accounting for 2007. 11 Daehan Cheon Il Established local Bank”, designated 2011.11 business corporation, as Seoul Tangible Selected as Woori Bank (China) Cultural Property “Best Bank in Korea Limited No. 279 2011” by The Banker magazine 2018. 02 Launched WiBee Homes, 2014. 01 a real estate information Acquired final approval platform to take over Indonesia Saudara Bank 2018. 05 2016. 02 Built and activated a next 2014. 05 WiBee Bank generation computer Awarded as introduced in system, WINI “Korea’s Top Bank Indonesia, Vietnam, (Woori Innovative New Infra) in Money Management” and Brazil by The Asian Banker 2018. 06 2016. 05 Acquisition of “Vision Fund 2014. 11 Opened Iran office Cambodia”, attainment of Woori Finance Holdings in Teheran (first among 410 global networks Co., Ltd. merged Korean financial with Woori Bank institutions) 2018. 10 Acquired approval for 2014. 12 2016. 09 European subsidiary Acquired final approval to First in Korea to issue merge PT. Bank Woori $500 million Foreign Putting forth the best Indonesia with Currency Hybrid Bond current net income Saudara Bank (CoCo bond) accumulated for three quarters 2013 2016 2019 2013.12 2015. 02 2017. 01 2019. 01 Awarded Grand Prize Officially launched Selected as Best Wealth Inauguration of small loan Finance PT. Bank Woori Saudara Management Provider of the Woori Financial by the Financial Indonesia 2016 by World Finance Group Inc. Supervisory Service of the UK (first in Korea) 2015. 05 2017. 02 Launched the first mobile-only bank in Opened first Woori bank Korea, WiBee Bank Office in Katowice, Poland 2015. 11 2017. 10 Opened Woori Finance Selected as major bank Myanmar, Global of the National Pension Network no. 200 Service (first in Korea) 2017. 12 Reached 300 Global Networks Son Tae Seung appointed as 51th President & CEO of Woori Bank 2018 02 News Highlights / Woori Bank Named “The Bank of the Year in Korea” by The Banker On November 30, 2017, Woori Bank was named the Bank of the Year in Korea at The Banker Awards 2018 hosted by world-renowned The Banker magazine. The Bank has now been named the Bank of the Year for three consecutive years after being selected as ‘The Bank of the Year in Korea 2016’ and ‘Bank of the Year in Asia-Pacific 2017.’ The Banker evaluated the top 1,000 banks from We Believe in Your Potential 120 countries around the world this year, and selected one top bank by country and region, with Woori Bank ranked as number one in Korea. The Banker is an international financial affairs publication founded in 1926, owned by the Financial Times of the U.K. It is a high01 ly prestigious magazine in the banking sector, which publishes the list of the Top 1,000 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 / World Banks every year, a list frequently quoted in the financial markets. Acquired Approval for Establishing a Financial Group and President & CEO Son Tae Seung of Woori Bank Appointed as Chairman of Woori Financial Group Inc. Woori Bank acquired approval to establish a The Board of Directors of Woori Bank agreed financial holding company from the Financial to appoint President & CEO Son Tae Seung of Services Commission on November 7. Woori Woori Bank as the Chairman of Woori Financial Bank can now lay the foundation for intensiGroup Inc., based on his ability to stabilize the fied competitiveness as a comprehensive fiorganization in the early phase of its operanancial group through conversion into a holdtions and efficiently handle issues requiring ing company structure despite weaknesses alignment between the holding company and in market positioning e.g. comprehensive the Bank. A holding company is to be estabfinancial services aligned with non-banklished on January 11, 2019 to incorporate six ing affiliates since Woori remained the only subsidiaries including Woori Bank, 16 seccommercial bank without a financial holding ond-level subsidiaries including Woori Card company structure. and one third-level subsidiary company (the Woori Bank’s string of awards is attributable overseas subsidiary of Woori Card). to its outstanding performance, its converDriven by a holding company structure, Woori sion into a holding company to expand profit Financial Group Inc. is expected to not only We are making concerted efforts to create a potential, upgraded profit-generating capaexpand its non-banking business portfolio blueprint at this critical juncture of our transbilities by scaling up earnings in the fields of and provide one-stop comprehensive asset formation into a financial group in January global business and asset management, and management services but also engage in 2019 after successful privatization in 2016. reinforced digital strategies to preemptively diverse multifunctional businesses including The launch of the financial group is just the respond to the changing financial environintegrated customer management and serstart: we will soar to new heights as Korea’s ment. All of this has contributed to raising vices aligned with affiliates. number one comprehensive financial group. Woori Bank’s credibility and prestige. 36 03 04 / / Supporting a Work-Life Balance, Woori Bank’s Legend-making WiBee Women’s and Preemptively Implementing Professional Basketball Team Achieves ‘Woori Together Holidays’ and a V10 – Its 10th Championship and 6th Consecutive Title ’52-Hour Workweek for the First The team broke new ground by winning the champiTime in the Financial Sector’ onship for the sixth consecutive season in the Women’s Korean Basketball League (WKBL). It broke the previous Woori Bank has taken the lead in spreading record with its 10th championship, for the first time in the a new work culture by adopting the 52-hour history of the WKBL. Head coach Wie Sung-woo took the workweek for the first time among commercial helm of the team and led the team to victory again after banks as well as promoting ‘Woori Together a crisis at the beginning of the season. The team played Holidays’ to strike a work-life balance since last its third and final championship match of the 2017-2018 October. The 52-hour workweek refers to the WKBL against the KB Stars of Cheongju at the Cheongju policy of working a maximum of 52 hours a week Gymnasium in North Chungcheong Province on March 21 including overtime and any work on official holiand scored an overwhelming victory with a score of 75We Believe in Your Potential days or on weekends. The scheme was officially 57 against the KB Stars team. launched in July this year in corporations with 300 or more staff, but is to be implemented in the The team’s consecutive titles in the first, second and third championship matches highlight the financial sector, including banking, starting from team’s superb caliber. KB Stars remained outmaneuvered by Woori Bank due to their weaker July 2019. However, Woori Bank has preempphysical strength although Woori was fighting with its back to the wall in KB’s home ground of tively implemented the scheme for the first time Cheongju. The WiBee Women’s Professional Basketball Team showed an uneasy start at the in the financial sector, so the 52-hour workweek beginning of the season with two consecutive losses starting from the opening match due to rehas been adopted in all branches and departpeated player injuries and retirement of center Yang Ji Hee. The KB Stars were not an easy team Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 ments since October. to beat in the championship as they had defeated Woori Bank with a 4-3 record in the league. However, the WiBee Women’s Professional Basketball Team won the trophy more easily than expected thanks to the unique winning strategy of head coach Wie and his players. 05 Communication Plaza, Woori Ombudsman, Let’s Praise Each Other, Beer Day Requests / and CEO News, including comments from the president and encouragement through feedBranches and departments with frequent overEstablishing a Culture of time were allocated more staff and work hours back from departments at the head office. Communication through ‘Woori Communication Plaza,’ where field were adjusted to ensure a work-life balance along with higher workplace efficiency by improving ‘Woori Together Plaza’ staff and management communicate, has work habits, introducing and complementing the seen a dramatic increase in the number of scheme and establishing a new workplace culThe Management Innovation Department postings and hits as comments with diverse ture. The existing PC-off program and substitute selected 15 specific tasks designed to ensuggestions, complaints and encourageholiday scheme were improved, while flexible hance innovation in the corporate culture and ment are posted. The number of postings work arrangements were also introduced. Moreimplemented “innovation of the corporate increased from 37 in 2017 to 408 in 2018 (as over, a new workplace culture was established culture driven by ‘All Together’” in order to of October-end), and the number of hits on by eliminating morning meetings at branches. focus on ‘Woori All Together, All New Woori,’ average went up by 80 percent to 1,749 in Although implementation of the 52-hour workthe bank's slogan in 2018. 2018 from 985 in 2017. Some iconic ideas that week is subject to a grace period until July 2019, led to practical changes included installing the Bank fully adopted it for the first time among In addition, the content in ‘Woori Together air purifiers in branches, replacing chairs commercial banks in order to strike a genuine Plaza’ was updated to highlight Woori’s exat departments in the head office, avoiding work-life balance for staff. As such, Woori Bank clusive culture of communication, guaranovernight workshops and improving service has promoted an atmosphere of engagement in teeing anonymity and encouraging free and over the phone at head office departments. workplace culture to induce a work-life balance in constructive communication. Efforts were ‘Woori Together Plaza’ will continue to serve the financial sector and played an exemplary role made to establish a new culture of communias a representative communication channel as a pioneer in the industry. cation through diverse ideas including Woori for all employees. 37 06 ness by establishing a ‘global financial belt’ brand marketing provides a maximum annuconnecting Europe, Asia, the Middle East al interest rate of 3.7% for young people in and the Americas. their 20s to accumulate assets, and achieved / a subscribed volume of KRW 33.5 billion Establishing As a result , Woori Bank now operates a total with 100,000 accounts. 22 percent of the 430 Global Networks of 430 global networks, a mere three years subscribed members were new or inactive following the opening of its 200th global netcustomers, and 61 percent of them have refor the First Time work for the first time among Korean banks mained active. Among Domestic Banks in 2015. At the head office, a launching ceremony for the first-generation publicity ambassadors 07 recruited among university students for ‘Twenty Woori’ was held on November 16 to promote challenge and innovation among / youth. Through public recruitment that beImplementing Marketing for gan in October, 60 university students were the Youth Brand selected as first-generation publicity ambassadors of ‘Twenty Woori.’ ‘Twenty Woori’, 2018 was a year for Woori Bank to solidify Promoting Challenge and We Believe in Your Potential They are encouraged to promote Woori it s presence as a global leading bank Innovation Among the Bank’s youthfulness and its 120-year history once again. It completed the acquisition Next Generation for about five months, and plan on distribof ‘VisionFund Cambodia’, a local financial uting product promotional content that will company with a nationwide network across resonate with those in their 20s. Other youth Cambodia on June 21 and changed its name Woori Bank conducted marketing for its marketing strategies supported by Woori to ‘WB Finance.’ youth brand ‘Twenty Woori’, to attract young Bank included signing partnership agreecustomers as part of its life-cycle marketments with vocational (specialized) high WB Finance was established in 2003 as a ing strategy. ‘Twenty Woori’ is Woori Bank’s Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 schools and an agreement to manage the ID retail-focused financial company with both youth brand launched to fulfill the bank’s card system for Seoul National University, loan and deposit services with total assets of social responsibilities by encouraging which had a 50-year banking relationship KRW 260 billion. Woori Bank advanced into the next generation and supporting their with a competing bank. Cambodia by acquiring Woori Finance Camgrowth. A savings product with the same bodia in 2014 and built it into the 3rd biggest name launched in conjunction with youth player out of 70 small-and medium-sized loan service companies. Woori Bank has continuously implemented acquisitions of financial companies to expand investment, driven by the high economic growth of Cambodia and many years of experience in managing small-and medium-sized loan service companies. Starting with the acquisition of Bank Saudara of Indonesia in 2014, Woori Bank newly launched a specialized loan-focused financial company in Myanmar in 2015, acquired Wealth Bank, a savings bank in the Philippines and succeeded in establishing an overseas subsidiary in Vietnam in 2016, and opened a regional head office in India in 2017. Woori Bank also acquired approval to establish an overseas subsidiary in Europe from Germany's federal financial regulator BaFin and the European Central Bank in 2018, thus continuously expanding its overseas busi38 08 Ranked 1st / A2 stable A1 in Market Share of Earnings from Bancassurance (1st for 4 Consecutive Years in Market Share and 3 Consecutive Years in Earnings) Woori Bank ranked 1st in bancassurance for 09 / four consecutive years in its market share and three consecutive years in its earnings, defeating its competing banks including KookInternational Credibility Boosted with Higher Credit Ratings 10 min, Shinhan and KEB Hana. It is undoubtedly / from Moody’s (A2 → A1) an amazing achievement, given that the bank Inclusion within the Top 50 does not have an affiliated insurance compaMoody’s, the international credit rating of the Best Korean Brands 2018 ny since it was not a financial holding company. The Head of WM Group visited the entire agency, announced that it raised Woori (Nominated by Interbrand) We Believe in Your Potential Regional Banking Headquarters, and listened Bank’s credit rating by one notch from A2 to to on-site feedback through heart-to-heart A1, and revised the Bank's ratings outlook Woori Bank was newly included within the conservations with Chair of PB Leaders from ‘review or upgrade’ to ‘stable.’ Moody’s ‘Best Korean Brands 2018’ nominated by InGroup, which was fully taken into consideraadjusted Woori Bank’s rating outlook to ‘staterbrand, known as the world’s largest brand tion for corporate management. ble,’ while raising its credit rating to A1, beevaluation firm, on March 29, and the bank’s lieving that the Bank’s asset soundness and brand value stood at KRW 1.7 trillion, ranking Our bank also recommended leading prodcapital adequacy have improved and remain 16th. Interbrand is the world’s largest global ucts with competitive product line-ups for sustainable. consultancy and has 21 offices in 17 countries Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 sales branches and distributed video series around the world. It has provided consulting on best practices. Thanks to the backing of services to globally renowned brands inThis manifests Woori Bank’s stronger funon-site-driven sales support, Woori Bank cluding Microsoft, BMW, P&G, Google and damentals, the culmination of enhancing led the bancassurance market with an overSAMSUNG, and annually releases the list asset soundness by continuously shrinking whelming lead over the runner-up. of ‘Best Global Brands’ which is one of the the portion of loans in such economically world’s most influential rankings. sensitive or vulnerable industries as shipWe significantly increased our market share ping, shipbuilding and construction, and and earnings gap with competing banks, Interbrand ranked Woori Bank at 16th among intensifying capital adequacy by reducing while raising the portion of transactions the top 50 best brands in Korea, highlighting risk-weighted assets and internal retained its successful privatization, its global netwith corporations as a result of focusing on earnings. work, the largest among commercial banks selling three-year maturity savings products for corporations based on a broad pool of in Korea and its efforts at innovation in digiMoody’s upward adjustment of Woori Bank’s tal finance. Woori Bank put in place a stable corporations by launching customer-driven installment plans (1/3 plans, 1/2 plans). credit rating heralded to the world that the governance structure through privatizareliable international credit rating agency tion based on an oligopolistic shareholder We ensured strategic product management recognized that the bank’s improved profitastructure as of 2016-end and broadened its and timely marketing, thereby maximizing bility, asset soundness and capital adequacy business presence through Korea’s largest profits. Moreover, intensive targeting of the are not transient outcomes but a result of global network by actively advancing into niche marketing with specialized product upgraded fundamentals. Southeast Asian markets, including Indonemarketing by selling dental insurance and sia and Vietnam. non-face-to-face single payment-based The new rating can also be interpreted to savings-type insurance, which contributed mean that improvements in all financial Moreover, the bank is at the forefront of to raising our image as a bancassurance piindicators have been witnessed based on digital banking through projects where new oneer. We hope to soar even higher through management stability achieved after the innovative technologies are applied. It is synergies with affiliates as we make a new appointment of President & CEO Son Tae expected that 2019 will emerge as the year start as Woori Financial Group Inc. Seung. to herald the new start of Woori Financial Group Inc., whose prestige and recognition are expected to grow. 39 company When the auction closed on November 11, 2016, 8 potential investors submitted bid letters for a total bidding volume of 33.7 percent. The PFOC successfully resolved to sell a 29.7 percent stake to 7 sestructure lected bidders. The PFOC’s long years of concerted efforts to privatize became a reality, and guaranteed autonomous management by private parties. As a result, on December 16, 2016, the PFOC decided to terminate the Memorandum of Understanding (MOU) between KDIC and Woori Bank, and actively encourage market-driven autonomous management led by oligopolistic shareholders. Out of 2.97% of the KDIC’s stake exempted from the sale and spared for call options for minority stakeholders selected in December 2014, Woori Bank established Woori Financial Group 2.94 percent was exercised by the deadline of December 8, 2017. Inc. in a comprehensive stock transfer scheme on The remaining equity stake held by the KDIC has remained steady at January 11, 2019 to enhance the competitiveness 18.43 percent as of the end of 2018. of the bank as a comprehensive financial group. Meanwhile, Woori Bank established Woori Financial Group Inc. in a comprehensive stock transfer scheme on January 11, 2019 to enAt the time, the state-run Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation hance the competitiveness of the bank as a comprehensive financial We Believe in Your Potential (KDIC) owned 51.06 percent of the bank’s stake, and the plan was to group and incorporated six companies as subsidiaries. Its six subsidsell 30 percent of the KDIC stake (a bidding volume of 4~8 percent iaries are: Woori Bank, Woori FIS, Woori Finance Research Institute, per bidder) through bidding in a Competitive Auction Scheme. In Woori Credit Information, Woori Fund Services and Woori Private principle, the shares were sold to the highest bid ders, but, the PFOC Equity Asset Management. Woori Card and Woori Investment Bank also took into account factors other than the bidding price, considare to be incorporated into the Group as subsidiaries of the holding ering the winning shareholders’ potential influence on Woori Bank’s company in the near future. management. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 The remaining equity stake held by the KDIC is 18.32 percent as of The KDIC launched this auction process by selling its Woori Bank January 11, 2019 as a result of the scheme. Given the need to recover stake, starting with a public note of sale on August 24, 2016. On Seppublic funds invested, the Korean government intends to continue tember 23, 2016, a total of 18 investors submitted letters of intent with the sale of the remaining stake through discussions with the with bidding volumes far exceeding the range from 82 percent to 119 Public Fund Oversight Committee. percent out of the KDIC’s target 30 percent stake. Woori Financial Group Inc. (as of the end of Mar. 2019) Woori Woori Finance Woori Credit Woori Private Equity Woori FIS Woori Fund Research Institute Information Asset Management Bank Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Services Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% Woori-Hanwha Eureka Woori Smart Finance IndusPrivate Equity Fund try no.1 Private Equity Fund 0.8% 2.14% Woori Korea BTL Woori Bank PT Bank Woori Woori Card Woori Bank Woori Bank AO Woori Bank Investment Infrastructure Europe GmbH Saudara IndoneCo., Ltd. Bank Co., Ltd. Fund America (China) Ltd. sia1906. Tbk. (Russia) (Germany) 100% 59.83% 99.87% 100% 100% 100% 79.88% 100% TUTU Banco Woori Woori Global WB Finance Co., Woori Finance Wealth Development Woori Finance Woori Bank Finance-WCI Bank do Brasil Markets Asia Ltd. Myanmar Bank Corp. Cambodia Plc. (Philippines) Vietnam Ltd. Myanmar S.A. Ltd. (H.K) (Cambodia) Co., Ltd. 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% 51% 100% 40 awards 2018 The Bank of the Year 2018 in Korea, hosted Grand Prize for Maeil Business Newspaper Outstanding Institution for by The Bankers magazine(Financial Times) Star Brand (Financial Integration Financial Customer Protection, Membership Sector), hosted by Financial Supervisory Service hosted by Maekyung Media Group Grand Prize for Kyunghyang Grand Prize for Segye Advertisement The Korea Herald Global Finance Awards Advertisement (Financial Sector), (Communication Sector), 2018 Financier of the Year, We Believe in Your Potential hosted by Kyunghyang Shinmun hosted by Segye Daily hosted by Korea Herald Grand Prize for Financial Customer Grand Prize for ROK Energy, Grand Prize for Gender Cooperation, Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Protection Awards, hosted by Minister of hosted by Maeil Business Newspaper/ hosted by The Korea Economic Daily Trade Industry and Energy EWHA University Korean Internet Communication Association The 11th Grand Prize for Grand Prize for ROK Financial Innovation The 7th Korea Knowledge Awards ROK Social Media (Bank Sector), (CSR Innovation Award), for Outstanding Institution hosted by Korean Internet hosted by MoneyToday (Management Sector), Communication Association hosted by Maekyung Media Group Economic Review Grand Prize for Financial Excellence The Asian Banker Transaction Awards Best Financial Products (Customer Satisfaction Sector), (3 sectors). hosted by The Asian Banker 'iTouch Woori Deposit' hosted by Asia Today magazine hosted by Economic Review Best Korea Brand TOP 50, Grand Prize for ROK Best Banker Grand Prize for Customer Satisfactory hosted by Interbrand (Best Micro-finance Sector), Management (11 Consecutive Years), hosted by The Seoul Economic Daily hosted by The Korea Economic Daily 41 Financial Highlights Net Income 2,033 Unit: Wbn, U$mn in( ) (1,818) 1,512 (1,411) 1,261 (1,177) 1,059 (988) +34.5% We Believe in Your Potential 2015 2016 2017 2018 Interest Income Non Interest Income Assets Funding Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Unit: Wbn, U$mn in( ) Unit: Wbn, U$mn in( ) Unit: Wbn, U$mn in( ) Unit: Wbn, U$mn in( ) Loan in Local Currency Deposit Total Assets Total Funding -9.2% +9.4% +8.2% 1,252(1,169) 389(348) 356(332) 5,651(5,054) +9.8% 343(320) 5,221(4,873) 1,062(950) 318(297) 319(285) 5,019(4,685) 290(271) 296(276) 273(255) 4,762(4,445) 867(809) 249(223) 235(219) 221(206) 200(187) 211(189) 209(195) 706(659) 191(178) 185(272) 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 * Consolidated Basis, Based on exchange rate of KRW1,118.10/USD as of Dec. 31 2018 * Consolidated Basis, Total Assets include Trust Account Net Income(Continuing Operations) attributable to owners Based on exchange rate of KRW1,118.10/USD as of Dec. 31 2018 42 Dividend Asset Quality (NPL Ratio) NPL Ratio (Bank) Unit : % Unit : % 2017 2018 1.47 Dividend per Share (KRW) 600 650 0.98 0.83 Payout Ratio 0.51 (%) 26.71 21.52 2015 2016 2017 2018 * 2017 : including the interim dividend 100(KRW) Capital Adequacy We Believe in Your Potential BIS Ratio Tier1 Ratio Unit : % CET1 Ratio 15.29 15.40 15.65 13.66 13.18 12.68 13.03 10.43 10.95 11.15 10.50 Profitability (ROA & ROE) Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 8.47 Unit : % 2015 2016 2017 2018 ROA Credit Cost Ratio ROE +2.3%p Unit : % 9.69 0.45 0.37 0.34 0.21 7.42 6.36 5.69 2015 2016 2017 2018 * Consolidated basis Credit Cost Ratio = Credit cost/average Total Credit balance Cost-to-Income Ratio Cost-to-Income Ratio (excluding ERP Expense) Unit : % 0.62 0.48 56.3 56.1 0.41 49.9 50.6 0.37 2015 2016 2017 2018 2015 2016 2017 2018 * Consolidated basis * Cost-to-income ratio =SG&A expense / (Interest Income + Non-Interest Income) 43 Business Operations 046 Retail Banking 048 Real Estate Finance 050 Wealth Management 052 Corporate Banking 054 SME Banking 056 Institutional Banking 058 Global Business 062 International Trade Business 064 Investment Banking 066 Trust & Pension Business Retail Launching ‘Twenty Woori’ as a Youth Brand for attracting Young Customers (aged 10~30’s) Woori Bank launched ‘Twenty Woori’ a brand to attract future Banking young generation customers aged 10~30’s in 2018. We established the image of a ‘young bank’ with products and services that are preferred by those in their 20s, while engaging with the concerns faced by youths who face difficulties as job seekers and the gloomy younger generation that has given up on essentials like marriage and finding a job, and fulfilling the bank’s social responsibilities to support youthful dreams. The Retail Banking Business Group oversees marketing strategies for retail consumers, new market penetration, retail marketing organization management, and strategy-building for marketing We Believe in Your Potential channels for university and hospital clients. In our constant effort to develop new markets and manage customer relationships at the highest level, our prime concern remains providing customTwenty Woori Installment Savings is a product exclusively designed ized financial products and services to our clients. for those aged 18 through 30 and has grabbed attention by providing a maximum interest rate of 3.7 percent to support young people Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 as they build their asset portfolio and organizes overseas trips for university students to celebrate product launches. In addition, Woori Bank sponsors a pool of university student ambassadors to promote the Twenty Woori brand, continuously exploring areas of 2018 Performance interest and the latest trends among university students, and conIn 2018, the number of Woori Bank retail customers is approximateducting marketing to boost communication. A pool of 60 university ly 23.0 million, a number that drives us to do our best in developing student ambassadors for Twenty Woori is at the center of promoting innovative and differentiated products. Woori Bank has impleWoori Bank through social media. They are promoting awareness mented projects to ensure a broader retail customer base including of Woori Bank by producing videos and posters, etc. for the bank’s the Baby Project, the School Project, and the Teens Future Dream participation in major events and its major products. Project, presenting diverse financial products and services by life stage: products designed for infants, students, employees, homeWoori Bank is a ‘Bank that Understands Youth, makers and senior citizens presented using targeted marketing by Supports their Dreams, and Stands by the Younger customer segment. In addition to the launch of life-stage branded Generation like a Truely Caring Friend’ products, we aim to secure more customers who use Woori Bank as their primary bank. This is why we have concluded new prime power loan (PPL) agreements for the employees of businesses with prime credit ratings and also handled loans related to employee stock ownership plans Poster for Twenty Woori Installment Savings (ESOP) for companies going public with initial public offerings (IPO). We have measures in place to enable customers to handle banking transactions without the constraints of time or place: the Tablet Branch as a tool for out-bounding banking services to reach out to customers, and the WiBee Smart Branch allows automated WiBee Smart Kiosks to handle transactions. All of these services Emblem of Twenty Woori Poster used for recruiting are part of our commitment to put customer satisfaction first. university student ambassadors for Twenty Woori 46 A New Product Lineup by Life Stage Brand Strategy, Total Deposits of Retail Banking aiming to attract New Customers and make Woori Bank [Unit: KRW trillion] the Primary Banking Partner for existing Customers 2018 90.7 Besides the marketing of Twenty Woori targeting customers aged 10 2017 91.3 ~ 30’s, Woori Bank provides customized products and services under our life-stage brand strategy so that we can attract new customers Optimized and Efficient Distribution Channel Networks and encourage existing customers to make Woori Bank their primary Responding to the changing financial environment, Woori Bank banking partner. Our products are designed for target groups such quickly entered into areas with increased demand for financial seras teenagers, college students, employees, and senior citizens at vices, including newly developed areas, major commercial zones and retirement age, and are tailored to match the generational needs and newly growing areas. The bank also merged or relocated branches in benefits preferred by each group. areas with lower commercial profitability and those with overlapping geographical coverage. While six new branches opened, five were We held the ‘Woori Children’s Happy Future Event’ so that Woori Bank merged, and 13 were relocated; as of the end of 2018, a total of 877 could be the first bank used by kids by offering installment savings branches are in operation. Establishing an effective branch network and housing subscription products for infants and providing vouchers improved our profitability. To boost competitiveness in our sales upon the purchase of insurance products. We also launched ‘Woori organization through a highly effective channel strategy, the bank Magic Installment Savings’ for students in vocational high schools, continues to operate Dedicated Branches for Retail Banking. This and provided products with high-interest rates to vocational school specialized retail distribution channel strengthened our sales competencies in the individual retail business. We Believe in Your Potential graduates that land jobs after high school graduation. For full-time workers, we launched an installment savings prodWith this move, we also built a distribution system under which finanuct focused on travel by reflecting the increased interest in travel, cial centers can concentrate on corporate business, and dedicated and high interest rates and diverse affiliated services to customers branches can focus on retail. We also run a Total Consulting Team as through a bank-card company-airline-duty free shop alliance. We an integrated window, while separating the windows for corporate also raised product competitiveness by remodeling existing auto banking and consultations, respectively, in order to raise efficiency in loan products and enhanced our sales capabilities by aligning our personnel management and competencies. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 strategies with dealer/alliance platform companies. This has led to higher sales of auto finance loans associated with new and used car purchases, and contributed to lower financial costs because we al2019 Plans lowed customers from other capital firms to repay existing financial In 2019, as we mark the 120th anniversary of Woori Bank, we plan to obligations at low interest rates. implement a project to attract more target customers by conducting projects to establish a corporate image focused on history and youthfulness. Total Customers of Retail Banking For the Twenty Woori brand, we plan to raise the brand recognition of [Unit: million customers] Woori Bank and launch related products under sponsorship contracts + 0.5 (2019~2020) for the League of Legends Champions Korea – which is a popular gaming trend among young customers. The brand ambassadors’ marketing via social media is likely to become even more successYear on Year ful when we initiate our heritage marketing campaign to celebrate the bank's 120th anniversary. In addition, we will launch a business unit targeting seniors to attract senior customers as Korea becomes a society 2017 2018 defined by low birth rates and population aging, and establish an ‘online platform’ providing exclusive package products and encompassing both 22.6 23.1 finance and areas of interest for the elderly. We will also open ‘Senior Loans/Deposits Performance-based : Managerial Accounting-based Centers’ by leveraging unused space to support diverse programs for seniors, and contribute to projects that promote job creation for seniors through partnerships with related institutions. Furthermore, we will Total Loans of Retail Banking continue to play a role as the No.1 bank that stands alongside customers [Unit: KRW trillion] by allocating efficient services in the field of microfinance, especially in financially underprivileged areas, while, on the channel side, pursuing 2017 2018 108.5 115.1 the optimization of branches by type, in consideration of the financial scale, characteristics and customer profile of each region. 47 Real Estate 2018 Performance In 2018, the Real Estate Finance Business Group once again became the undisputed leader in terms of NHUF market share. Woori Finance Bank has been the managing custodian bank of the NHUF for the past ten years, and a wide range of housing finance products have showcased the Bank’s distinguished business performance. Consequently, Woori Bank was selected again as the managing custodian bank for the NHUF in January 2018, as the bank in charge of business delegated by the NHUF for the next five years. We also took the initiative to pioneer the domestic housing finance product market by ensuring preemptive responses to market In 2013, for the systematic and professional changes in accordance with government policies. management of real estate financing, Woori Bank Increase in Customer Base as the Managing enlarged the Housing Finance Division into the Custodian Bank for the NHUF Real Estate Finance Business Unit, which was The NHUF business is critical to broaden financing options for the We Believe in Your Potential later renamed the Real Estate Finance Business demand side of housing finance, including for low-income individuals and families. As the managing custodian bank, Woori Bank Group. The Group also manages the Ministry of is in charge of financing and dispersing funds. In 2018, the bank Land, Infrastructure and Transport’s National accounted for a market share of 40.9 percent in loans to the demand-side and a market share of 26 percent in housing subscripHousing and Urban Fund (NHUF) as the managtion savings plans by providing a diverse range of housing finance ing custodian (formerly general treasury) bank. products even after its reselection as the managing custodian Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Our goal is to satisfy the diverse needs of our bank for the NHUF. customers— hence we provide not only products Throughout the year, one million new customers subscribed to that complement Woori Bank accounts but also housing subscription savings plans designed to enable them to own a new residence in the future. We will work hard to build a NHUF products available for low-income individsolid foundation for this business so that a greater number of cusuals and families. tomers will be able to take advantage of NHUF products offered through Woori Bank. Leading Korea’s Digital Financial Market by Upgrading the Total Real Estate Information Platform The Real Estate Finance Business Group has taken the lead in transforming the non-face-to-face digital housing finance market by upgrading ‘WiBee Homes,’ our customer-friendly real estate information platform as well as ensuring preemptive responses 48 We Believe in Your Potential to changes in the financial environment in 2018. After the launch of To that end, we will expand the volume of mortgage loans by KRW Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 ‘WiBee Homes’ (a total real estate information platform) in January 2 trillion in 2019 to serve as a solid foundation that protects the 2018, Woori Bank has moved ahead in the mobile real estate marassets of Woori Bank customers. 2019 will be the year in which we ket by actively developing a diverse range of content and services utilize our diverse and customized services to lead the real estate in order to provide a real estate platform environment that is confinance market. venient for customers. Demand-side Housing Subscription Loans (M/S) [Unit: %] 2019 Plans 2018 39.6 We intend to maintain our number one position in terms of NHUF 2017 40.9 market share in 2019, and will do our best in our role as the man2016 43.0 aging custodian bank for the NHUF so that customers can enjoy the funds’ benefits with greater ease. We will focus on loan plans for Housing Subscription Savings Plans (M/S) [Unit: %] the demand-side, which has shown a recent increase, including 2018 24.8 Jeonse (Key Money) Deposits, Monthly Rental Loan Plans and the 2017 26.0 Beotimmok (Support) Jeonse Deposit Loan Plans. 2016 26.9 At the same time, we will focus on attracting more customers to our No.1 housing subscription savings plans. Building on our experience, expertise, and IT system in financing and managing funds, we will provide active support for housing welfare projects for low-income Market Share individuals and families and take action to revitalize Korea’s national housing market and help make it more transparent. We will also participate in government measures to provide support in the form of housing funds for non-speculative home buyers and establish asset portfolios that will ensure balanced asset growth, optimal profitability, and minimum risk. 49 Wealth 2018 Performance Performance of Affiliate Products (Funds and Bancassurance) We ranked No.1 in net fund value, sales volume of bancassurance Management and income in 2018. In the fund sector, in particular, the balance increased by KRW 1.7 trillion thanks to the launch of new market-leading products (532 private equity funds and 74 publicly offered funds, etc.) and targeted marketing, which was the highest increase rate among competing banks. In the bancassurance sector, Woori Bank accounted for 38.9 percent of the total market share among Korea's four major commercial banks by diversifying its portfolio based on product competitiveness, thus enhancing its position as the leading bancassurance provider. The Wealth Management (WM) Group oversees Developing a Specialized Workforce and Strengthennot only services for Private Banking (PB) cusing Competencies in Asset Management tomers but also the bank-wide asset management Woori Bank provides significant support and investment to foster a specialized workforce for asset management. We provide cusbusiness including services for corporate customWe Believe in Your Potential tomized PB/FA training based on the straightforward CDP, and ers. The WM Group consists of 11 teams under nurture next-generation personnel at the early stage through pubthree departments (the WM Strategy Department, lic competitions. In 2018, we launched new courses affiliated with external institutions and conducted high-level training to boost WM Business Department, and WM Advisory the competitiveness of our specialized workforce. Having adopted Center). The WM Group manages bank-wide asWoori Bank’s exclusive PB branch manager scheme, we disseminate customer management techniques from outstanding senior sets, devises business strategies for PB customcolleagues and sales coaching to business sites. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 ers, and suggests bank-wide house-views. The group also nurtures a specialized workforce for Expanding the Customer Base asset management, establishes non-face-to-face At the core of the WM business is our base of PB customers. In 2018, Woori Bank newly attracted 13,000 PB customers, which is the highest channel asset management strategies and runs increase rate (7.1 percent) among Korean commercial banks. This is the required systems. The WM Business Departthe result of wide-ranging business support for new PB customers as ment selects fund and bancassurance products, well as marketing that targets CEOs through collaboration between PBs/FAs and SME relationship managers (RMs). fosters marketing strategies, develops products for investment, selects related products, and conducts follow-up management. The WM Advisory Center provides tax consulting, real estate advisory services and specialized consultations for high-net-worth (HNW) customers of Woori Bank. As of the end of 2018, the WM Group manages a total of 723 WM distribution channels. 744 private bankers, financial advisors (FAs), and sales professionals deliver comprehensive asset manageRanked No.1 among Commercial Banks, Dedicated ment and consulting services to HNW customers Management of Customer Returns through an independent PB brand called ‘Two We launched the Investment Strategy Team under the WM Strategy Department to focus on customer-oriented business activities in Chairs.’ 2018. We established a bank-wide house-view based on detailed market research by recruiting numerous specialists. Moreover, 50 We Believe in Your Potential we intensified product and market monitoring by appointing asset offer wide-ranging solutions in one location with not only excellent PBs management risk managers. We reflect returns for customers in but also tax and real estate specialists. The centers plan to cater to the our evaluations of branches and PBs/FAs and periodically award diverse needs of PB customers by launching exclusive products and prohigh-performing employees in order to promote the importance of viding differentiated services. Second, we plan to nurture a specialized Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 customer returns at business sites. Woori Bank has achieved high workforce for asset management, equipped with best-in-class compecustomers returns amid volatility in the market due to global issues tencies. We also plan to run intensive development courses aligned with in 2018 and recorded the best performance among Korean comspecialized external institutions. We will foster best-in-class specialists mercial banks. in Korea by offering high-quality courses through the Korea Financial Investment Association. Third, we will expand our asset management business beyond Korea. We will support local business operations and 2019 Plans expand our customer base by organizing diverse investment seminars The Wealth Management (WM) Group of Woori Bank will take off as the for Koreans living abroad and local residents through full utilization of leading player in the market by taking preemptive measures to safeour global channels. Lastly, we plan to dominate the non-face-to-face guard its customers, business sites and preparedness for the future. channel asset management market by upgrading the rebalancing feaWoori Bank will rise higher as a financial group by carrying over the tures and improving customer convenience through the sophisticated history and traditions cultivated over the past 120 years in the field of robot advisors launched in 2017 to help every customer build their asset asset management. First, we plan to gradually expand the Two Chairs portfolio. (TC) Premium Centers to wealthy districts to provide high-quality asset management services to HNW customers. The TC Premium Centers Fund Sales Status (as of December-end, 2018) [Unit: KRW trillion] 2018 18.4 WM Group 2017 16.7 WM Strategy WM Business WM Advisory Department Department Center Variation in Market Share for Affiliate Products Asset [Based on the rated balance, [Based on the amount of monthly installWM Affairs Team Fund Business Team Management Unit: %] ment conversion, Unit : %] Bancassurance Consulting Center WM Business Team WM Platform Team Business Team Investment Product Tax Consulting Center + 1.8 + 5.2 Development Team Investment Real Estate Investment ISA Trading Team Support Center 2017 2018 2017 2018 Strategy Team Wealth Management Business Team: Changes in team nomenclature and roles (from 2019) Investment Strategy Team: Newly launched (in 2018) 24.8 26.6 33.1 38.3 Funds Bancassurance 51 Corporate 2018 Performance In 2018, the Corporate Banking Business Group maintained its number one market share in loans as the main creditor, producing Banking results worthy of the title of Korea’s strongest corporate banking service provider. Woori Bank also hosts the Woori Diamond Club, a social gathering where the CEOs of our large corporate customers meet. It serves as an effective channel for us to figure out different market needs in advance and strengthen customer relations. As great emphasis is being placed on corporate social responsibility today, we strive to develop products that will help companies survive and prosper together and to build a financial culture through which we can help each other. As of the end of 2018, the Corporate Banking Business Group (including Corporate Finance Centers) is The Corporate Banking Business Group oversees managing a total of KRW 22.8 trillion in assets, with an operating income of KRW 746.2 billion, and an export/import volume of USD services for corporate customers including some 312.3 billion. of the biggest Korean corporate groups such as Samsung, LG, and POSCO. As of the end of 2018, Strengthening Relationship on a Continual Basis We Believe in Your Potential Woori Bank has primary banking partnerships As our corporate customers turn into major global players, their financial needs are changing in a rapid and diverse manner. In 2003, with the largest number of corporate clients Woori Bank started the Woori Diamond Club as a social gathering among all Korean banks. The two major forces for the CEOs of our corporate customers. Celebrating its 16th anniversary this year, the club acts as a channel for us to strengthen driving the Corporate Banking Business Group customer relationships and understand the financial needs of our are our general managers of corporate banking customers at the right time so that we can respond in advance to the Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 branch and banking center. The general manrapidly changing environment for financial services. agers of corporate banking branch have driven Supporting ‘Sangsaeng ’(mutual growth) for Large Woori Bank to become the best in class in KoCompanies and SMEs rea, the general managers of corporate banking The Korean word ‘sangsaeng’ refers to mutual life-giving symcenter have supported the affiliate and partner biosis, as well as helping and sharing prosperity with each other. As the emphasis on corporate social responsibility grows, Woori companies of our corporate customers while takBank is committed to fulfilling its role as a corporate citizen, offering care of retail banking targeting officers and ing sangsaeng product packages in which we enter into business agreements with large corporate customers and provide loans with employees at associated firms. Thanks to these competent managers, the Corporate Banking Business Group can satisfy the varying needs of our corporate clientele. Our corporate customers have grown into major global players over the past 119 years, and we are very proud to have been their chosen financial service provider. Today, we are doing our best to offer the expertise we have gained over the years to a wider customer base. low interest rates to SMEs. In 2008, we launched the Sangsaeng Loan for Partners of Large Companies; as of the end of 2018, we have extended a total of KRW 725.0 billion in loans to 2,516 firms through this product. 52 We Believe in Your Potential In 2013, we developed the Woori Sangsaeng Partner Loan, a loan 2019 Plans Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 package for settlements, and upgraded the relevant system later in The Corporate Banking Business Group will establish a stronger 2015; as of the end of 2018, we offered a total of KRW 540.1 billion basis for corporate finance by establishing a new corporate culture in loans to 6,207 companies. Woori Bank has the largest number of under its business goal of ‘2019 Corporate Finance: New Challengbig corporate customers in Korea, and this wide client network enes! New Records”. To this end, first, we will develop new income ables us to manage a system of sangsaeng financing to encourage sources and specialized products in a bid to dramatically increase mutual aid, for example by reducing financial costs for SMEs. We non-interest income (‘Profit Maximization!’); and second, we will thus contribute to the co-prosperity and growth of big companies digitalize the business process through more robust corporate digand SMEs using our comprehensive network. ital finance marketing and the utilization of big data for corporate finance (‘Digital Innovation!’). Expanding Global Business Alignment We have intensified support for global collaboration by increasing Lastly, we plan to transform the A/C overseen by the Corporate the volume of deposits and loans in local subsidiaries of affiliates in Banking Headquarters and systematize CDP management for order to help them to explore untapped markets abroad as well as personnel without requiring sales expertise for higher efficiency to do business in Korea. As a result of collecting and providing inin corporate banking units. Moreover, we plan to reinforce product formation on overseas branches and offices by setting up a global competencies and improve the performance management system database and enabling employees abroad to engage in integrated to raise our sales capabilities and drive. marketing, we attracted approximately KRW 2.85 billion in global deposits and loans in 2018. This has significantly contributed to Woori Bank is the Major Creditor Bank for 10 Large Enterprises raising overseas performance and income. For instance, we played (Total number of Large Enterprises under Main Creditor Bank management: 31 as of 14th May. a leading role in attracting interest income of about KRW 3 billion 2018) via overseas branches including Woori Global Markets Asia Limited and income from arrangement fees of KRW 1 billion by arranging the issuance of floating rate notes (FRN) valued at USD 100 million. As such, the Corporate Banking Business Group serves as the basis for generating new income in Woori Bank by proactively contributing to the growth of Woori Bank in the global market. 53 SME Marketing Activities targeting with SMEs with High Growth Potential In 2018, we maintained our focus from the previous year to provide Banking marketing information to help branches appeal to SMEs with high creditworthiness by providing them with information on targets by product and customer and information on the corporate partners of large companies. We have allocated pre-approved credit lines to attract SMEs & MEs with high creditworthiness, and strengthened site-oriented business support based on a list of companies selected by each branch. As the SME Banking Business Group pursued a marketing strategy to increase assets of high creditworthiness, the size of loans to corporate customers with high credit ratings(BBB and above) grew by KRW 5.7 trillion by the end of 2018. The Small and Medium Corporate Banking (SME Banking) Business Group oversees financial services for SME clients. As of the end of 2018, it manages KRW 84.3 trillion in loans and KRW We Believe in Your Potential 53.0 trillion in deposits for 1.58 million customers consisting of individual entrepreneurs, SMEs, and high-potential enterprises. To maintain satisfaction levels among SME banking customers, we provide competitive products and various Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 financial and non-financial services. Moreover, Concentration on Technology Financing & we foster and manage SME relationship managReinforcing Growth Potential To attract additional high creditworthy tech-savvy companies, ers (RMs), SOHO RMs and next-generation SME the target audience of the Woori R&D Plus Loan was expanded. In RMs. These experts in SME financing and asset 2018, we launched the ‘Woori Industrial Technology Growth Loan,’ to provide expanded support for outstanding companies in the management deliver top-notch financial services fields of R&D and innovative growth endorsed by the Ministry of and content to our clients. Industry, Commerce and Energy. Through continued support with preferential interest rates for companies receiving benefits related to tech financing and improvements to the tech credit bureau (TCB) system, we saw an increase of about KRW 3.7 trillion in lowcost deposits and an additional 5,000 borrowers (as of 2018-end) compared to the end of 2017. In 2018, we also saw an increase 2018 Performance of 100,000 customers and KRW 1.4 trillion in low-cost deposits, We saw an increase of approximately 100,000 individual entreprewhich reinforced our profitability and loan growth potential. neurs, SMEs and high-potential enterprises amongst our clientele in 2018. Potentially non-performing assets decreased by KRW 1.9 Productive Financing and Inclusive Financing in Action trillion and increased by KRW 5.7 trillion, raising the performing To continuously prioritize productive financing in action, we formed asset rate to 83.3% and drastically improving asset soundness. new partnerships with credit guarantee organizations, local Our marketing strategy concentrated on the acquisition of strong governments, and public institutions. Also, we strengthened our SMEs and retention. In 2018, we followed up on our 2017 strategic interest rate competitiveness through policy financing and protargets such as policy financing, and guaranteed loans. Simultanevided diverse job training programs to sales staff. Meanwhile, we ously, we stressed cross-selling in order to lock in customers and increased our special contribution to the Korea Credit Guarantee maximize profits. We also implemented various loyalty programs in Fund and the Korea Technology Finance Corporation, and provided order to offer better services and increase SME customer satisfacintensive support for new and promising SMEs, companies that tion. Another area of focus for us included training and fostering increate jobs and those leading the fourth industrial revolution based house SME experts. on partnership guarantees. We also suggested a new paradigm in 54 We Believe in Your Potential financial support by extending direct investment of about KRW 20 staff training. With these programs, Woori Bank is doing its best to billion through public competitions open to companies with innofulfill its duty as a true financial partner. The corporate consulting vative growth potential for the first time in the financial sector in services offered by Woori Bank are the ultimate culmination of 2018. We also provide customized policy financing for individual experience and expertise gained in the Korean banking sector. We entrepreneurs and small business owners through special contrihave assorted programs for companies that do business with us, Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 butions and agreements with 16 regional guarantee foundations. covering management consulting, CFO consulting, family business We also worked with the Yellow Umbrella Mutual Aid Foundation succession consulting, operations consulting, tax consulting, and to provide a stable social safety network and entered into a conmany more. In 2018 alone, we completed a total of 100 consulting tract with the Ministry of Employment and Labor to expand support projects, demonstrating our competitive edge in this area. measures for social enterprises. As such, we are continuously engaged in programs to strengthen inclusive financing. 2019 Plans Diversified Special Products In 2019, the Small & Medium Corporate Banking Business Group We reinforced support for outstanding companies with innovative plans to provide systematic financial support from the start up growth by launching the ‘Woori Industrial Technology Growth Loan.’ stage to scale up through implementing differentiated marketing We also extended specialized financial support for SMEs that contribute strategies for each stage of SME growth. We will also spearhead to job creation by remodeling the ‘Woori Cube Loan’ and ‘Power Bank‘productive financing’ and ‘inclusive financing’ so that customers book Loan for Woori Affiliated Stores’ and launching ‘SME Installment and the bank can grow together. To this end, we will expand preferSavings for Creation of Good Jobs.’ Furthermore, we started the ‘BC ential support for each financial asset and business type to attract 365 Deposit Service’ which enables early deposits of card payments new companies, startups and venture businesses by strengthening for small/low-yield affiliated business operators through a business agreements with policy institutions. We will also launch specialagreement with BC Card for the first time in the financial sector. ized products to support a more diverse group of SME customers ranging from small business owners to corporations with high creditworthiness. We plan to focus on providing customized serRetaining Customers & Offering Top Consulting Services to additional enterprises or corporations with high potential vices of becoming our high yield customers and improve the skills of our Amid the fierce competition among all banks, Woori Bank maintains sales professionals, thus will intensively expand our foundation for customer loyalty programs and supportive consulting services to profit generation by providing detailed & comprehensive financial meet the varying needs of customers with a competitive leaderservices. Finally, we will take preemptive measures to manage ship stance in the corporate consulting area. Our loyalty programs potentially non-performing assets and become the number one offer benefits for member companies and long-term customers, trusted bank in the SME banking sector. including support for family events (weddings, funerals, etc.) and 55 Institutional 2018 Performance The Institutional Banking Business Group has a strong foundation built on Woori Bank’s expertise gained from 103 years of managBanking ing the Seoul Metropolitan Government’s treasury. Based on such management know-how, we are broadening our transactions with government institutions, local governments, and major public agencies. Wherever our client institutions may be, we have reached out to the local community through various corporate social responsibility programs and established Woori Bank as a financial institution that stands by local communities. In 2018, Woori Bank was selected as the primary banking partner by the National Pension Service, the world’s third largest pension fund in size, and will be managing a total of KRW 600 trillion of funds for three years The Institutional Banking Business Group constarting in March 2018. In 2018, Woori Bank acted as the primary bank for 105 public institutions out of 338 Korean public institutions sists of three departments. The Institutional designated by the Ministry of Strategy and Finance. Banking Product & Marketing Department caters to the needs of the central government, local As of the end of 2018, the Institutional Banking Business Group We Believe in Your Potential is managing a total of KRW 31.2 trillion in deposits and KRW 0.87 governments, and public institutions. The Public trillion in loans as part of its institutional business. In addition, we Fund Sales Department manages the municipal have built banking relationships with 4,900 institutions. and provincial treasuries of local governments Providing Optimal Financial Solutions for Project Exeand the courts. cution by the Government and Public Institutions We manage a specialized workforce for systems under Institutional Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Finally, the newly established National Pension Banking Products & Marketing to effectively support the policies and projects of the government and policy institutions, through Department will take over and carry out business which we provide optimal financial solutions for the execution of related to Korea’s largest public pension, since public projects. We contributed to the timely initiation of projects Woori Bank was selected as the primary bank for by promptly developing and providing a firm banking system for the National Pension Service (NPS) that manages the world’s third-largest pension scheme. The Institutional Banking Business Group is the first in the Korean banking sector to establish an institutional banking specialist pool (institutional customer RMs), providing first-class financial services to institutional customers. As of 2018, our institutional customers include the Seoul Metropolitan Government, the Ministry of Land, the Korea Workers' Compensation & Welfare Service, an instituInfrastructure and Transport, the Korea Land & tion for policy implementation as part of the government’s new Housing Corporation, the NPS, the Korea Railproject related to job market stabilization in 2018. We contributed road Corporation, and many more. Our clientele to the expansion of the market for new and renewable energies by advancing the systems as an exclusive bank for the REC trading list positions us as the primary bank for the largsystem and by offering settlement services to Korea Power Exest number of public institutions in Korea. change where sellers and buyers of new and renewable energies can engage in direct transactions/settlements. 56 We Believe in Your Potential Maximizing Synergies within the Bank through TransTotal Deposits actions by Institutional Customers [Unit: KRW trillion] 2018 31.2 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 The Institutional Banking Business Group not only provides direct 2017 27.5 financial services to institutional customers but also explores and provides opportunities for business alignment to SMEs and individuals related to institutional projects. Woori Bank was designated as one of exclusive banks for the Real-time Cash Management System(RCMS) of Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy, and also National Pension Service Korea Land & Housing Corporation Korea Housing Finance Corporation for the research fund management system (Ezbaro) of the Ministry (LH) (HF) of Science and ICT in 2018. That is why we provide comprehensive financial services for companies that have been successful in R&D, while managing and executing R&D funds, including those for sysMinistry of Land, Infrastructure and Defense Acquisition Program Korea Railroad Corporation Transport Administration tem operations. We also contributed to the formation of a sound startup ecosystem by not only distributing funds but also providing consulting for and extending loans to startups as the main custoKorea Electric Power Corporation Korea Post Korea Exchange dian bank of the startup support and management system of the Korea Institute of Startup and Entrepreneurship Development in order to finance startups. Korea Workers' Compensation & Korea Evaluation Institute of Korea Institute of Energy Technology Welfare Service Industrial Technology(KEIT) Evaluation & Planning 2019 Plans In 2019, we intend to provide a system for effective cash management for government and public agencies and develop partnership Korea Institute of Startup & Korea Institute for Advancement of Agency for Defense Development Entrepreneurship Development Technology services related to various budget activities so that we can provide upgraded financial services on a different level as a preferred banking partner for institutional customers. Furthermore, as the primary bank for the largest number of institutions in Korea, we will seek to broaden the range of our financial services so that more employees of public agencies can do business with Woori Bank. 57 Global tric mobile OTP system and signing agreements with promising local fintech companies, especially in strategic retail branches/subsidiaries Business such as our Indonesian and Vietnamese subsidiaries and Dhaka Branch. We also launched and expanded overseas business units related to compliance and internal controls to respond to ever-stronger compliance requirements, and established a system for organic cooperation with related departments at the head office. Woori Bank recorded substantial external growth on a global scale thanks to a string of strategies in 2018: ‘continuously expanding its overseas network with a focus on Southeast Asia and diWe Believe in Your Potential versifying its non-banking portfolio’, ‘accelerating qualitative overseas growth’, ‘upgrading digital 2018 Performance competencies’ and ‘reinforcing compliance and Expanding Our Overseas Network internal controls.’ We solidified our local business 2018 was a year to reaffirm the status of Woori Bank on a global scale infrastructure in Southeast Asia through cona global leading bank by opening our 430th overseas branch, a first for a Korean commercial bank. Woori Bank started to go globWoori Bank Annual Report 2018 tinued network expansion focusing on regional al by opening its first overseas branch in November 1968 in Tokyo, hubs such as Indonesia and Vietnam, etc. as well becoming the first Korean commercial bank to do so. Since this first as with the acquisition of WB Finance in June step, our interest in international markets has never faltered. In 2014, we became the 1st Korean bank to acquire a globally listed bank (in 2018. We also established our European subsidIndonesia), subsequently launching Bank Woori Saudara. iary in Frankfurt, Germany in November 2018, completing a European financial belt connecting the UK – Germany (Western Europe) – Poland (Eastern Europe) – Russia. As such, we currently operate 430 global networks in 26 countries, the largest global presence of any Korean commercial bank and continually strengthened the basis for global growth. By accelerating qualitative growth based on global network expansion, the external scale-up of mostly high-quality assets, In 2016, we acquired a local Philippine savings bank, and we are in the process of expanding it in collaboration with our partner, the and adoption of business strategies which reflect Vicsal Group, adding synergy to the business. In June 2018, Woori the local characteristics of each branch, Woori Bank acquired WB Finance, a savings bank in Cambodia, expanding Bank recorded a current net income of USD 176 its business coverage throughout Cambodia. We also launched Woori Bank Europe, paving the way for entry into the European million, up 23.1 percent from the previous year. market in November. Woori Bank maintains 430 overseas networks We also boosted our global digital competencies in 26 countries, the largest network of any Korean commercial bank as of 2018-end. by setting up tablet branches, adopting a biome58 We Believe in Your Potential Completed the Acquisition of WB Finance (June 2018) and launching new products. Woori Bank Vietnam is taking steps to Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 By acquiring a local savings bank that operates a nationwide netgrow into the No. 1 foreign bank in Vietnam by reaffirming its profit work throughout Cambodia, Woori Bank scaled up its market share. structure through localization. We plan to provide differentiated comprehensive financial services through conversion into a commercial bank over the mid and long Accelerating Qualitative Growth Overseas term. A s a result of focusing on external growth while targeting high-quality core assets including loans and securities to achieve Provision of a Gateway for Advancing into the EU Market through accelerated qualitative growth, NIM improved by 0.12%p from 1.79 the Launch of ‘Woori Bank Europe’ (November 2018) percent in 2017 to 1.91 percent in 2018, and current net income Woori Bank established its very own ‘European Financial Belt’ (the went up by 23.1 percent from USD 143 million in 2017 to USD 176 UK – Germany – Poland – Russia) while launching a local subsidimillion in 2018. Moreover, we reinforced our global business comary in Germany in November 2018 in order to establish a gateway petencies based on a two-track strategy: localization for local subfor the bank in the EU. The German subsidiary plans to fulfill its role sidiaries and CIB business-driven approaches for branches. Local as a ‘European FX Center by preemptively catering to demand from subsidiaries expanded their market dominance through proactive Korean and local companies for loans, joining the euro payment localization strategies such as introducing localized product lineand settlement system, and providing ex/import services that tarups and revitalizing the retail business. For branches in advanced get the European market/remittance services. economies, we implemented growth strategies that focus on the development of CIB-specialized branches by reinforcing our competitiveness in corporate finance, IB and FX products. Opening of Five New Branches at Woori Bank Vietnam (December 2018) Woori Bank Vietnam acquired the relevant permit and approval Expanding the Global Digital Business Infrastructure from the State Bank of Vietnam to open six branches the Thai We expanded the reach of non-face-to-face channels and revitalNguyen Branch, Haiphong Branch and Ha Nam Branch in the ized alliances with local fintech companies in order to respond to northern region of Vietnam and Dong Nai Branch, Binh Duong global financial trends as digital banking becomes the norm and to Branch and Phu My Hung Transaction Office in the south – opening overcome the limitations of offline business channels. five new branches in 2018. Woori Bank Vietnam strengthened its We provided diverse non-face-to-face channel services including local business competitiveness by expanding its network steadily loan (consultations) applications and e-wallet top-up services by 59 promoting our mobile banking services that first launched in 2017 Intensifying Compliance and Internal Controls to most overseas branches in 2018. We launched direct banking Amid increased regulatory standards imposed by local financial services enabling accounts to be opened following non-face-toauthorities, we upgraded the money laundering/sanction filtering face authentication procedures by combining mobile banking with system and year-round monitoring system. We boosted competenfacial recognition technologies in China. We also provided a mobile cies in the field of compliance by sharing weaknesses and reviewOTP service enabling mobile phone-based authentication by reing support from the head office through weekly meetings of the placing physical OTPs in Vietnam and India. ‘Global Compliance Working-Level Committee’ which invited participation by related departments in the head office. Moreover, we We improved business efficiency and customer convenience by reinforced internal controls by consulting on issues related to risks adopting services to enable the opening of accounts without havand internal controls at overseas branches and by sharing plans for ing to visit a bank branch by verifying e-ID cards via tablet PCs – reviews at overseas branches with departments at the head office another non-face-to-face channel – in Indonesia. through monthly meetings of the ‘Working-Level Committee forGlobal Risk Management and Risk Control.’ We also significantly expanded the coverage of service operations through thriving alliances with promising local fintech companies. We launched utility payment services via the Internet and mobile 2019 Plans banking by partnering with VNPAY, a local payment gateway comThe Global Business Group plans to implement overseas projects pany in Vietnam which has 8,000 affiliated merchants. We also through the following strategies in 2019: continuously expanding launched an online loan application service by aligning with Lendr, We Believe in Your Potential networks in promising regions, accelerating qualitative growth, a platform company for loan mediation in the Philippines. Moredigitalizing strategic retail branches, intensifying compliance and over, we plan to release a range of customized products for local internal controls and expanding synergies for global collaboration. subsidiaries in Southeast Asia including loan/deposit products exclusively for drivers of Grab in 2019 by signing an MOU with Grab, We plan to establish a local subsidiary in India – a future core rethe largest ride hailing company in Southeast Asia. gional hub – as a part of a network expansion plan in promising regions, and establish a local subsidiary in Mexico to scale up busiImproving Asset Soundness at Overseas Branches ness operations in Latin America. We also plan to launch strategic Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 We managed asset soundness indicators successfully in a chalbranches in Hanoi, Ho Chi Minh and Da Nang in Vietnam in order to lenging environment at home and abroad, by taking into considerexpand market dominance in promising global markets. ation the likelihood of another global financial crisis and the continued increase of assets at overseas branches. Localized networks will further revitalize localization strategies We made concerted efforts to enhance comprehensive risk manthrough diversified business portfolios and expansion of product agement by strengthening review competencies in Southeast Asia line-ups catering to customer needs. CIB branches will accelerate through the launch of the Asia Credit Analysis & Approval Center, qualitative growth centered on high-quality core assets by expanding the number of IB desks and strengthening business capabilities of representative offices. We plan to initiate digitalization of strategic retail networks by expanding non-face-to-face channels and ODS operations to complement networks that are smaller in scale compared to those of major local banks, and launching financial products affiliated with platforms through the adoption of agent banking and business alliances in the non-banking sector. We also plan to upgrade managerial competencies in global business through stronger internal control of non-banking subsidiaries (in the Philippines/Cambodia/Myanmar), while standardizing compliance competencies to match those of advanced economies to befit the more stringent requirements of local oversight authorichecking for signs of failure in advance by upgrading the monties. Lastly, based on these plans, we endeavor to ensure a “Global itoring system with new software and running periodic on-site Quantum Jump” in 2019 by maximizing synergies through collabcoaching programs to beef up business competencies at overseas oration among subsidiaries within the Woori Financial Group and branches. As a consequence, the NPL ratio improved by 0.33%p distinct business groups within the bank. from 0.76 percent in 2017 to 0.43 percent in 2018, and the delinquency rate fell by 0.09%p from 0.65% in 2017 to 0.56% in 2018. 60 Net Profit Liquidity Ratio [Unit: USD million] [Unit: %] 176 110.5 + 2018 2018 143 2017 23.1 % 121.1 2017 NPL Ratio Global Networks [Unit: %] (As of the end of 2018) 441 0.43 Total Networks (Woori Financial Group inc.) -Woori Bank Global Networks 430 2018 We Believe in Your Potential 0.76 0.33 %p 19 Overseas 13(418) Overseas 4 Representative 2017 Branches Subsidiaries Offices Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 New Global Market Development Main Focus Countries Indonesia Vietnam Philippines WB Finance Co., Ltd.(Cambodia) Woori Finance Cambodia Plc. AO Woori Bank (Russia) India Cambodia Myanmar EUROPE London Poland NORTH AMERICA Bangladesh Woori America Bank Woori Bank Europe GmbH (Germany) Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Turkey Gurgaon ASIA Seoul Tokyo New York Los Angeles Dhaka Bahrain Woori Global Markets Asia Ltd. (H.K) Qatar Mumbai Yangon Hong Kong Dubai Woori Bank Vietnam Ltd. AFRICA Chennai Wealth Development Bank Corp. (Philippines) Woori Finance Myanmar Co., Ltd. Kuala Lumpur Singapore TUTU Finance-WCI Myanmar PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia1906. Tbk. SOUTH AMERICA OCEANIA Banco Woori Bank do Brasil S.A. South Africa Sydney Woori Bank (China) Ltd. 21 TUTU Finance-WCI Myanmar 11 Woori Global Markets Asia Ltd. (H.K) 1 AO Woori Bank (Russia) 3 PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia1906. Tbk. 157 WB Finance Co., Ltd. (Cambodia) 107 Woori Bank Vietnam Ltd. 8 Woori Finance Cambodia Plc. 20 Woori Bank Europe GmbH (Germany) 1 Wealth Development Bank Corp. (Philippines) 25 Woori America Bank 24 Woori Finance Myanmar Co., Ltd. 38 Banco Woori Bank do Brasil S.A. 2 61 International lion compared to 2017. We secured a sustainable business model by attracting 1.175 million customers to our foreign customer business. Woori Bank provides rapid money brokerage services by operating Trade Business the Woori Clearing System (WCS), which is our FX settlement system with leading domestic and international financial institutions as its members. We have also acted as the primary bank in charge of FX transactions for more than 120 public institutions, including Korean The International Trade Business Group is in charge of establishing the marketing strategy for foreign exchange (FX) services, supporting branch offices, and developing products for Woori Bank. We Believe in Your Potential We manage the International Trade Service Center, central and local governments, the Defense Acquisition Program Adwhich is a one-stop center for FX operations that ministration, and the Public Procurement Service. In April 2016, Woori offers rapid and efficient support, the Foreign CusBank was selected as the first South Korean bank to offer won currentomer Banking Business Department to establish cy clearance services in China, handling the clearance and settlement in Korean won, performing the job of a market maker, and eventually marketing strategies and extend business support establishing ourselves as the global transaction banking leader for the Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 for foreigner residents of Korea, and the Global Korean won. The International Trade Business Group’s outstanding Investment Center, which is responsible for foreign business performance in 2018 is the result of implementing a successful business model geared toward FX 4.0, which is about strengthendirect investment (FDI), unstructured escrow and ing profitability and synergy according to our four business goals of overseas capital transactions, etc. Based on our enhancing profitability, promoting employee competencies, securing product competitiveness, and expanding strategic partnerships. The expertise and people, we excel in a wide range of Group will continue to concentrate on developing new growth engines businesses including domestic and international and improving business infrastructure. export/import financing, consulting for overseas Exploring New Income Sources – Expanding the investment, and retail. By doing what we do, we Foreign Customer Business and Capital Transactions generate non-interest income for Woori Bank and Results of Business Performance enhance our bank’s image as a global player. [Unit: USD billion, %] [Among the four major Korean banks] Category Results Market share Export financing 205.5 36.6 2018 Performance Import financing 164.1 34.7 Export/Import financing 369.7 35.7 In 2018, Woori Bank reported outstanding performance in export/ FX (cash) 4.3 27.8 import financing, FX, and international remittances, clearly overInternational remittances 146.1 22.3 shadowing its competitors by taking advantage of competitive FX products, services, and the superior FX competencies of our employees. We handled USD 369.7 billion in export/import financing, USD 4.3 billion in FX (cash basis), and USD 146.1 billion in international (FX) Non-Interest Income remittances. These results ensured Woori Bank enjoyed the highest [Unit: KRW million] FX market share in all areas among major commercial Korean banks. Category 2018 2017 Change In terms of income, we achieved the highest FX non-interest profits 331,170 323,894 7,276↑ ever, amounting to KRW 323.9 billion or an increase of KRW 7.3 bil62 Business Aimed at Foreign Customers branches with FDI desks and expertise in attracting capital transactions, In 2018, Woori Bank stood at the forefront of attracting new foreign while providing differentiated services by departmentalizing and specustomers by signing agreements with several international student cializing operations. The International Trade Business Group will make associations in Korea and related organizations and expanding chanconcerted efforts to ensure the highest competitiveness in the capital nels for foreign customers. As a consequence, Woori Bank positioned transaction market through the Global Investment Center, an exclusive itself as a bank with over 1 million foreign customers by attracting unit for attracting capital transactions and providing advisory services. 159,000 new foreign customers over the year, totaling 1.175 million on an accrued basis as of 2018-end. Escrow/Public Interest Project Immigrant Investor Scheme The Global Investment Center provides escrow services including Marketing for Foreign Students Studying in Korea by Signing stable management of capital, creation of transaction structures and Agreements with the International Students Association and support for contract documentation as a neutral third party for speRelated Organizations cific contracts (M&A, capital management and current transactions) Woori Bank signed agreements with several international student among contractual parties. In addition, Woori Bank serves as the associations in Korea and related organizations to strengthen our designated bank for money transfers for the public interest project business competitiveness in terms of foreign customers. Since Chiimmigrant investor scheme designated by the Ministry of Justice. This nese and Vietnamese students represent the majority of international designation enables the Global Investment Center to provide total students studying in Korea, we conducted marketing for international one-stop services to foreign investors to acquire permanent resident students on major university campuses by signing a group agreement status in conjunction with the Immigration Office of the Ministry of We Believe in Your Potential with their respective student associations. We also partnered with Justice, thus enhancing customer convenience. the Korean Immigration Service Foundation that handles civil affairs on behalf of the Ministry of Justice and acquired some students as customers through this partnership. By doing so, we reinforced part2019 Plans nerships with organizations that serve foreign nationals in Korea and In 2019, the International Trade Business Group will improve FX prodlaid the foundation for becoming a more foreigner-friendly bank. As a ucts and processes by leveraging new technologies of the Industry 4.0 result, Woori Bank attracted 159,000 new customers in 2018, which is in order to digitalize the entire FX operations. This will raise customer approximately 30,000 more compared to the previous year. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 satisfaction and business efficiency as Woori Bank does the utmost to become a leading bank for FX catered to the rapidly changing external Channel Expansion for Foreign Customers environment. The Foreign Customer Banking Business Department opened a ForIn 2019, the International Trade Business Group will revitalize its image eign Customer Banking Centers in Daerim-dong in Seoul in January as a specialized bank for foreigners by improving services related to 2019, followed by one in Gimpo in December 2018. These two new insurance products in order to become a trustworthy financial partner. centers, in addition to existing centers in Ansan, Gimhae and Uijeongbu, Furthermore, we will develop financial products and services suitable focus on marketing efforts targeting foreign customers. The Foreign for foreign customers so that they can conveniently remit funds to their Customer Banking Centers hire foreign staff to make our customers home countries. We will attract new high-yield customers continuously feel more comfortable, and also offer religious and cultural facilities inby strengthening partnerships with related institutions for foreigners as cluding prayer rooms, thus raising customer satisfaction levels.Moreowe did in 2018, and ensure we become the No.1 player in foreign cusver, we have seven branches that open on Sundays for foreign workers tomer marketing by continuing to handle issuance of the multicultural and have expanded the number of such branches in Pyeongtaek, and financial voucher program. established a business network for foreigners nationwide by operating foreigner-exclusive desks in areas with a high density of foreigners in Moreover, we will develop and market products aligned with escrow Daegu, Gwangju and Changwon, among other areas. services and FDI to expand business operations related to inbound capital transactions including FDI. We will also lead the market by exGlobal Investment Center ploring new income sources in new markets through the development FDI/Capital Transactions of escrow products for tax payments related to securities purchases and Through the Global Investment Center in charge of FDI/capital transsales. In 2019, the International Trade Business Group will do its utmost actions marketing, the International Trade Business Group provided to increase customer satisfaction by offering optimized FX services support for major foreign investors and companies to enter the Korean through the adoption of new Industry 4.0 technologies, adapting to the market based on abundant experience and expertise related to FDI, rapidly changing external environment. and served as an investment partner. As a consequence, Woori Bank was ranked number one in market share in the domestic FDI market by attracting investments of USD 3,436 million, up 15 percent compared to 2017. The Global Investment Center designates and runs specialized 63 Investment 2018 Performance Woori Bank’s Investment Banking Business Group has increased its non-interest income by intensifying its financial arrangements Banking involving power generation/infrastructure projects as well as M&A finance. The group has expanded its overseas business by boosting operations at existing global IB desks and adding new ones. Woori Bank was ranked first among Korean commercial banks in arranging M&A finance and recorded outstanding growth in global IB assets and income by managing the largest number of global IB desks. This has enabled the IB Group to generate income exceeding KRW 200 billion in 2018. Woori Bank’s Investment Banking Business We also expanded preemptive investments in future cash cows, while expanding high-yield investments through closer ties with Group consists of two departments – the Inglobal top-tier asset management companies, increasing highvestment Finance Department and the Project yield assets by entering the fields of aircraft financing, overseas Finance Department – and 11 teams: M&A Team infrastructure/power generation projects, and maximizing shortWe Believe in Your Potential term income through large-scale structured finance and issuance 1, M&A Team 2, Equity Investment Team, Global of FRNs aligned with Woori Global Markets Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong. Finance Team, Innovative Development and FiWe have started to provide support for investments and loans tarnance Team, Infrastructure Finance Team under geting companies with innovative growth potential, while forming the Project Finance Department, Structured Fia financial ecosystem for innovative government growth initiatives nance Team, Power and Energy Team and Real by launching an Innovation Development Team for the first time among Korean commercial banks as of the end of 2018. We also Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Estate Finance Team. plan to expand direct/indirect development/support on a continual basis. As a traditionally strong player in corporate finance, Woori Bank has expanded its core IB business including in the fields of high-yield equity investments, and M&A acquisition finance/ power generation/infrastructure arrangements. We broadened our business scope through global networks and IB desks. In October 2006, we opened Woori Global Markets Asia Ltd. in Hong Kong and became Korea’s first financial institution to establish a business unit to specialize in overseas IB. Global IB desks have been part of 2019 Plans 2019 will be the year for further growth with the establishment of the bank's strategy since Jun 2017. Additional IB Woori Financial Group. We plan to implement more robust busidesks were set up and are in operation on a pilot ness operations with a focus on ‘creating a business structure led by non-interest income’ and ‘strengthening drivers for new global scale in Vietnam and India beginning in the latter growth’ under the business goal of providing ‘global IB that leads half of 2018. We continue to generate opportunifuture finance.’ ties for IB business at home and abroad through We launched the Real Estate Investment Finance Team at the end our expanded global network. of 2018, expanding into business areas such as real estate PF, real estate-backed syndication loans and real estate-related equity in64 We Believe in Your Potential vestments. We plan to newly set up the M&A Team 2 and the Global Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Infrastructure Team to diversify income sources in February 2019, thus scaling up participation in arrangements and engagement in overseas M&A finance, investment in special situations, and arrangement of overseas infrastructure, power generation/energy projects. Awards and Prizes Award in Acquisition Finance at the 10th Korea IB Award In 2019, Woori Bank’s Investment Banking Business Group will by the Korea Economic Daily (Feb. 22, 2019) continue to grow its asset portfolio and income by seeking out new projects for the IB Business Group involving financial arrangement, high-yield investments and expansion of global projects. Total Assets of Investment Banking Operations in 2018 [Unit: KRW trillion] Lastly, the Investment Banking Business Group is preparing for the introduction of a CIB system at the soon-to-be-completed financial Balance Sheet group by reinforcing its CIB business based on collaboration with Assets Total Assets 10.9 (100%) oligopolistic shareholders in the fields of securities, insurance and asset management as well as with departments within the bank at Loans 3.0 (28%) 4.5 (41%) Off-balance Sheet a time when the group does not yet have a full-fledged asset manSecurities 3.4 (31%) 6.4 (59%) Assets agement company or securities firm. Loan Commitments, etc. 4.1 (38%) Payment Guarantees 0.4(3%) 65 Trust & retirement pension market. We have a broad range of experience in the custody agent business gained from transactions with our diverse clienPension tele consisting of 120 entities or so, including major institutional clients in Korea’s securities custoBusiness dy services market as well as asset management companies. Taking advantage of our experience, we will provide custodian asset management services that allow us to take preemptive action in the face of market changes. The Trust and Pension Business Group is leading 2018 Performance the market with successful business models that We Believe in Your Potential Trust Department continually meets customer asset management Woori Bank’s Trust Department scaled itself up through customized needs, keeping up with a radically changing marstrategies by setting ‘continued growth and profit-making in the ket environment. Sales of trust products such trust business’ as its business goal. In addition, we concentrated on system configuration and leveraging our expertise in order to gain as equity-linked trusts (ELT) have continued to competitiveness in the trust business with potentially high-growth grow, as the Trust and Pension Business Group potential. We established the ‘trust asset management system’ plays a leading role in driving the bank’s overall to provide comprehensive asset management services including Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 customer advisory services, asset management guidelines and non-interest rate income. We take the lead in follow-up management measures. We also shared our asset manmanaging the precious assets of our customers agement and product design competencies with our entire branch network, whereby asset management experts including analysts by suggesting customer-centered investment and fund/portfolio managers offer advice. As a result, we have prostrategies with new product launches and dimoted ELT, and ETF as core trust products. To expand our business verse product lineups. In a growing retirement in the future, we have developed customer-focused investment strategies by launching new products with timely market insight, and pension market, we provide support for the building up our product line-up. With ELT, our sales result in 2018 post-retirement lifestyles of retail customers reached KRW 12,133 billion, or 142% growth year on year. We then developed new products and diversified underlying assets across and efficient asset management of retirement diverse portfolios so that we can manage assets according to market pensions for corporate customers. conditions and individual customer needs. We offer differentiated customized services through comprehensive consulting services to Retirement Pension Business Department Since retirement pension schemes were introduced to the market, customers for retirement pensions, from the Woori Bank implemented a customer-centric strategy with a longearly stage of introducing retirement pension term perspective to help customers enjoy a stable retirement and to schemes for companies. We employ experienced cope with labor market changes such as Korea’s rapidly aging society. We publish a monthly ‘Happy Life Retirement Pension Newsletter’ investment experts utilizing advanced methods which covers major retirement pension issues, recent trends, asset at Woori Bank, based on which we can manage management information, and everyday life tips. For retirement pension customers who are still employed, we provide information customized products that are optimal for cuson retirement savings and asset management performance through tomers’ investment needs as part of our total the Internet or mobile banking via the Happy Life Retirement Pension financial services platform, thereby leading the Lifetime Account. These services enable our customers to manage 66 port and continue to improve and further develop our core products. With ELT, our core product, we will generate profits through balanced growth between high-yield products and low-yield products, based on stable structure. We also plan to promote ETFs as a key asset management product for customers. To achieve our goals, we plan to have asset management functions in place to cope with a variety of fluctuations in the financial market while making our products globally relevant. Hence, we will upgrade our trust asset management system and risk management system. Retirement Pension Department As Korea becomes a super-aged society, the importance of the rethe retirement savings in their accounts with ease. We also streamtirement market is increasingly highlighted in the banking industry. lined document processing by providing integrated information on That is why Woori Bank has selected retirement pensions as a core pensions for IRB subscribers (a data scrapping service) and highgrowth business and has decided to carry out active marketing lighted the importance of raising customer yield rates by expanding campaigns to secure a stable customer and profit base over the our lineup of TDFs. We also launched a Retirement Pension Business long-term. In 2019, the Retirement Pension Business Department Team, reducing the workload for branches and raising customer satwill secure growth through differentiated marketing by managing isfaction. We Believe in Your Potential assets and raising convenience levels for each customer, and continue to focus on higher efficiency in business channels along with Trustee & Custody Department higher customer yield through stronger product management caExpanding our Client Base by Diversifying Assets Under Custody pabilities. We will continue to lead the retirement pension market and Attracting New Customers using our expert human resource pool, training support system, We successfully undertook a project to develop systems for new diverse products, professional asset management competencies, businesses and upgrade our custody operations system, following and a unique retirement planning service platform. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 successful bids for institutional clients. We diversified assets under custody by attracting insurance companies (KRW 8.4 trillion -> KRW Trustee & Custody Department 24.1 trillion), hedge funds (KRW 3 trillion -> KRW 4.2 trillion) and Profitability-Driven Qualitative Growth by Strengthening Growth the largest REITs in the financial sector, driven by our outstanding Competencies in Each Asset Category industry-leading business expertise. We also raised the volume of Woori Bank will dominate the fiduciary management market for assets under custody by expanding our clientele through the signing public and private funds by establishing a cooperative system with of new contracts with institutional customers and eight other firms asset management companies in the external fiduciary manageincluding insurers and asset management companies. ment market based on many years of experience in custody operations for pension funds affiliated with the National Pension Service and the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport. We will also 2019 Plans pave the way for growth as a global custodian bank by increasing Trust Department our market share based on integrated management of the assets The 2019 business goal for the Trust & Pension Business Group is of insurance companies. We will lead the asset custody market by to ‘Dominate the Trust & Pension Market.’ This goal means that we scaling up the portion of high-yield assets in custody, inclusive ofintend to become the number one bank in terms of increased trust hedge funds assets and alternative assets. market share. Accordingly, we plan to differentiate marketing supMoney in Trust Retirement Pension Assets Assets under Custody [Unit: KRW trillion] [Unit: KRW trillion] [Unit: KRW trillion] 20.8 151.5 143.9 17.1 15.7 15.0 +33.0% +13.6% +5.3% 2017 2018 2017 2018 2017 2018 67 Business Support Social Responsibility 070 Employee Satisfaction 073 Financial Market Business 076 Digital banking 079 IT Support 080 Information Security 082 Risk Management 084 Consumer Protection 086 Social Contribution Activities 089 Woori Smile Microcredit 090 ethical & compliance management 092 Anti -Money Laundering Employee 2018 Performance Wibee Basketball Team, Winners of Both the Regular Season and the Championship Title for the Past Six Years Consecutively Woori Satisfaction Bank beat the Incheon Shinhan Bank S-Birds with a score of 7850 in the 7th round of the `2017~2018 Women's Korean Basketball League (WKBL) Regular League' held at Yi Sun-sin Stadium on March 4. This has enabled Woori Bank to win six consecutive season titles in the regular league. Woori Bank WiBee, thus, ties Shinhan Bank's title of the six-straight-season wins with 29 wins and 6 losses (a winning rate of 82.9 percent) in the 2018 regular season. Woori Bank Wibee broke a new record in its history with the first-ever V10 in the WKBL and six consecutive wins by winning the regular league this season, thanks to its employees' passionate Woori Bank believes that a workplace where cheers, head coach Wie Sung-woo's outstanding tactics, and the players' tireless mental strength. employees are happy is a necessary foundation to be able to provide the best services to our Implementing Programs for Greater Employee Satisfaction customers. This led to the setup of the Employee Woori Bank offers original and interesting programs to boost emWe Believe in Your Potential Satisfaction Center in 2007, and since then, the ployee satisfaction. In 2018, we offered various programs to help employees meet their cultural needs and build networks. A proCenter has been developing and implementing gram to help our employees take care of their physical and mental diverse programs to improve employee satisfachealth, and another offered program is the Special Lectures on tion. We are expanding our programs to improve Culture, which encourages them to discover and enjoy new hobbies. Among our existing programs, we continue to offer those that employee satisfaction because we believe that have been the most popular among our employees, including the Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 satisfied employees feel a strong sense of ownfamily getaway initiative Oh! Happy Woori and the psychological counseling program to help employees deal with feelings of inseership and voluntarily strive to make customers curity or with family issues. Through these efforts, we strive to not happy. only encourage communication and fun but also support our employees in resolving any personal problems. We are doing our best to implement Woori Bank’s core belief, that the happiness of our employees and their families is the core foundation of the bank’s competitiveness. Oh! Happy Woori Oh! Happy Woori is a family getaway program that began in July 2011 based on the idea that happy families are the very source of employee satisfaction. Employees and their families can participate in our seasonal experience programs to spend time with their families and refresh themselves physically and mentally. Last year, 70 We Believe in Your Potential the program offered such experiences as Understanding Constelthis free wedding venue offer is twofold: it not only helps our emWoori Bank Annual Report 2018 lations, visiting Pocheon Herb Island, Korea Job World, My Mothployees save on wedding costs but also boosts the sense of pride er’s Family, and Korea Job World & a Taekwondo Program at the our employees feel in Woori Bank. Kukkiwon. For seasonal trips, we offered the programs Together for Spring Flowers and Together in Autumn, designed to offer hapBenefits Offered in 2018 py experiences for our employees and their spouses, reinforcing There are cases of employees who struggle psychologically due employee loyalty. Oh! Happy Woori events are held every month to family issues. Woori Bank supports struggling employees and with a high participation rate from our employees, and this has betheir families by making reservations and paying for psychological come the most preferred and sought after program among all our and legal counseling services so that our staff are able to focus on offers. The program allows our employees an opportunity to have their work with renewed energy. In addition to external counseling a great time with family and be reminded of how important family services, we have an in-house counselor who offers, upon request, is—something that can be easily neglected when people are too fopsychological tests, counseling visits, and lectures at branches. We cused on work. also have experience programs to help employees manage stress and recover mentally, such as one-day meditation courses, temple Using the Head Office Auditorium as a Free Wedding stays, and healing herbal programs. Venue Woori Bank rents out the auditorium at its head office building as Branch Workshop Support a wedding venue for employees, free of charge. The location has We offer team-building workshops for employees outside the head been praised by our employees for its spaciousness, the ample office through outdoor activities, including zip-line rides, glamping, amount of time allowed for the ceremony, and its refined decorayacht rides, all-terrain vehicle (ATV) racing, and outdoor survival tions. The venue features a gorgeous bridal room, a separate room games. The high employee participation rate proves the popularity to perform the traditional Korean wedding ceremony known as pyof these programs. By taking part in the workshops together, emebaek, and a newly renovated cafeteria for the wedding banquet. ployees create synergy as they get the opportunity to communicate The CEO’s official vehicle is also made available as the wedding with each other freely and hence cooperate better at work after the getaway car. A total of 693 newlywed couples walked down the experience. In 2017, we hosted the Woori Pop Star event, a talent aisle in this auditorium between 2012 and 2016. Its popularity conshow in which employees could show off their talents and passion. tinued in 2017 and 2018, with an additional 180 pairs and 150 couIn 2018, we organized the Woori Family Talk! Healing Concert in ples getting married there in each year respectively. The benefit of 71 five cities (Daejon, Changwon, Daegu, Gwangju, Busan) and creemployees. If any symptoms should be identified after a check-up, ated an atmosphere of harmony for our employees. The Employee we support affected employees with our group accident insurance Satisfaction Center thus launched various programs to make our and the bank’s medical fee subsidy scheme to create a healthy and employees happy and boost sales competencies through commuactive work culture. Meanwhile, our employees and their families nication. are entitled to book and use the shared condominiums Woori Bank owns all over the country. We also improved our rest and recreaA Day When Woori Meets Culture tion center operations, extending the business hours and opening on weekends so that employees can use the center anytime. These This is a support program to encourage participation of cultural acbenefits help our employees build a vibrant work culture. tivities by our employees and their families. Be it musicals, opera, or classical music, the program responds to the cultural interests of our staff and enriches their leisure time. First launched in 2012, Woori Daycare Center the program made a group purchase for performances like the LitAs part of the government’s policy to address the country’s low tle Prince (an opera), Wicked, Dream Girls, 42nd Street (musicals), birth rate and actively support working parents, Woori Bank runs Bodyguard and Rebecca. In 2018, in order to further boost employa corporate daycare centers in Seoul at Mapo-gu (Happiness ee satisfaction, we continued to group ticket purchases for musical Center), Seongdong-gu (Love Center), and Jung-gu (Dodam performances such as The Flashdance. We thus provided efficient Center, opened at the Woori Bank head office building in August and satisfying forms of support to allow our employees to return to 2016). In addition to the three existing centers, we opened the work with greater energy and in better spirits. fourth center at Bundang, Gyeonggi Province (Saesol Center) in We Believe in Your Potential March 2018. Improving ‘PC-Off’ Policies for Work-Life Balance We will continue to open new daycare centers to promote a corThe Banking industry has characteristically imposed a work enporate culture that encourages raising families and do our best to vironment that entailed overtime work at night. To improve such help working parents cope with childcare challenges. Woori Bank conditions, we introduced a work-life balance policy in 2013, which would like to ensure that all of our employees are happy and that then became established as a part of corporate culture at Woori our happy employees, in turn, will make our customers happy. Bank as most offices and branches came to comply with the policy. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 The so-called ‘PC-Off’ deadline is at 19:00 to ensure employees Programs to Protect Employees who Interact Directly with Customers Woori Bank has provided prevention training and psychological treatment since 2017 for employees who interact directly with customers to protect them from verbal and physical violence as well as sexual harassment. We also run programs to preemptively protect employees in the banking sector by distributing ‘Woori All Together’ guidelines for their protection, putting up posters to increase customer awareness and providing information on employee protection through automated response systems via non-face-to-face channels. In addition, we strive to address employees’ psychological grievhave time for leisure activities and family life. It also increased efances and improve job satisfaction through in-house professional ficiency and focus at work, reducing unnecessary overtime where counseling and the Employee Assistance Program (EAP), and run possible. In 2017, we introduced flexible work hours, and we imcollective programs all-year-round including special lectures and proved the existing PC-Off policy for work-life balance by introducactivities in order to reduce work-related stress derived from emoing a PC-Shut-Down function. We will take the initiative in realizing tional factors. We have also taken the lead in improving our corwork and life balance for all our employees. We will continue our porate culture by conducting wide-ranging campaigns to prevent efforts to increase employee satisfaction with constant on-site conflicts among employees as well as enhancing legally-mandated monitoring, feedback, and consequent improvement. compliance training on sexual harassment prevention in the workplace. Building a Healthy and Vibrant Work Culture Woori Bank offers annual medical check-ups and blood tests in order to continually and systematically manage the health of our 72 Financial 2018 Performance In charge of major funding and capital management for Woori Bank, the Financial Market Business Group focused on improvMarket ing profitability and maintaining stable liquidity through efficient funding and capital management. We contributed to enhancing the Bank’s profitability by maintaining an optimal loan-to deposit ratio Business (LDR), diversifying Korean wonand foreign currency-denominated financing, and managing our bond portfolio. We also promoted our capital adequacy and stability in financing by issuing perpetual foreign currency-denominated contingent convertible bonds (CoCos) in the first half and won-denominated CoCos (TierⅡ) in the second half. Consequently, we complied with the Korean regulatory guidelines on liquidity in 2018 at a level well above the liquidity coverage ratio(LCR) (minimum 95%), the foreign currency LCR (minimum 70%), and the midand long-term foreign currency financing ratio (minimum 100%). These results contributed to a The Financial Market Business Group consist of 0.60 percent increase in the bank-wide BIS ratio. We strengthened our competitiveness in FX and derivatives trading by diversifying the Treasury Department, which manages Woori We Believe in Your Potential trading currencies and managing positions. We also provide equity Bank’s liquidity, the Trading Department, which derivative services that are available through all global trading hours so that our customers can be prepared for risks arising from handles FX trading, marketable securities, and time zone differences. financial derivatives, and the Settlement Support Department, which performs back office duties. Stable Management of Liquidity Woori Bank is the most competitive of all Korean Strengthening the minimum standard for LCR and successfully Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 commercial banks in trading derivatives. We lead responding to the implementation of NSFR We secured high-liquidity assets by preemptively increasing dethe market, handling forwards, swaps and opposits, private loans and contingent capital securities in preparations based on a wide range of underlying assets tion for the new implementation of the NSFR – a midand longincluding interest rates, foreign exchange, equities, and commodities. term liquidity index, while raising the minimum standard for LCR by 5%p. As a consequence, we maintained liquidity levels above the regulatory ratio with an LCR of 102 percent and an NSFR of 109 percent on average in 2018. Issuance of Senior Debt and CoCos (Contingent Convertibles) in Korean Won and Foreign Currencies The Financial Markets Group established preemptive financing plans, thereby successfully issuing senior debts valued at KRW 4.2 73 We Believe in Your Potential trillion, CoCos in Korean Won of 0.6 trillion (hybrid securities of cial market and strove to build competitiveness through various Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 KRW 0.4 trillion and subordinated securities of KRW 0.2 trillion), measures, including creating profits from new sources. senior debts in foreign currencies of USD 450 million and CoCos in foreign currencies (subordinated securities) worth USD 300 FX Dealing million. In terms of hybrid securities denominated in Won, the bank In foreign currency dealing, we bolstered our currency forecast successfully arranged the largest-ever issue valued at KRW 400 capability for both domestic and international markets and realized billion, despite the limited scale of the issuance market, thus raisoutstanding trading profits by taking anticipatory and proactive ing the prestige of Woori Bank. action in response to the fluctuations in international financial markets. In 2018, we accounted for a higher portion of market share Enhancing Stability with Diversified Financing of Foreign Currency (9.05% in USD/KRW, 18.26% in CNY/KRW), playing the role of a We issued Formosa Bonds to the tune of USD 300 million by leverleading market maker in Korea. aging the dollar liquidity of Taiwanese investors in January 2018, and provided a lower interest rate at issuance compared to other Derivatives global senior debts, and revitalized the issuance of CD in foreign In the derivatives market, we forecast the trend of market variables currencies by utilizing the global CD program. As such, we reinsuch as Korean and international financial policies and changes forced stable liquidity management in foreign currencies by diverin demand and supply, which helped us manage our positions one sifying the procurement markets and financial instruments. step ahead and establish a secure foundation for derivatives trading. We also offer FX/interest rate risk management consulting and Complying with Korean Regulatory Guidelines customized 1:1 solutions for SMEs that suffer from a lack of experiAs of the end of December 2018, we have complied with Korean ence and expertise in risk management. regulatory guidelines by maintaining 104.08% in the LCR, 106.42% in the foreign currency LCR, and 188.06% in the midand longterm foreign currency financing ratio. Securities In securities, we analyzed domestic and international monetary Strengthening Competitiveness in FX and Derivatives Business policies and bond markets and efficiently managed bonds increasing both interest and non-interest income. We also diversified our In 2018, the Financial Market Business Group strengthened its sources of non-interest income by varying and increasing bond competencies to proactively respond to the volatility of the finanlending transactions that receive risk-free charges. 74 We Believe in Your Potential 2019 Plans and foreign currency/interest rate hedging in trading. The demand for risk hedging is expected to increase with growing global volaThe Financial Markets Group plans to ensure preemptive financing, tility, and we intend to broaden FX/derivatives trading further by secure committed lines and strengthen the procurement compeoffering the right product at the right time for all of our customers. tencies of overseas branches in order to ensure more stringent We also have a dedicated sales team of specialists for securities control of liquidity amidst the higher volatility of the global financial Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 firms, insurers, government gencies and other financial and public market. As such, we will maintain bank-wide liquidity levels and institutions. With the work of our dedicated team, we will continue raise profitability through better procurement & portfolio manageto acquire exceptional customers and increase our non-interest ment. In trading, we will broaden both our FX and derivatives inincome. come by diversifying strategies, such as arbitrage in FX/derivatives Liquidity Coverage Ratio [Unit: %] Liquidity Coverage Ratio (All currencies including KRW) Liquidity Coverage Ratio (Foreign Currencies) 119.32 110.02 108.98 108.23 103.40 102.45 102.77 101.60 Mar.2018 Jun.2018 Sep.2018 Dec.2018 75 Digital 2018 Performance Woori Bank selected 16 tasks related to digitalization under the motto that customer value is generated through technology and Banking data in order to commemorate 2018 as the first year of its relaunch as a digitally leading bank. We completed governance upgrades necessary for efficient business operations including the recruitment of specialized leaders (including a Chief Digital Officer (CDO)) with full support from the enterprise-wide digital council and launched the Big Data Center for integrated management and utilization of bank-wide data. We even introduced a task force focused on project bidding in order to establish a corporate culture to encourage flexible thinking and rapid action. Moreover, we have continuously raised profitability by supporting big data-based Digital competencies have become a core commarketing, completely transforming digital banking by providing customized services and conducting affiliate marketing with petitiveness for a bank’s future survival. Woori strategic top-tier platform companies. WiBee Fintech Lab aims to Bank has consistently spearheaded bank-wide revitalize the fintech sector as well as discover and foster promisoperations for digital transformation under a ing companies that can play a role in steadily expanding the range We Believe in Your Potential of opportunities for cooperation between fintech companies and strategy that aims to lead digital innovation and Woori Bank. conducted digital-focused organizational reshuffling to respond rapidly to the changing marPart 1. Implementing Enterprise-Wide Digital Innovation through the Execution of and Support for ket. Moreover, we intensified our competencies the Top 16 Tasks for Digitalization to utilize digital technologies including AI, big Woori Bank has selected 16 tasks for digitalization in order to beWoori Bank Annual Report 2018 data and RPA as core values of a ‘customer-oricome a digitally-native bank that generates customer value based on new digital technologies. By doing so, we aim to lead in digital ented approach’ and ‘enterprise-wide productivcompetitiveness, secure digital competency, and improve our funity innovation’ and transformed mobile banking damentals. services into fully-featured financial service offerings as we continuously strive to become an innovative bank. This year, we will reaffirm our status as a digital leader by implementing ‘open finance’ systems that create a demand for new services by sharing financial data and channels maintained by the bank and through collaboration with fintech companies. We have reinforced drivers targeting digital operations while securing differentiated expertise by recruiting an executive-level CDO from outside the bank. We also launched the Big Data Center to establish and utilize bank-wide big data strategies. We have established an integrated CoV system for each channel to be applied to the model used for customer turnover prediction and the model for the prediction of regulatory agency complaints. We also developed digital counseling/business tools that provide customized portfolios to customers, and steadily promoted the digitalization of branch operations by introducing e-document systems. In 2019, we will continue to strive to become a digitally-native bank. 76 We Believe in Your Potential Part 2. Implementing a Two-Track Digital Banking agreements on multiple fronts. To this end, we conducted joint Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Strategy to Provide Innovative Customer Experiences marketing with Korea’s representative simple payment platform Woori Bank is currently revamping the One Touch Retail App and company to attract customers via non-face-to-face digital chanWiBee Bank App as non-face-to-face channels. The One Touch nels. Moreover, we have steadily raised the number of non-faceRetail App will fulfil its role as an integrated marketing channel that to-face digital customers and product subscribers through daenhances customer convenience and provides customized services ta-based customer behavioral analysis and marketing to upgrade enabling access to all types of financial products and services. The and improve our digital marketing efforts. apps will be launched in the first half of 2019 and provide seamless customer experiences online by utilizing new digital technologies, Part 4. Expanding the Ecosystem for Collaboration with offering an intuitive UI/UX and simplifying the product subscription Fintech/ICT Companies process. We established the WiBee Fintech Lab in August 2016 to revitalize the fintech ecosystem and explore and nurture promising fintech WiBee Bank is Korea’s first mobile-exclusive bank introduced by companies. We provide total services ranging from the provision Woori Bank in May 2015, which will have its core features renewed, of office space to fintech companies to patent, legal and consulting with its simple money transfer services and non-face-to-face loan services. We organized an incubation program to enhance corpoapplications witnessing a major transformation. By doing so, we rate value with 17 companies as of the end of December 2018. will be able to attract younger customers and offer new fintech services, differentiated from the One Touch Retail Banking app. We also provided opportunities for growth through direct alliances and mutual cooperation with the digital business unit of Woori Part 3. Conducting Digital Affiliate Marketing to Attract Bank by developing a loan assessment solution aligned with AI and Non-Face-to-Face Digital Channel Customers setting up a crowd funding system jointly with a tenant company in Woori Bank has continuously expanded the scope of its financial WiBee Fintech Lab. In addition, we have continued to provide opproducts and services by aligning with strategic top-tier platform portunities for networking both inside and outside the company as companies. we have periodically organized ‘WiBee Fintech Lab Demo Days’ to share business performance tips with companies that are nurtured We have strived to enable customers to experience our convenin WiBee Fintech Lab and promote opportunities for cooperation. ient financial services via diverse channels by signing partnership 77 2019 Plans office space by allowing for an optimal development environment for products related to financial APIs and the cloud, and estabPart 1. Execution of Open Finance Strategies lishing a comprehensive physical and technical support system The Digital Financial Group plans to evolve into a bank-in-bankaligned with training and consulting via global enterprises. Moreotype exclusive profit-making group by aiming to establish an open ver, we will continue to expand the scope of partnerships online by finance-driven development & marketing system in 2019 positioning ourselves as a marketplace that provides wide-ranging services with fintech companies through WiBee Bank. ‘Open finance’ refers to creating new products and services by collaborating on technologies and business ideas required by the bank with outside parties, and sharing internal data, channels and Part 3. Upgrading Business Support Services and customers with our partners. We are committed to providing new Customer Experiences with New Digital Technologies digital services that break down barriers by applying innovative The Digital Financial Group plans to steadily promote internal busitechnologies developed by fintech/ICT companies as well as the ness innovation and upgrade customer experiences by leveraging financial knowhow of the bank through sharing, openness and colnew digital technologies to preemptively respond to the rapidly laboration. changing financial market environment. Corresponding strategies to achieve this year's goal are: ‘Open First of all, we will support asset management for customers by Customer’ strategies to open up customer channels to external creating an AI market platform that predicts various changes in participation, as we provide services from Woori Bank, and introindicators in the market based on AI and utilizes such predictions We Believe in Your Potential duce external services within the bank's platform in return; ‘Open for managing asset soundness and risks internally. In addition, we Data’ strategies of exploring new services by opening up the finanwill apply AI-based data analysis outcomes to the product curacial data maintained by Woori Bank; and ‘Open API’ strategies of tion model and the model for enhancing customer transactions, opening up Woori Bank’s exclusive products and services to exterenabling more sophisticated digital marketing. By doing so, Woori nal participation and offering non-financial services from outside Bank will put in place an AI-powered bank which makes the most the bank to customers. of AI technologies. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Part 2. Stretching out Cooperation with Fintech We will complete the adoption of Robotic Process Automation Companies by On/Offline Integration (RPA) to improve the business environment and enhance productivity, thus automating many operations in the bank based on RPA, The Digital Financial Group plans to expand multifaceted cooperaand continuously expanding the scope of its application. tion with innovative fintech companies by transforming the existing Besides, we will reaffirm our presence as a digitally-leading bank WiBee Fintech Lab. First of all, we plan to increase infrastrucby steadily implementing business innovation based on new digital ture-related support, which used be confined to the provision of technologies, including the adoption of blockchain-based security authentication, the creation of an open API and implementation of Open Finance Strategy a cloud-based environment. OPEN CUSTOMER OPEN FINANCE OPEN OPEN DATA API 78 IT Support Setting up the Woori Global Standard System (WGSS) The global presence of Woori Bank now exceeds 430 networks around the world including 12 subsidiaries, 14 branches and four offices, with separate systems used in each region. As such, Woori Bank established the Woori Global Standard System (WGSS), a new next-generation system for standardizing the IT system used by global networks. By doing so, we established a standardized environment for global networks that are available 24/7. The IT Group will fully support the IT infrastructure of the globally competitive Woori Bank. Innovation in financial IT has gained more and more attention amid the advancement of the fourth industrial revolution. The banking sector 2019 Plans The IT Group will consider 2019 the starting year of its emergence launches competitive new products and services as a leading bank in terms of prompt and stable IT service innothrough the convergence of diverse new techvation. First of all, we will facilitate prompt business support by optimizing IT operations , and adopt a new technological cloud innologies and financial services. Corresponding frastructure, and dramatically improve the level of resource utilizaWe Believe in Your Potential deregulation and the roll out of solid security tion. We will reinforce competitiveness in IT services by maximizing systems and infrastructure have also topped the synergies through competency integration between Woori Bank and Woori FIS and by expanding personnel exchanges with Woori agenda. Woori Bank ushered in the era of the FIS. We will ensure we generate synergies by establishing a collabWoori Innovative New Infra (WINI) in May 2018 orative system with Woori Financial Group, which was established in 2019. after two years of development, replacing the Woori IT New System (WINS), used for 14 years To this end, we will realign the bank's IT operations with the group's Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 since its launch in 2004. and the IT-related parties of each affiliate, and fully support the setup of IT systems across the group. Woori Bank’s global channels We laid the foundation for a quantum leap as an around the world will be fully supported. We will complete the IT leader in banking with dramatically stronger setup of the new system for our newly-established subsidiaries in business operations, customer convenience and European/Philippines, along with 13 overseas branches including those in China, Indonesia and Vietnam, and dispatch relevant persecurity by setting up a system focused on stabilsonnel for prompt stabilization of the system. Preemptive responsity and scalability. es will take place by intensifying our bridging role between local business IT, periodically reviewing IT issues and expanding local user training sessions. This will enable the upgrade of the existing management-oriented support system into a problem-solving-oriented one. 2018 Performance Woori Bank officially opened the next-generation WINI system on Improving the IT Systems by Establishing May 8, 2018 after about two years and three months of developNext-Generation Systems at Home and Abroad ment after kicking off the project to set up the system in February 1. Launch of the next-generation Woori Innovative New Infra (WINI), replacing the former Woori IT New Infra (WINS) which was intro2016. The next-generation system is a UNIX-based one with more duced in 2004 scalability and flexibility than the existing mainframe-based one Improvements in stability and scalability, enhanced efficiency through maintenance of the business process, and savings in terms of maintenance costs and enables the prompt and flexible application of new technologies in diverse channels. 2. Launch of the Woori Global Standard System (WGSS) Standardization of operations and systems by integrating global network systems The launch of the next-generation system shortened working and replacing previous local systems hours and raised efficiency by improving convenience related to 3. Reinforcing IT training IT operability for employees. In addition, customers of Woori Bank Boosting the capabilities of personnel by offering systematic training (collective training) for staff in the IT Group and employees specialized in IT can now access customized services more easily that cater to 4. Management of an IT specialist pool their needs, and further shortened latency in business operations Strengthening corporate competencies by devising a systematic management systhanks to faster IT processing. tem for an IT specialist pool 79 Information 2018 Performance Reinforcing the Information Security Organization The Head of the Information Security Division bears the responsiSecurity bilities of the Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) and Chief Privacy Officer (CPO), managing all the teams in charge of privacy (credit information) protection. We regularly hold Information Security Committee meetings, which are chaired by our Chief Information Security Officer (CISO) and attended by 15 department heads at Woori Bank who are in charge of information security, IT operation and development, customer information handling and other relevant areas. The Committee discusses agenda items that cover IT security issues, internal control and process improvement for privacy protection and other matters. Woori Bank continually strengthens its information security organization and enhances adminWe also have an ICT security diagnosis team with information security experts who serve as white hat hackers. This team analyzes istrative and technical security measures to preand evaluates vulnerabilities, conducts mock hacking, and convent any leakage of customer information. ducts an internal security review for newly launched services to We Believe in Your Potential ensure their safety and security. Taking Administrative Protection Measures To prevent the potential abuse and misuse of personal information, we allow only minimal access for employees so that they can only retrieve the information required to perform their jobs. We also reinforced internal controls for both the head office and branches Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 through regular monitoring of unauthorized look ups of personal information unrelated to work along with inspections of personal information management. In addition, all our employees must attend bank-wide information security training at least twice a year. We also make on-site visits to promote privacy information awareness and prevent security breaches. When we are required to consign customer information for business purposes, we disclose the scope of responsibilities and the consignee information on our website. We conduct a regular inspection of the handling of information and information protection training. Our management and supervision of consignees are always thorough to ensure that customer information is not lost, stolen, leaked, forged, falsified or damaged. 80 We Believe in Your Potential Technical Security Measures Awards and Prizes Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 In July 2017, Woori Bank obtained ISMS (Information Security Management System) designation from the Financial Security Institute under the Ministry of Science, ICT and Future Planning, and we renew our certification every year by passing strict standards. Awarded a prize of the ‘CISO of the Year’ at the CIO Forum of the Federation of Korean Information Industries, In 2017, Woori Bank applied cutting-edge security technology usAwardee: Vice president of Huh Jeongjin, CISO of the Informaing a dynamic app tampering prevention and obfuscation system, tion Protection Team which was a first among Korean banks. The new technological innovation bolstered the security of our mobile app services against increasingly intelligent and sophisticated external cyber violations. 2019 Plans The Information Security Division plans to build an integrated information security management system that can ensure real-time integration, analysis, and action against both internal and external online security breaches and threats. The Division will also introduce AI-based detection functionality to strengthen and enhance the Fraud Detection System (FDS). We will also conduct mock hacking drills to enable Woori Bank to be thoroughly ready for any potential cyber-attacks and protect customer information. We will always do our best in managing our systems and reinforcing security so that our customers will find a trustworthy partner in Woori Bank. 81 Risk 2018 Performance 2018 was a year to focus on risk management by laying the foundation for a financial group structure because the Bank's transManagement formation into a holding company was right around the corner. Concerted efforts were made in the areas of portfolio rebalancing and prevention of NPLs to respond to the economic slowdown. This has led to the greatest increase in asset soundness among major banks in Korea with the record-high income levels. In addition, we upgraded risk management systems with most up-to-date platforms available. We established the ‘Big Eye,’ a corporate client diagnosis system based on big data for the first time in the banking sector, and enhanced our credit evaluation model by reflecting the latest data. Meanwhile, diverse support was provided to boost As seen from the global financial crisis in 2008, the risk management competencies of local staff while upgrading global risk management, as the scale of the Bank's global business failure to manage risks can lead to the collapse of expanded. a financial institution, which in turn significantly impacts the national economy. Therefore, risk Part 1. We Believe in Your Potential Portfolio Rebalancing and NPL Prevention management for financial institutions is a top priority, as related regulations continue to be in2018 was a year to concentrate on the rebalancing of portfolios to ensure they remain strong against external shocks in preparation tensified. Woori Bank is fully aware of the imporfor economic instability at home and abroad. Higher interest rates tance of risk management and complies with all in the U.S. created unstable conditions within and beyond Korea, relevant global regulations. Risk management is including concerns of capital outflow from emerging markets, the trade war between the U.S. and China and signs of an economic Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 not only a means of crisis management but also a slowdown in China. The domestic economy witnessed higher risks useful tactic for increasing earnings. due to a sluggish economy through concerns over higher interest rates, and a higher unemployment rate and bankruptcy rate among the self-employed amid continued increases in household debt. Stronger risk management improves asset soundness, which results in reduced credit costs We imposed and managed exposure ceilings by predicting growth rates in accordance with the industrial outlook in order to respond and higher net income. Woori Bank will remain to higher risks. We classified industries into 36 categories, induced focused on risk management down the road in growth by giving high scores to promising industries, and restricted order to maintain this virtuous cycle. growth for non-promising ones by imposing exposure ceilings at the minimum level and constraining the approval process. Furthermore, we newly adopted exposure ceiling management for each industry Asset Soundness and Net Income Trends [Unit: KRW billion] 2,033 Net Income NPL Ratio 1.47% 1,261 1,512 1,059 0.98% 0.83% 0.51% 2015 2016 2017 2018 82 among the self-employed in a bid to manage risks in the self-emFirst, we determined the current status of risk management in our ployed category. Meanwhile, the loan review process has been subsidiaries in the region. Weaknesses were discovered through intensified for prevention of potential NPLs. specific questionnaires and interviews with local staff, and responses from each subsidiary. In order for each subsidiary to reach Review was underway for affiliates and companies with increased the same risk management level as the parent bank in the most risks, so that losses arising from NPLs could be minimized through rapid and effective manner, we documented risk management recommendations to reduce problematic loans. The NPL ratio, as a regulations and organizational restructuring. Video materials for consequence of such risk management efforts, dropped by 0.32%p training were produced to boost the risk management competenfrom 0.83% at 2017-end to 0.51% at 2018-end, manifesting a dracies of local staff, and parent bank regulations were translated into matic increase in asset soundness and an exponential growth of English for distribution. net income. Meanwhile, we upgraded the risk management readiness levels Part 2. at existing major overseas subsidiaries in the U.S., etc., by sharing Upgrading of the Risk Management System stress testing techniques with them. Big data is now used more broadly in the financial sector. It is used most commonly for product advisory services based on analytics 2019 Plans of customer behavior, but Woori Bank applied big data to corporate There are two projects being undertaken in 2019. risk management for the first time among domestic banks. The Big We Believe in Your Potential Eye, a corporate client analysis system, is used to diagnose signs of The first is to support the establishment of a risk management business failure through machine learning, while providing sumsystem for a holding company after the conversion. One of the key maries of critical information by collecting all useful data, including projects is the early approval of the Internal Ratings-Based Apnot only existing financial information but also records of VAT payproach (IRB) for calculating the BIS ratio of the holding company. ments by key purchasing and sales partners, variations in electricAccording to domestic regulations, the BIS ratio has to be calculatity bills and textual analysis of newspaper articles. Woori Bank is ed based on the standardized method before the approval of the now equipped with the Big Eye to cover everything from corporate IRB after the holding company has been established, in which case, Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 loan reviews to follow-up management in a faster and more accuthe BIS ratio is calculated as lower than the IRB. Therefore, we will rate manner. concentrate organizational competencies on acquiring approval for the IRB of the holding company as soon as possible. We also improved the credit evaluation model, which is the basis for managing credit risks. It is not only a means to decide on loans The second is to establish a comprehensive system for crisis reby assessing the credit ratings of borrowers but also a risk mansponse. The recovery & resolution plan for financial companies is agement system used to provide critical information ranging from expected to be introduced and implemented in Korea in 2019, acthe accumulation of allowances to calculation of the BIS ratio. cording to the supervisory authority. Under the scheme, banks are obliged to establish recovery plans to normalize their business in The credit evaluation model is two-fold: one system for retail loans the event of a financial crisis and acquire approval from the supertargeting retail borrowers and the other for corporate loans tarvisory body each year. geting corporate borrowers. We upgraded both of the systems by reflecting the latest data and trends. The distinction between highWoori Bank plans to set up a risk response system for each risk yield/low-yield borrowers was made clearer, through which credit level ranging from the mildest risk level to the most severe scerisk management was further improved. nario possibly involving the bankruptcy of the bank, while devising recovery plans. We are committed to strengthening our risk rePart 3. sponse capabilities by coming up with a system to ensure a timely Strengthened Global Risk Management response to risk indicators. One of the projects recently prioritized by Woori Bank is the expansion of its global business. The number of overseas branches has increased and profits have skyrocketed along with assets over the past several years. However, it is extremely important to ensure our business acquisitions adapt to our risk management system and manage risks accordingly because the Bank’s global expansion is derived from a string of M&As with local financial institutions across Southeast Asia. 83 Consumer 2018 Performance The Consumer Protection Center has upgraded the competencies of all staff to protect consumers by running systematic training proProtection grams in line with the roadmap for training on consumer protection under the goal of becoming the best-in-class bank for consumer protection, and fully supports on-site efforts to protect consumers. In addition, the bank formed a comprehensive system for consumer protection by integrating the customer service and consumer protection units, and implemented measures to protect the rights of consumers and systematically manage customer satisfaction. We took preemptive actions to prevent customer complaints by operating a preliminary consultation system for consumer protection for tasks related to product development, sales and business engagement, Consumer protection along with asset soundand by conducting programs to improve existing programs based on customer feedback. We also beefed up consumer protection by ness is recognized as a core value in a financial adopting a code of ethics for sales practices, and proactively carried company. Woori Bank established an autonoout activities designed to protect customers’ assets by enhancing mous organization for protecting consumers after the monitoring system for preventing financial fraud and engaging in We Believe in Your Potential activities to prevent customer losses. launching the first-of-its-kind consumer protection department in 2010 among domestic banks to Better Protection of Consumer Rights and enhance protection of consumers. The bank has Strengthened Competencies Woori Bank has implemented the ‘Woori Code of Ethics for Busiput in place a system for protecting consumers ness Acts’ for better protection of consumer rights, and systemathroughout the entire cycle of development, sales tized follow-up management measures by periodically verifying Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 and follow-up management of financial products, compliance and reporting the results of such measures to the Financial Consumer Protection Committee. We also explore ideas for and initiated an upgrade of staff competencies in improved convenience in terms of access to finance for the disabled terms of consumer protection. Against this backand reflect them in our business management. To this end, we hold drop, the bank has solidified its presence as a meetings with such organizations as the Korea Differently Abled Federation and Korea Federation of Organizations of the Disabled leading bank in consumer protection, while being to improve the accessibility of financial products and services for selected for an award as an ‘excellent institution in the disabled who fall into the category of the financially underprivileged. We initiated an upgrade for staff competencies to protect consumer protection’ by the Financial Supervisory Service. Awards and Prizes consumers by devising a training roadmap for systematic training Selected as an ‘excellent institution in consumer protection’ of the workforce for consumer protection and organizing 225 onby the Financial Supervisory Service site branch training sessions, 212 online training courses and 77 Nominated as an excellent financial company in the Evaluation of Financial Consumer Protection (the highest rank) group training seminars. As a result of engaging in wide-ranging th Awarded the grand prize in the 7 Financial Consumer Protection Award programs for consumer protection, Woori Bank was rated ‘excellent’ by the Korea Economic Daily in two categories and ‘good’ in eight, according to the Evaluation of Awarded the grand prize in finance (customer satisfaction) Financial Consumer Protection Practices conducted by the Finanby Asia Today cial Supervisory Service (FSS) of Korea, thus winning a commen84 We Believe in Your Potential dation given to outstanding financial firms. Our competencies for and we also contributed to the arrest of about 450 financial fraud Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 best-in-class consumer protection were also recognized when we suspects through our proactive engagement in prevention efforts received the grand prize, in the form of the commissioner's prize, aimed at protecting customer assets. from the Financial Services Commission at the 7th Financial Consumer Protection Awards, sponsored by the Korea Economic Daily. 2019 Plans Complaint Management The Consumer Protection Center will strengthen its competitiveWe have strived to minimize customer complaints through fullness by focusing on the concentrated competencies of its staff fledged strategies designed to address issues, while minimizing under the goal of achieving undisputed number one status in 2019. the spread of complaints through prompt responses to customer We will also boost customer happiness by upgrading financial fraud complaints that might arise from the introduction of the next-genprevention systems. We will do our utmost to enhance consumer eration IT system. Accordingly, the number of complaints dropped rights and provide consumer-driven financial services. To this end, 7.1 percent (79 cases) in 2018, excluding those related to system we will intensify monitoring of incomplete sales by implementing a operations. second round of Happy Calls to ensure a culture of complete sales for financial products and manage indicators for operational risks in incomplete sales. Prevention of Financial Fraud We upgraded our monitoring system for financial fraud by utilizing We will also continue to engage in efforts to boost financial access big data and conducted educational campaigns to prevent financial for the financially underprivileged. We will also work to protect fraud with outdoor advertisements and videos screened in branches customer assets by improving monitoring systems to reflect new aimed at stopping fraud. Furthermore, we organized seminars to fraud and promptly respond to evolving techniques, and implement show appreciation to outstanding police officers with a history of promotional activities to prevent losses by utilizing social media, preventing financial fraud and awarded them commendations for targeting customers in their 20s and 30s who are more vulnerable the first time in the banking sector, while at the same time solidifying to financial fraud. Moreover, continued activities to preemptively cooperative ties with institutions involved in preventive efforts. prevent complaints and establish a deep-rooted and autonomous customer satisfaction culture in business units will enable Woori As a consequence, the amount saved through financial fraud prevenBank to achieve undisputed number one status, growing alongside tion efforts by Woori Bank increased 87 percent (KRW 31. 5 billion), its customers. 85 Social 2018 Performance Humanity: Humanity in Action with Local Communities Contribution Woori[we] Love Sharing Program: Woori Bank’s Signature CSR Program Since launching the Woori Bank Volunteer Corps in July 2007, we Activities have been engaged in a number of social contribution activities through our nationwide branch network. The Woori [We] Love Sharing Program is our signature CSR program for all bank employees to take part in social contribution activities. It involves welfare facilities that have established ties with 34 regional business headquarters. We encourage employees of the bank to periodically volunteer and provide sponsorship for the socially underprivileged, including infants, elderly citizens, and the disabled. We also run a social contribution campaign in the first and second half of the year, givIn today’s world, where the emphasis is on the ing out awards to high-performing branches in the area of social social roles and responsibilities of finance, we We Believe in Your Potential contribution biannually to encourage voluntary participation by continue to practice sharing alongside the comemployees. The donations for social welfare centers raised during the campaign period are used to support the underprivileged. munity to realize the three values of humanity, happiness and hopefulness, and carry out In addition, we take the lead in spreading the culture of sharing by diverse social contribution activities including sharing best practices from participating branches in the social contribution campaign. support for small merchants and microfinance Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 in order to fulfill our responsibilities as a major ‘Blood Drive’ with Greater Compassion financial institution. Woori Bank has conducted a ‘blood drive’ campaign since 2006. The campaign, carried out during July and August when blood is most needed, is one of Woori Bank’s social contribution activities Since launching the Woori Bank Volunteer Corps with the longest history where employees from branches nationin July 2007, we have been engaged in a number wide voluntarily visit blood donation centers nearby, engage in blood donation and donate their donation certificates. Blood donaof social contribution activities through our nation certificates received after donating blood during the drive and tionwide branch network. individually are used to provide support to patients with incurable diseases including leukemia and pediatric cancers. Sharing Daily Necessities for the Underprivileged Woori Bank continues to engage in the act of sharing with the underprivileged during traditional holidays and the winter season. Meal kits consisting of essential food such as seasonal fruits and 86 We Believe in Your Potential prepared meals were prepared for the last Chuseok holiday, and Children’s Care Fund’ where employees choose an amount below Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 distributed to 5,000 households through Seoul Association of SoKRW 10,000 from their payroll to be automatically donated. cial Welfare Centers, targeting elderly living alone and single-parent families. Furthermore, we have donated KRW 1 billion to the The Woori Care Fund is a representative project of the Woori ToCommunity Chest of Korea to help out those in need each year gether in Love and Support System, which develops and funds since 2009, standing at the forefront of promoting genuine interest worthy CSR programs. in and consideration for the underprivileged throughout society. This year, the Woori Care Fund has been utilized to initiate donation projects that feature customer involvement along with the Together with Kakao (a mobile/web donation platform), taking the lead in raising social interest in the underprivileged. We intend to firmly establish a corporate culture based on sharing and service, thus fulfilling our responsibilities as a good corporate citizen. Projects to Support Future Leaders Woori Bank engages in diverse social contribution programs to help the future generation. Last May, we delivered messages of courage and hope to children with incurable diseases through the ‘Woori Hope Together Project’ that fulfils the wishes of children that have chronic illnesses by allowing them to meet well-known sports stars, attend private music recitals and become radio DJHappiness: Pursuing Happiness through Sharing for-a-day. Woori People’s Culture of Donation: ‘Woori Care Fund’ and ‘Woori Children’s Care Fund’ In addition, the Woori Together Scholarships for Youth are given Woori Bank strives to create a culture that encourages employees to local children’s centers twice a year. 164 children (on an acto donate voluntarily to good causes. The bank’s two representacrual basis) received scholarships in 2018 through this program. tive funds are: the ‘Woori Care Fund’ where employees voluntarily The Special Event for Children from Remote Islands and Areas is a donate a certain percentage of their monthly pay, and the ‘Woori program that invites children from rural or fishing villages where 87 social and cultural resources may be relatively scarce to visit Seoul. The event offers diverse experience programs including visits to Gyeongbok Palace and museums. Hopefulness: Inspiring Hope Through Communication and Mutual Prosperity ‘Global Volunteering’ to deliver hopes To address social issues in the global community through the bank’s global networks, Woori Bank conducts a variety of CSR activities and fulfills its social responsibilities as a global financial firm. For instance, last September, the global volunteer group consistAlong with education and training for multicultural students to ing of 35 outstanding employees from branches were engaged in develop their talents in athletics, basketball, shooting, art, music improving the educational environment by painting the buildings and languages, scholarships have been launched to provide supof an elementary school in Phnom Penh, Cambodia, and had a time port for them to acquire professional licenses and enter contests. getting to know local children better. Furthermore, we donated Moreover, sponsorship is provided for wide-ranging educational money to construct a playground with a soccer field for children so programs including a multicultural children’s choir, economics and We Believe in Your Potential that they have a place to run around. financial education and cultural understanding lectures for married immigrants to enable multicultural children to grow in a healthy In July 2018, we conducted the Campaign to Share Hope to help environment and adjust to Korean society. children who have become climate refugees. We gave out T-shirts to children from underdeveloped countries who have lost their The Foundation also hosted Woori Wedding Day, a joint ceremony homes due to climate change and natural disasters and sponsored for ten multicultural couples who could not afford a wedding cereservices to prevent nutritional deficiencies. mony. It also provided subsidies related to furniture purchases for Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 multicultural children so that they can study more efficiently, and subsidized medical costs and cultural activities. The Foundation intends to remain active in enhancing the quality of life and sense of happiness enjoyed by multicultural families. Woori Multicultural Scholarship Foundation: A Reliable Partner for Multicultural Families The Woori Multicultural Scholarship Foundation is a non-profit corporation funded by Woori Bank and other affiliates of the Woori Financial Group that was established in 2012. Its diverse projects help multicultural families in Korea to overcome cultural and linguistic differences and comfortably integrate themselves into society. Since its establishment, approximately KRW 2.6 billion has been donated to a total of 3,340 students from multicultural families. Equal opportunities in education were provided to multicultural students through scholarship programs, thereby creating an educational environment for students to focus on studying without incurring a financial burden. 88 Woori Smile 2018 Performance Active Implementation of Social Responsibility Finance Microcredit Major Performance of Microcredit Foundation By extending support to the financially vulnerable, the socially neglected and those who lack financial access, we extended Microcredit worth KRW 621 billion in 2018, leading the way in practicing socially responsible financing. Microcredit services were presented with several products: ‘Woori New Hope Spore Loan’ for low-credit low-income customers; and ‘Woori Switch-Over Dream Loan’, whereby citizens suffering from high-interest rate loans could make the transition to low-interest loans. Woori Bank is engaged in Microcredit to spearThrough Microcredit services, Woori Bank extended approximately head the efforts in practicing socially responsible KRW 150 billion of credit in 13,182 cases through 2018. In 2018, banking by supporting the financially struggling pursuing the business goal of ‘Microcredit that helps achieve self-sufficiency’, we achieved a tremendous increase in the Microand socially vulnerable and neglected customWe Believe in Your Potential credit extensions, by approaching customers and developing cusers. In 2009, Woori Bank led in the contribution of tomized products. Woori Bank extended approximately KRW 19.3 KRW 10 billion per year, totaling KRW 50 billion billion of credit in 2,031 cases through 2018 (13,182 cases worth KRW 150 billion in total). It was not a mere voluntary activity: supover five years, together with WFH and its affilport has been given so that recipients can become self-sufficient iates, to establish and operate the Woori Microthrough consulting and microcredit events in the form of visiting, credit Foundation. consulting and extending a helping hand on-site. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Microcredit Foundation’s Key Products The foundation appointed famous people from • Business Startup Loan: A loan for small-scale registered entrepreneurs the religious, academic and social welfare circles to start a new business as outside directors, ensuring the fairness of the • Working Capital Loan: A loan for individual entrepreneurs (who have already been in business for over six months) to purchase products, raw project and the support of citizens. There are materials, etc. nine branches across the nation with 28 employ• Loan for Facility Improvement Funding: A loan for individual entrepreneurs (who have already been in business for over six months) to imees. prove the facility of business sites. • Sunshine Loans for University Students and Young People: A loan for emergency funding for youngsters and university students who are under 29 years old (under 31 years old for men who served in the military). Microcredit that Helps Achieve Self-Sufficiency We plan to expand support by exploring low-income industries with high vulnerability and sign agreements with traditional market Woori Smile Microcredit’s Cumulative Performance merchant councils and associations. Meanwhile, we will secure exclusive channels for better accessibility to Microcredit. In addition, [Unit: KRW billion] we will take the lead in promoting and sharing the genuine role and 2018 150 purpose of Microcredit, together with society, and spread these 2017 130 2016 112 roles and directions by exploring and facilitating best practices, to raise confidence among recipients. [Unit: cases] Woori Bank will establish a foundation for the self-sufficiency of 2018 13,182 low-credit low-income people through Microcredit services, en2017 11,151 suring the stabilization of livelihoods and improving their welfare. 2016 9,338 89 Ethical & spirit of fair competition, and contributing to the establishment of a fair and clean corporate culture based on mutual trust and a compliance mindset. Compliance Management 2018 Performance Reinforcing Ethics and Compliance Training In 2018, Woori Bank launched various ethics and compliance training programs so that all our employees are able to understand and put the ideals of ethical management into practice. First, we conducted online training for all employees, introducing case studies for them to easily understand the Code of Ethics. Second, we implemented a bimonthly Ethics/Compliance Self-Check To survive in an era of global competition and Test so that the employees can develop a detailed understanding of the Code of Ethics and examine the behavioral standards appliachieve sustainable development, Woori Bank We Believe in Your Potential cable to each job rank. has the Woori Code of Ethics and the Woori Code of Conduct in place so that employees can refer Third, we utilize the ‘Ethics and Compliance at Work’ section on the bank intranet to publish training materials on ethics and internal to these standards and understand the imporcontrol online, which our employees can use for their monthly tance of corporate social responsibility and ethical compliance training and in the field. Finally, we post a quarterly management as they perform their day-to-day Ethics and Compliance Case Study on the intranet as a commenWoori Bank Annual Report 2018 tary on the Code of Ethics and other regulations related to internal responsibilities. We continuously operate various control. ‘action programs’ to help our officers and employees recognize the importance of ethical manageAction Programs for Ethical Management Woori Bank offers many programs to promote ethical management ment. For Woori Bank, our employees and society and compliance. The first is the Woori Hotline, a channel through as a whole, as well as our customers and sharewhich best-of-breed practices can be commended and violations holders, are important stakeholders. of the Code of Ethics by employees can be reported. The Woori Hotline is a channel for employees, partners, and other stakeholders to report on compliance with ethical management standards. Based on the high level of ethical finance imThis is a program that encourages employees to comply with laws, regulations, and the Code of Ethics. ple-mented through the Woori Code of Ethics, we will fulfill our social responsibilities for all stakeholders and contribute to the advancement of society. We aim to prevent any threats to the trust and performance which we have carefully built up because of any small oversight or negligence by our employees in the ever-stringent market with no tolerance for unethical acts. To this end, we are committed to protecting the company and our employees through ‘compliance awareness’ ensuring Second, the Ethical Management Support Council serves as a compliance with laws and principles as well as the meeting group to spread the concept of of ethical management and the practice of compliance. The Council holds meetings twice a 90 We Believe in Your Potential year chaired by the Compliance Officer. It discusses various agenof compliance and upgraded our global compliance capabilities. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 da items, including how to uphold the Code of Ethics and how to We will diversify ethical and legal compliance training for employimprove ethical management standards. As such, the Council disees to raise awareness of legal compliance. While continuing with cusses and decides on specific policies related to ethical manageexisting ethical compliance training including training seminars ment. Finally,, Woori Bank has a Whistleblowing Program in place offered online, we also aim to boost ethical and legal awareness to report foul play by any of our employees as well as the Clean through collective group training sessions. Contract System to encourage transparent and honorable agreements for all providers and businesses participating in contracts The chief supervisor system will be further reinforced to strengthand purchases. en monitoring of legal compliance. Dedicated lawyers will be dispatched to several departments within the first quarter of this year On-Site Legal Services – including the Wealth Management Business Department, Trust Department and Trading Department – among those engaged in Woori Bank provides prompt legal services by operating a pool of product development and sales in order to prevent legal risks in lawyers exclusively for branches with the aim of providing continadvance. This will enable monitoring of potential regulatory viogent legal counseling at business sites. In addition, we provide onlations from the initial development stage involving new products site support by shortening the time required for legal reviews with and schemes. case-specific standard agreements uploaded on the legal portal system. Furthermore, we promote better understanding among Lastly, differences between what is required by the local supervibank employees of legal cases by providing a ‘Handbook on Legal sory authorities of overseas branches and the current level of comFAQs’ with the most frequently asked legal questions at branches, pliance are to be analyzed and improved through the diagnosis of and posting the information on the portal system by job type. global consultancies in order to upgrade global compliance standards. In 2019, Woori Bank will enhance its prestige as a leading bank in Korea by laying the foundation for continued growth based 2019 Plans on ethical compliance management. In 2019, Woori Bank aims to ‘lay the foundation for the continued growth of the bank by establishing a culture that ensures all employees comply with laws and regulations.’ To this end, we raised the compliance mindset among employees, intensified monitoring 91 Anti-Money 2018 Performance Intensifying Anti-Money Laundering Efforts in Korea The Anti-Money Laundering Department (before reorganization Laundering on 26 Apr. 2019) came up with measures to enhance compliance in accordance with the virtual currency guidelines released by the Financial Services Commission announced in January 2018. We put in place a procedure for authenticating virtual asset service providers, and for authenticated providers, we conducted a reinforced customer identification procedure which also includes site inspections. We intensified monitoring of financial transactions by users as well as virtual asset service providers by allocating personnel to dedicated positions responsible for virtual currency handling. We were also actively reporting suspicious transactions. A close look at recent regulatory trends in anti-money laundering reveals that financial inFurthermore, we established and utilize a Risk Based Approach (RBA) for the prevention of money laundering whereby money stitutions that neglect anti-money laundering laundering risks are identified, analyzed and assessed to differenoperations place their very existence at risk. We tiate the level of risk management to effectively conduct operations We Believe in Your Potential launched the Sanctions Management Team unrelated to Anti-Money Laundering. RBA-based risk assessment took place throughout the bank on 191 items within the AML sysder the Compliance Department for the first time tem, resulting in the setup of a system for identifying the current among Korean commercial banks in 2017 in tanstatus of risk indicators and monthly reporting. dem with the domestic and international trend of Wide-ranging training sessions were offered to upgrade compeenhanced supervision of anti-money laundering tencies on and raise interest in Anti-Money Laundering at business Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 operations. We upgraded the Anti-Money Launsites. We enhanced the efficiency of training sessions which targeted employees of specific job ranks and personnel categories, and dering Team under the Compliance Department conducted online courses and in-house video training for those into the Anti-Money Laundering Department at who could not attend collective group training in order to raise the the end of 2017. accessibility of Anti-Money Laundering training. Upgrading the Level of Our department ensures preemptive responses Anti-Money Laundering Efforts Abroad against money laundering threats, while also In tandem with the global trend of ever-stricter Anti-Money Laundering, Woori Bank launched the Overseas AML Team by upgrading promoting compliance with inspections by dothe Anti-Money Laundering Team under the Compliance Departmestic and international supervisory authorities ment into the Anti-Money Laundering Department as of the end of under the goal of raising the overall level of the 2017. The newly formed Overseas AML Team conducted diverse operations to improve compliance at our New York and LA Branchbank’s anti-money laundering efforts based on es and our subsidiary in the U.S., which has the most stringent risk assessment. The Anti-Money Laundering Anti-Money Laundering supervision standards in the world. We Department of Woori Bank is ready for upcoming recruited a specialist who was a former staff member of the U.S. Government authority and improved our competencies in compliMutual Evaluation by the Financial Action Task ance management, added effective communication into the ChanForce (FATF) and has boosted the bank’s compenel with U.S financial authorities. tencies in all aspects by setting up an advanced We assessed the site of the head office and conducted an indemonitoring system to prevent money laundering, pendent third-party inspection enhance readiness for a compretraining employees and improving management hensive inspection by the local supervisory authorities, and came up with points for improvement under the supportive leadership capabilities. of the head office, and took other relevant measures. During the 92 comprehensive examination at our LA Branch, compliance officers 2019 Plans from the head office held a meeting with officers from the local Our Anti-Money Laundering Department will upgrade the AML and supervisory authority, reaffirming Woori Bank’s commitment to sanctions management system at home and abroad in 2019. We Anti-Money Laundering efforts. plan to make improvements in diagnosing risks at the head office and at overseas branches as well as improve the system in partThe Anti-Money Laundering Department distributed the Globnership with global consultancies. al Guidelines on Anti-Money Laundering covering all relevant AML details at all overseas branches, and introduced and revised We are also committed to setting up an enterprise-wide preempprovisions for each country. Meanwhile, we ensured preemptive tive risk management system through intensive management of responses to local financial regulatory authorities’ stringent regudocuments at the head office to verify the actual ownership of sublations by conducting risk assessment and diagnosis as part of efsidiaries, improve KPI management, and enhance intensive site inforts aimed at preventing money laundering with consulting firms spections and monitoring of domestic and international branches. for branches in Hong Kong and Singapore, which are international financial transaction hubs. While ensuring readiness for inspections by the local supervisory authorities at overseas branches, and boosting regulations on AnTraining material related to Anti-Money Laundering was distribti-Money Laundering, we will also translate related documents into uted to overseas branches every month, and training sessions are English in order to expand support for Anti-Money Launderingopheld in Korea for employees that are dispatched abroad and for erations at domestic and overseas branches. overseas staff so that AML competencies were reinforced at all We Believe in Your Potential overseas branches. Moreover, we will work to establish an advanced AML system by adopting the preventive Trade-Based Money Laundering (TBML) system as well as a globally-integrated AML system to become globally competitive in the field of Anti-Money Laundering. At the same time, we will increase the efficiency of Anti-Money Laundering operations through upgraded training for existing and new employees. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Preemptive Responses against Sanction Risks In 2018, various programs were implemented to strengthen compliance programs to ensure observance of all economic sanctions. First, we improved the sanction filtering system at all overseas branches. We adopted the filtering system for screening operations which used to be conducted through the existing bank accounting system in order to perform such screening more professionally. Second, we conducted risk assessment related to compliance with economic sanctions. Improvements were made by identifying strengths and weaknesses in terms of compliance with economic sanctions. Third, we upgraded staff training. We conducted training sessions with external instructors for executives to comply with economic sanctions. 93 Financial Review 096 Management’s Discussion and Analysis 110 Independent Auditors’ Report 244 Organizational Chart 246 Global Network Management’s Discussion and Analysis 1. Disclaimers on Forecast Information Activities, events or phenomena that are expected and predicted to occur in the future in this annual report for Woori Bank reflect the company’s thoughts and opinions on events and financial performance at the time when this document was prepared for disclosure in the same term. The forecast information is based on diverse assumptions associated with the future business environment, and, consequently, such assumptions may be judged to be inaccurate in the future. Moreover, the assumptions include risks, uncertainties and other factors that might cause critical differences between estimated outcomes in the forecast information indicated here and the actual outcomes. Factors that might induce such critical differences encompass factors related to internal corporate management and those related to the external environment, and include other wide-ranging factors. We have no obligation to disclose a revised report with corrections on matters prescribed in the forecast information in order to reflect risks or uncertainties that might occur after the preparation of the forecast information. In conclusion, we cannot confirm the realization We Believe in Your Potential of expected results or matters forecast by the bank or the occurrence of any impacts projected in this business report. Forecast information prescribed in this report is current as of the time the report was prepared. Please note that we have no plan to provide updates on such risk factors or forecast information. Furthermore, it should be noted that even under such circumstances, the forecast data shall not be used as evidence for legal responsibility regarding investment outcomes for customers. 2. Overview Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 In 2018, uncertainties in the global economy were amplified, including the prolonged U.S.-China trade conflict and sluggish progress related to the Brexit deal, along with stronger regulations on the real estate market and the expected emergence of additional Internet-only banks, overall a year threatening the traditional way of conducting business. Even amidst such difficult circumstances, Woori Bank has strengthened its financial performance over the past three years. As financial soundness indicators including our non-performing loans (NPL) ratio and delinquency ratio radically improved each year, asset quality and capital adequacy indicators also demonstrated a strong positive trend, with the Common Equity Tier 1 ratio surpassing 11.15%. This overall improvement due to our enhanced risk management competencies, allowed us to exhibit outstanding business performance within the low-growth and low-interest-rate environment over the past few years. Continuing our strong financial results from 2017, Woori Bank managed to surpass the previous year’s net income within only nine months in 2018. Key Management Indicators (Unit: %) Category 2018 2017 2016 (185th term) (184th term) (183th term) Profitability Return on Assets (ROA) 1) 0.62 0.48 0.41 1) Return on Equity (ROE) 9.69 7.42 6.36 Net Interest Margin (NIM) 2) 1.52 1.47 1.41 Capital Adequacy BIS Ratio 1) 15.65 15.40 15.29 Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio 1) 11.15 10.95 10.50 Asset Quality NPL Ratio 2) 0.51 0.83 0.98 Delinquency Ratio 2) 0.31 0.34 0.46 1) Based on consolidated financial statements 2) Based on separate financial statements 96 In response to more rigorous regulations on household loans, we have pursued balanced growth in assets involving households, SMEs, and large companies, while we have continuously enhanced non-interest income by reinforcing asset management competencies to meet customer needs. In January 2018, Woori Bank was also re-appointed the managing custodian bank for the National Housing and Urban Fund (NHUF), in recognition of Woori Bank’s business competencies and credibility. As a result of enhancing fundamentals by improving asset quality and capital adequacy indicators, Woori Bank’s credit ratings were revised upwards (A2→A1) by Moody’s in April 2018, manifesting recognition of the bank’s improvement of creditworthiness by the international rating agency. As growth in the Korean financial market remain stagnant, many domestic banks are accelerating entry into global markets. As of the end of 2018, Woori Bank operates 430 global networks, the largest number of networks as a Korean commercial bank. In October 2018, we acquired approval to establish Woori Bank Europe GmbH from the German Financial Supervisory Service BaFin and the European Central Bank. This is a clear sign that we have completed a ‘global financial belt’ connecting Asia, Europe, the Middle East and the Americas, as we continue to advance into overseas business opportunities. Through the development of digital financial technology such as big data, blockchain, and artificial intelligence (AI), IT firms have made rapid inroads into the financial market, especially as more Internet-only banks are expected to enter the market. Under these circumstances, as it seeks to improve its financial service environment to be more user-centric, Woori Bank has launched next-generation systems to replace outdated computing systems. We have also intensified enterprise-wide digital competencies by establishing a Big Data Center to explore and implement new digital technology-related projects. We Believe in Your Potential After acquiring approval to establish Woori Financial Group Inc. by the Financial Services Commission in November 2018, Woori Bank successfully engineered a shift to a holding company structure on January 11, 2019. This is expected to further enhance the level of customer services through wide-ranging business fields such as through the expansion of non-banking business portfolios and provision of customized comprehensive asset management services. In the same vein, Woori Bank set its management goal for 2019 as ‘Standing Together with Our Customers for the Past 120 Years, Leaping Forward as a Great Bank’ under which, we will strive to be a bank that fulfills its social responsibilities by scaling up support for the financially underprivileged and SMEs in 2019 by ‘strengthening customer-centered marketing’ and ‘realizing the social values of finance.’ Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 3. Financial position & Business performance A. Financial position & Business performance (1) Growth (Unit: KRW billion) Account 2018 2017 Change Change End of the (current) End of the (previous) (amount) (percentage) 185th term 184th term Total Assets 340,447 316,295 24,152 7.64% Loans in KRW 211,065 200,213 10,852 5.42% Corporate loans 93,856 89,666 4,190 4.67% Household loans 113,704 106,814 6,891 6.45% Public and other loans 3,505 3,733 (229) (6.12%) *Based on consolidated financial statements As of the end of 2018, Woori Bank’s total assets (consolidated basis) stand at KRW 340.4 trillion, a KRW 24.2 trillion (7.6%) increase from the previous year. The increase was mainly due to the year-on-year increase of loans denominated in Korean won by KRW 10.8 trillion (5.4%), the bank’s key asset category. Corporate loans increased by KRW 4.2 trillion, and household loans increased by KRW 6.9 trillion, highlighting the portfolio’s balanced growth. In 2019, Woori Bank will keep pursuing a strategy of balanced asset growth in consideration of risk management and profitability. 97 (2) Profitability (Unit: KRW billion) Account 2018 2017 Change (Current) 185th term (Previous) 184th term Operating income 2,759 2,157 603 Net interest income 5,651 5,221 430 Non-interest income 1,062 1,252 (190) Net fees & commissions income 1,070 1,070 Securities income 224 321 (98) Net gain (loss) on available-for-sale (AFS) financial assets 80 196 (117) FX/Derivatives/Other operating income (311) (336) 25 Impairment losses due to credit loss (330) (785) 456 General and administrative expenses (3,624) (3,531) (93) II. Non-operating gain (loss) 46 (207) 253 III. Net income before income tax expense 2,805 1,950 855 IV. Income tax expense (753) (419) (334) V. Net income 2,052 1,530 522 We Believe in Your Potential Net income attributable to owners 2,033 1,512 521 Net income attributable to non-controlling interests 18 18 1 * Based on consolidated financial statements In 2018, Woori Bank’s net income reached KRW 2,033 billion (consolidated basis, controlling interests), recording an increase of 34.4 percent or KRW 521 billion in annual growth compared to 2017. This resulted in an increase in net income of an average 24.5 percent for Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 three consecutive years (19.1% in 2016, 19.9% in 2017 and 34.4% in 2018). The increase resulted largely from 1) an increase in interest bearing assets; 2) improvement in the net interest margin; and 3) a decrease in credit cost. An increase in interest income was driven by even growth in the 6.5 percent range for SME loans and household loans, respectively, year-on-year. The net interest margin (NIM) also increased by 0.05%p from the previous year due to a continuous focus on increasing the portion of core deposits. As a result, NIM stood at KRW 5,651 billion, up 8.2 percent year-on-year. Non-interest income dropped by KRW 190 billion from the previous year. This is attributable to the occurrence of non recurring gains on the sale of loans in the previous year and a drop in the gains related to investment securities with the adoption of the IFRS9 standard in 2018. There has been a slight drop in the card fee income due to a decrease in credit card merchant fees, and etc., but trust-related income fees generated by core asset management increased by about 25 percent year-on-year, highlighting our continued growth. General and administrative expenses including personnel and non-personnel expenses were KRW 3,624 billion, exhibiting an increase of 2.6 percent or KRW 93 billion year-on-year. Woori Bank implemented voluntary early retirement program to a greater number of employees but adequately managed and kept a minimum level of an increase in general and administrative expenses by improving the manpower structure and sales channel continuously over the years. Impairment losses due to credit loss reached KRW 330 billion in 2018, a decrease of KRW 456 billion from the previous year. This is attributable to the fact that despite the reserve of a large-scale allowance relating to Kumho Tire Co., Inc., bad debt expenses continued to decrease over the previous years, thanks to the continued improvement of asset quality. Woori Bank has positively managed asset quality and bad debt expenses by increasing quality credit assets and through continued monitoring and preemptive control of industries, such as shipbuilding, construction and marine transport, as well as rigorously strengthening the level of risk management. As a result, the NPL ratio improved to 0.51 percent in 2018, the lowest level ever. Non-operating income in 2018 recorded a gain of KRW 46 billion, up KRW 253 billion from the previous year. This gain was a result of impairment losses due to the credit loss regarding Kumho Tire in 2017, and the contribution of issuance costs for an unclaimed amount of cashier’s check to the Korea Inclusive Finance Agency under the revised Microfinance Support Act in 2017. 98 Woori Card, as a subsidiary of Woori Bank, achieved net income of KRW 114.8 billion in 2018, which is up about 13 percent from KRW 101.2 billion in 2017. Despite the drop in fees from card merchants due to a greater range of small merchants & small-and medium-sized merchants and additional fee discounts received from small or medium sized merchants, operating income went up due to higher card revenues year-on-year (KRW 72.9 trillion → KRW 75.3 trillion, +2.4 trillion) and an increase in financial assets (KRW 3.5 trillion → KRW 4.2 trillion, +0.7 trillion). This is also a result of continued cost saving efforts including higher efficiency in marketing and a reduction in bad debt expenses. Meanwhile, Woori Card continues to expand its profit base with volume in new businesses such as installments/leases/loans reaching KRW 1,039.3 billion. Woori Investment Bank had a significantly higher net income of KRW 32.4 billion in 2018 based on separate financial statements compared to KRW 20.6 billion in 2017. Improved profitability is expected to continue in 2019 due to higher interest income generated from an increase in assets under management including short and long-term loan balance (loans & receivables and CMA assets under management) and higher fee income management, leading to higher ordinary profits. In 2019, a challenging economic landscape is likely to unfold just as in 2018 due to the U.S.-China trade war and changes in the financial regulatory environment. Therefore, Woori Bank plans to focus on competencies in non-interest income in order to maintain strategies for adequate growth to match the expected economic growth rate for 2019 and ensure a balanced profit structure. In addition, we will do our utmost to manage the general and administrative expenses at a stable level through proactive efforts at cost savings, such as inducing higher efficiency in personnel and channels, and expanding our global network, given that the domestic market is unlikely to witness dramatic growth. We Believe in Your Potential (3) Asset Quality (Unit: KRW 100 million, %, %p) Category 2018 2017 Change (Current) 185th term (Previous) 184th term Indicators Change Indicators Change Indicators Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Non-performing loans (NPL) 11,825 (6,571) 18,396 (2,725) 21,121 NPL ratio 0.51 (0.32) 0.83 (0.15) 0.98 NPL coverage ratio * 119.4 31.7 87.7 3.2 84.5 Delinquency ratio 0.31 (0.03) 0.34 (0.12) 0.46 * The amendment of the Detailed Enforcement Rules for the Regulations on Supervision of Banking Business (Schedule 7, as of December 14, 2016) and the Standards for Integrated Management Disclosure for Financial Businesses (as of January 26, 2017) recognized bad debt reserves as capital, therefore excluding bad debt reserves from the sum of allowances. This calculation has been made based on the amended regulations. Woori Bank has shown outstanding increases in asset quality each year through preemptive risk management and continued ‘backdoor-locking’. The NPL ratio has been reduced continually, from 0.98% in 2016, to 0.83% in 2017 and 0.51% in 2018. The NPL coverage ratio is also increasing annually, from 84.5% in 2016, to 87.7% in 2017 and 119.4% in 2018. Based on these results, the bank is thoroughly prepared for any additional losses that it may incur. Corporate loans in 2018 reached KRW 120 trillion with an NPL ratio of 0.75 percent, against the 2017 results of KRW 116 trillion and 1.37 percent. The NPL ratio significantly decreased due to the inflow of financially sound businesses, proactive bad debt write-offs and preemptive portfolio management. Household loans grew to KRW 113 trillion from KRW 107 trillion in 2017 in total with an NPL ratio of 0.25 percent, slightly up from the 2017 results of 0.24 percent (based on the standards of the Financial Supervisory Service in regard to non-performing loans). Since adequate allowances have been reserved for debtors involved in debt restructuring measures such as work-outs and corporate rehabilitation, the likelihood of additional losses in terms of NPL is very low. For these debts, normalization efforts continue while sales or write-offs may be considered if normalization proves impossible. Borrowers with possible insolvencies are monitored to a greater degree so that we can take preemptive action amid the uncertain domestic or global financial conditions continue. 99 (4) Capital Adequacy (Unit: KRW billion) Account 2018 2017 Change (Current) 185th term (Previous) 184th term Common equity Tier 1 capital 17,276 16,075 +1,201 Additional Tier 1 capital 3,148 3,042 +106 Tier 2 capital 3,828 3,487 +341 Total BIS capital 24,251 22,603 +1,648 Risk-weighted assets 154,971 146,762 +8,209 Common equity Tier 1 ratio 11.15% 10.95% +0.19%p Tier 1 capital ratio 13.18% 13.03% +0.15%p BIS capital adequacy ratio 15.65% 15.40% +0.25%p In 2018, Common Equity Tier 1 capital of Woori Bank totaled KRW 17,276 billion, an increase of KRW 1,201 billion or 7.5 percent from the previous year. Additional Tier 1 capital was KRW 3,148 billion, an increase of KRW 106 billion year-on-year, which resulted from the repayment of hybrid securities issued before the implementation of Basel III standards. In consideration of the issuance cost, Woori Bank plans to reduce the scale of its hybrid securities on a continual basis. Tier 2 capital amounted to KRW 3,828 billion due to an inWe Believe in Your Potential crease of KRW 341 billion year-on-year, affected by such factors as the decrease in recognized subordinated debt issued before the implementation of Basel III standards and the rising exchange rate compared to the previous year. Total BIS capital went up by KRW 1,648 billion year-on-year to KRW 24,251 billion. As of the end of 2018, the Risk-weighted assets of Woori Bank totaled KRW 154,971 billion, an increase of 5.6 percent or KRW 8,209 billion from the previous year(lesser than an increase of 7.6% assets on a consolidated basis from the previous year). This is the result of the bank’s proactive efforts to enhance capital adequacy by decreasing risk-weighted assets (on a consolidated basis), originated from increasing high creditworthiness assets and reducing potentially delinquent assets. In 2018, Woori Bank achieved a common equity Tier 1 ratio of 11.15 percent, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 13.18 percent, and a total capital ratio Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 of 15.65 percent, which translates into a continued increase of 0.19%p, 0.15%p, and 0.25%p, respectively. Capital adequacy continues to improve, and Woori Bank is committed to maintaining this trend by realizing profits and securing an adequate level of capital. B. New Businesses & Suspended Businesses Woori Bank was named as the preferred bidder in October 2017 in the bidding process to select the primary custodian bank for the National Pension Service (NPS). It is expected that Woori Bank will expand into new areas thanks to its selection as the main bank for the NPS, the first noticeable change in primary custodian bank designation in the decade since 2007. We signed a ‘Custodian Bank Agreement’ in January 2018 and began our term as the exclusive custodian bank for the NPS according to the three-year contract starting from March 2018. Woori Bank handles the NPS’ banking business, which includes pension premium collection, pension payment, fund management for the headquarters and operational funds settlement. The designation is expected to bring about promotional effects, enhance fee income as well as income from developing and selling affiliated financial products as it will help Woori Bank build a stronger relationship with the NPS, Korea’s representative pension fund with retained reserve funds of KRW 639 trillion and 21.94 million subscribers. C. Business Rationalization (1) Alteration and Reorganization of Business Groups Woori Bank changed its organizational structure to facilitate sales and strengthen sales support functions, implemented a corporate re-organization to expand synergies as a comprehensive financial group, and expanded its risk management units. First, we changed the existing three-part structure into a dual structure such as sales and sales support in order to raise efficiency in decision-making and collaboration at home and abroad by establishing cross-affiliate collaborative systems for sales and sales support (As of Apr. 2019, additional reorganization occurred so please refer to p.244 Organizational Chart). In addition, the Risk Management Group was transferred to fall directly under the purview of the CEO of Woori Bank to ensure stronger autonomy for risk management officers, and the Credit Risk Management Department was launched as an exclusive unit for systematic management of credit risks. 100 (2) The Voluntary Early Retirement Program and Other Matters Since 2005, Woori Bank has implemented an Outplacement Services Program that serves as our amended and upgraded ERP program. The Outplacement Services Program(supporting individuals who are exiting the business) aims to resolve the bottleneck in promotions and improve the bank’s human resource structure while allowing employees to find new opportunities during the second chapter of their lives. In particular, the bank operates a support center and various programs for employees who plan to change jobs to provide systematic support for a new career or post-retirement life. As of 2018, Outplacement Services Program was provided to a total of 569 employees, improving the bank-wide human resource structure. D. Asset impairment Losses Woori Bank recognized impairment losses whenever the book value of securities in equity method decreased by over 30 percent against their acquired values. (Unit: KRW million) Category Item Loss amount Cause of loss Securities in equity method Saman Corp 242 decreased by over 30% against acquired values. *Based on the separate standards of the bank We Believe in Your Potential 4. Liquidity, Sources & Applications of Fund A. Liquidity (Unit: %) Category 2018 2017 2016 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 185th term 184th term 183th term LCR1) (Including KRW and all other currencies) 103.40 102.06 109.52 Foreign currency LCR 2) 108.98 103.11 1) The figures are calculated based on the average balance of management disclosure as of 4Q for the 185th term; based on the average balance of 4Q in 2018, 2017 and 2016. (Average of the ratio per business day during the term. But the average balance of 4Q of 2016 is the average of the ratio as of the end of each month) 2) Foreign currency LCR was implemented from 2017, and the figures are calculated based on the average balance of 4Q for the 184th term and 185th term. Woori Bank has managed liquidity levels in compliance with regulatory standards (85% in 2016, 90% in 2017, 95% in 2018, 100% since 2019) under the new liquidity index or LCR (Including KRW and all other currencies) introduced in 2015. The 4Q 2018 average balance stood at 103.40 percent, over the regulatory standard (95%), with the ratio remaining stable. Foreign currency LCR has been implemented since 2017, and Woori Bank has complied with the regulatory standards (the standards are 60% for 2017, 70% for 2018, and 80% from 2019 onwards). To secure a stable structure in regards to managing foreign currency LCR, we have worked to maintain a higher liquidity level of Foreign Currency LCR than the level required by regulatory standards (70% in 2018), with an average of 108.98 percent in December 2018, by increasing the portion of deposits from our banking customers and securing adequate high quality liquidity assets including U.S. Treasury bills, and etc. Furthermore, we ensure that the liquidity gap ratio and concentration of funding more than satisfy regulatory guidelines in order to secure a stable funding structure. We also check for excessive shortages of liquid assets through periodic stress testing. If liquidity is lacking due to an unexpected crisis, we execute contingency funding plans and utilize committed lines from overseas financial institutions to acquire liquidity. As such, we establish and manage bank-wide measures to preemptively mitigate and well manage liquidity risks. 101 B. Sources of Fund (Unit: KRW million, %) Item Fund 2018 2017 2016 185th term 184th term 183th term Average Interest % Average Interest % Average Interest % balance rate balance rate balance rate Funds in KRW Deposits, installments 197,572,001 1.41 66.67 187,332.008 1.26 66.02 183,440,285 1.38 65.35 Certificates of deposit 5,039,885 1.97 1.70 4,500,100 1.66 1.59 3,466,223 1.70 1.23 Borrowings in KRW 6 ,554,881 1.47 2.21 6,213,903 1.32 2.19 6,709,080 1.45 2.39 Call money in KRW 221,027 1.50 0.07 1,254,623 1.23 0.44 1,159,188 1.32 0.41 Others 20,937,173 2.39 7.07 20,168,307 2.29 7.11 18,532,241 2.60 6.60 Subtotal 230,324,967 1.51 77.73 219,468,941 1.37 77.34 213,307,017 1.50 75.98 Funds in foreign Deposits in foreign currencies 15,219,710 0.88 5.14 14,338,927 0.51 5.05 14,838,684 0.47 5.29 currencies Borrowings in foreign 6,458,485 2.13 2.18 7,267,096 1.38 2.56 8,595,575 0.86 3.06 currencies Call money in foreign 787,171 1.84 0.27 980,001 1.14 0.35 1,401,294 0.70 0.50 currencies Debentures in foreign 3,669,625 3.96 1.24 3,649,805 3.11 1.29 3,950,614 2.54 1.41 We Believe in Your Potential currencies Others 658,810 0.38 0.22 574,786 0.14 0.20 531,877 0.29 0.19 Subtotal 26,793,801 1.62 9.04 26,810,615 1.12 9.45 29,318,044 0.87 10.44 Others Total Equity 20,897,275 7.05 20,134,843 7.10 19,617,484 6.99 Provisions 433,092 0.15 351,750 0.12 412,553 0.15 Others 17,876,203 6.03 16,993,430 5.99 18,070,427 6.44 Subtotal 39,206,571 13.23 37,480,023 13.21 38,100,463 13.57 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Total 296,325,338 1.32 100.00 283,759,580 1.16 100.00 280,725,524 1.23 100.00 1) Deposits in KRW = Deposits in KRW – Deposit checks & bills in the process of collection – reverse deposits with BOK – inter-bank adjustment funds (call loans) * Deposit checks & bills in the process of collection = total checks and bills in the process of collection – checks & bills on clearing for overdrafts – inter-bank adjustment funds (call money) * Interest for calculating interest rates is the sum of interest on deposits and installment deposits and deposit insurance premiums. 2) Deposits in foreign currencies = Deposits in foreign currencies + off-shore deposits in foreign currencies 3) Borrowings in foreign currencies = Borrowings in foreign currencies + dues to BOK in foreign currencies + off-shore borrowings in foreign currencies 4) Debentures in foreign currencies = Debentures issued in foreign currencies + offshore debentures in foreign currencies 5) Excluding merchant banking accounts The average fund balance sourced by Woori Bank in 2018 stood at KRW 296 trillion, an increase of KRW 12 trillion over the previous year. The average funds in Korean won totaled KRW 230 trillion, mainly sourced by deposits from customers for the stable management of liquidity. As a result, deposits increased by KRW 10 trillion over the previous year, mainly in core deposits and time deposits. We complied with the guidelines by increasing the issuance of certificates of deposit by KRW 0.5 trillion given the increasingly rigorous LCR standards and increasing finance debentures issued in Korean won by KRW 0.8 trillion. In order to respond to the LCR minimum standard, which was raised by 5%p, and changes in the regulations on the loan-to-deposit ratio, we plan to ensure stable management of liquidity through preemptive funding and boost profitability through more robust management of funding and management of portfolios. The average balance of funds in foreign currencies showed a similar trend with previous terms, but in funding, we have reduced financing from the market (borrowings and debentures) and gradually increased deposits in foreign currencies to enhance stability. 102 Maturity of Major Financial Debts (Unit: KRW million) Category Financial liabilities 3 months or less 4 to 6 months 7 to 9 months 10 to 12 months 1 to 5 years Over 5 years Total Financial liabilities at fair value through profit 191,825 0 0 0 0 0 191,825 and loss Depository 139,983,251 32,838,781 20,969,174 40,220,788 5,701,940 509,189 240,223,123 Borrowings 4,979,142 2,682,745 1,775,656 1,512,857 2,917,566 495,516 14,363,482 Debentures 1,723,882 1,972,348 1,693,796 1,839,700 13,675,096 2,387,717 23,292,539 Other financial liabilities 14,057,046 0 0 0 0 2,182,602 16,239,648 Total 160,947,904 37,493,874 24,438,626 43,573,345 22,294,602 5,552,914 294,301,265 1) Derivative financial liabilities and off-balance accounts (payment guarantees and commitments) are excluded C. Applications of Fund (Unit: KRW million, %) Item Applications 2018 2017 2016 185th term 184th term 183th term Average Interest % Average Interest % Average Interest % balance rate balance rate balance rate We Believe in Your Potential Funds in KRW Deposits in KRW 3,264,104 1.52 1.10 3,424,567 1.28 1.21 3,171,599 1.34 1.13 Marketable securities in KRW 35,898,300 2.16 12.11 35,186,537 1.95 12.40 33,880,119 2.58 12.07 Loans in KRW 203,432,263 3.22 68.65 194,161,817 3.05 68.42 189,079,324 3.10 67.35 Advance payments on 15,856 1.95 0.01 26,639 3.14 0.01 51,254 0.89 0.02 acceptances and guarantees Call loans in KRW 1,334,138 1.67 0.45 2,275,748 1.33 0.80 3,581,382 1.41 1.28 Privately placed bonds 135,856 2.89 0.05 185,092 5.94 0.07 247,292 5.19 0.09 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Credit card receivables 28 0.00 24 0.00 Others 5,562,417 2.10 1.88 4,235,478 1.99 1.49 4,580,215 2.04 1.63 Allowance for doubtful (1,197,910) (0.40) (1,284,188) (0.45) (1,925,177) (0.69) accounts in KRW (-) Subtotal 248,445,023 3.03 83.84 238,211,718 2.85 83.95 232,666,033 2.98 82.88 Funds in foreign Deposits in foreign currencies 3,664,724 1.29 1.24 3,791,184 0.67 1.34 3,761,286 0.43 1.34 currencies Marketable securities in foreign 3,467,435 1.30 1.17 2,735,707 1.07 0.96 1,752,884 1.13 0.62 currencies Loans in foreign currencies 11,346,607 3.14 3.83 10,790,442 2.51 3.80 13,371,873 1.95 4.76 Call loans in foreign currencies 2,365,465 2.07 0.80 2,506,588 1.33 0.88 2,940,858 0.85 1.05 Bills bought in foreign 7,274,987 2.70 2.46 7,417,500 1.88 2.61 7,110,164 1.53 2.53 currencies Others 32,665 3.31 0.01 48,472 2.50 0.02 13,829 9.72 0.00 Allowance for doubtful accounts in (390,923) (0.13) ( 332,301) (0.12) (312,211) (0.11) foreign currencies (-) Subtotal 27,760,961 2.50 9.37 26,957,590 1.85 9.50 28,638,685 1.51 10.20 Others Cash 1,228,818 0.41 1,201,343 0.42 1,169,566 0.42 Property, plant and equipment 2,353,944 0.79 2,352,466 0.83 2,325,893 0.83 for business Others 16,536,592 5.58 15,036,463 5.30 15,925,347 5.67 Subtotal 20,119,354 6.79 18,590,272 6.55 19,420,807 6.92 Total 296,325,338 2.78 100.0 283,759,580 2.57 100.0 280,725,524 2.62 100.0 103 1) Deposits in KRW = Deposits in KRW – Reverse deposits with BOK 2) Marketable securities in KRW = Marketable securities in KRW + Loaned securities in KRW * Interest for calculating interest rates = Securities interest (including dividend received) + Evaluation profit (net) + Gain on redemption of securities (net) + Portion excluding the gain from stock transactions (net) out of gains on sales of securities 3) Loans in KRW = Loans in KRW + Checks & bills on clearing for overdrafts * Interest for calculating interest rates = Interest on loans in KRW – Contribution to the Korea Credit Guarantee Fund 4) Deposits in foreign currencies = Deposits in foreign currencies + Offshore deposits in foreign currencies 5) Interest on securities in foreign currencies = Interest on securities in foreign currency + Loaned securities in foreign currencies * Interest for calculating interest rates = Securities interests (including dividend received) + Evaluation profit (net) + Gain on redemption of securities (net) + Portion excluding the gain from stock transactions (net) out of gains on sales of securities 6) Loans in foreign currencies = Loans in foreign currencies + Offshore loans in foreign currencies + Inter-bank loans in foreign currencies + Loans from foreign borrowings + Domestic import issuance bills 7) Cash = Cash – Total checks & bills in the process of collection 8) Property, plant and equipment for business = Property, plant, and equipment for business – Accumulated depreciation 9) Based on K-IFRS financial statements 10) Excluding merchant banking accounts The average fund balance managed by Woori Bank in 2018 stood at KRW 248.4 trillion, an increase of KRW 10.2 trillion over the previous year due to due to an increase of loans in Korean won by KRW 9.3 trillion. Out of all loans in Korean won, household loans increased by KRW 4.5 trillion, while corporate loans increased by KRW 5 trillion. Since the Bank of Korea increased the base rate in November 2017, the yields for loans in Korean won went up 17bp. Assets in foreign currency increased by KRW 0.8 trillion from the previous year to KRW 27.8 trillion, which is attributable to the increase of KRW 0.5 trillion and KRW 0.7 trillion in loans in foreign currency and securities, respectively. Woori Bank will continuously strive to comply with the liquidity guidelines (for loan-to-deposit ratio, LCR, etc.) and ensure a stable management structure. We Believe in Your Potential 5. Off-Balance Sheet Activities (Unit: KRW million) Category 2018 2017 185th term 184th term Payment guarantees Confirmed guarantees 7,108,365 6,875,021 Unconfirmed guarantees 4,297,465 4,526,593 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 CP purchase commitments and others 1,260,587 1,458,101 Commitments Loan agreements 97,796,704 80,760,325 Other agreements 5,041,314 4,546,090 For off-balance sheet activities, please refer to ‘Note 44. Contingent Liabilities and Commitments’ in III. Matters on Financials / 3. Notes for Consolidated Financial Statements and 5. Notes for Financial Statements in this report. 6. Other Issues Required for Making Investment Decisions A. Matters on Key Accounting Policies and Changes in Estimates Please refer to Business Report 2018 submitted to Financial Supervisory Service (dart.fss.or.kr) or U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (sec.gov) on 1 Apr. 2019. ‘Note 2. Standards applied in the preparation of Consolidated Financial Standards and Key Accounting Policies’ and ‘Note 3. Key Accounting Estimates and Assumptions’ in [III. Matters on Finance / 3. Note on Consolidated Financial Statements and 5. Note on Financial Statements]. B. Environmental Impact and Employees (1) Environmental Impact As a financial service provider, Woori Bank’s banking and trusts businesses do not have an environmentally destructive impact. Therefore, the bank is neither currently paying nor is likely to have to pay any environmental restoration (“remediation”) or damage compensation expenses in the future. It has not been and is not likely to be subject to administrative measures by the government or environmental authorities. Woori Bank, however, has been designated as a company subject to premise control under Paragraph 5, Article 42 of the Framework Act on Low-Carbon, Green Growth. Accordingly, the Bank has reported to the government its greenhouse gas emissions and energy consumption . Please refer to Business Report 2018 XI. Other Issues Required for Protecting Investors / 3. Environmental Sanctions, and etc. / (vi) Green Management Issues. 104 (2) Employees and Other Matters Woori Bank draws up a human resources plan based on changes in the management environment and bank-wide strategic directions. We preemptively respond to expected midand long-term personnel shifts. While our continued recruitment and CDP control secure experts in corporate business, our in-house training of human resources will help us become leaders in the global and fintech businesses and build up the best human resource pool in the financial sector. Meanwhile, as of the end of 2018, our regular employees consist of business unit and group heads (26%), managers (26%), and clerks or lower-level employees (47%), maintaining HR in a pyramid structure. To build a culture that pursues work-life-balance, we introduced in advance weekly 52 working-hour system in Oct. 2018. C. Matters on Statutory Regulations Woori Bank is subject to laws and regulations in maintaining soundness as a bank and performing social responsibilities because it conducts financial arrangements and monetary and credit policies. Please refer to [I. Outline of the Company] in Business Report 2018 as for the applicable laws for doing business. Other statutory regulations which Woori Bank is subject to are: Personal Information Protection Act, Registration of Bonds and Debentures Act, Special Act on Public Fund Management, Fair Trade Act, Act on Prohibition against Financing of Terrorism, Act on Employee Retirement Benefits, Act on Real Name Financial Transactions and Guarantee of Secrecy, Act on Improving Structure of the Financial Industry, Act on Establishment of the Financial Services Commission, etc., Act on Corporate Governance of Financial Companies, Act on Promotion of Corporate Restructuring, Act on Confiscation of Proceeds of Crime, Insurance Business Act, Real Estate Investment Company Act, Private Investment Act on Infrastructure, Income Tax Act, Corporate Tax Act, Act on Promissory Notes, Telecommunications Business Act, Electronic Signature Act, Act on Issuance and Distribution of Electronic PromisWe Believe in Your Potential sory Notes, Electronic Government Act, Act on the Protection of Information Communications Infrastructure, Act on Promotion of the Information Communications Industry, Restriction of Special Taxation Act, Special Purpose Companies for Mortgage-Backed Bonds Act, Basic Act on Small and Medium-sized Companies, Local Financial Act, Protection of Communications Secrets Act, Act on Reporting of Special Financial Transactions and Korea Finance Housing Corporate Act and its relevant subordinate regulations, etc. D. Derivatives and Risk Management Policy (1) Derivatives Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Woori Bank trades derivatives mainly for corporate clients. Our corporate clients are exposed to risks including rises in interest rates and fluctuations in the stock market and exchange rates. Accordingly, there is a need to hedge against any of these risks. While we offer diverse derivative products to satisfy the hedging needs of corporate clients, we also offer products to hedge against the interest rate and foreign currency risks incurring from managing our assets and liabilities. The trading balance of our derivatives transactions was KRW 232,663 billion in 2016, KRW 267,430 billion in 2017, and KRW 324,071 billion in 2018. The following are Woori Bank’s major derivative instruments: Interest rate swaps, options, and futures related to interest rate risks Index futures and options related to stock market fluctuations Currency forwards, swaps, options, and futures related to currency risks Derivatives offered to clients who would like to avoid the price risks associated with raw materials (2) Risk Management Policy 1) Overview (A) Objective The objective of risk management is to identify the sources of risks and measure the scale and adequacy of the bank’s response to make and implement decisions to avert or mitigate the risks, thereby enhancing the soundness of the bank’s investments and holdings. 105 (B) Risk Management Organization Board of Directors CEO Board Risk Management Committee Executive Risk Management Committee Risk Management Group Risk Management Department Credit Risk Management Department Loan Review Department Board Risk Management Committee ㆍTop decision-making body for risk management ㆍOrganization Members: Three outside directors and one non-standing director ㆍMajor items for resolution Establishment of the basic risk management strategy Credit line approval and capital allocation ㆍMeeting cycle: Quarterly Executive Risk Management Committee We Believe in Your Potential ㆍOrganization Members: Head of the Business Support Unit (Chairman), six heads of business groups ㆍMajor items for resolution Deliberation of risks regarding new products Decisions regarding the standard of bank’s internal interest rates Planning & forecasting the liquidity funding (liquidity management) ㆍMeeting cycle: Monthly and when necessary Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 (C) Risk Management Strategy & Procedures ① Strategy While eliminating excess risks and managing an adequate level of risk, we maximize our profit to risk ratio, pursuing asset soundness and profitability at the same time. ② Procedures ㆍRisk recognition: We analyze various sources of risks possibly associated with the bank’s business activities ㆍRisk measurement/assessment: We determine risk measurement methods by risk type and measure the scale of risks using our measuring system, assessing the adequacy of the scale afterward. ㆍRisk control: We control risks in our daily, monthly and quarterly reports to avert/mitigate risks or maintain risks at adequate levels. ㆍRisk monitoring & reports: We continuously monitor risk levels and define the channels, content, and cycles of reporting to respond to risk situations properly. 2) Credit Risk (A) Definition Credit risk represents ‘the potential financial losses that can incur to the Bank when the counterparty becomes insolvent or rejects transactions within the period provided in the contract.’ The goal of credit risk management is to maintain the bank’s credit risk exposure to a permissible degree and to optimize its rate of return considering such credit risk. 106 (B) Management Methods We manage credit lines, aggregation, total exposure, and portfolios so that we can calculate and control adequate credit lines by aggregation, company, and industry as we handle loans. ㆍAggregation management: We aggregate the exposures of borrowers who share credit risks and put them under a single credit risk aggregation management system to control the bank’s potential exposure to credit risks. ㆍTotal exposure management: To prevent a concentration of loans, we calculate corporate value based on future cash flow and set the ceilings per borrower within the borrower’s repayment capacity from operating revenues 3) Operational Risk (A) Definition We define operational risks as the potential risks of loss that can result from inadequate internal processes, personnel and systematic factors, as well as external factors (B) Operational Risk Management Method To reinforce competitiveness, reduce the amount of risk capital, enhance operational risk management competencies, and prevent any unexpected incidents, Woori Bank has established an operational risk management system developed under Basel II since December We Believe in Your Potential 2005. The objectiveness of our operational risk management system has been tested internally and by an independent third party. The advanced measurement approach was submitted to the Financial Supervisory Service (FSS) and obtained FSS approval in June 2009, coming into effect on June 30. ① Operational Risk Management Tools While Woori Bank applies an advanced method of measuring operational risk capital levels, its consolidated subsidiaries take a basic indicator approach for measurement. Risk Self-Assessment (RSA): RSA refers to a series of risk management activities that allow self-identification and self-assessment of material operational risks and related control activities, to enable the bank to respond with measures to eliminate or improve such risks. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Key Risk Indicators (KRI): KRIs are used for identifying and monitoring risks and tracking operational risk trends. Loss data: Woori Bank has built a systemic framework for collecting and managing internal loss data on a bank-wide level under the operational risk management system. It also receives external loss data from SAS Global Data and the Korea Operational Risk Data Exchange Committee for scenario analysis and risk identification. Scenario analysis: Operating risks characteristically lack accumulated loss data, making it difficult to take a statistical approach. To measure such operational risks, we forecast potential loss amounts and the annual frequency of operational risk events based on diverse information sources such as internal data, external data, and the opinions of our experts working at each department and branch. Business Continuity Plan (BCP): Woori Bank has a set of business continuity plans in place for its organizational structure, risk assessment, business impact analysis, an alternate location for continued business operations, and drills so that it can restore and continue core business operations in the event of cessation of operations due to unexpected factors like disasters and calamities. ② Operational Risk Measurement While Woori Bank applies an advanced method of measuring operational risk capital levels, its consolidated subsidiaries take a basic indicator approach for measurement. The basic indicator approach sets 15 percent of the Bank’s total income as operational risk capital. The advanced measurement approach takes a 99.9 percentile value of annual total loss distribution induced from the integrated loss distribution approach that combines loss data and scenarios to calculate operational risk capital. Based on the eight business domains and seven event types under Basel II, we added a back-office ‘support’ sector that is a common bank-wide function, setting a 9X7 matrix as the measuring unit for operational risk capital. We calculate the operational risk capital in consideration of all four basic factors (internal data, external data, scenarios, business environment, and internal control factors). Woori Bank does not rely on insurance to mitigate its operational risk capital. 107 4) Market Risk (A) Definition Market risks refer to potential losses that can incur from trading positions of a financial institution according to changes in market factors, such as interest rates, stock prices, and exchange rates. Market risks arise from changes in interest rates and exchange rates on unsettled financial instruments. Thus, all contracts are exposed to a certain level of volatility according to interest rates, credit spread, exchange rates, and equity securities prices. Market risks can be classified as general market risks and individual risks. General market risks represent losses arising from price volatility related to events that have an impact on all markets, such as interest rates, stock prices, and exchange rates. Individual risks are losses from price volatility related to individual events by the issuer of bonds, stocks, and other securities. (B) Market Risk Management Market risk management refers to the entire process of identifying the sources of risks by risk factor on the trading sector, measuring the scale of market risks, and assessing the adequacy of the scale in order to make decisions to avert, take or mitigate risks. We use both a standard approach and an internal model to measure market risks. The standard approach is used for calculating individual risks of market risk capital charge, while the internal model is for calculating the general market risks of capital charge and for managing internal risks. We Believe in Your Potential Relying on an internal model approved by the FSS, Woori Bank uses the historical simulation method at a 99 percent confidence level, once every 10 days, to measure Value at Risk (VaR) and calculate the market risk capital charge to compute the BIS ratio. For internal control purposes, we control daily limits by measuring VaR at 99 percent confidence level per day. Model validation is carried out through daily back-testing of the VaR measurement and actual profit/loss. In addition to VaR, we perform monthly stress testing to measure the loss amount in the event of abnormal market situations, such as IMF borrowings or a global financial crisis. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Market risk limits, including VaR limits, loss limits and risk capital limits, are managed by business groups, departments or teams, while Board Risk Management Committee sets the risk type and unit annually. Limits for subordinate units, excluding the derivatives books, are set by position-related departments within given limits. Compliance with limits is monitored by the Risk Management Department independently from working-level departments, and the monitoring reports are submitted to Executive Risk Management Committee on a regular basis. 5) Liquidity Risk (A) Definition Liquidity risk management is aimed at preventing potential losses to a financial institution arising from a shortage of funds, a goal that can be achieved by the effective management of a liquidity crunch due to the disparity in the maturity of assets and liabilities or unexpected outflow of funds. Therefore, derivative products that involve off-balance account cash flow, as well as all assets and liabilities appearing on financial statements, are subject to our liquidity risk management activities. (B) Methods ① Funding/Application Status Analysis by Maturity (Maturity Gap Model) In managing liquidity risk, we determine the maturity gaps and gap ratios from cash flow statements by time group (remaining maturities or contract periods), grouping assets and liabilities according to a different ALM chart of accounts. Based on the outcomes, we maintain the gap ratios within predetermined target ratios (limits). Our daily ALM system allows business groups to look up maturity classification reports while providing daily liquidity ratios for identifying liquidity risk management indicators and status at related departments. 108 ② Actions in Response to Basel III We use the Basel III liquidity standards management system to calculate and control the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) and net stable funding ratio (NSFR) on a daily or monthly basis. We provide relevant information according to the disclosure standards imposed by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS). Actions in Response to Basel III To effectively respond to capital outflow and funding risks arising from abrupt and unforeseeable changes in market environments, we have prepared bank-wide contingency plans to conduct regular monitoring of various checkpoints related to liquidity risks on a daily or weekly basis. We Believe in Your Potential Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 109 INDEPENDENT Deloitte Anjin LLC 9F., One IFC, AUDITORS’ REPORT 10, Gukjegeumyung-ro, Youngdeungpo-gu, Seoul 07326, Korea Tel: +82 (2) 6676 1000 English Translation of a Report Originally Issued in Korean on March 19, 2019 Fax: +82 (2) 6674 2114 www.deloitteanjin.co.kr INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT English Translation of a Report Originally Issued in Korean on March 19, 2019 To the Shareholders and the Board of Directors of Woori Bank Report on the Audited Consolidated Financial Statements We Believe in Your Potential Our Opinion We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of Woori Bank and its subsidiaries (the “Group”), which comprise the consolidated statement of financial position as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, and the consolidated statement of comprehensive income, consolidated statement of changes in shareholders’ equity and consolidated statement of cash flows, for the years then ended, and a summary of significant accounting policies and other explanatory information. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Group as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively, and its financial performance and its cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”). Basis for Audit Opinion We conducted our audits in accordance with the Korean Standards on Auditing (“KSAs”). Our responsibilities under those standards are further described in the Auditors Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements section of our report. We are independent of the Group in accordance with the ethical requirements, including those related to independence, that are relevant to our audit of the consolidated financial statements in the Republic of Korea as required by prevailing audit regulations. We believe that the audit evidence we have obtained is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. Key Audit Matters The key audit matters are those matters that, in our professional judgment, were of most significance in our audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period. These matters were addressed in the context of our audit of the consolidated financial statements as a whole, and in forming our audit opinion thereon, and we do not provide a separate opinion on these matters. 110 Allowance for credit loss in accordance with K-IFRS 1109 ‘Financial Instruments’ Key audit matter description As a result of the adoption of K-IFRS 1109 in the current year, the Group estimates and records an allowance for loans based on expected credit losses, as opposed to the previous method based on incurred credit losses under K-IFRS 1039 as described in notes 2, 3, 4 and 10. In order to estimate expected credit losses, the Group segregated its portfolio in retail, corporate and credit card loans. With the exception of a portion of the corporate loan book comprised of individually significant loans (amortized cost of KRW 875,791 million), the Group measures all portfolios (amortized cost of KRW 261,722,202 million) based on a collective assessment methodology. Both the collective and individual impairment methodologies in the amounts of KRW 1,402,408 million and KRW 375,668 million, respectively, must consider historical losses adjusted for forward looking information and include multiple scenarios for macroeconomic factors. The allowance for certain loans is measured, at least in part, based on the valuation of collaterals which must take into account an expectation of when and for how much the collateral will be sold. We Believe in Your Potential There was a significant amount of judgment required by management when determining the appropriateness of the forward looking and macroeconomic information used in the calculation of the expected losses in its loan portfolio. Given the level of subjectivity and judgment, auditing the estimated allowance for loan losses involved especially complex and subjective judgment. How the scope of our audit responded to the key audit matter Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Our audit procedures related to the assumptions and unobservable inputs used by management for the estimate of impaired loans including the following: • We tested the design and effectiveness of controls over the appropriateness of the cash-flows estimated to be collected in individually significant loans, including the estimates of collateral values. • We tested the design and effectiveness of the controls over the appropriateness of the models used to determine the calculation of the allowance for loan losses for collectively assessed loans and most importantly the determination of the relevant model and assumptions to incorporate forward looking and macro-economic information • We used our credit specialists to assist us in challenging the reasonableness of the methodologies and inputs used in the calculation of the allowance for loan losses for collectively assessed loans, most importantly in determining the appropriateness of forward looking and macro-economic scenarios used by management • We reperformed the calculation of the collective allowance taking into account forward looking and macroeconomic information determined to be appropriate in consultation with our credit specialists. 111 • We selected samples of loans subject to individual assessments and performed the following:  Independently estimated future operating cash flows from borrowers with significant loans outstanding to determine the available cash flows to repay the loans.  With assistance of our appraisal specialists, evaluated the reasonableness of cash flow estimates based on the future sale of collateral. Responsibilities of Management and the Audit Committee for the Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation of the accompanying consolidated financial statements in accordance with K-IFRS, and for such internal control as they determine is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management of the Group is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate We Believe in Your Potential the Group or to cease operations, or has no realistic alternative but to do so. The audit committee is responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process. Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 that an audit conducted in accordance with KSAs will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with KSAs, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the Group’s internal control. 112 • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. • Conclude on the appropriateness of the management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. • Obtain sufficient appropriate audit evidence regarding the financial information of the entities or We Believe in Your Potential business activities within the Group to express an opinion on the consolidated financial statements. We are responsible for the direction, supervision and performance of the group audit. We are solely responsible for our audit opinion. We communicate with the audit committee of the Group regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide the audit committee of the Group with a statement that we have complied with relevant Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 ethical requirements, including those related to independence, and to communicate with them all matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with the audit committee, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter. March 19, 2019 Notice to Readers This report is effective as of March 19, 2019 the auditors’ report date. Certain subsequent events or circumstances may have occurred between the auditors’ report date and the time the auditors’ report is read. Such events or circumstances could significantly affect the consolidated financial statements and may result in modifications to the auditors’ report. 113 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 December 31, December 31, 2018 (*) 2017 (*) (Korean Won in millions) ASSETS Cash and cash equivalents (Note 6) 6,712,623 6,908,286 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”) (K-IFRS 1109) (Notes 4, 7, 11, 12 and 26) 6,126,183 Financial assets at FVTPL (K-IFRS 1039) (Notes 4, 7, 11, 12, 18 and 26) 5,843,077 Financial assets at financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income(“FVTOCI”) (Notes 4, 8, 11, 12, and 18) 18,063,423 Available-for-sale (“AFS”) financial assets (Notes 4,8,11,12 and 18) 15,352,950 Securities at amortized cost (Notes 4, 9, 11, 12 and 18) 22,932,559 Held to maturity (“HTM”) financial assets (Notes 4, 9, 11, 12 and 18) 16,749,296 We Believe in Your Potential Loans and other financial assets at amortized cost (Notes 4, 10, 11, 12, 18 and 45) 282,448,315 Loans and receivables (Notes 4,10,11,12,18 and 45) 267,106,204 Investments in joint ventures and associates (Note 13) 361,427 417,051 Investment properties (Note 14) 378,069 371,301 Premises and equipment (Notes 15 and 18) 2,441,141 2,477,545 Intangible assets and goodwill (Note 16) 587,255 518,599 Assets held for distribution (sale) (Note 17) 93,502 48,624 Current tax assets (Note 42) 20,488 4,722 Deferred tax assets (Note 42) 49,863 280,130 Derivative assets (Designated for hedging) (Notes 4,11,12 and 26) 35,503 59,272 Other assets (Notes 19 and 45) 196,832 158,404 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Total assets 340,447,183 316,295,461 LIABILITIES Financial liabilities at FVTPL (K-IFRS 1109) (Notes 4, 11, 12, 20 and 26) 2,282,686 Financial liabilities at FVTPL (K-IFRS 1039) (Notes 4, 11, 12, 20 and 26) 3,427,909 Deposits due to customers (Notes 4,11,21 and 45) 248,690,939 234,695,084 Borrowings (Notes 4, 11, 12 and 22) 16,202,986 14,784,706 Debentures (Notes 4, 11 and 22) 28,725,862 27,869,651 Provisions (Notes 23, 44 and 45) 389,862 410,470 Net defined benefit liability (Note 24) 138,682 43,264 Liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for distribution (Note 17) 72,660 Current tax liabilities (Note 42) 156,559 232,600 Deferred tax liabilities (Note 42) 18,156 22,681 Derivative liabilities (Designated for hedging) (Notes 4,11,12 and 26) 51,408 67,754 Other financial liabilities (Notes 4,11,12, 25 and 45) 21,426,064 13,892,461 Other liabilities (Notes 25 and 45) 338,275 283,981 Total liabilities 318,494,139 295,730,561 (Continued) 114 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 (CONTINUED) WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION AS OF DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 (CONTINUED) December 31, December 31, 2018 (*) 2017 (*) (Korean Won in millions) EQUITY Owners’ equity: 21,739,931 20,365,892 Capital stock (Note 28) 3,381,392 3,381,392 Hybrid securities (Note 29) 3,161,963 3,017,888 Capital surplus (Note 28) 285,889 285,880 Other equity (Note 30) (2,213,970) (1,939,274) Retained earnings and other reserves (Notes 31 and 32) (Regulatory reserve for credit loss as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 is 2,578,457 million Won and 2,438,191 million Won, respectively We Believe in Your Potential Regulatory reserve for credit loss to be reversed (reserved) as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 is 222,211 million Won and (-)140,266 million Won, respectively Planned provision reversed(reserved) of regulatory reserve for credit loss as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 is 222,211 million Won and (-)140,266 million Won, respectively 17,124,657 15,620,006 Non-controlling interests 213,113 199,008 Total equity 21,953,044 20,564,900 Total liabilities and equity 340,447,183 316,295,461 (*) The consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2018 was prepared in accordance with Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 K-IFRS 1109; however, the comparative consolidated statements of financial position as of December 31, 2017 was not retrospectively restated in accordance with K-IFRS 1109. See accompanying notes 115 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 2018(*) 2017(*) (Korean Won in millions, except for per share data) Interest income 9,684,499 8,550,687 Financial assets at FVTPL (K-IFRS 1109) 54,243 Financial assets at FVTOCI 280,371 Financial assets at amortized cost 9,349,885 Financial assets at FVTPL (K-IFRS 1039) 53,348 AFS financial assets 239,030 HTM financial assets 307,965 We Believe in Your Potential Loans and receivables 7,950,344 Interest expense (4,033,548) (3,330,037) Net interest income (Notes 11, 34 and 45) 5,650,951 5,220,650 Fees and commissions income 1,680,764 2,069,198 Fees and commissions expense (610,790) (998,732) Net fees and commissions income (Notes 11, 35 and 45) 1,069,974 1,070,466 Dividend income (Notes 36 and 45) 90,552 124,992 Net gain on financial instruments at FVTPL Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 (K-IFRS 1109) (Notes 11, 37 and 45) 214,443 Net loss on financial instruments at FVTPL (K-IFRS 1039) (Notes 11, 37 and 45) (104,827) Net gain on financial assets at FVTOCI (Notes 11 and 38) 2,047 Net gain on AFS financial assets (Notes 11 and 38) 192,708 Net gain on disposals of financial assets at amortized cost (Note 11) 79,532 Net gain on disposals of securities at amortized cost 431 Net gain on disposals of loans and other financial assets at amortized cost 79,101 Impairment losses due to credit loss (Notes 11, 39 and 45) (329,574) (785,133) General and administrative expenses (Notes 40 and 45) (3,624,033) (3,530,801) Other net operating expenses (Notes 40 and 45) (394,591) (31,313) Operating income 2,759,301 2,156,742 Share of gain(loss) on subsidiaries and associates (Note 13) 3,019 (101,514) Net other non-operating income(expense) 42,552 (105,722) Non-operating income(expense) (Note 41) 45,571 (207,236) Net income before income tax expense 2,804,872 1,949,506 Income tax expense (Note 42) (753,223) (419,418) (Continued) 116 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 (CONTINUED) WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME FOR YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 (CONTINUED) 2018(*) 2017(*) (Korean Won in millions, except for per share data) Net income (Net income after the provision for regulatory reserve for credit loss for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, is 2,010,774 million won and 1,389,822 million won, respectively) (Note 32) 2,051,649 1,530,088 Net loss on valuation of equity securities at FVTOCI (30,855) Net gain on valuation of financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL due to own credit risk 100 We Believe in Your Potential Items out of share of other comprehensive gain of joint ventures and associates that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (2,993) Remeasurement gain (loss) related to defined benefit plan (71,432) 10,497 Other comprehensive income related to assets held for distribution (13,197) Items that will not be reclassified to profit or loss (115,384) 7,504 Net gain on valuation of debt securities at FVTOCI 33,360 Net loss on valuation of AFS financial assets (84,498) Share of other comprehensive gain of joint ventures and Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 associates 2,958 3,605 Net loss on foreign currency translation of foreign operations (4,379) (208,329) Net gain (loss) on valuation of cash flow hedge (4,646) 777 Other comprehensive income related to assets held for sale (4,145) 4,145 Items that may be reclassified to profit or loss 23,148 (284,300) Other comprehensive loss, net of tax (92,236) (276,796) Total comprehensive income 1,959,413 1,253,292 Net income attributable to: Net income attributable to shareholders 2,033,182 1,512,148 Net income attributable to non-controlling interests 18,467 17,940 Total comprehensive income attributable to: Comprehensive income attributable to shareholders 1,943,885 1,249,057 Comprehensive income attributable to non-controlling interests 15,528 4,235 Net income per share (Note 43) Basic and diluted earnings per share (In Korean Won) 2,796 1,999 (*) The consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2018 was prepared in accordance with K-IFRS 1109; however, the comparative consolidated statements of comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2017 was not retrospectively restated in accordance with K-IFRS 1109. See accompanying notes 117 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN EQUITY FOR YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 Retained NonCapital Hybrid Capital Other earnings and Owners’ controlling Total Stock securities surplus equity other reserves equity interests equity (Korean Won in millions) January 1, 2017 3,381,392 3,574,896 286,331 (1,468,025) 14,611,566 20,386,160 159,793 20,545,953 Net income 1,512,148 1,512,148 17,940 1,530,088 Dividends to common stocks (336,636) (336,636) (1,554) (338,190) Capital increase of subsidiaries (451) (451) 36,534 36,083 Net gain (loss) on valuation of availablefor-sale financial assets (85,051) (85,051) 553 (84,498) Changes in equity of joint ventures and associates 612 612 612 Loss on foreign currency translation of We Believe in Your Potential foreign operations (194,347) (194,347) (13,982) (208,329) Gain on valuation of cash flow hedge 777 777 777 Remeasurement gain (loss) related to defined benefit plan 10,773 10,773 (276) 10,497 Other comprehensive income related to assets held for sale 4,145 4,145 4,145 Dividends to hybrid securities (167,072) (167,072) (167,072) Issuance of hybrid securities 559,565 559,565 559,565 Redemption of hybrid securities (1,116,573) (208,158) (1,324,731) (1,324,731) December 31, 2017 (*) 3,381,392 3,017,888 285,880 (1,939,274) 15,620,006 20,365,892 199,008 20,564,900 January 1, 2018 3,381,392 3,017,888 285,880 (1,939,274) 15,620,006 20,365,892 199,008 20,564,900 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Cumulative effect of change in accounting policy (Note 2) (392,176) 177,091 (215,085) 723 (214,362) Adjusted balance, beginning of period 3,381,392 3,017,888 285,880 (2,331,450) 15,797,097 20,150,807 199,731 20,350,538 Net income 2,033,182 2,033,182 18,467 2,051,649 Dividends to common stocks (336,636) (336,636) (2,128) (338,764) Capital decrease of subsidiaries 9 9 (18) (9) Net gain on valuation of financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL due to own credit risk 100 100 100 Changes in other comprehensive income due to redemption of financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL (4) 4 Net gain (loss) on valuation of financial assets at FVTOCI 2,733 2,733 (228) 2,505 Changes in other comprehensive income due to disposal of equity securities at FVTOCI (1,009) 1,009 Share of other comprehensive gain of joint ventures and associates 2,958 (10,647) (7,689) (7,689) Loss on foreign currency translation of foreign operations (1,929) (1,929) (2,450) (4,379) Loss on valuation of cash flow hedge (4,646) (4,646) (4,646) Remeasurement loss related to defined benefit plan (71,171) (71,171) (261) (71,432) Other comprehensive income related to assets held for distribution (sale) (17,342) (17,342) (17,342) Dividends to hybrid securities (151,194) (151,194) (151,194) Issuance of hybrid securities 398,707 398,707 398,707 Redemption of hybrid securities (254,632) (368) (255,000) (255,000) Appropriation of retained earnings 208,158 (208,158) December 31, 2018 (*) 3,381,392 3,161,963 285,889 (2,213,970) 17,124,657 21,739,931 213,113 21,953,044 (*) The consolidated statements of changes in equity for the year ended December 31, 2018 was prepared in accordance with K-IFRS 1109; however, the comparative consolidated statements of changes in equity for the year ended December 31, 2017 was not retrospectively restated in accordance with K-IFRS 1109. See accompanying notes 118 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 2018 (*) 2017 (*) (Korean Won in millions) Cash flows from operating activities: Net income 2,051,649 1,530,088 Adjustments to net income: Income tax expense 753,223 419,418 Interest income (9,684,499) (8,550,687) Interest expense 4,033,548 3,330,037 Dividend income (90,552) (124,992) (4,988,280) (4,926,224) Additions of expenses not involving cash outflows: Impairment losses due to credit loss 329,574 785,133 We Believe in Your Potential Loss on valuation of financial instruments at FVTPL 15,267 Loss on financial assets at FVTOCI 1,053 Share of losses of investments in joint ventures and associates 22,772 185,020 Loss on disposal of investments in joint ventures and associates 2,931 38,713 Loss on transaction and valuation of derivatives (Designated for hedging) 36,483 109,569 Loss on hedged items (fair value hedge) 17,299 Loss on provision 28,350 107,028 Retirement benefits 142,712 142,902 Depreciation and amortization 272,550 235,795 Loss on disposal of premises and equipment, intangible assets and other assets 1,160 9,994 Impairment loss on premises and equipment, intangible assets and other assets 87 390 854,971 1,629,811 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Deductions of income not involving cash inflows: Gain on valuation of financial assets at FVTPL (K-IFRS 1109) 215,711 Gain on redemption of debentures 1,597 Gain on financial assets at FVTOCI 3,100 Gain on AFS financial assets 192,708 Gain on disposal of securities at amortized cost 431 Share of gains of investments in joint ventures and associates 25,791 83,506 Gain on disposal of investments in joint ventures and associates 50,511 39,932 Gain on transaction and valuation of derivatives (Designated for hedging) 35,810 122 Gain on hedged items (fair value hedge) 42,797 53,532 Reversal on provisions 2,014 2,567 Gain on disposal of premises and equipment, intangible assets and other assets 30,278 5,028 Reversal of impairment loss on premises and equipment, intangible assets and other assets 761 666 408,801 378,061 Changes in operating assets and liabilities: Financial assets at FVTPL (K-IFRS 1109) 670,872 Financial instruments at FVTPL (K-IFRS 1039) (583,068) Loans and other financial assets at amortized cost (15,754,102) Loans and receivables (9,647,563) Other assets 32,328 35,953 Deposits due to customers 13,995,747 13,634,873 Provisions (11,920) (122,711) Net defined benefit liability (135,313) (46,789) Other financial liabilities 7,411,753 (7,966,786) Other liabilities 89,399 (27,550) 6,298,764 (4,723,641) Cash received from operating activities: Interest income received 9,617,307 8,570,715 Interest expense paid (3,847,411) (3,404,608) Dividends received 90,651 127,343 Income tax paid (544,058) (404,428) 5,316,489 4,889,022 Net cash provided by(used in) operating activities 9,124,792 (1,979,005) (Continued) 119 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 (CONTINUED) WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 (CONTINUED) 2018 (*) 2017 (*) (Korean Won in millions) Cash flows from investing activities: Cash in-flows from investing activities: Disposal of financial assets at FVTPL (K-IFRS 1109) 11,919,335 Disposal of financial assets at FVTOCI 9,146,307 Disposal of AFS financial assets 24,912,752 Redemption of securities at amortized cost 9,426,757 Redemption of HTM financial assets 8,587,092 Disposal of investments in joint ventures and associates 51,435 70,180 Disposal of subsidiaries 203 Disposal of investment properties 3,512 418 Disposal of premises and equipment 5,545 7,428 We Believe in Your Potential Disposal of intangible assets 9,199 1,188 Disposal of assets held for distribution (sale) 80,347 24,808 30,642,437 33,604,069 Cash out-flows from investing activities: Net cash in-flows of business combination 134,967 Acquisition of financial assets at FVTPL (K-IFRS 1109) 12,322,160 Acquisition of financial assets at FVTOCI 13,275,429 Acquisition of AFS financial assets 19,674,346 Acquisition of securities at amortized cost 15,622,847 Acquisition of HTM financial assets 11,521,065 Acquisition of investments in joint ventures and associates 48,272 143,161 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Acquisition of investment properties 15,195 9,872 Acquisition of premises and equipment 118,668 162,245 Acquisition of intangible assets 176,067 195,929 Cash out-flow related to derivatives designated for hedging 13,742 41,713,605 31,720,360 Net cash provided by(used in) investing activities (11,071,168)) 1,883,709 Cash flows from financing activities: Cash in-flows from financing activities: Increase in borrowings 9,606,126 9,057,999 Issuance of debentures 21,505,849 18,438,221 Issuance of hybrid securities 398,707 559,565 Capital increase of subsidiaries 35,841 31,510,682 28,091,626 Cash out-flows from financing activities: Repayment of borrowings 8,349,005 12,692,883 Repayment of debentures 20,903,518 13,620,520 Payment of dividends to common stocks 336,636 336,636 Dividends paid on hybrid securities 147,625 177,730 Redemption of hybrid securities 255,000 1,323,400 Dividends paid on non-controlling interests 2,128 1,554 29,993,912 28,152,723 Net cash provided by(used in) financing activities 1,516,770 (61,097) Net decrease in cash and cash equivalents (429,606) (156,393) Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of the period 6,908,286 7,591,324 Effects of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents 233,943 (526,645) Cash and cash equivalents, end of the period (Note 6) 6,712,623 6,908,286 (*) The consolidated statements of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2018 was prepared in accordance with K-IFRS 1109; however, the comparative consolidated statements of cash flows for the year ended December 31, 2017 was not retrospectively restated to apply K-IFRS 1109. See accompanying notes 120 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 WOORI BANK AND SUBSIDIARIES NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AS OF AND FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2018 AND 2017 1. GENERAL (1) Summary of the parent company Woori Bank (hereinafter referred to the “Bank”), which is a controlling entity in accordance with Korean International Financial Reporting standards (“K-IFRS”) 1110 – Consolidated Financial Statements, was established in 1899 and is engaged in the commercial banking business under the Banking Act, trust business and foreign exchange business under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Market Act (hereinafter referred to as the “Capital Market Act”).. Previously, Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. (established on March 27, 2001 in accordance with Financial Holding Companies Act), the former holding company of Woori Financial Group, held a 100% ownership of the We Believe in Your Potential Bank. Effective November 1, 2014, Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. completed its merger (the “Merger”) with and into the Bank. Accordingly, the shares of the Bank, 597 million shares, prior to the merger, was reduced to nil in accordance with capital reduction procedure, and then, in accordance with the merger ratio, the Bank newly issued 676 million shares. As a result, the paid-in capital of the Bank as of December 31, 2018 is capital stock amounting to 3,381,392 million Korean Won. Meanwhile, during the year ended December 31, 2016, the Korea Deposit Insurance Corporation (“KDIC”), the majority shareholder of the Bank, sold its 187 million shares in the Bank in accordance with the contract of “Disposal of Woori Bank’s shares to Oligopolistic Shareholders”. In addition to the sale, during the year ended December 31, 2017, KDIC sold additional 33 million shares. As a result, KDIC holds 125 million shares (18.43% ownership interest) of the Bank as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, and is the majority shareholder of the Bank. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 On June 24, 2002, Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. listed its common stock on the Korea Exchange through public offering. In addition, on September 29, 2003, Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission in the United States of America and, on the same day, listed its American Depositary Shares on the New York Stock Exchange. As Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. was merged into the Bank, the Bank, which is the existing company, succeeded such rights and obligations as a listed company on the Korea Exchange and the New York Stock Exchange. As a result of such merger, the Bank incorporated Woori Card Co., Ltd., Woori Investment Bank Co., Ltd., Woori FIS Co., Ltd., Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Ltd. and Woori Finance Research Institute Co., Ltd. as its subsidiaries. The headquarters of the Bank is located at 51, Sogong-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea. The Bank has 877 branches and offices in Korea, and 23 branches and offices overseas as of December 31, 2018. 121 -2(2) The consolidated financial statements for Woori Bank and its subsidiaries (the “Group”) include the following subsidiaries: Percentage of ownership Financial (%) statements December December as of Subsidiaries Main business 31, 2018 31, 2017 Location (2018) Woori Bank: Woori FIS Co., Ltd. System software development & maintenance 100.0 100.0 Korea December 31 Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Ltd. Finance 100.0 100.0 Korea December 31 Woori Finance Research Institute Co., Ltd. Other service business 100.0 100.0 Korea December 31 Woori Card Co., Ltd. Finance 100.0 100.0 Korea December 31 Woori Investment Bank Co., Ltd. Other credit finance business 59.8 59.8 Korea December 31 Woori Credit Information Co., Ltd. Credit information 100.0 100.0 Korea December 31 Woori America Bank Finance 100.0 100.0 U.S.A. December 31 Woori Global Markets Asia Limited 〃 100.0 100.0 Hong Kong December 31 Woori Bank China Limited 〃 100.0 100.0 China December 31 AO Woori Bank 〃 100.0 100.0 Russia December 31 PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 We Believe in Your Potential Tbk 〃 79.9 79.9 Indonesia December 31 Banco Woori Bank do Brasil S.A. 〃 100.0 100.0 Brazil December 31 Korea BTL Infrastructure Fund 〃 99.9 99.9 Korea December 31 Woori Fund Service Co., Ltd. 〃 100.0 100.0 Korea December 31 Woori Finance Cambodia PLC. 〃 100.0 100.0 Cambodia December 31 Woori Finance Myanmar Co., Ltd. 〃 100.0 100.0 Myanmar December 31 Wealth Development Bank 〃 51.0 51.0 Philippines December 31 Woori Bank Vietnam Limited 〃 100.0 100.0 Vietnam December 31 WB Finance Co., Ltd.(*5) 〃 100.0 Cambodia December 31 Woori Bank Europe(*5) 〃 100.0 Germany December 31 Kumho Trust First Co., Ltd. (*1) Asset securitization 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Asiana Saigon Inc. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Consus Eighth Co., LLC (*4) 〃 0.0 Korea KAMCO Value Recreation First Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 15.0 15.0 Korea December 31 Hermes STX Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 BWL First Co., LLC (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Deogi Dream Fourth Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Jeonju Iwon Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Wonju I one Inc. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Heitz Third Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Woorihansoop 1st Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Electric Cable First Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Woori International First Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Woori HJ First Co., Ltd. (*4) 〃 0.0 Korea Woori WEBST 1st Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Wibihansoop 1st Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 HNLD 1st Inc. (*4) 〃 0.0 Korea Uri QS 1st Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Uri Display 1st Co., Ltd.(*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Tiger Eyes 2nd Co., Ltd.(*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Woori Serveone 1st Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Uri Display 2nd Co.,Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 Korea December 31 Woori the Colony Unjung Securitization 〃 Specialty Co., Ltd. (*1) 0.0 Korea December 31 Woori Dream 1st Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 Korea December 31 Woori Dream 2nd Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 Korea December 31 Woori H 1st Co., Ltd.(*1) 〃 0.0 Korea December 31 Woori HS 1st Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 Korea December 31 Woori HS 2nd Co., Ltd.(*1) 〃 0.0 Korea December 31 Woori Sinnonhyeon 1st Inc. (*1) 〃 0.0 Korea December 31 Woori K 1st Co.,Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 Korea December 31 Uri S 1st Co.,Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.0 Korea December 31 Smart Casting Inc. (*1) 〃 0.0 Korea December 31 122 -3Percentage of ownership Financial (%) statements December December as of Subsidiaries Main business 31, 2018 31, 2017 Location (2018) G5 Pro Short-term Bond Investment Fund Securities investment and 13 (*2) others 100.0 100.0 Korea December 31 Heungkuk Global Private Placement 〃 Investment Trust No. 1 (*2) 98.5 Korea December 31 HeungkukWoori Tech Company Private 〃 Placement Investment Trust No. 1 (*2) 98.0 98.0 Korea December 31 AI Partners Water Supply Private 〃 Placement Investment Trust No.2 (*2) 97.3 England December 31 Consus Sakhalin Real Estate Investment 〃 Trust 1st(*2) 75.0 75.0 Korea December 31 Principle Guaranteed Trust (*3) Trust 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Principle and Interest Guaranteed Trust (*3) 〃 0.0 0.0 Korea December 31 Woori Investment Bank: Dongwoo First Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. (*1) Asset securitization 5.0 5.0 Korea December 31 Seari First Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 5.0 5.0 Korea December 31 Seari Second Securitization Specialty We Believe in Your Potential Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 5.0 Korea December 31 Namjong 1st Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 5.0 5.0 Korea December 31 Bukgeum First Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 5.0 5.0 Korea December 31 Bukgeum Second Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 5.0 Korea December 31 Woori Card Co., Ltd.: TUTU Finance-WCI Myanmar Co., Ltd. Finance 100.0 100.0 Myanmar December 31 Woori Card one of 2017-1 Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. (*1) Asset securitization 0.5 0.5 Korea December 31 Woori Card one of 2017-2 Securitization Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Specialty Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.5 0.5 Korea December 31 Woori Card one of 2018-1 Securitization Specialty Co., Ltd. (*1) 〃 0.5 Korea December 31 (*1) The entity is a structured entity for the purpose of asset securitization and is in scope for consolidation. Although the Group is not a majority shareholder, the Group 1) has the power over the investee, 2) is exposed to or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and 3) has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. (*2) The entity is a structured entity for the purpose of investment in securities and is in scope for consolidation. Although the Group is not a majority shareholder, the Group 1) has the power over the investee, 2) is exposed to or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and 3) has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. (*3) The entity is a ‘money trust’ under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act and is in scope for consolidation. Although the Group is not a majority shareholder, the Group 1) has the power over the investee, 2) is exposed to or has rights to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and 3) has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. (*4) The entity was removed from the list of subsidiaries as the control over the entity was lost during the current period. (*5) The entity was included in the list of subsidiaries as the Bank acquired more than 50% of the ownership interest. 123 -4(3) The Group has not consolidated the following entities as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 despite having more than 50% ownership interest: As of December 31, 2018 Main Percentage of Subsidiaries Location Business ownership (%) Golden Bridge NHN Online Private Equity Investment (*) Korea Securities Investment 60.0 Mirae Asset Seobu Underground Expressway Professional Investment Korea Securities Investment 65.8 (*) Mirae Asset Maps Clean Water Private Equity Investment Trust 7th (*) Korea Securities Investment 59.7 Kiwoom Yonsei Private Equity Investment Trust(*) Korea Securities Investment 88.9 Hana Walmart Real Estate Investment Trust 41-1 (*) Korea Securities Investment 89.6 IGIS Europe Private Placement Real Estate Fund No. 163-2 (*) Korea Securities Investment 97.9 IGIS Global Private Placement Real Estate Fund No. 148-1 (*) Korea Securities Investment 75.0 IGIS Global Private Placement Real Estate Fund No. 148-2 (*) Korea Securities Investment 75.0 KB Nongso Sewage Treatment Equipment Private Special Asset (*) Korea Securities Investment 50.0 Mirae Asset Seoul Ring Expressway Private Special Asset Fund No. 1 Korea Securities Investment 66.2 (*) Hangkang Sewage Treatment Plant Fund (*) Korea Securities Investment 55.6 Consus KyungJu Green Private Placement Real Estate Fund No. 1 (*) Korea Securities Investment 52.4 We Believe in Your Potential As of December 31, 2017 Main Percentage of Subsidiaries Location Business ownership (%) Golden Bridge NHN Online Private Equity Investment (*) Korea Securities Investment 60.0 Mirae Asset Maps Clean Water Private Equity Investment Trust 7th (*) Korea Securities Investment 59.7 Kiwoom Yonsei Private Equity Investment Trust (*) Korea Securities Investment 88.9 Hana Walmart Real Estate Investment Trust 41-1 (*) Korea Securities Investment 90.1 IGIS Global Private Placement Real Estate Fund No. 148-1 (*) Korea Securities Investment 75.0 IGIS Global Private Placement Real Estate Fund No. 148-2 (*) Korea Securities Investment 75.0 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 (*) Since the investee is a private equity investment fund, the Group does not have the power over the fund’s activities even though it holds more than 50% of ownership interest. (4) The summarized financial information of the major subsidiaries are as follows. The financial information of each subsidiary was prepared on the basis of consolidated financial statements. (Unit: Korean Won in millions): As of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 Net income Comprehensive (loss) income (loss) Operating attributable to attributable to Assets Liabilities revenue owners owners Woori FIS Co., Ltd. 96,260 63,412 271,651 2,840 269 Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Ltd. 38,820 1,439 1,713 (2,794) (2,843) Woori Finance Research Institute Co., Ltd. 3,891 560 4,708 7 (109) Woori Card Co., Ltd. 9,987,057 8,305,093 1,371,301 114,767 106,517 Woori Investment Bank Co., Ltd. 2,682,660 2,367,418 205,446 25,552 25,533 Woori Credit Information Co., Ltd. 34,921 6,386 36,883 1,657 1,411 Woori America Bank 2,182,454 1,878,117 90,975 20,510 32,335 Woori Global Markets Asia Limited 517,627 396,216 18,748 5,144 9,647 Woori Bank China Limited 5,470,927 4,953,813 366,973 21,879 19,194 AO Woori Bank 305,521 256,260 19,433 5,163 (3,234) PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 2,355,975 1,853,768 192,719 40,385 27,109 Banco Woori Bank do Brasil S.A. 179,130 149,146 13,971 1,262 (2,326) Korea BTL Infrastructure Fund 777,437 299 29,760 26,057 26,057 Woori Fund Service Co., Ltd. 14,448 1,440 10,052 1,597 1,597 Woori Finance Cambodia PLC. 93,239 71,133 11,038 2,826 3,676 Woori Finance Myanmar Co., Ltd. 19,340 6,886 4,496 640 (1,256) Wealth Development Bank 218,134 184,344 13,668 80 (451) Woori Bank Vietnam Limited 954,580 720,554 48,716 10,710 13,618 WB Finance Co., Ltd. 268,794 225,655 24,310 2,421 2,329 124 -5As of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 Net income Comprehensive (loss) income (loss) Operating attributable to attributable to Assets Liabilities revenue owners owners Woori Bank Europe 58,399 311 5 (5,959) (5,974) Money trust under the FISCM Act 1,582,765 1,552,594 54,860 259 259 Structured entity for the securitization of financial assets 1,369,745 1,786,869 53,578 4,990 (5,681) Structured entity for the investments in securities 63,676 142 1,826 (1,299) (3,009) As of and for the year ended December 31, 2017 Net income Comprehensive (loss) income (loss) Operating attributable to attributable to Assets Liabilities revenue owners owners Woori FIS Co., Ltd. 103,932 71,386 252,460 1,940 (2,963) Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Ltd. 42,894 2,670 7,257 (4,114) (4,074) We Believe in Your Potential Woori Finance Research Institute Co., Ltd. 3,790 350 4,733 83 64 Woori Card Co., Ltd. 8,605,993 6,973,705 1,771,157 101,214 107,321 Woori Investment Bank Co., Ltd. 1,880,157 1,588,610 183,376 20,023 20,210 Woori Credit Information Co., Ltd. 33,298 6,175 31,580 861 752 Woori America Bank 1,954,301 1,679,248 81,337 11,869 (16,833) Woori Global Markets Asia Limited 290,226 178,343 11,345 1,922 (12,544) Woori Bank China Limited 4,960,637 4,458,683 388,913 13,809 (15,252) AO Woori Bank 201,704 149,101 15,656 4,748 1,217 PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 2,230,617 1,745,171 192,485 38,488 (18,689) Banco Woori Bank do Brasil S.A. 213,889 181,544 20,455 1,843 (2,840) Korea BTL Infrastructure Fund 786,480 301 30,240 26,390 26,390 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Woori Fund Service Co., Ltd. 12,653 1,242 9,021 1,398 1,398 Woori Finance Cambodia PLC. 51,304 32,873 5,895 983 (473) Woori Finance Myanmar Co., Ltd. 18,236 5,307 2,506 791 15 Wealth Development Bank 191,049 156,808 13,632 1,323 (1,093) Woori Bank Vietnam Limited 775,758 632,160 29,698 2,436 (15,347) Money trust under the FISCM Act 1,560,672 1,530,760 44,344 582 582 Structured entity for the securitization of financial assets 867,583 1,275,719 22,730 1,179 (2,800) Structured entity for the investments in securities 34,939 76 377 (475) (38,592) (5) The financial support that the Group provides to consolidated structured entities is as follows: Structured entity for asset securitization The structured entity is established for the purpose of securitization of project financing loans, corporate bonds, and other financial assets. The Group is involved with the structured entity through providing with credit facility over asset-backed commercial papers issued by the entity, originating loans directly to the structured entity, or purchasing 100% of the subordinated debts issued by the structured entity. Structured entity for the investments in securities The structured entity is established for the purpose of investments in securities. The Group acquires beneficiary certificates through its contribution of fund to the structured entity, and it is exposed to the risk that it may not be able to recover its fund depending on the result of investment performance of asset managers of the structured entity. Money trust under the Financial Investment Services and Capital Markets Act The Group provides with financial guarantee of principal and interest or solely principal to some of its trust products. Due to the financial guarantees, the Group may be obliged when the principal and interest or principal of the trust product sold is short of the guaranteed amount depending on the result of investment performance of the trust product. 125 -6(6) The Group has entered into various agreements with structured entities such as asset securitization, structured finance, investment fund, and monetary trust. The characteristics and the nature of risks related to unconsolidated structured entities over which the Group does not have control in accordance with KIFRS 1110 are as follows: The ownership interests on unconsolidated structured entities that the Group hold are classified into asset securitization vehicles, structured finance and investment fund, based on the nature and the purpose of the structured entities. Unconsolidated structured entities classified as ‘asset securitization vehicles’ are entities that issue assetbacked securities, pay the principal and interest or distributes dividends on asset-backed securities through borrowings or profits from the management, operation and sale of securitized assets. The Group transfers related risks from the purchase commitments of asset-backed securities or issuance of asset-backed securities through credit grants, and the structured entities recognize related interest or fee revenue. There are entities that provide additional fund and conditional debt acquisition commitment before the Group’s financial support, but the Group is still exposed to losses arising from the purchase of financial assets issued by the structured entities when it fails to renew the securities. Unconsolidated structured entities classified as ‘structured financing’ include real estate project financing We Believe in Your Potential investment vehicle, social overhead capital companies, and special purpose vehicles for ship (aircraft) financing. Each entity is incorporated as a separate company with a limited purpose in order to efficiently pursue business goals. ‘Structured financing’ is a financing method for large-scale risky business, with investments made based on feasibility of the specific business or project, instead of credit of business owner or physical collaterals. The investors receive profits from the operation of the business. The Group recognizes interest revenue, valuation gain or loss on ownership interest, or dividend income. With regard to uncertainties involving structured financing, there are entities that provide financial support such as additional fund, guarantees and prioritized credit grants prior to the Group’s intervention, but the Group is exposed to possible losses due to loss of principal from reduction in investment value or irrecoverable loans arising from failure to collect scheduled cash flows and cessation of projects. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Unconsolidated structured entities classified as ‘investment funds’ include investment trusts and private equity funds. An investment trust orders the investment and operation of funds to the trust manager in accordance with trust contract with profits distributed to the investors. Private equity funds finances money required to acquire equity securities to enable direction of management and/or improvement of ownership structure, with profit distributed to the investors. The Group recognizes pro rata amount of valuation gain or loss on investment and dividend income as an investor, and may be exposed to losses due to reduction in investment value. 126 -7Total assets of the unconsolidated structured entities, the carrying value of the related items recorded, the maximum exposure to risks, and the loss recognized in conjunction with the unconsolidated structured entities as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Asset securitization Structured Investment vehicle finance Funds Total asset of the unconsolidated structured entities 6,796,235 58,161,494 11,138,822 Assets recognized in the consolidated financial statements related to the unconsolidated structured entities 2,571,835 2,831,842 1,530,767 Financial assets at FVTPL 285,156 70,219 1,197,844 Financial assets at FVTOCI 281,919 48,961 Financial assets at amortized cost 2,003,921 2,511,055 71,150 Investments in joint ventures and associates 197,393 261,773 Derivative assets 839 4,214 Liabilities recognized in the consolidated financial statements related to the unconsolidated structured entities 1,260 905 Derivative liabilities 116 248 Other liabilities (including provisions) 1,144 657 The maximum exposure to risks 3,252,329 3,408,271 1,587,325 We Believe in Your Potential Investments 2,571,835 2,831,842 1,530,767 Credit facilities 680,494 576,429 56,558 Loss recognized on unconsolidated structured entities 5,764 11,609 13,868 December 31, 2017 Asset securitization Structured Investment vehicle finance Funds Total asset of the unconsolidated structured entities 7,295,601 40,172,830 13,641,135 Assets recognized in the consolidated financial statements related to the unconsolidated structured entities 3,215,159 2,314,043 1,138,523 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Financial assets held for trading 233,428 10,160 AFS financial assets 902,390 106,819 904,774 HTM financial assets 2,269,451 Loans and receivables 43,180 1,969,760 Investments in joint ventures and associates 223,589 Derivative assets 138 4,036 Liabilities recognized in the consolidated financial statements related to the unconsolidated structured entities 1,433 1,506 Derivative liabilities 575 968 Other liabilities (including provisions) 858 538 The maximum exposure to risks 4,032,531 2,918,448 1,138,523 Investments 3,215,159 2,314,043 1,138,523 Credit facilities 817,372 604,405 Loss recognized on unconsolidated structured entities 837 3,939 5,993 127 -8(7) As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the share of non-controlling interests on the net income and equity of subsidiaries in which non-controlling interests are significant are as follows: (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 1) Accumulated non-controlling interests at the end of the reporting period December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Woori Investment Bank 130,088 191,111 PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 68,250 64,877 Wealth Development Bank 16,557 16,778 2) Net income or loss attributable to non-controlling interests For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Woori Investment Bank 10,262 8,370 PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 8,126 8,882 Wealth Development Bank 39 648 We Believe in Your Potential 3) Dividends to non-controlling interests For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 PT Bank Woori Saudara Indonesia 1906 Tbk 2,082 1,513 2. BASIS OF PREPARATION AND SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (1) Basis of presentation Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 The Woori Bank and its subsidiaries (the “Group”)’s consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with Korean Financial Reporting Standards (“K-IFRS”) The significant accounting policies applied in the preparation of consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31, 2018 are stated below, and the accounting policies applied are identical to ones used in the preparation of previous period’s consolidated financial statements, except for the effects of adopting new standards or interpretations as explained below. The consolidated financial statements are prepared at the end of each reporting period in historical cost basis, except for certain non-current assets and financial assets that are either revalued or measured in fair value. Historical cost is generally measured at the fair value of consideration given to acquire assets. The consolidated financial statements of the Group was approved by the Board of Directors on March 6, 2019, and is planned for an approval in the annual shareholders’ meeting on March 27, 2019. 1) The standards and interpretations that are newly adopted by the Group during the current period, and the changes in accounting policies thereof are as follows: Adoption of K-IFRS 1109 – Financial instruments (enacted) The Group initially applied K-IFRS 1109 and related amendments made to other standards during the current period, with January 1, 2018 as the date of initial application. K-IFRS 1109 introduces new rules on: 1) classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities, 2) impairment of financial assets, and 3) hedge accounting. Additionally, the Group adopted consequential amendments to K-IFRS 1107 Financial Instruments: Disclosures that were applied to the disclosures for 2018. The Group decided not to restate the prior period figures when applying the Standard for the first time, and as such the comparative consolidated financial statements are not restated. 128 -9The main contents of the new accounting standard and the effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Group are as follows. a) Classification and measurement of financial assets All financial assets included in the scope of K-IFRS 1109 are subsequently measured at amortized cost or fair value based on the Group’s business model for the management of financial assets and the nature of the contractual cash flows of the financial assets. Debt instruments that are held within a business model whose objective is to collect the contractual cash flows, and that have contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal outstanding are generally measured at amortized cost at the end of subsequent accounting periods (Financial assets at amortized cost). Debt instruments that are held within a business model whose objective is achieved both by collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets, and that have contractual cash flows that are solely payments of principal and interest on the principal outstanding are generally measured at fair value through other comprehensive income (Financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income (“FVTOCI”)). We Believe in Your Potential All other debt instruments and equity instruments are measured at their fair value at the end of subsequent accounting periods, and any change in the fair value is recognized as profit or loss (Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss (“FVTPL”)). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Group may make the following irrevocable choice or designation at the time of initial recognition of a financial asset. The Group may make an irrevocable election to present in other comprehensive income subsequent changes in the fair value of an investment in an equity instrument within the scope of this standard that is neither held for trading nor is a contingent consideration recognized by an acquirer in a business combination to which KWoori Bank Annual Report 2018 IFRS 1103 applies. At initial recognition, financial assets at amortized cost or FVTOCI may be irrevocably designated as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss mandatorily measured at fair value if doing so eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency. As of the date of initial application of K-IFRS 1109, there are no debt instruments classified either as financial assets at amortized cost or FVTOCI that are designated as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. When debt instruments measured at FVTOCI are derecognized, the cumulative gain or loss recognized in other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to profit or loss as a reclassification adjustment. On the other hand, for equity instruments designated as financial assets at fair value through other comprehensive income, cumulative gains or losses previously recognized in other comprehensive income are subsequently reclassified to retained earnings. Debt instruments measured subsequently at amortized cost or at FVTOCI are subject to impairment. 129 10 The classification and measurement of financial assets and financial liabilities in accordance with K-IFRS 1109 and K-IFRS 1039 as of January 1, 2018 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Amount in Classification in Classification in accordance Amount in accordance with accordance with with Reclassificati Remeasureaccordance with K-IFRS 1039 K-IFRS 1109 K-IFRS 1039 -on ment(*1) K-IFRS 1109 Deposit Loans and Loan and other receivables financial assets at amortized cost 8,870,835 8,870,835 Deposit Financial assets at Financial assets at FVTPL FVTPL 25,972 25,972 Debt securities Financial assets at Financial assets at FVTPL FVTPL(*1) 2,654,027 2,654,027 Equity securities Financial assets at Financial assets at FVTPL FVTPL(*1) 47,304 47,304 Derivatives assets Financial assets at Financial assets at FVTPL FVTPL(*1) 3,115,775 (2,137) 3,113,638 Equity securities AFS financial Financial assets at assets FVTPL(*1) 1,273,498 1,219 1,274,717 We Believe in Your Potential Equity securities AFS financial Financial assets at assets FVTOCI 850,207 850,207 Debt securities AFS financial Financial assets at assets FVTPL 46,855 46,855 Debt securities AFS financial Financial assets at assets FVTOCI 12,874,209 12,874,209 Debt securities AFS financial Securities at assets amortized cost 308,181 14,119 322,300 Debt securities HTM financial Securities at assets amortized cost 16,749,296 16,749,296 Loans Loans and Financial assets at Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 receivables FVTPL (*1) 279,032 918 50 280,000 Loans Loans and Loan and other receivables financial assets at amortized cost 253,014,491 253,014,491 Derivatives assets Derivatives assets Derivatives assets (Designated (Designated for (Designated for for hedging) hedging) hedging) 59,272 59,272 Other financial Loans and Loan and other assets receivables financial assets at amortized cost 6,772,088 6,772,088 Total financial assets 306,941,042 14,169 306,955,211 130 11 Amount in Classification in Classification in accordance Amount in accordance with accordance with with ReclassificaRemeasureaccordance with K-IFRS 1039 K-IFRS 1109 K-IFRS 1039 tion ment(*2) K-IFRS 1109 Deposit due to Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at customers at FVTPL FVTPL 25,964 25,964 Deposit due to Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at customers at amortized cost amortized cost 234,695,084 234,695,084 Borrowings Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at at amortized cost amortized cost 14,784,706 14,784,706 Debentures Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at at FVTPL FVTPL 91,739 91,739 Debentures Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at at amortized cost amortized cost 27,869,651 27,869,651 Equity-linked Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at securities at FVTPL FVTPL 160,057 160,057 Derivatives Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at liabilities at FVTPL FVTPL 3,150,149 3,150,149 Derivatives Derivatives Derivatives liabilities liabilities liabilities (Designated for (Designated (Designated for hedging) We Believe in Your Potential for hedging) hedging) 67,754 67,754 Other financial Financial liabilities Financial liabilities at liabilities at amortized cost amortized cost 13,892,461 13,892,461 Provision for Provision Financial liabilities at financial amortized cost guarantee 71,697 71,697 Total financial liabilities 294,809,262 294,809,262 (*1) Under K-IFRS 1039, the embedded derivatives out of hybrid financial instruments are accounted for as derivative assets or liabilities if the criteria for separation of the embedded derivatives are met; and the host contract in those instruments are recorded as available-for-sale financial assets or loans and receivables respectively. However, since Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 K-IFRS 1109 requires financial instruments to be accounted for based on the terms of the entire financial instrument, the hybrid financial assets are revalued and classified as financial assets at fair value through profit or loss. (*2) The remeasurement effect due to expected credit losses is not included (The remeasurement effect of expected credit losses is as follows: b) Impairment of financial assets). At the date of the initial application of K-IFRS 1109, there were no financial assets or liabilities measured at FVTPL that were reclassified to FVTOCI or amortized cost category. The financial assets at FVTPL or FVTOCI that are reclassified to the amortized cost measurement category as of the date of initial application of K-IFRS 1109, and the related valuation gain or loss and fair value of the financial assets as of December 31, 2018 had it not been reclassified, are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Category before the adoption of Amount of valuation gain/loss Account subject K-IFRS 1109 had it not been reclassified Fair value Debt securities(*) AFS financial assets 2 257,665 (*) Those financial assets that are removed from the books as of December 31, 2018 are not presented in the table above. 131 12 b) Impairment of financial assets The impairment model under K-IFRS 1109 reflects expected credit losses, as opposed to incurred credit losses under K-IFRS 1039. Under the impairment approach in K-IFRS 1109, it is no longer necessary for a credit event to have occurred before credit losses are recognized. Instead, the Group accounts for expected credit losses and changes in those expected credit losses. The amount of expected credit losses should be updated at each reporting date to reflect changes in credit risk since initial recognition. The Group is required to recognize the expected credit losses for financial instruments measured at amortized cost or FVTOCI (debt instrument), and unused loan commitments and financial guarantee contracts that are subject to the impairment provisions of K-IFRS 1109. In particular, K-IFRS 1109 requires the Group to measure the loss allowance for a financial instrument at an amount equal to the lifetime expected credit losses (ECL) if the credit risk on that financial instrument has increased significantly since initial recognition, or if the financial instrument is a purchased or originated credit-impaired financial asset. If the credit risk of a financial instruments does not increase significantly after initial recognition (excluding “purchased or originated credit-impaired loans” for financial assets already impaired at initial recognition), the Group measures the loss allowance on the financial instruments at the amount equivalent to the expected 12-month credit loss. Management assessed the impairment of the Group's financial assets, lending arrangements and financial We Believe in Your Potential guarantees at the date of initial application by using reasonable and supportive measures that can be used without undue cost or effort in determining the credit risk of the financial instruments at initial recognition in accordance with K-IFRS 1109 and in comparing above credit risk with the credit risk at the date of initial application. As of January 1, 2018, the results of the assessment are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Classification Loss allowance Loss allowance in accordance Classification in in accordance in accordance with K-IFRS accordance with with K-IFRS with K-IFRS Increases 1039 K-IFRS 1109 1039(A) 1109 (B) (B-A) Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Deposit Loans and Loans and other receivables financial assets at amortized cost 2,458 3,092 634 Debt securities AFS securities AFS financial Financial assets at assets FVTOCI 4,236 4,236 HTM securities HTM financial Securities at assets amortized cost 5,078 5,078 Loans and other financial Loans and Loans and other assets receivables financial assets at amortized cost 1,827,785 2,076,873 249,088 Payment guarantee 183,247 192,924 9,677 Loan commitment 66,115 104,985 38,870 Total 2,079,605 2,387,188 307,583 c) Classification and measurement of financial liabilities One of the major changes related to the classification and measurement of financial liabilities as a result of the adoption of K-IFRS 1109 is the accounting for change in the fair value of financial liabilities designated at fair value through profit or loss due to the changes in issuer’s own credit risk. The Group recognizes the effect of changes in the credit risk of financial liabilities designated as at FVTOCI in other comprehensive income, except for cases where it creates or enlarges accounting mismatch of the profit or loss. Changes in fair value due to credit risk of financial liabilities are not subsequently reclassified to profit or loss, but are reclassified as retained earnings when financial liabilities are derecognized. 132 13 In accordance with K-IFRS 1039, the entire of changes in fair value of financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL are recognized in profit or loss. As of January 1, 2018, the Group designated 251,796 million Korean Won of FVTPL out of 294,813,795 million of financial liabilities to be measured at FVTPL, and recognized 133 million Korean Won as accumulated other comprehensive loss in relation to the changes in own credit risk of financial liabilities. d) Hedge accounting The new hedge accounting model maintains three types of hedge accounting. However, it introduced more flexibility in the types of transactions that are eligible for hedge accounting and expanded the types of hedging instruments and non-financial hedge items that qualify for hedge accounting. The standard related to the evaluation of hedge accounting has been amended as a whole, where it is now replaced by the principle of economic relationship between the hedged item and the hedging instrument. Retrospective assessment of the hedging effectiveness is no longer required. Additional disclosure requirements have been introduced in relation to the Group's risk management activities. In accordance with the transitional provisions of K-IFRS 1109 on hedge accounting, the Group adopted the hedge accounting provisions of K-IFRS 1109 prospectively from January 1, 2018. As of the date of initial application, the Group concluded that the hedging relationship in accordance with K-IFRS 1039 is We Believe in Your Potential appropriate for hedge accounting under K-IFRS 1109, thus the hedging relationship is considered to exist continually. Since the major conditions for hedging instruments and the hedged items are consistent, all hedging relationships are consistent within the effectiveness assessment requirements of K-IFRS 1109. The Group has not designated a hedging relationship in accordance with K-IFRS 1109 in which the hedge relationship would not have met the requirements for hedge accounting under K-IFRS 1039. e) Effect on equity as a result of adoption of K-IFRS 1109 The effect on equity due to the adoption of K-IFRS 1109 as of January 1, 2018 is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Impact on accumulated other comprehensive loss due to financial assets at FVTOCI, etc. Amount Balance as of December 31, 2017 (prior to K-IFRS 1109) (89,724) Adjustments (392,176) Reclassification of available-for-sale financial assets to financial assets at FVTPL (152,124) Recognition of expected credit losses of debt securities at FVTOCI 4,293 Reclassification of available-for-sale financial assets(equity securities) to financial assets at FVTOCI (397,508) Effect on changes in credit risk of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss designated as upon initial recognition (133) Others 3,500 Income tax effect 149,796 Balance as of January 1, 2018 (based on K-IFRS 1109) (481,900) 133 14 Retained earnings impact Amount Balance as of December 31, 2017 (prior to K-IFRS 1109) 15,620,006 Adjustments 177,091 Reclassification of available-for-sale financial assets to financial assets at FVTPL 152,124 Recognition of expected credit losses of debt instruments at FVTOCI (4,293) Reclassification of available-for-sale financial assets(equity securities) to financial assets at FVTOCI 397,508 Effect on revaluation of financial assets at amortized cost from loan and receivables or AFS financial assets 282 Recognition of expected credit losses of financial assets at amortized cost which were previously loan and receivables (240,683) Effect on provision for guarantees and unused loan commitments on liabilities (48,548) Effect on changes in credit risk of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss designated as upon initial recognition 133 Others (4,950) Income tax effect (74,482) Balance as of January 1, 2018 (based on K-IFRS 1109) 15,797,097 We Believe in Your Potential Adoption of K-IFRS 1115 – Revenue from contracts with customers (enacted) The Group adopted the requirements using the modified retrospective method, with the effect of initial application recognized on the date of initial application and without restatement of the comparative periods. Also, this standard is retroactively applied to contracts which are not completed as of the date of initial application, but practical expedient is used so that contract modifications made before the date of initial application are not retroactively restated. Accordingly, the Group has not retroactively restated the comparative consolidated financial statements presented herein. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 The effects of the adoption of K-IFRS 1115 by Woori Card Co. Ltd., a subsidiary of Woori Bank, are as follows. Woori Card Co. Ltd. has modified its accounting policies related to the customer loyalty program, whereby rewards and points provided to the users of the card are deducted from revenue due to the fact that these are regarded as consideration provided to the customer. As a result of the aforementioned accounting policy modification, Fees and Commission Received on Credit Card and Fees and Commission Paid for Credit Card are both reduced by 525,978 million Won. On the other hand, accounting change modifications resulting from the adoption of K-IFRS 1115 did not have any significant effect on the Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, the capital and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows. Amendments to K-IFRS 1102 – Classification and Measurement of Share-based Payment Transactions The amendments clarify that: 1) When measuring the fair value of share-based payment, the effects of vesting and non-vesting conditions on the measurement of cash-settled share-based payment should be consistent with the measurement of equity-settled share-based payment; 2) When an entity has an obligation to pay the employee’s withholding tax to the tax authority for the employee’s equity-settled share-based payment, the transaction shall be classified in its entirety as an equity-settled share-based payment transaction if it would have been so classified in the absence of the net settlement feature; and 3) When a cash-settled share-based payment changes to an equity-settled share-based payment because of modifications of the terms and conditions, the original liability recognized is derecognized and the equity-settled sharebased payment is recognized at the modification date fair value. Any difference between the carrying amount of the liability at the modification date and the amount recognized in equity at the same date would be recognized in profit and loss immediately. Amendments to K-IFRS 1040 – Investment Property The amendments clarify that a transfer to, or from, investment property necessitates an assessment of whether a property meets the definition of investment property, supported by observable evidence that a change in use has occurred. The amendments further clarify that the situations listed in K-IFRS 1040 are not exhaustive and that a change in use is possible for properties under construction (i.e. a change in use is not limited to completed properties). 134 15 Amendments to K-IFRS 2122 – Foreign Currency Transactions and Advance Consideration The interpretation addresses how to determine the ‘date of transaction’ for the purpose of determining the exchange rate to use on initial recognition of an asset, expense or income (or part of them) as a result of the derecognition of a non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability (e.g., a non-refundable deposit or deferred revenue) which were previously recognized due to the fact that consideration was paid or received in advance in a foreign currency. The interpretation specifies that the date of transaction is the date on which the entity initially recognizes the non-monetary asset or non-monetary liability arising from the payment or receipt of advance consideration. If there are multiple payments or receipts in advance, the interpretation requires an entity to determine the date of transaction for each payment or receipt of advance consideration. Annual Improvements to K-IFRS 2014-2016 Cycle The amendments include partial amendments to K-IFRS 1101 ‘First-time Adoption of K-IFRS’ and K-IFRS 1028 ‘Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures.’ Amendments to K-IFRS 1028 provide that an investment company such as a venture capital investment vehicle may selectively designate each of its investment in associates and/or joint ventures to be measured at fair value through profit or loss mandatorily measured at fair value, and that such designation must be made at the time of each investment’s initial recognition. In addition, when non-investment companies apply equity method to investment in associates and/or joint ventures that are investment companies, these companies may apply the same fair value measurement used by the said associates to value their own subsidiaries. This accounting treatment may be We Believe in Your Potential selectively applied to each associate. The amendments, except for K-IFRS 1109 and K-IFRS 1115, do not have significant impact on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. 2) The Group has not applied the following K-IFRS that have been issued but are not yet effective: K-IFRS 1116 – Leases(enacted) K-IFRS 1116 introduces a comprehensive model for the identification of lease arrangements and accounting treatments for both lessors and lessees. K-IFRS 1116 will supersede the current lease guidance including KWoori Bank Annual Report 2018 IFRS 1017 Leases and the related interpretations, and will be applied to periods beginning on or after January 1, 2019. The Group plans to apply modified retrospective approach as of January 1, 2019 in accordance with K-IFRS 1116. Therefore, the cumulative effect of applying K-IFRS 1116 will be adjusted in the retained earnings (or, where appropriate, other components of equity) at the date of initial application, and the comparative financial statements will not be restated. K-IFRS 1116 distinguishes leases and service contracts on the basis of whether an identified asset is controlled by a customer. Distinctions of operating leases and finance leases are removed for lessee accounting, and is replaced by model where a right-of-use asset and corresponding liability have to be recognized for all leases by lessees except for short-term leases and leases of low value assets. The right-of-use asset is initially measured at cost and subsequently measured at cost (subject to certain exceptions) less accumulated depreciation and impairment losses, adjusted for any remeasurement of the lease liability. The lease liability is initially measured at the present value of the lease payments that are not paid at that date. Subsequently, the lease liability is adjusted for interest and lease payments, as well as the impact of lease modifications, amongst others. Furthermore, the classification of cash flows will also be affected as operating lease payments under K-IFRS 1017 are presented as operating cash flows; whereas under the K-IFRS 1116 model, the lease payments will be split into a principal and an interest portion which will be presented as financing and operating cash flows respectively. In contrast to lessee accounting, K-IFRS 1116 substantially carries forward the lessor accounting requirements in K-IFRS 1017, and continues to require a lessor to classify a lease either as an operating lease or a finance lease. Also, K-IFRS 1116 requires expanded disclosures. 135 16 According to the preliminary assessment of the Group, the lease agreements entered into by the Group as of December 31, 2018 are expected to meet the definition of lease under the Standard, and accordingly, if the Group adopts the Standard, it applies to all leases except short-term leases and leases of low value assets, and the Group will recognize the right-of-use assets and related liabilities accordingly. As a result of an analysis of the impact on consolidated financial statements, the Group expects right-of-use asset and lease liability to both increase by 338,914 million Won as of December 31, 2018. The following enacted/amended standards are not expected to affect the Group: K-IFRS 2123 – Uncertainty over Income Tax Treatments (enacted) Amendments to K-IFRS 1109 Amendments to K-IFRS 1028 Amendments to K-IFRS 1019 Amendments to K-IFRS 1115 Annual Improvements to K-IFRS 2015-2017 Cycle These annual improvements contain partial amendments to K-IFRS 1012 ‘Income taxes’, K-IFRS 1023 ‘Borrowing costs’, K-IFRS 1103 ‘Business combinations’ and K-IFRS 1111 ‘Joint arrangements’. (2) Basis of consolidated financial statement presentation We Believe in Your Potential The consolidated financial statements incorporate the financial statements of the Bank and the entities (including structured entities) controlled by the Bank (and its subsidiaries, which is the “Group”). Control is achieved where the Group 1) has the power over the investee, 2) is exposed, or has rights, to variable returns from its involvement with the investee, and 3) has the ability to use its power to affect its returns. The Group reassesses whether or not it controls an investee if facts and circumstances indicate that there are changes to one or more of the three elements of control listed above. When the Group has less than a majority of the voting rights of an investee, it has power over the investee when the voting rights are sufficient to give it the practical ability to direct the relevant activities of the investee Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 unilaterally. The Group considers all relevant facts and circumstances in assessing whether or not the Group's voting rights in an investee are sufficient to give it power, including: • The relative size of the Group's holding of voting rights and dispersion of holdings of the other vote holders; • Potential voting rights held by the Group, other vote holders or other parties; • Rights arising from other contractual arrangements; • Any additional facts and circumstances that indicate that the Group has, or does not have, the current ability to direct the relevant activities at the time that decisions need to be made, including voting patterns at previous shareholders' meetings. Income and expenses of subsidiaries acquired or disposed of during the year are included in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income from the date the Group gains control until the date when the Group ceases to control the subsidiary. Profit or loss and each component of other comprehensive income are attributed to the owner of the Group and to the non-controlling interests. Total comprehensive income of subsidiaries is attributed to the owner of the Group and to the non-controlling interests even if this results in the non-controlling interests having a deficit balance. Where necessary, adjustments are made to the financial statements of subsidiaries to bring their accounting policies into line with the Group’s accounting policies. All intra-group transactions and, related assets and liabilities, income and expenses are eliminated in full on consolidation. Changes in the Group’s ownership interests in subsidiaries that do not result in the Group losing control over the subsidiaries are accounted for as equity transactions. The carrying amounts of the Group’s interests and the noncontrolling interests are adjusted to reflect the changes in their relative interests in the subsidiaries. Any difference between the amount by which the non-controlling interests are adjusted and the fair value of the consideration paid or received is recognized directly in equity and attributed to the owner of the parent company. 136 17 When the Group loses control of a subsidiary, a gain or loss on disposal is calculated as the difference between (i) the aggregate of the fair value of the consideration received and the fair value of any retained interest and (ii) the previous carrying amount of the assets (including goodwill), and liabilities of the subsidiary and any noncontrolling interests. When assets of the subsidiary are carried at revalued amounts or fair values and the related cumulative gain or loss has been recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity, the amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are accounted for as if the Group had directly disposed of the relevant assets (i.e. reclassified to profit or loss or transferred directly to retained earnings). The fair value of any investment retained in the former subsidiary at the date when control is lost is recognized as the fair value on initial recognition for subsequent accounting under K-IFRS 1109 Financial Instruments or, when applicable, the cost on initial recognition of an investment in an associate or a joint venture. (3) Business combinations Acquisitions of subsidiaries and businesses are accounted for using the acquisition method. The consideration transferred in a business combination is measured as the sum of the acquisition-date fair values of the assets transferred by the Group in exchange for control of the acquiree, liabilities assumed by the Group for the former owners of the acquiree and the equity interests issued by the Group. Acquisition-related costs are generally recognized in profit or loss as incurred. We Believe in Your Potential At the acquisition date, the acquiree’s identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities that meet the condition for recognition under K-IFRS 1103 are recognized at their fair value, except that: • deferred tax assets or liabilities and assets or liabilities related to employee benefit arrangements are recognized and measured in accordance with K-IFRS 1012 Income Taxes and K-IFRS 1019 Employee Benefits, respectively; • liabilities or equity instruments related to share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree or sharebased payment arrangements of the Group entered into to replace share-based payment arrangements of the acquiree are measured in accordance with K-IFRS 1102 Share-based Payment at the acquisition date; Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 and • non-current assets (or disposal groups) that are classified as held for sale in accordance with K-IFRS 1105 Non-current Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations are measured at the lower of their previous carrying amounts and fair value less costs to sell. Any excess of the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the Group’s previously held equity interest (if any) in the acquiree over the net of identifiable assets and liabilities assumed of the acquiree at the acquisition date is recognized as goodwill which is included in intangible assets. If, after reassessment, the Group’s interest in the fair value of the acquiree’s identifiable net assets exceeds the sum of the consideration transferred, the amount of any non-controlling interest in the acquiree and the fair value of the acquirer’s previously held equity interest in the acquiree (if any), the excess is recognized immediately in net income as a bargain purchase gain. Non-controlling interests that are present ownership interests and entitle their holders to a proportionate share of the entity's net assets in the event of liquidation may be initially measured either at fair value or at the noncontrolling interests' proportionate share of the recognized amounts of the acquiree's identifiable net assets. The choice of measurement basis is made on a transaction-by-transaction basis. Other types of non-controlling interests are measured at fair value When the consideration transferred by the Group in a business combination includes assets or liabilities resulting from a contingent consideration arrangement, the contingent consideration is measured at its acquisition-date fair value and included as part of the consideration transferred in a business combination. Changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that qualify as measurement period adjustments are adjusted retrospectively, with corresponding adjustments against goodwill. Measurement period adjustments are adjustments that arise from additional information obtained during the ‘measurement period’ (which cannot exceed one year from the acquisition date) about facts and circumstances that existed at the acquisition date. 137 18 The subsequent accounting for changes in the fair value of the contingent consideration that do not qualify as measurement period adjustments depends on how the contingent consideration is classified. Contingent consideration that is classified as equity is not remeasured at subsequent reporting dates and its subsequent settlement is accounted for within equity. Contingent consideration other than the above is remeasured at subsequent reporting dates as appropriate, with the corresponding gain or loss being recognized in profit or loss. When a business combination is achieved in stages, the Group's previously held equity interest in the acquiree is remeasured at fair value at the acquisition date (i.e., the date when the Group obtains control) and the resulting gain or loss, if any, is recognized in net income(or other comprehensive income, if applicable). Amounts arising from changes in value of interests in the acquiree prior to the acquisition date that have previously been recognized in other comprehensive income are recognized, identical to the treatment assuming interests are sold directly. In case where i) a common entity ultimately controls over all participating entities, or businesses, in a business combination transaction, prior to and after the transaction continuously, and ii) the control is not temporary, the transaction meets the definition of “business combination under common control” and it is deemed that the transaction only results in the changes in legal substance, and not economic substance, from the perspective of the ultimate controlling party. Thus, in such transactions, the acquirer recognizes the assets and liabilities of the acquiree in its financial statements at the book values as recognized in the ultimate controlling party’s We Believe in Your Potential consolidated financial statements, and the difference between the book value of consideration transferred to and the book value of net assets transferred in is recognized as equity. (4) Investments in joint ventures and associates An associate is an entity over which the Group has significant influence, and that is not a subsidiary or a joint venture. Significant influence is the power to participate in making decision on the financial and operating policy of the investee but is not control or joint control over those policies. A joint venture is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 to net assets relating to the arrangement. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. The net income of current period and the assets and liabilities of the joint ventures and associates are incorporated in these consolidated financial statements using the equity method of accounting, except when the investment is classified as held for sale, in which case it is accounted for in accordance with K-IFRS 1105 Noncurrent Assets Held for Sale and Discontinued Operations. Under the equity method, an investment in the joint ventures and associates is initially recognized in the consolidated statements of financial position at cost and adjusted thereafter to recognize the Group's share of the net assets of the joint ventures and associates and any impairment. When the Group's share of losses of the joint ventures and associates exceeds the Group's interest in the associate, the Group discontinues recognizing its share of further losses. Additional losses are recognized only to the extent that the Group has incurred legal or constructive obligations or made payments on behalf of the joint ventures and associates. Any excess of the cost of acquisition over the Group's share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities of the joint ventures and associates recognized at the date of acquisition is recognized as goodwill, which is included within the carrying amount of the investment. Any excess of the Group’s share of the net fair value of the identifiable assets, liabilities and contingent liabilities over the cost of acquisition is recognized immediately in net income. Upon a loss of significant influence over the joint ventures and associates, the Group discontinues the use of the equity method and measures at fair value of any investment that the Group retains in the former joint ventures and associates from the date when the Group loses significant influence. The fair value of the investment is regarded as its fair value on initial recognition as a financial asset in accordance with K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments; Recognition and Measurement. The Group recognized differences between the carrying amount and fair value in net income and it is included in determination of the gain or loss on disposal of joint ventures and associates. The Group accounts for all amounts recognized in other comprehensive income in relation to that joint ventures and associates on the same basis as would be required if the joint ventures and associates had directly disposed of the related assets or liabilities. Therefore, if a gain or loss previously recognized in other 138 19 comprehensive income by an associate would be reclassified to net income on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities, the Group reclassifies the gain or loss from equity to net income as a reclassification adjustment. When the Group’s ownership of interest in an associate or a joint venture decreases but the Group continues to maintain significant influence over an associate or a joint venture, the Group reclassifies to profit or loss the proportion of the gain or loss that had previously been recognized in other comprehensive income relating to that decrease in ownership interest if the gain or loss would be reclassified to profit or loss on the disposal of the related assets or liabilities. Meanwhile, if interest on associate or joint venture meets the definition of noncurrent asset held for sale, it is accounted for in accordance with K-IFRS 1105. The requirements of K-IFRS 1028 Investments in Associates and Joint Ventures to determine whether there has been a loss event are applied to identify whether it is necessary to recognize any impairment loss with respect to the Group’s investment in the joint ventures and associates. When necessary, the entire carrying amount of the investment (including goodwill) is tested for impairment in accordance with K-IFRS 1036 Impairment of Assets as a single asset by comparing its recoverable amount (higher of value in use and fair value less costs to sell) with its carrying amount. Any impairment loss recognized is not allocated to any asset (including goodwill), which forms part of the carrying amount of the investment. Any reversal of that impairment loss is recognized in accordance with K-IFRS 1036 to the extent that the recoverable amount of the investment subsequently increases. We Believe in Your Potential The Group continues to use the equity method when an investment in an associate becomes an investment in a joint venture or an investment in a joint venture becomes an investment in an associate. There is no remeasurement to fair value upon such changes in ownership interests. When a subsidiary transacts with an associate or a joint venture of the Group, profits and losses resulting from the transactions with the associate or joint venture are recognized in the Group's consolidated financial statements only to the extent of interests in the associate or joint venture that are not related to the Group. (5) Investment in Joint operation Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 A joint operation is a joint arrangement whereby the parties that have joint control of the arrangement have rights to the assets, and obligations for the liabilities, relating to the arrangement. Joint control is the contractually agreed sharing of control of an arrangement, which exists only when decisions about the relevant activities require the unanimous consent of the parties sharing control. When the Group operates as a joint operator, it recognizes in relation to its interest in a joint operation: its assets, including its share of any assets held jointly; its liabilities, including its share of any liabilities incurred jointly; its revenue from the sale of its share of the output arising from the joint operation; its share of the revenue from the sale of the output by the joint operation; and its expenses, including its share of any expenses incurred jointly. The Group accounts for the assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses relating to its interest in a joint operation in accordance with the K-IFRSs applicable to the particular assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses. When the Group enters into a transaction with a joint operation in which it is a joint operator, such as a sale or contribution of assets, it is conducting the transaction with the other parties to the joint operation and, as such, the Group recognizes gains and losses resulting from such a transaction only to the extent of the other parties’ interests in the joint operation. When the Group enters into a transaction with a joint operation in which it is a joint operator, such as a purchase of assets, it does not recognize proportional share of profit or loss until the asset is sold to a third party. 139 20 (6) Revenue recognition K-IFRS 1018 allowed recognition of fees and commission income, a revenue from contracts with customers, in accordance with the accrual principle. However, K-IFRS 1115, applicable from the current period, requires the recognition of revenues based on transaction price allocated to the performance obligation when or as the Group performs that obligation to the customer. Since revenues other than those from contracts with customers, such as interest revenue and loan origination fee (cost), are measured through effective interest rate method, the revenue recognition principles are identical with those applied in the previous periods. 1) Revenues from contracts with customers The Group recognizes revenue when the Group satisfies a performance obligation by transferring a promised good or service to a customer. When a performance obligation is satisfied, the Group shall recognizes as a revenue the amount of the transaction price that is allocated to that performance obligation. The transaction price is the amount of consideration to which the Group expects to be entitled in exchange for transferring promised goods or services to a customer, excluding amounts collected on behalf of third parties. The Group is recognizing revenue by major sources as shown below: Fees and commission received for brokerage We Believe in Your Potential ① The fees and commission received for agency are the amount of consideration or fee expected to be entitled to receive in return for providing goods or services to the other parties with the Group acting as an agency, such as in the case of sales of bancassurance and beneficiary certificates. The majority of these fees and commission received for brokerage are from the business activities relevant to Consumer banking segment. ② Fees and commission received related to credit The fees and commission received related to credit mainly include the lending fees received from the loan activity and the fees received in the L/C transactions. Except for the fees and commission accounted for in calculating the effective interest rate, it is generally recognized when the performance obligation has been Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 performed. The majority of these fees and commission received related to credit are from the business activities relevant to Consumer banking and Corporate banking segment. ③ Fees and commission received for electronic finance The fees and commission received for electronic finance include fees received in return for providing various kinds of electronic financial services through firm-banking and CMS. These fees are recognized as revenue immediately upon the completion of services. The majority of these fees and commission received for electronic finance are from the business activities relevant to Consumer banking and Corporate banking segment. ④ Fees and commission received on foreign exchange handling The fees and commission received on foreign exchange handling consist of various fees incurred when transferring foreign currency. The point of processing the customer's request is the time when performance obligation is satisfied, and revenue is immediately recognized when fees and commission are received after requests are processed. The business activities relevant to these fees and commission received on foreign exchange handling are substantially attributable to Corporate banking segment. ⑤ Fees and commission received on foreign exchange The fees and commission received on foreign exchange consist of fees related to the issuance of various certificates, such as exchange, import and export performance certificates, purchase certificates, etc. The point of processing the customer's request is the time when performance obligation is satisfied, and revenue is immediately recognized when fees and commission are received after requests are processed. The business activities relevant to these fees and commission received on foreign exchange are substantially attributable to Corporate banking segment. ⑥ Fees and commission received for guarantee The fees and commission received for guarantee include the fees received for the various warranties. The activities related to the warranty consist mainly of performance obligations satisfied over time and fees and commission are recognized over the guarantee period. The business activities relevant to these fees and commission received for guarantee are substantially attributable to Corporate banking segment. 140 21 ⑦ Fees and commission received on credit card The fees and commission received on credit card consist mainly of merchant account fees and annual fees. The Group recognizes merchant account fees by multiplying agreed commission rate to the amount paid by using the credit card. The annual fees are performance obligation satisfied over time and are recognized over agreed periods after the annual fees are paid in advance. The business activities relevant to these fees and commission received on credit card are substantially attributable to Credit cards segment. ⑧ Fees and commission received on securities business The fees and commission received on securities business consist mainly of fees and commission for the sale of beneficiary certificates, and these fees are recognized when the beneficiary certificates are sold to customers. The business activities relevant to these fees and commission received on securities business are substantially attributable to Consumer banking segment. ⑨ Fees and commission from trust management The fees and commission from trust management consist of fees and commission received in return for the operation and management services for entrusted assets. These operation and management services are performance obligations satisfied over time, and revenue is recognized over the service period. Among the fees We Believe in Your Potential and commission from trust management, variable considerations such as profit commission that are affected by the value of entrusted assets and base return of the future periods are recognized as revenue when limitations to the estimates are lifted. The majority of these fees and commission received for brokerage are from the business activities relevant to Consumer banking segment. ⑩ Fees and commission received on credit Information The fees and commission received on credit Information are composed of the fees and commission received by performing credit investigation and proxy collection services. Credit investigation fees and commission are the amount received in return for verifying the information requested by the customer and are recognized as revenue at the time the verification is completed. Proxy collection service fees are recognized by multiplying the Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 applicable rate to the collected amount at the time when collection services are completed. The majority of these fees and commission received for brokerage are from the business activities relevant to Consumer banking segment. ⑪ Other fees Other fees are usually fees related to remittances, but include fees related to various other services provided to customers by the Group. These fees are recognized when transactions occur at the customers' request and services are provided, at the same time when commission are received. These other fees occur across all operating segments and no single operating segment represents majority of other fees. 2) Revenues from sources other than contracts with customers ① Interest income Interest income on financial assets measured at FVTOCI and financial assets at amortized costs is measured using the effective interest method. The effective interest method is a method of calculating the amortized cost of a debt instrument and of allocating the interest income over the expected life of the asset. The effective interest rate is the rate that exactly discounts estimated future cash flows to the instrument's initial unamortized cost over the expected period, or shorter if appropriate. Future cash flows include commissions and cost of reward points(limited to the primary component of effective interest rate) and other premiums or discounts that are paid or received between the contractual parties when calculating the effective interest rate, but does not include expected credit losses. All contractual terms of a financial instrument are considered when estimating future cash flows. For purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets, interest revenue is recognized by applying the credit-adjusted effective interest rate to the amortized cost of the financial asset from initial recognition. Even if the financial asset is no longer impaired in the subsequent periods due to credit improvement, the basis of interest revenue calculation is not changed from amortized cost to unamortized cost of the financial assets. 141 22 ② Loan origination fees and costs The commission fees earned on loans, which is part of the effective interest of loans, is accounted for as deferred origination fees. Incremental costs related to the origination of loans are accounted for as deferred origination fees and is being added or deducted to/from interest income on loans using effective interest rate method. (7) Accounting for foreign currencies The Group’s consolidated financial statements are presented in Korean Won, which is the functional currency of the Group. At the end of each reporting period, monetary assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies are translated to the functional currency at its prevailing exchange rates at the date. The effective portion of the changes in fair value of a derivative that qualifies as a cash flow hedge and the foreign exchange differences on monetary items that form part of net investment in foreign operations are recognized in equity. Assets and liabilities of the foreign operations subject to consolidation are translated into Korean Won at foreign exchange rates at the end of the reporting period. Except for situations in which it is required to use exchange rates at the date of transaction due to significant changes in exchange rates during the period, items that belong to profit or loss shall be measured by average exchange rate, with foreign exchange differences recognized as other comprehensive income and added to equity (allocated to non-controlling interests, if appropriate). When We Believe in Your Potential foreign operations are disposed, the controlling interest’s share of accumulated foreign exchange differences related to such foreign operations will be reclassified to profit or loss, while non-controlling interest’s corresponding share will not be reclassified. Adjustments to fair value of identifiable assets and liabilities, and goodwill arising from the acquisition of foreign operations will be treated as assets and liabilities of the corresponding foreign operation, and is translated using foreign exchange rates at the end of the period. The foreign exchange differences are recognized in equity. (8) Cash and cash equivalents The Group is classifying cash on hand, demand deposits, interest-earning deposits with original maturities of up Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 to three months on acquisition date, and highly liquid investments that are readily convertible to known amounts of cash and subject to an insignificant risk of changes in value as cash and cash equivalents. (9) Financial assets and financial liabilities The Group’s accounting policies in accordance with the newly adopted K-IFRS 1109 are as follows: 1) Financial assets A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is recognized or derecognized on the trade or settlement date. A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose term requires delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or convention in the marketplace concerned. On initial recognition, financial assets are classified into financial assets at FVTPL, financial assets at FVTOCI, and financial assets at amortized cost. a) Business model The Group evaluates the way business is being managed, and the purpose of the business model for managing a financial asset best reflects the way information is provided to the management at its portfolio level. Such information considers the following: The accounting policies and purpose specified for the portfolio, the actual operation of such policies. This includes strategy of the management focusing on the receipt of contractual interest revenue, maintaining a certain level of interest income, matching the duration of financial assets and the duration of corresponding liabilities to obtain the asset, and outflow or realization of expected cash flows from disposal of assets The way the performance of a financial asset held under the business model is evaluated, and the way such evaluation is being reported to the management 142 23 The risk affecting the performance of the business model (and financial assets held under the business model), and the way such risk is being managed The compensation plan for the management (e.g. whether the management is being compensated based on the fair value of assets or based on contractual cash flows received) Frequency, amount, timing and reason for sale of financial assets in the past, and forecast of future sale activities. b) Contractual cash flows The principal is defined to be the fair value of a financial assets at initial recognition. Interest is not only composed of consideration for the time value of money, consideration for the credit risk related to remaining principal at a certain period of time, and consideration for other cost (e.g. liquidity risk and cost of operation) and fundamental risk associated with lending, but also profit. When evaluating whether contractual cash flows are solely payments of principal and interests, the Group considers the contractual terms of the financial instrument. When a financial asset contains contractual conditions that modify the timing and amount of contractual cash flows, it is required to determine whether contractual cash flows that arise during the remaining life of the financial instrument due to such contractual condition are solely payments of principal and interest. The Group considers the following elements when evaluating the above: We Believe in Your Potential Conditions that lead to modification of timing or amount of cash flows Contractual terms that adjust contractual nominal interest, including floating rate features Early payment features and maturity extension features Contractual terms that limit the Group’s claim on cash flows arising from certain assets (e.g. nonrecourse feature) ① Financial assets at FVTPL The Group is classifying those financial assets that are not classified as either financial assets at amortized cost or financial assets at FVTOCI, and those designated to be measured at FVTPL, as financial assets at Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 FVTPL. Financial assets at FVTPL are measured at fair value, and related profit or loss is recognized in net income. Transaction costs related to acquisition at initial recognition is recognized in net income immediately upon its occurrence. It is possible to designate a financial asset as financial asset at FVTPL if at initial recognition: (a) it is possible to remove or significantly reduce recognition or measurement mismatch that may otherwise have occurred if not for its designation as financial asset at FVTPL; (b) the financial asset forms part of the Group’s financial instrument group (A group composed of a combination of financial asset or liability), is measured at fair value and is being evaluated for its performance, and such information is provided internally; and (c) the financial asset is part of a contract that contains one or more of embedded derivatives, and is a hybrid contract in which designation as financial asset at FVTPL is allowed under K-IFRS 1109 ‘Financial Instruments’. However, the designation is irrevocable. ② Financial assets at FVTOCI When financial assets are held under a business model whose objective is achieved by both collecting contractual cash flows and selling financial assets, and when contractual cash flows from such financial assets are solely payments of principal and interest, the financial assets are classified as financial assets at FVTOCI. Also, for investments in equity instruments that are not held for short-term trade, an irrevocable election is available at initial recognition to present subsequent changes in fair value as other comprehensive income. At initial recognition, financial assets at FVTOCI is measured at its fair value plus any direct transaction cost, and is subsequently measured in fair value. However, for equity instruments that do not have a quotation in an active market and in which fair value cannot be measured reliably, they are measured at cost. The changes in fair value except for profit or loss items such as impairment losses (reversals), interest revenue calculated by using effective interest method, and foreign exchange gain or loss, and related income tax effects are recognized as other comprehensive income until the asset’s disposal. Upon derecognition, the accumulated other comprehensive income is reclassified from equity to net income for FVTOCI (debt instrument), and reclassified within the equity for FVTOCI (equity instruments). 143 24 ③ Financial assets at amortized cost When financial assets are held under a business model whose objective is to hold financial assets in order to collect contractual cash flows, and when contractual cash flows from such financial assets are solely payments of principal and interest, the financial assets are classified as financial assets at amortized cost. At initial recognition, financial assets at amortized cost are recognized at fair value plus any direct transaction cost. Financial assets at amortized cost is presented at amortized cost using effective interest method, less any loss allowance. 2) Financial liabilities At initial recognition, financial liabilities are classified into either financial liabilities at FVTPL or financial liabilities at amortized cost. Financial liabilities are usually classified as financial liabilities at FVTPL when they are acquired with a purpose to repurchase them within a short period of time, when they are part of a certain financial instrument portfolio that is actually and recently being managed with a purpose of short-term profit and joint management by the Group at initial recognition, and when they are derivatives that do not qualify as hedging instruments. Financial liabilities at FVTPL are measured at fair value plus direct transaction cost at initial recognition, and are subsequently measured at fair value. Profit or loss arising from financial liabilities at FVTPL is recognized in net We Believe in Your Potential income when occurred. It is possible to designate a financial liability as financial liability at FVTPL if at initial recognition: (a) it is possible to remove or significantly reduce recognition or measurement mismatch that may otherwise have occurred if not for its designation as financial liability at FVTPL; (b) the financial asset forms part of the Group’s financial instrument group (A group composed of a combination of financial asset or liability) according to the Group’s documented risk management or investment strategy, is measured at fair value and is being evaluated for its performance, and such information is provided internally; and (c) the financial liability is part of a contract that contains one or more of embedded derivatives, and is a hybrid contract in which designation as financial liability at FVTPL is allowed under K-IFRS 1109 ‘Financial Instruments’. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL are initially recognized at fair value, with any direct transaction cost recognized in profit or loss, and are subsequently measured at fair value. Any profit or loss from financial liabilities at FVTPL are recognized in profit or loss. Financial liabilities not classified as financial liabilities at FVTPL are measured at amortized cost. The Group is classifying liabilities such as deposits due to customers, borrowings and debentures as financial liabilities at amortized cost. 3) Reclassification Financial assets are not reclassified after initial recognition unless the Group modifies the business model used to manage financial assets. When the Group modifies the business model used to manage financial assets, all affected financial assets are reclassified on the first day of the first reporting period after the modification. 4) Derecognition Financial assets are derecognized when contractual rights to cash flows from the financial assets are expired, or when substantially all of risk and reward for holding financial assets is transferred to another entity as a result of a sale of financial assets. If the Group does not have and does not transfer substantially all of the risk and reward of holding financial assets with control of the transferred financial assets retained, the Group recognizes financial assets to the extent of its continuing involvement. If the Group holds substantially all the risk and reward of holding a financial asset, it continues to recognize that asset and proceeds are accounted for as collateralized borrowings. When a financial asset is fully derecognized, the difference between the book value and the sum of proceeds and accumulated other comprehensive income is recognized as profit or loss in case of FVTOCI (debt instruments), and as retained earnings for FVTOCI (equity instruments). 144 25 In case when a financial asset is not fully derecognized, the Group allocates the book value into amounts retained in the books and removed from the books, based on the relative fair value of each portion at the date of sale, and based on the degree of continuing involvement. For the derecognized portion of the financial assets, the difference between its book value and the sum of proceeds and the portion of accumulated other comprehensive income attributable to that portion will be recognized in profit or loss in case of debt instruments and recognized in retained earnings in case of equity instruments. The accumulated other comprehensive income is distributed to the portion of book value retained in the books, and to the portion of book value removed from the books. The Group derecognizes financial liabilities when, and only when, the Group’s obligations are discharged, cancelled or have expired. The difference between the carrying amount of the financial liability derecognized and the consideration paid and payable is recognized in profit or loss. When the Group exchanges with the existing lender one debt instrument into another one with the substantially different terms, such exchange is accounted for as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new financial liability. Similarly, the Group accounts for substantial modification of terms of an existing liability or part of it as an extinguishment of the original financial liability and the recognition of a new liability. It is assumed that the terms are substantially different if the discounted present value of the cash flows under the new terms, including any fees paid net of any fees received and discounted using the original effective rate is at least 10 percent different from the discounted present value of the remaining cash flows of the original We Believe in Your Potential financial liability 5) Fair value of financial instruments Financial assets at FVTPL and financial assets at FVTOCI are measured and presented in consolidated financial statements at their fair values, and all derivatives are also subject to fair value measurement. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to exchange an asset or paid to transfer a liability in a recent transaction between independent parties that are reasonable and willing. Fair value is the transaction price of identical financial assets or financial liabilities generated in an active market. An active market is a market where trade volume is sufficient and objective price information is available due to the fact that bid and ask price Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 differences are small. When trade volume of a financial instrument is low, when transaction prices within the market show large differences among them, or when it cannot be concluded that a financial instrument is being traded within an active market due to disclosures being extremely shallow, fair value is measured using valuation techniques based on alternative market information or using internal valuation techniques based on general and observable information obtained from objective sources. Market information includes maturity and characteristics, duration, similar yield curve, and variability measurement of financial instruments of similar nature. Fair value amount contains unique assumptions on each entity (the Group concluded that it is using assumptions applied in valuing financial instruments in the market, or risk-adjusted assumptions in case marketability does not exist). The market approach and income approach, which are valuation techniques used to estimate the fair value of financial instruments, both require significant judgment. Market approach measures fair value using either a recent transaction price that includes the financial instrument, or observable information on comparable firm or assets. Income approach measures fair value through discounting future cash flows with a discount rate reflecting market expectations, and revenue, operating income, depreciation, capital expenditures, income tax, working capital and estimated residual value of financial investments are being considered when deriving future cash flows. Valuation techniques such as the above include estimates based on the financial instruments’ complexity and usefulness of observable information in the market. The valuation techniques used in the evaluation of financial instruments are explained below. a) Financial assets at FVTPL and Financial assets at FVTOCI The fair value of equity securities included in financial assets at FVTPL and financial assets at FVTOCI category is recognized in the statement of financial position at its available market price. Debt securities traded in the over-the-counter market are generally recognized at an amount computed by an independent appraiser. Especially, when the Group uses the fair value determined by independent appraisers, the Group usually obtains three values from three different appraisers for each financial instrument, and selects the minimum amount without making additional adjustments. For equity securities without marketability, the Group uses the amount determined by the independent appraiser. The Group verifies the prices obtained from appraisers in various 145 26 ways, including the evaluation of independent appraisers’ competency, indirect verification through comparison between appraisers’ price and other available market information, and reperformance done by employees who have knowledge of valuation models and assumptions that appraisers used. b) Derivatives The Group’s transactions involving derivatives such as futures and exchange traded options are measured at market value. For exchange traded derivatives classified as level 2 in the fair value hierarchy, the fair value is estimated using internal valuation techniques. If there are no publicly available market prices because they are traded over-the-counter, fair value is measured through internal valuation techniques. When using internal valuation techniques to derive fair value, the types of derivatives, base interest rate or characteristics of prices, or stock market indices are considered. When variables used in the internal valuation techniques are not observable information in the market, such variables may contain significant estimates. c) Adjustment of valuation amount The Group is exposed to credit risk when counterparty to a derivative contract does not perform its contractual obligation, and the exposure amount is equal to the amount of derivative asset recognized in the statement of financial position. When the Group earns income through valuation of derivatives, such income is recognized as derivative asset in the statement of financial position. Some of the derivatives are traded in the market, but most of the derivatives are measured at estimated fair value derived from internal valuation models that use We Believe in Your Potential observable information in the market. As such, in order to estimate the fair value there should be an adjustment made to incorporate counterparty’s credit risk, and credit risk adjustment is being considered when valuing derivative assets such as over-the counter derivatives. The amount of financial liabilities is also adjusted by the Group’s own credit risk when valuing them. The amount of adjustment is derived from counterparty’s probability of default and loss given default. This adjustment considers contractual matters that are designed to reduce the Group’s exposure to each counterparty’s credit risk. When derivatives are under master netting arrangement, the exposure used in the computation of credit risk adjustment is a net amount after adding/deducting cash collateral received (or paid) from loss(or gain) position derivatives with the same counterparty. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 6) Expected credit losses on financial assets The Group recognizes loss allowance on expected credit losses for the following assets: Financial assets at amortized cost Debt instruments measured at FVTOCI Contract assets as defined by K-IFRS 1115 Expected credit losses are weighted-average value of a range of possible results, considering the time value of money, and are measured by incorporating information on current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions that are available without undue cost or effort. The methods to measure expected credit losses are classified into following three categories in accordance with K-IFRS: General approach: Financial assets that does not belong to below two models and unused loan commitments Simplified approach: When financial assets are either trade receivables, contract assets or lease receivables Credit impairment model: Purchased or originated credit-impaired financial assets The measurement of loss allowance under general approach is differentiated depending on whether the credit risk has increased significantly after initial recognition. That is, loss allowance is measured based on 12-month expected credit loss when the credit risk has not increased significantly after initial recognition, while loss allowance is measured at lifetime expected credit loss when credit risk has increased significantly. Lifetime is the expected remaining life of the financial instrument up to the maturity date of the contract. The measurement of loss allowance under simplified approach is always based on lifetime expected credit loss, and loss allowance under credit impairment model is measured as the cumulative change in lifetime expected credit loss since initial recognition. 146 27 a) Measurement of expected credit losses on financial asset at amortized cost The expected credit losses on financial assets at amortized cost is measured by the difference between the contractual cash flows during the period and the present value of expected cash flows. Expected cash inflows are computed for individually significant financial assets in order to calculate expected credit losses. When financial assets that are not individually significant, they are included in a group of financial assets with similar credit risk characteristics and expected credit losses of the group are calculated collectively. Expected credit losses are deducted through loss allowance account, and when the financial asset is determined to be uncollectible, the loss allowance is written off from the books along with the related financial asset. When loan receivable previously written off is subsequently collected, the related loss allowance is increased and changes in loss allowance are recognized in profit or loss. b) Measurement of expected credit losses on financial asset at FVTOCI The measurement method of expected credit loss is identical to financial asset at amortized cost, but changes in the loss allowance is recognized in other comprehensive income. When financial assets at FVTOCI is disposed or repaid, the related loss allowance is reclassified from other comprehensive income to net income. We Believe in Your Potential The comparative financial statements for the year 2017 are prepared in accordance with K-IFRS 1039. 1) Financial assets A regular way purchase or sale of financial assets is recognized or derecognized on the trade or settlement date. A regular way purchase or sale is a purchase or sale of a financial asset under a contract whose term requires delivery of the asset within the time frame established generally by regulation or convention in the marketplace concerned. On initial recognition, financial assets are classified into financial assets at fair value through profit or loss Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 (“FVTPL”), AFS financial assets, held-to-maturity (“HTM”) and loans and receivables. ① Financial assets at FVTPL The Group classifies financial assets as financial assets measured at FVTPL when they are either held for trading or designated to be measured at FVTPL. Financial assets acquired with the purpose of selling in the near term are classified as financial assets held for trading, and are measured at fair value with related valuation gain or loss recognized in net income. Any transaction cost related to the acquisition of financial assets at initial recognition is recognized in net income upon its occurrence. A financial asset other than a financial asset held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: (a) such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise; or (b) the financial asset forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group's documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or (c) it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL. Financial assets designated by the Group on initial recognition as at FVTPL are recognized at fair value, with transaction costs recognized in net income, and are subsequently measured at fair value. Gains and losses on financial assets that are designated as at FVTPL are recognized in net income as they arise. 147 28 ② AFS financial assets Financial assets that are not classified as HTM, financial assets at FVTPL, or loans and receivables, are classified as AFS. Financial assets can be designated as AFS on initial recognition. AFS financial assets are initially recognized at fair value plus directly related transaction costs. They are subsequently measured at fair value. Unquoted equity investments whose fair value cannot be measured reliably are carried at cost and classified as AFS financial assets. Impairment losses in monetary and non-monetary AFS financial assets and dividends on non-monetary financial assets are recognized in net income. Interest revenue on monetary financial assets is calculated using the effective interest method. Other changes in the fair value of AFS financial assets and any related tax are reported in a separate component of shareholders' equity until disposal, when the cumulative gain or loss is recognized in net income. ③ HTM financial assets A financial asset may be classified as a HTM investment only if it has fixed or determinable payments, a fixed maturity, and the Group has the positive intention and ability to hold the financial asset to maturity. HTM investments are initially recognized at fair value plus directly related transaction costs. They are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses. ④ Loans and other receivables We Believe in Your Potential Non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable repayments that are not quoted in an active market are classified as loans and receivables, except those that are classified as AFS or as held-for-trading, or designated as at FVTPL. Loans and receivables are initially recognized at fair value plus directly related transaction costs. They are subsequently measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method less any impairment losses. Interest income is recognized using the effective interest method, except for the short-term receivables to which the present value discount is not meaningful. 2) Financial liabilities On initial recognition financial liabilities are classified financial liabilities at FVTPL (held for trading, and financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL) and financial liabilities measured at amortized cost. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 A financial liability is classified as held-for-trading if it is incurred principally for repurchase in the near term, or forms part of a portfolio of financial instruments that are managed together and for which there is evidence of short-term profit taking, or it is a derivative (not in a qualifying hedge relationship). Held-for-trading financial liabilities are recognized at fair value with transaction costs being recognized in net income. Subsequently, they are measured at fair value. Gains and losses are recognized in net income as they incur. A financial liability other than a financial liability held for trading may be designated as at FVTPL upon initial recognition if: (a) such designation eliminates or significantly reduces a measurement or recognition inconsistency that would otherwise arise; or (b) the financial liability forms part of a group of financial assets or financial liabilities or both, which is managed and its performance is evaluated on a fair value basis, in accordance with the Group's documented risk management or investment strategy, and information about the grouping is provided internally on that basis; or (c) it forms part of a contract containing one or more embedded derivatives, and K-IFRS 1039 Financial Instruments: Recognition and Measurement permits the entire combined contract (asset or liability) to be designated as at FVTPL. Financial liabilities that the Group designates on initial recognition as being at FVTPL are recognized at fair value, with transaction costs being recognized in net income, and are subsequently measured at fair value. Gains and losses on financial liabilities that are designated as at FVTPL are recognized in net income as they incur. All other financial liabilities, such as deposits due to customers, borrowings, and debentures, are measured at amortized cost using the effective interest method. 3) Reclassification Held-for-trading and AFS financial assets that meet the definition of loans and receivables (non-derivative financial assets with fixed or determinable payments that are not quoted in an active market) may be reclassified to loans and receivables if the Group has the intention and ability to hold the financial asset for the foreseeable future or until maturity. The Group typically regards the foreseeable future as twelve months from the date of reclassification. Reclassifications are made at fair value. This fair value becomes the asset's new cost or amortized cost as appropriate. Gains and losses recognized up to the date of reclassification are not reversed. 148 29 4) Derecognition The Group derecognizes a financial asset when the contractual right to the cash flows from the asset is expired, or when it transfers the financial asset and substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of the asset to another company. If the Group neither transfers nor retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership and continues to control the transferred asset, the Group recognizes its retained interest in the asset and an associated liability for amounts it may have to pay. If the Group retains substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership of a transferred financial asset, the Group continues to recognize the financial asset and also recognizes a collateralized borrowing for the proceeds received. On derecognition of a financial asset in its entirety, the difference between the asset’s carrying amount and the sum of the consideration received and receivable and the cumulated gain or loss that had been recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity is recognized in profit or loss. On derecognition of a financial assets other than in its entirety the Group allocates the previous carrying amount of the financial asset between the part it continues to recognize under continuing involvement, and the part it no longer recognizes on the basis of the relative fair value of those parts on the date of the transfer. The difference between the carrying amount allocated to the part that is no longer recognized and the sum of the consideration received for the part that is no longer recognized and any cumulative gain or loss allocated to it that had been recognized in other comprehensive income is recognized in profit or loss. A cumulative gain or loss that had We Believe in Your Potential been recognized in other comprehensive income is allocated between the part that continues to be recognized and the part that is no longer recognized on the basis of the relative fair value of those parts. The Group derecognizes the financial liability, when Group's obligations are discharged, canceled or expired. The difference between paid cost and the carrying amount of financial liabilities is recorded in profit or loss. 5) Fair value of financial instruments Financial instruments classified as held-for-trading or designated as at FVTPL and financial assets classified as AFS are recognized in the financial statements at fair value. All derivatives are measured at fair value. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Fair value is the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in and orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Fair values are determined from quoted prices in active markets for identical financial assets or financial liabilities where these are available. The Group characterizes active markets as those in which transactions for the asset or liability take place with sufficient frequency and volume to provide pricing information on an ongoing basis. Where a financial instrument is not in active market characterized by low transaction volumes, price quotations which vary substantially among market participants, or in which minimal information is released publicly, fair values are established using valuation techniques rely on alternative market data or internally developed models using significant inputs that are generally readily observable from objective sources. Market data includes prices of financial instruments with similar maturities and characteristics, duration, interest rate yield curves, and measures of volatility. The amount determined to be fair value may incorporate the management of the Group’s own assumptions (including assumptions that the Group believes market participants would use in valuing the financial instruments and assumptions relating to appropriate risk adjustments for nonperformance and lack of marketability). The valuation techniques used to estimate the fair value of the financial instruments include market approach and income approach, each of which involves a significant degree of judgment. Under the market approach, fair value is determined by reference to a recent transaction involving the financial instruments or by reference to observable valuation measures for comparable companies or assets. Under the income approach, fair value is determined by converting future amounts (e.g., cash flows or earnings) to a single present amount (discounted) using current market expectations about the future amounts. In determining value under this approach, the Group makes assumptions regarding, among other things, revenues, operating income, depreciation and amortization, capital expenditures, income taxes, working capital needs, and terminal value of the financial investments. These valuation techniques involve a degree of estimation, the extent of which depends on the instrument’s complexity and the availability of market-based data. The following are descriptions of valuation methodologies used by the Group to measure various financial instruments at fair value. 149 30 a) Financial assets at FVTPL and AFS financial assets The fair value of the securities included in financial assets at FVTPL and AFS financial assets are recognized in the consolidated statements of financial position based on quoted market prices, where available. For debt securities traded in the OTC market, the Group generally determines fair value based on prices obtained from independent pricing services. Specifically, with respect to independent pricing services, the Group obtains three prices per instrument from reputable independent pricing services in Korea, and generally uses the lowest of the prices obtained from such services without further adjustment. For non-marketable equity securities, the Group obtains prices from the independent pricing services. The Group validates prices received from such independent pricing services using a variety of means, including verification of the qualification of the independent pricing services, corroboration of the pricing by comparing the prices among the independent pricing services and by reference to other available market data, and review of the pricing model and assumptions used by the independent pricing services by the Group’s personnel who are familiar with market-related conditions. b) Derivatives Quoted market prices are used for the Group’s exchange-traded derivatives, such as certain interest rate futures and option contracts. All of the Group’s derivatives are traded in OTC markets where quoted market prices are not readily available are valued using internal valuation techniques. Valuation techniques and inputs to internally developed models depend on the type of derivative and nature of the underlying rate, price or index upon which the derivative’s value is based. If the model inputs for certain derivatives are not observable in a liquid market, We Believe in Your Potential significant judgments on the level of inputs used for valuation techniques are required. c) Adjustment of valuation amount By using derivatives, the Group is exposed to credit risk if counterparties to the derivative contracts do not perform as expected. If counterparty fails to perform, counterparty credit risk is equal to the amount reported as a derivative asset in the consolidated statements of financial position. The amounts reported as a derivative asset are derivative contracts in a gain position. Few of the Group’s derivatives are listed on an exchange. The majority of derivative positions is valued using internally developed models that use as their basis observable market inputs. Therefore, an adjustment is necessary to reflect the credit quality of each counterparty to arrive at fair value. Counterparty credit risk adjustments are applied to derivative assets, such as OTC derivative Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 instruments, when the market inputs used in valuation models may not be indicative of the creditworthiness of the counterparty. Adjustments are also made when valuing financial liabilities to reflect the Group’s own credit standing. The adjustment is based on probability of default of a counterparty and loss given default. The adjustment also takes into account contractual factors designed to reduce the Group’s credit exposure to each counterparty. To the extent derivative assets (liabilities) are subject to master netting arrangements, the exposure used to calculate the credit risk adjustment is net of derivatives in a loss (gain) position with the same counterparty and cash collateral received (paid). 6) Impairment of financial assets The Group assesses at the end of each reporting date whether there is any objective evidence that a financial asset or group of financial assets classified as AFS, HTM or loans and receivables is impaired. A financial asset or portfolio of financial assets is impaired and an impairment loss incurred if there is objective evidence of impairment as result of one or more events that occurred after the initial recognition asset and that event (or events) has an impact on the estimated future cash flows of the financial asset. a) Financial assets carried at amortized cost If there is objective evidence that an impairment loss on a financial asset or group of financial assets classified as HTM investments or as loans and receivables have been incurred, the Group measures the amount of the loss as the difference between the carrying amount of the asset or group of assets and the present value of estimated future cash flows from the asset or group of assets discounted at the effective interest rate of the instrument at initial recognition. For collateralized loans and receivables, estimated future cash flows include cash flows that may result from foreclosure less the costs of obtaining and selling the collateral. 150 31 Impairment losses are assessed individually for financial assets that are individually significant and assessed either individually or collectively for assets that are not individually significant. In making collective assessment of impairment, financial assets are grouped into portfolios on the basis of similar risk characteristics. Future cash flows from these portfolios are estimated on the basis of the contractual cash flows and historical loss experience for assets with similar credit risk characteristics. Historical loss experience is adjusted, on the basis of observable data, to reflect current conditions not affecting the period of historical experience. Impairment losses are recognized in net income and the carrying amount of the financial asset or group of financial assets reduced by establishing a provision for impairment losses. If, in a subsequent period, the amount of the impairment loss reduces and the reduction can be ascribed to an event after the impairment was recognized (i.e., improvement in the credit quality of a debtor), the previously recognized loss is reversed by adjusting the provision. Once an impairment loss has been recognized on a financial asset or group of financial assets, interest income is recognized on the carrying amount using the rate of interest at which estimated future cash flows were discounted in measuring impairment. It is not the Group’s usual practice to write-off the asset at the time an impairment loss is recognized. Impaired loans and receivables are written off (i.e. the impairment provision is applied in writing down the loan's carrying value in full) when the Group concludes that there is no longer any realistic prospect of recovery of part or the entire loan. Amounts recovered after a loan has been written off are reflected to the provision for the period in We Believe in Your Potential which they are received. b) Financial assets carried at fair value When a decline in the fair value of a financial asset classified as AFS has been recognized directly in other comprehensive income and there is objective evidence that the asset is impaired, the cumulative loss is removed from other comprehensive income and recognized in net income. The loss is measured as the difference between the amortized cost of the financial asset and its current fair value. Impairment losses on AFS equity instruments are not reversed through net income, but those on AFS debt instruments are reversed, if there is a decrease in the cumulative impairment loss that is objectively related to a subsequent event. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 (10) Offsetting financial instruments Financial assets and liabilities are presented as a net amount in the statements of financial position when the Group has an enforceable legal right and an intention to settle on a net basis or to realize an asset and settle the liability simultaneously. (11) Investment properties The Group classifies a property held to earn rentals and/or for capital appreciation as an investment property. Investment properties are measured initially at cost, including transaction costs, less subsequent depreciation and impairment. Subsequent costs are included in the carrying amount of the asset or recognized as a separate asset if it is probable that future economic benefits associated with the assets will flow into the Group and the cost of an asset can be measured reliably, and the book value of a portion of an asset that are replaced by a subsequent expenditure is removed from the books. Routine maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. While land is not depreciated, all other investment properties are depreciated based on the depreciation method and useful lives of premises and equipment. The estimated useful lives, residual values and depreciation method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period, and when it is deemed appropriate to change them, the effect of any change is accounted for as a change in accounting estimates. An investment property is derecognized from the consolidated financial statements on disposal or when it is permanently withdrawn from use and no future economic benefits are expected even from its disposal. The gain or loss on the derecognition of an investment property is calculated as the difference between the net disposal proceeds and the carrying amount of the property, and is recognized in profit or loss in the period of the derecognition. 151 32 (12) Premises and equipment Premises and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation and accumulated impairment losses. The cost of an item of premises and equipment is expenditures directly attributable to their purchase or construction, which includes any cost directly attributable to bringing the asset to the location and condition necessary for it to be capable of operating in the manner intended by management. It also includes the initial estimate of costs of dismantling and removing the item and restoring the site on which it is located. Subsequent costs are recognized in the carrying amount of an asset or as a separate asset (if appropriate) if it is probable that future economic benefit associated with the assets will flow into the Group and the cost of an asset can be measured reliably. Routine maintenance and repairs are expensed as incurred. While land is not depreciated, for all other premises and equipment, depreciation is charged to net income on a straight-line basis by applying the following estimated economic useful lives on the amount of cost or revalued amount less residual value. Useful life Buildings used for business purpose 35 to 57 years Structures in leased office 4 to 5 years We Believe in Your Potential Properties for business purpose 4 to 5 years Leased assets Useful lives of the same kind or similar other premises and equipment The Group reassesses the depreciation method, the estimated useful lives and residual values of premises and equipment at the end of each reporting period. If changes in the estimates are deemed appropriate, the changes are accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate. When there is an indicator of impairment and the carrying amount of a premises and equipment item exceeds the estimated recoverable amount, the carrying amount of such asset is reduced to the recoverable amount. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 (13) Intangible assets and goodwill The Group is recognizing intangible assets measured at the manufacturing cost or acquisition cost plus additional incidental expenses less accumulated amortization and accumulated impairment losses. The Group’s intangible asset are amortized over the following economic lives using the straight-line method. The estimated useful life and amortization method are reviewed at the end of each reporting period. If changes in the estimates are deemed appropriate, the changes are accounted for as a change in an accounting estimate. Useful life Industrial property rights 10 years Development costs 5 years Software and others 4 to 5 years In addition, when an indicator that intangible assets are impaired is noted, and the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the estimated recoverable amount of the asset, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount. Goodwill acquired in a business combination is included in intangible assets. Goodwill is not amortized, but is subject to an impairment test at the cash-generating unit level every year, and whenever there is an indicator that goodwill is impaired. Goodwill is allocated to each of the Group’s cash-generating unit (or groups of cash-generating units) that is expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination. If the recoverable amount of the cash-generating unit is less than its carrying amount, the impairment loss is allocated first to reduce the carrying amount of any goodwill allocated to the unit and then to the other assets of the unit on a pro rata basis based on the carrying amount of each asset in the unit. Any impairment loss for goodwill is recognized directly in profit or loss. An impairment loss recognized for goodwill is not reversed in subsequent periods. 152 33 (14) Impairment of non-monetary assets Intangible assets with indefinite useful lives or intangible assets that are not yet available for use are tested for impairment annually, regardless of whether or not there is any indication of impairment. All other assets are tested for impairment by estimating the recoverable amount when there is an objective indication that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. Recoverable amount is the higher of value in use or net fair value, less costs to sell. If the recoverable amount of an asset is estimated to be less than its carrying amount, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its recoverable amount and such impairment loss is recognized immediately in net income. (15) Leases Leases are classified as finance leases whenever the terms of the lease transfer substantially all the risks and rewards of ownership to the lessee. All other leases are classified as operating leases. 1) The Group as a lessor The Group recognizes lease receivables at the present value of minimum lease payments of a finance lease and any unguaranteed residual value. After the commencement date of the lease, accounting is done to recognize interest income over each reporting period by computing periodic interest income on the Group’s net investment. We Believe in Your Potential Rental income from operating leases is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Initial direct costs incurred in negotiating and arranging an operating lease are added to the carrying amount of the leased asset and expensed on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Operating lease assets are included within other asset category in other assets, and depreciated over their economic life. 2) The Group as a lessee Assets held under finance leases are initially recognized as assets of the Group at their fair value at the inception of the lease or, if lower, at the present value of the minimum lease payments. The corresponding liability to the lessor is included in the separate statements of financial position as a finance lease obligation. Lease payments Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 are apportioned between finance expenses and reduction of the lease obligation to achieve a constant rate of interest on the remaining balance of the liability. Contingent rentals arising under finance leases are recognized as expenses in the periods in which they are incurred. Operating lease payments are recognized as an expense on a straight-line basis over the lease term, except where another systematic basis is more representative of the time pattern in which economic benefits from the leased asset are consumed. Contingent rentals arising under operating leases are recognized as expenses in the period in which they are incurred. (16) Derivative instruments Derivative instruments are classified as forwards, futures, options and swaps, depending on the types of transactions and are classified at the point of transaction as either trading or hedging based on its purpose. Derivatives are initially recognized at fair value at the date of contract and are subsequently measured at fair value at the end of each reporting period. The resulting gain or loss is recognized in net income immediately unless the derivative is designated and effective as a hedging instrument. If derivatives have been designated as hedging instruments and if it is effective, the point of recognition of gain or loss depends on the characteristics of hedging relationship. 1) Embedded derivatives Embedded derivatives are components of a hybrid financial instrument that includes a non-derivative host contract. It has an effect of modifying part of cash flows of the hybrid financial instrument similar to an independent derivative. Embedded derivatives that are part of a hybrid contract of which the host contract is a financial asset within the scope of K-IFRS 1109 is not separated. The classification is done by considering the hybrid contract as a whole, and subsequent measurement is either at amortized cost or fair value. 153 34 If embedded derivatives are part of a hybrid contract of which the host contract is not a financial asset within the scope of K-IFRS 1109 (e.g. financial liability), then these are treated as separate derivatives if embedded derivatives meet the definition of a derivative, characteristics & risk of the embedded derivatives are not closely related to that of host contract, and if the host contract is not measured at FVTPL. In the previous year, all embedded derivatives which were part of a hybrid contract were treated as separate derivatives if embedded derivatives meet the definition of a derivative, characteristics & risk of the embedded derivatives are not closely related to that of host contract, and if the host contract is not measured at FVTPL 2) Hedge accounting The Group is applying K-IFRS 1109 in regards to hedge accounting. The Group is designating certain derivatives as hedging instrument against fair value changes in relation to the interest rate risk, foreign currency translation and interest rate risk, and foreign currency translation risk. The Group is documenting the relationship between hedging instruments and hedged items at the commencement of hedging in accordance with their purpose and strategy. Also, the Group documents at the commencement and subsequent dates whether the hedging instrument effectively counters the changes in fair value of hedged items. A hedging instrument is effective only when it meets all the following criteria: We Believe in Your Potential ㆍ When there is an economic relationship between the hedged items and hedging instruments. ㆍ When the effect of credit risk is not stronger than the change in value due to the economic relationship between the hedged items and hedging instruments. ㆍ When the hedge ratio is equal to the proportion of hedged items to the hedging instruments. When a hedging relationship no longer meets the hedging effectiveness requirements related to hedge ratio, but when the purpose of risk management on designated hedging relationship is still maintained, the hedge ratio of the hedging relationship is adjusted so that hedging relationship may meet the requirements again (Hedge ratio Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 readjustment). The Group has designated derivatives as hedging instrument except for the portion on foreign currency basis spread. The fair value change due to foreign currency basis spread is recognized in other comprehensive income and is accumulated in equity. If the hedged item is related to transactions, the accumulated other comprehensive income is reclassified to profit or loss when the hedged item affects the profit or loss. However, when nonmonetary items are subsequently recognized due to hedged items, the accumulated equity is removed from the equity directly, and is included in the initial book value of the recognized non-monetary items. Such transfers does not affect other comprehensive income. But if part or all of accumulated equity is not expected to be recovered in the future periods, the amount not expected to be recovered is immediately reclassified to profit or loss. If the hedged item is time-related, then the foreign currency basis spread on the day the derivative is designated as a hedging instrument that is related to the hedged item is reclassified to profit or loss over the term of the hedge. 3) Fair value hedge Gain or loss arising from valid hedging instrument is recognized in profit or loss. However, when the hedging instrument mitigates risks on equity instruments designated as financial assets at FVTOCI, related gain or loss is recognized in other comprehensive income. The book value of hedged items that are not measured in fair value is adjusted by the changes in fair value arising from the hedged risk, with resulting gain or loss reflected in net income. In case of debt instruments measured at FVTOCI, book value is an amount that is already adjusted to fair value and thus gain or loss arising from the hedged risk is recognized in profit or loss instead of other comprehensive income without adjustments in book value. When the hedged item is equity instruments measured at FVTOCI, the gain or loss arising from hedged risk is retained at other comprehensive income in order to match the gain or loss with hedging instruments. Hedge accounting ceases to apply only when hedging relationship (or part of it) does not meet the requirements of hedge accounting (even after hedging relationship readjustment, if applicable). This treatment holds in case of lapse, disposal, expiry and exercise of hedging instruments, and this cease of treatment applies prospectively. 154 35 The fair value adjustments made to book value of hedged item due to hedged risk is amortized from the date of discontinuance of hedge accounting and is recognized in profit or loss. 4) Cash flow hedge The Group recognizes the effective portion of changes in the fair value of derivatives and other valid hedging instruments that are designated and qualified as cash flow hedges in other comprehensive income, to the extent of cumulative fair value changes of the hedged item from the date of hedge accounting. The gain or loss relating to the ineffective portion is recognized immediately in net income. Amounts previously recognized in other comprehensive income and accumulated in equity are reclassified to net income when the hedged item affects net income. However, when non-monetary assets or liabilities are subsequently recognized due to expected transactions involving hedged items, the valuation gain or loss accumulated in the equity as other comprehensive income is removed from the equity and included in the initial book value of the recognized non-monetary assets or liabilities. Such transfers does not affect other comprehensive income. Also if accumulated other comprehensive income is a loss and part or all of the losses are not expected to be recovered in the future periods, the said amount is immediately reclassified to profit or loss. Hedge accounting ceases to apply only when hedging relationship (or part of it) does not meet the requirements We Believe in Your Potential of hedge accounting (even after hedging relationship readjustment, if applicable). This treatment holds in case of lapse, disposal, expiry and exercise of hedging instruments, and this cease of treatment applies prospectively. At the point of cessation of cash flow hedge, the valuation gain or loss recognized as accumulated other comprehensive income continues to be recognized as equity, and is reclassified to profit or loss when the expected transaction is ultimately recognized as profit or loss. However, when transactions are no longer expected to occur, the valuation gain or loss of hedging instrument recognized as accumulated other comprehensive income is immediately reclassified to profit or loss. (17) Assets (or disposal group) held for sale Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 The Group classifies a non-current asset (or disposal group) as held for sale if its carrying amount will be recovered principally through a sale transaction rather than through continuing use. Non-current assets (and disposal groups) classified as held for sale are measured at the lower of their previous carrying amount and fair value less costs to sell. (18) Provisions Provisions are recognized if (a) it has present or contractual obligations as a result of the past event, (b) it is probable that an outflow of resources will be required to settle the obligation and (c) the amount of the obligation is reliably estimated. Provision is not recognized for the future operating losses. The Group recognizes provision related to the unused membership points, payment guarantees, loan commitment and litigations. Where the Group is required to restore a leased property that is used as a branch to an agreed condition after the contractual term expires, the present value of expected amounts to be used to dispose, decommission or repair the facilities is recognized as an asset retirement obligation. Where there are a number of similar obligations, the probability that an outflow will be required in settlement is determined by considering the obligations as a whole. Although the likelihood of outflow for any one item may be small, if it is probable that some outflow of resources will be needed to settle the obligations as a whole, a provision is recognized. (19) Capital and compound financial instruments The Group classifies a financial instrument that it issues as a financial liability or an equity instrument in accordance with the substance of the contractual arrangement. A financial liability is a contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial asset to another entity. An equity instrument is any contract that evidences a residual interest in the assets of an entity after deducting all of its liabilities. The compound financial instruments are financial instruments where it is neither a financial liability nor an equity instrument because it was designed to contain both equity and debt elements. 155 36 If the Group reacquires its own equity instruments, the consideration paid including the direct transaction costs (net of tax expense) are presented as a deduction from total equity until such instruments are retired or reissued. When these instruments are reissued, the consideration received (net of direct transaction costs) is included in the shareholder’s equity. (20) Financial guarantee contracts A financial guarantee contract is a contract where the issuer must pay a certain amount of money in order to compensate losses suffered by the creditor when debtor defaults on a debt instrument in accordance with original or modified contractual terms. A financial guarantee is initially measured at fair value and is subsequently measured at the higher of the amounts below unless it is designated to be measured at FVTPL or when it arises from disposal of an asset. Loss allowance in accordance with K-IFRS 1109 Initial book value less accumulated profit measured in accordance with K-IFRS 1115 (21) Employee benefits and pensions We Believe in Your Potential The Group recognizes the undiscounted amount of short-term employee benefits expected to be paid in exchange for the services rendered by the employees. Also, the Group recognizes expenses and liabilities in the case of accumulating compensated absences when the employees render services that entitle their right to future compensated absences. Similarly, the Group recognizes expenses and liabilities for customary profit distribution or bonuses when the employees render services, even though the Group does not have legal obligation to do so because it can be construed as constructive obligation. The Group is operating defined contribution plans and defined benefit plans. Contributions to defined contribution plans are recognized as an expense when employees have rendered services entitling them to Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 receive the benefits. For defined benefit plans, the defined benefit liability is calculated through an actuarial assessment using the projected unit credit method every end of the reporting period, conducted by a professional actuaries. Remeasurement, comprising actuarial gains and losses, the return on plan assets (excluding interest), and the effect of the changes to the asset ceiling (if applicable) is reflected immediately in the separate statement of financial position with a charge or credit recognized in other comprehensive income in the period in which they occur. Remeasurement recognized in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income is not reclassified to profit or loss in the subsequent periods. Past service cost is recognized in profit or loss in the period of a plan amendment. Net interest is calculated by applying the discount rate at the beginning of the period to the net defined benefit liability or asset. Defined benefit costs are composed of service cost (including current service cost and past service cost, as well as gains and losses on curtailments and settlements), net interest expense (income) and remeasurement. The Group presents the service cost and net interest expense (income) components in profit or loss, and the remeasurement component in other comprehensive income. Curtailment gains and losses are accounted for as past service costs. The retirement benefit obligation recognized in the consolidated statement of financial position represents the actual deficit or surplus in the Group’s defined benefit plans. Any surplus resulting from this calculation is recognized as an asset limited to the present value of any economic benefits available in the form of refunds from the plans or reductions in future contributions to the plans. Liabilities for termination benefits are recognized at the earlier of either 1) the date when the Group is no longer able to cancel its proposal for termination benefits or 2) the date when the Group has recognized the cost of restructuring that accompanies the payment of termination benefits. 156 37 (22) Income taxes Income tax expense is composed of current tax and deferred tax. That is, income tax expense is composed of taxes payable or refundable during the period and deferred taxes calculated by applying asset-liability method to taxable and deductible temporary differences arising from operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Temporary differences are the differences between the carrying values of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and their tax bases. Deferred income tax benefit or expense is recognized for the change in deferred tax assets or liabilities. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured as of the reporting date using the enacted or substantively enacted tax rates expected to apply in the period in which the liability is settled or asset realized. Deferred tax assets, including the carryforwards of unused tax losses, are recognized to the extent it is probable that the deferred tax assets will be realized. Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are offset if, and only if, the Group has a legally enforceable right to offset current tax assets against current tax liabilities, and the deferred tax assets and liabilities relate to income taxes levied by the same taxation authority or when the entity intends to settle current tax liabilities and assets on a net basis with different taxable entities. The carrying amount of deferred tax assets is reviewed at the end of each reporting period and reduced to the extent it is no longer probable that sufficient taxable profits will be available to allow all or part of the asset to be We Believe in Your Potential recovered. Deferred liabilities are not recognized if the temporary difference arises from the initial recognition of goodwill. Deferred tax assets or liabilities are not recognized if they arise from the initial recognition (other than in a business combination) of other assets and liabilities in a transaction that affects neither the taxable profit nor the accounting profit. Current and deferred taxes are recognized in profit or loss, except when they relate to items that are recognized in other comprehensive income or directly in equity or when it arises from business combination. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 (23) Earnings per share (“EPS”) Basic EPS is a calculation of net income per each common stock. It is calculated by dividing net income attributable to ordinary shareholders by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted EPS is calculated by adjusting the earnings and number of shares for the effects of all dilutive potential common shares. 3. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING ESTIMATES AND ASSUMPTIONS The significant accounting estimates and assumptions are continuously being evaluated based on numerous factors including historical experiences and expectations of future events considered to be reasonably possible. Actual results can differ from those estimates based on such definitions. The accounting estimates and assumptions that contain significant risk of materially changing current book values of assets and liabilities in the next accounting periods are as follows: (1) Income taxes The Group has recognized current and deferred taxes based on best estimates of expected future income tax effect arising from the Group’s operations until the end of the current reporting period. However, actual tax payment may not be identical to the related assets and/or liabilities already recognized, and these differences may affect current taxes and deferred tax assets/liabilities at the time when income tax effects are finalized. Deferred tax assets relating to tax losses carried forward and deductible temporary differences are recognized only to the extent that it is probable that future taxable profit will be available against which the tax losses carried forward and the deductible temporary differences can be utilized. In this case the Group’s evaluation considers various factors such as estimated future taxable profit based on forecasted operating results, which are based on historical financial performance. The Group is reviewing the book value of deferred tax assets every end of the reporting period and in the event that the possibility of earning future taxable income changes, the deferred tax assets are adjusted up to taxable income sufficient to use deductible temporary differences. 157 38 (2) Valuation of financial instruments Financial assets at FVTPL and FVTOCI are recognized in the consolidated financial statements at fair value. All derivatives are measured at fair value. Valuation techniques are required in order to determine fair values of financial instruments where observable market prices do not exist. Financial instruments that are not actively traded and have low price transparency will have less objective fair value and require broad judgment in liquidity, concentration, uncertainty in market factors and assumption in price determination and other risks. As described in Note 2-(9)-5), ‘Fair value of financial assets and liabilities’, when valuation techniques are used to determine the fair value of a financial instrument, various general and internally developed techniques are used, and various types of assumptions and variables are incorporated during the process. (3) Impairment of financial instruments K-IFRS 1109 requires entities to measure loss allowance equal to 12-month expected credit losses or lifetime expected credit losses after classifying financial assets into one of the three stages, which depends on the degree of increase in credit risk after their initial recognition. We Believe in Your Potential Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Credit risk has significantly Credit risk has not significantly increased increased since initial Credit has since initial recognition(*) recognition been impaired Allowance for Expected 12-month credit losses: Expected lifetime credit losses: expected credit Expected credit losses due to possible Expected credit losses from all possible losses defaults on financial instruments within a defaults during the expected lifetime of the 12-month period from the year-end. financial instruments. (*) Credit risk may be considered to not have been significantly increased when credit risk is low at year-end. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 The Group has estimated the allowance for credit losses based on reasonable and supportable information that was available without undue cost or effort at the reporting date about past events, current conditions and forecasts of future economic conditions. Probability of default (PD) and Loss given default (LGD) for each category of financial asset is being calculated by considering factors such as debtor type, credit rating and portfolio. The estimates are regularly being reviewed in order to reduce discrepancies with actual losses. Also, in measuring the expected credit losses, the Group is using reasonable and supportable macroeconomic indicators such as economic growth rates, interest rates, market index rates, etc., in order to forecast future economic conditions. The Group is conducting the following procedures to estimate and apply future economic forecast information. Development of prediction models by analyzing the correlation between default rates of corporate and retail exposures per year and macroeconomic indicators Calculation of predicted default rate incorporating future economic forecasts by applying estimated macroeconomic indicators provided by verified institutions such as Bank of Korea and National Assembly Budget Office to the prediction model developed. At the end of every reporting period, the Group evaluates whether credit risk reflected forward-looking information has significantly been increased since the date of initial recognition. When evaluating whether credit risk has significantly been increased, the changes in the probability of default over the financial instrument’s remaining life is used instead of changes in the amount of expected credit losses. The Group performs the above evaluation with distinctions made to corporate and retail exposures, and indicators of significant increase in credit risk are as follows: 158 39 Corporate Exposures Retail Exposures Asset quality level ‘Precautionary’ or lower Asset quality level ‘Precautionary’ or lower More than 30 days past due More than 30 days past due ‘Warning’ level in early warning system Significant decrease in credit rating(*) Debtor experiencing financial difficulties (Capital impairment, Adverse opinion or Disclaimer of opinion by external auditors) Significant decrease in credit rating(*) (*) Determining whether there has been a significant decrease in the credit rating of corporate and retail exposures applies only to credit ratings that are measured through 12-month expected credit loss. The Bank has applied the above indicators of significant decrease in credit rating since initial recognition as follows, and the estimation method is regularly being monitored. Credit rating Significant increased indicator of the credit rating AAA ~ A+ More than 4 steps A~ BBB More than 3 steps We Believe in Your Potential Corporate BBB~ BB+ More than 2 steps BB ~ BBMore than 1 step 1~3 More than 3 steps Retail 4~5 More than 2 steps 6 ~ 10 More than 1 step The Group sees no significant increase in credit risk after initial recognition for debt securities, etc. with a credit rating of A + or higher, which are deemed to have low credit risk at the end of the reporting period Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 The Group concludes that credit is impaired when financial assets are under conditions stated below: When principal of loan is overdue for 90 days or longer due to significant deterioration in credit For loans overdue for less than 90 days, when it is determined that not even a portion of the loan will be recovered unless claim actions such as disposal of collaterals are taken When other objective indicators of impairment has been noted for the financial asset. The Group determines which loan is subject to write-off in accordance with internal guidelines, and writes off loan receivables when it is determined that the loans are practically irrecoverable. For example, loans are practically irrecoverable when application is made for rehabilitation under the Debtor Rehabilitation and Bankruptcy Act and loans are confirmed as irrecoverable by the court’s decision to waive debtor’s obligation, or when it is impossible to recover the loan amount through legal means such as auctioning of debtor’s assets or through any other means of recovery available. Notwithstanding the write-off, the Group may still exercise its right of collection after the asset has been written off in accordance with its collection policies. (4) Defined benefit plan The Group operates a defined benefit pension plan. Defined benefit obligation is calculated at every end of the reporting period by performing actuarial valuation, and estimation of assumptions such as discount rate, expected wage growth rate and mortality rate is required to perform such actuarial valuation. The defined benefit plan, due to its long-term nature, contains significant uncertainties in its estimates. 159 40 4. RISK MANAGEMENT The Group’s operating activity is exposed to various financial risks. The Group is required to analyze and assess the level of complex risks, and determine the permissible level of risks and manage such risks. The Group’s risk management procedures have been established to improve the quality of assets for holding or investment purposes by making decisions as how to avoid or mitigate risks through the identification of the source of the potential risks and their impact. The Group has established an approach to manage the acceptable level of risks and reduce the excessive risks in financial instruments in order to maximize the profit given risks present, for which the Group has implemented processes for risk identification, assessment, control, and monitoring and reporting. The risk is managed by the risk management department in accordance with the Group’s risk management policy. The Risk Management Committee makes decisions on the risk strategies such as the allocation of risk capital and the establishment of acceptable level of risk. (1) Credit risk Credit risk represents the possibility of financial losses incurred when the counterparty fails to fulfill its We Believe in Your Potential contractual obligations. The goal of credit risk management is to maintain the Group’s credit risk exposure to a permissible degree and to optimize its rate of return considering such credit risk. 1) Credit risk management The Group considers the probability of failure in performing the obligation of its counterparties, credit exposure to the counterparty, the related default risk and the rate of default loss. The Group uses the credit rating model to assess the possibility of counterparty’s default risk; and when assessing the obligor’s credit grade, the Group utilizes credit grades derived using statistical methods. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 In order to manage credit risk limit, the Group establishes the appropriate credit line per obligor, company or industry. It monitors obligor’s credit line, total exposures and loan portfolios when approving the loan. The Group mitigates credit risk resulting from the obligor’s credit condition by using financial and physical collateral, guarantees, netting agreements and credit derivatives. The Group has adopted the entrapment method to mitigate its credit risk. Credit risk mitigation is reflected in qualifying financial collateral, trade receivables, guarantees, residential and commercial real estate and other collaterals. The Group regularly performs a revaluation of collateral reflecting such credit risk mitigation. 2) Maximum exposure to credit risk The Group’s maximum exposure to credit risk refers to net book value of financial assets net of allowances, which shows the uncertainties of maximum changes of net value of financial assets attributable to a particular risk without considering collateral and other credit enhancements obtained. However, the maximum exposure is the fair value amount (recorded on the books) for derivatives, maximum contractual obligation for payment guarantees and unused loan commitment. 160 41 The maximum exposure to credit risk is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Loans and other Korean treasury and government financial assets at agencies 13,547,154 amortized cost Banks 22,282,857 Corporates 96,619,393 Consumers 149,998,911 Sub-total 282,448,315 Loans and Korean treasury and government receivables agencies 8,823,584 Banks 26,845,309 Corporates 90,570,551 Consumers 140,866,760 Sub-total 267,106,204 Financial assets at Deposit 26,935 FVTPL Debt securities 1,824,155 (K-IFRS 1109) Loans 385,450 We Believe in Your Potential Derivative assets 2,026,079 Sub-total 4,262,619 Financial assets at Deposit 25,972 FVTPL Debt securities 2,644,333 (K-IFRS 1039) Financial assets designated at FVTPL 9,694 Derivative assets 3,115,775 Sub-total 5,795,774 Financial assets at Debt securities FVTOCI 17,112,249 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 AFS financial Debt securities assets 13,229,244 Securities at Debt securities amortized cost 22,932,559 HTM financial Debt securities assets 16,749,296 Derivative assets Derivative assets (Designated for hedging) 35,503 59,272 Off-balance Guarantees 12,666,417 12,859,715 accounts Unused loan commitments 97,796,704 80,760,325 Sub-total 110,463,121 93,620,040 Total 437,254,366 396,559,830 161 42 a) Credit risk exposure by geographical areas The following tables analyze credit risk exposure by geographical areas (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Korea China USA UK Japan Others (*) Total Loans and other financial assets at amortized cost 261,538,144 4,592,153 4,597,119 1,526,532 893,354 9,301,013 282,448,315 Securities at amortized cost 22,757,048 70,578 104,933 22,932,559 Financial assets at FVTPL 4,261,110 1,243 266 4,262,619 Financial assets at FVTOCI 15,697,518 261,085 103,755 24,960 2,247 1,022,684 17,112,249 Derivative assets (Designated for hedging) 35,503 35,503 Off-balance accounts 107,632,858 801,978 343,323 136,727 35,000 1,513,235 110,463,121 Total 411,922,181 5,656,459 5,114,775 1,688,219 930,867 11,941,865 437,254,366 December 31, 2017 Korea China USA UK Japan Others (*) Total Loans and receivables 250,678,479 4,104,912 2,823,247 1,094,988 381,890 8,022,688 267,106,204 Financial assets at FVTPL 5,551,870 2,937 148,955 92,012 5,795,774 We Believe in Your Potential AFS debt securities 12,407,602 52,259 151,131 618,252 13,229,244 HTM securities 16,606,692 63,732 78,872 16,749,296 Derivative assets (Designated for hedging) 16,590 42,682 59,272 Off-balance accounts 91,603,852 529,193 172,570 66,974 25,039 1,222,412 93,620,040 Total 376,865,085 4,689,301 3,210,680 1,353,599 406,929 10,034,236 396,559,830 (*) Others consist of financial assets in Indonesia, Hong Kong, Singapore, and other countries. b) Credit risk exposure by industries Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 The following tables analyze credit risk exposure by industries, which are service, manufacturing, finance and insurance, construction, individuals and others in accordance with the Korea Standard Industrial Classification Code (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Finance and Service Manufacturing insurance Construction Individuals Others Total Loans and other financial assets at amortized cost 48,316,081 34,967,700 40,337,838 3,295,967 145,715,074 9,815,655 282,448,315 Securities at amortized cost 1,157,512 13,414,743 527,847 7,832,457 22,932,559 Financial assets at FVTPL 120,659 153,159 3,117,845 16,118 7,614 847,224 4,262,619 Financial assets at FVTOCI 382,409 109,749 13,017,646 224,665 5,535 3,372,245 17,112,249 Derivative assets (Designated for hedging) 35,503 35,503 Off-balance accounts 17,645,104 22,300,388 9,654,685 4,146,708 49,948,865 6,767,371 110,463,121 Total 67,621,765 57,530,996 79,578,260 8,211,305 195,677,088 28,634,952 437,254,366 December 31, 2017 Finance and Service Manufacturing insurance Construction Individuals Others Total Loans and receivables 47,192,641 34,502,509 38,260,051 3,574,746 133,094,287 10,481,970 267,106,204 Financial assets at FVTPL 100,766 83,239 4,640,068 15,073 1,040 955,588 5,795,774 AFS debt securities 707,737 37,719 7,331,774 153,534 4,998,480 13,229,244 HTM securities 1,348,754 10,962,149 296,214 4,142,179 16,749,296 Derivative assets (Designated for hedging) 59,272 59,272 Off-balance accounts 16,892,926 21,427,378 9,841,379 3,842,479 36,928,554 4,687,324 93,620,040 Total 66,242,824 56,050,845 71,094,693 7,882,046 170,023,881 25,265,541 396,559,830 162 43 3) Credit risk exposure a) Financial assets The maximum exposure to credit risk by asset quality, except for financial assets at FVTPL and derivative asset (Designated for hedging) is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Stage 1 Stage 2 Above Less than a Above Less than a appropriate limited appropriate limited credit credit rating credit rating credit rating Loss (*1) (*3) rating (*2) (*3) Stage 3 Total allowance Total, net Loans and other financial assets at amortized cost 252,911,704 17,624,416 6,330,382 5,739,850 1,693,148 284,299,500 (1,851,185) 282,448,315 Korean treasury and government agencies 13,549,305 1,009 1 13,550,315 (3,161) 13,547,154 Banks 22,162,966 105,583 27,777 14,307 22,310,633 (27,776) 22,282,857 Corporates 77,152,005 15,550,301 655,907 3,424,215 1,034,030 97,816,458 (1,197,065) 96,619,393 General business 43,165,455 6,474,057 526,303 1,723,704 716,722 52,606,241 (816,783) 51,789,458 Smalland mediumWe Believe in Your Potential sized enterprise 29,510,917 8,527,542 107,998 1,547,761 277,825 39,972,043 (335,469) 39,636,574 Project financing and others 4,475,633 548,702 21,606 152,750 39,483 5,238,174 (44,813) 5,193,361 Consumers 140,047,428 1,967,523 5,646,697 2,315,635 644,811 150,622,094 (623,183) 149,998,911 Securities at amortized cost 22,939,039 195 250 22,939,484 (6,925) 22,932,559 Financial assets at FVTOCI (*4) 16,940,654 146,443 25,153 17,112,250 (6,177) 17,112,250 Total 292,791,397 17,770,859 6,355,730 5,739,850 1,693,398 324,351,234 (1,864,287) 322,493,124 December 31, 2018 Collateral value Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Stage1 Stage2 Stage3 Total Loans and other financial assets at amortized cost 163,329,105 8,836,440 698,593 172,864,138 Korean treasury and government agencies 11,600 11,600 Banks 361,024 3,334 364,358 Corporates 51,595,949 2,509,620 426,325 54,531,894 General business 19,907,948 1,167,993 241,651 21,317,592 Smalland medium-sized enterprise 29,780,716 1,291,222 184,674 31,256,612 Project financing and others 1,907,285 50,405 1,957,690 Consumers 111,360,532 6,323,486 272,268 117,956,286 Securities at amortized cost Financial assets at FVTOCI (*4) Total 163,329,105 8,836,440 698,593 172,864,138 (*1) Credit grade of corporates are AAA ~ BBB, and consumers are grades 1 ~ 6. (*2) Credit grade of corporates are A~ BBB, and consumers are grades 1 ~ 6. (*3) Credit grade of corporates are BBB~ C, and consumers are grades 7 ~ 10. (*4) Financial assets at FVTOCI has been disclosed as the amount before deducting loss allowance because loss allowance does not reduce the carrying amount. 163 44 Loans and receivables December 31, 2017 Corporates Korean treasury and Small and Project government General medium sized financing agencies Banks business enterprise and others Sub-total Consumers Total Neither overdue nor impaired 8,825,767 26,861,286 50,463,112 34,107,547 5,547,950 90,118,609 139,886,407 265,692,069 Overdue but not impaired 8 65,616 63,067 128,683 878,406 1,007,097 Impaired 1,402,131 251,431 46,717 1,700,279 537,001 2,237,280 Total 8,825,775 26,861,286 51,930,859 34,422,045 5,594,667 91,947,571 141,301,814 268,936,446 Loss allowance 2,191 15,977 1,078,733 267,162 31,125 1,377,020 435,054 1,830,242 Total, net 8,823,584 26,845,309 50,852,126 34,154,883 5,563,542 90,570,551 140,866,760 267,106,204 Debt securities The Group manages debt securities based on the external credit rating. Credit soundness of debt securities on We Believe in Your Potential the basis of External Credit Assessment Institution (ECAI)’s rating is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2017 Financial assets at AFS debt FVTPL (*) securities HTM securities Total AAA 1,685,099 9,897,689 15,806,327 27,389,115 AA~ AA+ 722,923 2,386,567 888,547 3,998,037 BBB~ A+ 236,311 876,482 52,188 1,164,981 Below BBB9,694 68,506 2,234 80,434 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Total 2,654,027 13,229,244 16,749,296 32,632,567 (*) Financial assets at FVTPL comprise debt securities held for trading and financial assets designated at FVTPL. b) Guarantees and loan commitments The credit quality of the guarantees and loan commitments as of December 31, 2018 as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Stage 1 Stage 2 Above Less than a Above Less than a appropriate limited credit appropriate limited credit credit rating rating credit rating rating Financial assets (*1) (*3) (*2) (*3) Stage3 Total Off-balance accounts Guarantees 11,212,772 1,063,551 7,147 261,599 121,348 12,666,417 Loan commitments 91,734,567 3,632,586 1,529,330 880,518 19,703 97,796,704 Total 102,947,339 4,696,137 1,536,477 1,142,117 141,051 110,463,121 (*1) Credit grade of corporates are AAA ~ BBB, and consumers are grades 1 ~ 6. (*2) Credit grade of corporates are A~ BBB, and consumers are grades 1 ~ 6. (*3) Credit grade of corporate are BBB~ C, and consumers are grades 7 ~ 10. 164 45 4) Collateral and other credit enhancements During the current quarter, there have been no significant changes in the value of collateral or other credit enhancements held by the Group and there have been no significant changes in collateral or other credit enhancements due to changes in the collateral policy of the Group. As of December 31, 2018, there are no financial assets that do not recognize the allowance for losses just because financial assets have collateral. 5) For the financial assets that record loss allowance as total expected credit loss, the amortized cost before the change in contractual cash flows is 23,132 million won, and the net loss due to the change is 239 million won. 6) As the Group manages receivables that have not lost the right of claim to the debtor for the grounds of incomplete statute limitation and uncollected receivables under the related laws as receivable charge-offs, the balance as of December 31, 2018 is 9,578,796 million won. (2) Market risk Market risk is the possible risk of loss arising from trading activities and non-trading activities in the volatility of market factors such as interest rates, stock prices and foreign exchange rates. Market risk occurs as a result of We Believe in Your Potential changes in the interest rates and foreign exchange rates for financial instruments that are not yet settled, and all contracts are exposed to a certain level of volatility according to changes in the interest rates, credit spreads, foreign exchange rates and the price of equity securities. 1) Market risk management For trading activities and non-trading activities, the Group avoids, bears, or mitigates risks by identifying the underlying source of the risks, measuring parameters and evaluating their appropriateness. On a yearly basis, the Risk Management Committee establishes a Value at Risk (“VaR”, maximum losses) limit, loss limit and risk capital limit by subsidiaries for its management purposes. The limit by investment Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 desk/dealer is independently managed to the extent of the limit given to subsidiaries and the limit by investment and loss cut is managed by the risk management personnel within the department. The Group uses both a standard-based and an internal model-based approach to measure market risk. The standard-based approach is used to calculate individual market risk of owned capital while the internal model-based approach is used to calculate general capital market risk and it is used to measure internal risk management measure. For the trading activities, the Risk Management department measures the VaR limit by department, risk factor and loss limit on a daily basis and reports regularly to the Risk Management Committee. 2) Sensitivity analysis of market risk The Group performs the sensitivity analyses both for trading and for non-trading activities. For trading activities, the Group uses a VaR model that uses certain assumptions of possible fluctuations in market condition and, by conducting simulations of gains and losses, under which the model estimates the maximum losses that may occur. A VaR model predicts based on statistics of possible losses on the portfolio at a certain period currently or in the future. It indicates the maximum expected loss with at least 99% confidence level. In short, there exists a one percent possibility that the actual loss might exceed the predicted loss generated from the VaR calculation. The actual results are periodically monitored to examine the validity of the assumptions, variables, and factors that are used in VaR calculations. However, this approach cannot prevent the loss when the market fluctuation exceeds expectation. For the non-trading activities, interest rate Earning at Risk (“EaR”) and interest rate VaR, which is based on the simulations of the Net Interest Income (“NII”) and Net Portfolio Value (“NPV”), are calculated for the Bank and the consolidated trusts, and the risks for all other subsidiaries are measured and managed by the interest rate EaR and the interest rate VaR calculations based on the Bank for International Settlements (“BIS”) Framework. 165 46 NII is a profit-based indicator for displaying the profit changes in short term due to the short-term interest changes. It will be estimated as subtracting interest expenses of liabilities from the interest income of assets. NPV is an indicator for displaying risks in economic view according to unfavorable changes related to interest rate. It will be estimated as subtracting the present value of liabilities from the present value of assets. EaR shows the maximum profit-loss amount, which indicates the maximum deduction amount caused by the unfavorable changes related to the interest rate of a certain period (i.e. 1 year). Interest rate VaR shows the potential maximum loss generated by the unfavorable changes during a certain period of time in the present or future. a) Trading activities The minimum, maximum and average VaR for the year ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, and the VaR as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended For the year ended December December 31, 2018 December December 31, 2017 Risk factor 31, 2018 Average Maximum Minimum 31, 2017 Average Maximum Minimum Interest rate 3,107 3,702 5,528 1,730 4,183 3,799 4,918 2,467 We Believe in Your Potential Stock price 2,353 2,669 5,081 1,138 909 2,863 4,419 909 Foreign currencies 4,972 4,678 6,136 3,439 4,750 5,051 6,636 4,061 Commodity price 3 24 31 188 Diversification (4,445) (4,869) (8,155) (1,815) (4,472) (4,621) (6,798) (2,067) Total VaR(*) 5,987 6,183 8,614 4,492 5,370 7,123 9,363 5,370 (*)VaR (Value at Risk): Maximum expected losses b) Non-trading activities Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 The NII and NPV are calculated for the assets and liabilities owned by the Bank and consolidated trusts, respectively, by using the simulation method. The scenario responding to interest rate (“IR”) changes are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 NII(*1) NPV(*2) NII(*1) NPV(*2) Base case 4,895,332 24,636,678 4,916,138 23,472,792 Base case (Prepay) 4,887,799 24,225,946 4,916,015 23,163,942 IR 100bp up 5,575,470 24,415,761 5,361,546 22,886,122 IR 100bp down 4,329,543 24,907,344 4,386,437 24,127,559 IR 200bp up 6,603,132 24,232,738 5,806,723 22,372,208 IR 200bp down 3,508,859 25,245,667 3,452,590 24,830,482 IR 300bp up 7,560,155 24,079,415 6,251,897 21,929,189 IR 300bp down 3,352,267 25,680,084 2,254,609 26,633,807 (*1) NII: Net Interest Income (*2) NPV: Net Portfolio Value The interest EaR and VaR calculated based on the BIS Framework of subsidiaries other than the Bank and consolidated trusts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 EaR (*1) VaR (*2) EaR (*1) VaR (*2) 248,364 141,484 255,679 130,821 (*1) EaR(Earning at Risk): Change of Maximum expected income and expense (*2) VaR(Value at Risk): Maximum expected losses 166 47 The Group estimates and manages risks related to changes in interest rate due to the difference in the maturities of interest-bearing assets and liabilities and discrepancies in the terms of interest rates. Cash flows (both principal and interest), interest bearing assets and liabilities, presented by each re-pricing date, are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 months months months months years Over 5 years Total Asset: Loans and other financial assets at amortized cost 159,893,080 45,387,214 8,878,060 9,903,959 46,459,450 4,201,379 274,723,142 Financial assets at FVTPL 371,984 32,278 24,951 64,838 145,121 27,536 666,708 Financial assets at FVTOCI 2,579,442 1,775,435 1,486,953 2,223,494 9,289,742 185,320 17,540,386 Securities at amortized cost 2,449,416 2,251,180 1,735,698 1,946,948 15,177,608 402,671 23,963,521 Total 165,293,922 49,446,107 12,125,662 14,139,239 71,071,921 4,816,906 316,893,757 Liability: Deposits due to We Believe in Your Potential customers 100,232,916 44,207,416 29,419,951 35,427,657 40,130,055 72,276 249,490,271 Borrowings 9,971,680 1,924,390 670,404 518,167 2,723,156 626,364 16,434,161 Debentures 2,143,916 2,416,483 2,201,070 2,584,230 18,955,400 2,403,077 30,704,176 Total 112,348,512 48,548,289 32,291,425 38,530,054 61,808,611 3,101,717 296,628,608 December 31, 2017 Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 months months months months years Over 5 years Total Asset: Loans and receivables 161,653,892 41,671,530 7,614,159 6,411,841 54,150,998 26,272,958 297,775,378 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 AFS financial assets 2,150,708 2,500,103 2,016,711 2,367,762 4,229,000 601,735 13,866,019 HTM financial assets 2,286,179 2,161,467 1,433,425 1,687,362 9,369,794 345,868 17,284,095 Total 166,090,779 46,333,100 11,064,295 10,466,965 67,749,792 27,220,561 328,925,492 Liability: Deposits due to customers 106,815,564 37,750,367 25,117,556 27,585,458 37,518,878 91,246 234,879,069 Borrowings 9,865,249 1,056,579 412,966 437,431 2,709,010 479,827 14,961,062 Debentures 1,955,902 2,452,240 1,018,563 1,752,847 19,770,538 2,869,766 29,819,856 Total 118,636,715 41,259,186 26,549,085 29,775,736 59,998,426 3,440,839 279,659,987 167 48 3) Currency risk Currency risk arises from the financial instruments denominated in foreign currencies other than the functional currency. Therefore, no currency risk arises from non-monetary items or financial instruments denominated in the functional currency. Financial instruments in foreign currencies exposed to currency risk are as follows (Unit: USD in millions, JPY in millions, CNY in millions, EUR in millions, and Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 USD JPY CNY EUR Others Total Korean Korean Korean Korean Korean Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Won Korean Won currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent equivalent equivalent Asset Loans and other financial assets at amortized cost 20,406 22,816,027 167,419 1,696,255 29,880 4,863,230 1,994 2,550,147 4,742,340 36,667,999 Financial assets at FVTPL 74 82,197 1,425 14,434 59 75,169 79,584 251,384 Financial assets at FVTOCI 1,472 1,645,595 1,604 261,085 729,581 2,636,261 We Believe in Your Potential Securities at amortized cost 52 58,489 175,552 234,041 Total 22,004 24,602,308 168,844 1,710,689 31,484 5,124,315 2,053 2,625,316 5,727,057 39,789,685 Liability Financial liabilities at FVTPL 118 131,927 1,956 19,815 55 70,250 121,658 343,650 Deposits due to customers 11,159 12,477,154 169,770 1,720,072 23,967 3,900,923 887 1,135,149 4,392,936 23,626,234 Borrowings 6,606 7,386,616 3,834 38,847 381 61,947 286 365,585 505,541 8,358,536 Debentures 3,645 4,075,084 285,339 4,360,423 Other financial Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 liabilities 2,522 2,820,290 28,955 293,362 1,818 295,919 193 246,584 18,527 3,674,682 Total 24,050 26,891,071 204,515 2,072,096 26,166 4,258,789 1,421 1,817,568 5,324,001 40,363,525 Off-balance accounts 7,453 8,333,153 33,347 337,868 1,557 253,366 474 606,714 823,655 10,354,756 December 31, 2017 USD JPY CNY EUR Others Total Korean Korean Korean Korean Korean Korean Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Foreign Won Won Won currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent currency equivalent equivalent equivalent Asset Loans and receivables 23,000 24,642,900 126,944 1,204,843 25,224 4,127,936 1,156 1,479,351 3,937,733 35,392,763 Financial assets at FVTPL 32 34,303 25 238 27 34,583 104,892 174,016 AFS financial assets 1,966 2,105,972 319 52,259 590 302,801 2,461,622 HTM financial assets 111 118,868 78,175 197,043 Total 25,109 26,902,043 126,969 1,205,081 25,543 4,180,195 1,183 1,514,524 4,423,601 38,225,444 Liability Financial liabilities at FVTPL 41 43,423 79 752 19 24,878 69,977 139,030 Deposits due to customers 13,744 14,725,686 195,176 1,852,440 21,865 3,578,142 883 1,129,802 2,396,826 23,682,896 Borrowings 6,604 7,080,118 2,218 21,056 247 315,685 242,874 7,659,733 Debentures 3,467 3,714,411 700 114,555 375,749 4,204,715 Other financial liabilities 2,392 2,562,740 16,125 153,043 1,802 294,950 129 165,189 588,625 3,764,547 Total 26,248 28,126,378 213,598 2,027,291 24,367 3,987,647 1,278 1,635,554 3,647,051 39,450,921 Off-balance accounts 8,108 8,687,009 33,624 319,127 1,199 196,261 406 519,843 176,886 9,899,126 168 49 (3) Liquidity risk Liquidity risk refers to the risk that the Group may encounter difficulties in meeting obligations from its financial liabilities. 1) Liquidity risk management Liquidity risk management is to prevent potential cash shortages as a result of mismatching the use of funds (assets) and sources of funds (liabilities) or unexpected cash outflows. The financial liabilities that are relevant to liquidity risk are incorporated within the scope of risk management. Derivatives instruments are excluded from those financial liabilities as they reflect expected cash flows for a pre-determined period. Assets and liabilities are grouped by account under Asset Liability Management (“ALM”) in accordance with the characteristics of the account. The Group manages liquidity risk by identifying the maturity gap and such gap ratio through various cash flows analysis (i.e. based on remaining maturity and contract period, etc.), while maintaining the gap ratio at or below the target limit. 2) Maturity analysis of non-derivative financial liabilities We Believe in Your Potential a) Cash flows of principals and interests by remaining contractual maturities of non-derivative financial liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 Over months months months months years 5 years Total Financial liabilities at FVTPL 191,825 191,825 Deposits due to customers 145,187,689 33,825,662 22,186,833 42,046,740 7,098,907 1,870,334 252,216,165 Borrowings 6,373,835 2,846,294 1,874,069 1,607,985 3,156,128 642,017 16,500,328 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Debentures 2,143,916 2,416,483 2,201,070 2,584,230 18,955,400 2,403,077 30,704,176 Other financial liabilities 14,240,022 44,572 169,996 1,201 90,615 2,288,560 16,834,966 Total 168,137,287 39,133,011 26,431,968 46,240,156 29,301,050 7,203,988 316,447,460 December 31, 2017 Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 Over months months months months years 5 years Total Financial liabilities at FVTPL 168,442 155,984 1,717 512 375 327,030 Deposits due to customers 148,008,777 29,563,310 18,175,348 32,468,110 7,409,118 2,624,594 238,249,257 Borrowings 6,115,732 1,893,173 1,489,272 1,178,107 3,924,681 479,568 15,080,533 Debentures 1,955,255 2,452,565 1,018,714 1,744,731 19,770,380 2,869,699 29,811,344 Other financial liabilities 7,121,342 162,871 825 1,003 128,940 2,730,001 10,144,982 Total 163,369,548 34,227,903 20,685,876 35,392,463 31,233,494 8,703,862 293,613,146 169 50 b) Cash flows of principals and interests by expected maturities of non-derivative financial liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 months months months months years years Total Financial liabilities at FVTPL 191,825 191,825 Deposits due to customers 163,787,990 38,126,886 20,993,436 23,262,092 5,230,533 17,649 251,418,586 Borrowings 6,373,835 2,846,294 1,874,069 1,607,985 3,156,128 642,017 16,500,328 Debentures 2,143,916 2,416,483 2,201,070 2,584,230 18,955,400 2,403,077 30,704,176 Other financial liabilities 14,240,022 44,572 169,996 1,201 90,615 2,288,560 16,834,966 Total 186,737,588 43,434,235 25,238,571 27,455,508 27,432,676 5,351,303 315,649,881 December 31, 2017 Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 months months months months years years Total Financial liabilities at FVTPL 168,442 155,984 1,717 512 375 327,030 Deposits due to customers 159,146,602 31,298,562 16,667,130 21,995,294 6,487,047 2,278,756 237,873,391 We Believe in Your Potential Borrowings 6,115,732 1,893,173 1,489,272 1,178,107 3,924,681 479,568 15,080,533 Debentures 1,955,255 2,452,565 1,018,714 1,744,731 19,770,380 2,869,699 29,811,344 Other financial liabilities 7,121,342 162,871 825 1,003 128,940 2,730,001 10,144,982 Total 174,507,373 35,963,155 19,177,658 24,919,647 30,311,423 8,358,024 293,237,280 3) Maturity analysis of derivative financial liabilities Derivatives held for trading purpose are not managed in accordance with their contractual maturity, since the Group holds such financial instruments with the purpose of disposing or redemption before their maturity. As such, those derivatives are incorporated as “within 3 months” in the table below. Derivatives Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 designated for hedging purpose are estimated by offsetting cash inflows and cash outflows. The cash flow by the maturity of derivative financial liabilities as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Remaining maturity Within 3 4 to 6 7 to 9 10 to 12 1 to 5 Over 5 months months months months years years Total December 31, 2018 2,090,861 816 50,592 2,142,269 December 31, 2017 3,150,149 381 67,373 3,217,903 4) Maturity analysis of off-balance accounts (Guarantees and loan commitments) The Group provides guarantees on behalf of customers. A financial guarantee represents an irrevocable undertaking that the Group should meet a customer’s obligations to third parties if the customer fails to do so. Under a loan commitment, the Group agrees to make funds available to a customer in the future. Commitments to lend include commercial standby facilities and credit lines, liquidity facilities to commercial paper conduits and utilized overdraft facilities. The maximum limit to be paid by the Group in accordance with guarantees and loan commitment only applies to principal amounts. There are contractual maturities for financial guarantees, such as guarantees for debentures issued or loans, unused loan commitments, and other guarantees, however, under the terms of the guarantees and unused loan commitments, funds should be paid upon demand from the counterparty. Details of off-balance accounts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Guarantees 12,666,417 12,859,715 Loan commitments 97,796,704 80,760,325 170 51 (4) Operational risk The Group defines the operational risk that could cause a negative effect on capital resulting from inadequate internal process, labor work and systematic problem or external factors. 1) Operational risk management The Group has been running the operational risk management system under Basel II. The Group developed Advanced Measurement Approaches (“AMA”) to quantify required capital for operational risk. This system is used for reinforcement in foreign competitions, reducing the amount of risk capitals, managing the risk, and precaution for any unexpected occasions. This system has been tested by an independent third party, and this system approved by the Financial Supervisory Service. 2) Operational risk measurement To quantify required capital for operational risk, the Group applies AMA using internal and external loss data, business environment and internal control factors, and scenario analysis. For the operational risk management for its subsidiaries, the Group adopted the Basic Indicator Approach. We Believe in Your Potential (5) Capital management The Group complies with the standard of capital adequacy provided by financial regulatory authorities. The capital adequacy standard is based on Basel published by Basel Ⅲ Committee on Banking Supervision in Bank for International Settlement in 2010 and was implemented in Korea in December 2013. The capital adequacy ratio is calculated by dividing own capital by asset (weighted with a risk premium – risk weighted assets) based on the consolidated financial statements of the Group. According to the above regulations, the Group is required to meet the following new minimum requirements: Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio of 7.13% and 6.25%, a Tier 1 capital ratio of 8.63% and 7.75% and a minimum total capital ratio of 10.63% and 9.75% as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. Details of the Group’s capital adequacy ratio as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Tier 1 capital 17,275,539 16,074,987 Other Tier 1 capital 3,147,680 3,041,664 Tier 2 capital 3,827,573 3,486,555 Total risk-adjusted capital 24,250,792 22,603,206 Risk-weighted assets for credit risk 142,626,069 134,767,711 Risk-weighted assets for market risk 2,372,451 2,316,938 Risk-weighted assets for operational risk 9,972,430 9,677,559 Total risk-weighted assets 154,970,950 146,762,208 Common Equity Tier 1 ratio 11.15% 10.95% Tier 1 capital ratio 13.18% 13.03% Total capital ratio 15.65% 15.40% 171 52 5. OPERATING SEGMENTS In evaluating the results of the Group and allocating resources, the Group’s Chief Operation Decision Maker (“CODM”) utilizes the information per type of customers. This financial information of the segments is regularly reviewed by the CODM to make decisions about resources to be allocated to each segment and evaluate its performance. (1) Segment by type of customers The Group’s reporting segments comprise the following customers: consumer banking, corporate banking, investment banking, capital market, credit card market and headquarters and others. The reportable segments are classified based on the target customers for whom the service is being provided. • Consumer banking: Loans/deposits and financial services for retail and individual consumers, etc. • Corporate banking: Loans/deposits and export/import, financial services for corporations, etc. • Investment banking: Domestic/foreign investment, structured finance, M&A, equity & fund investment related business, venture advisory related tasks, real estate SOC development practices, etc. • Capital market: Fund management, investment in securities and derivatives, etc. We Believe in Your Potential • Credit card: Credit card, cash service and card loan, etc. • Headquarter and others: Segments that do not belong to above operating segments The details of operating income by each segment are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2018 Consumer Corporate Investment Capital Headquarters Adjustbanking banking banking market Credit cards and others Sub-total ments(*) Total Net Interest income(expense) Interest income 3,529,645 3,409,835 152,273 8,945 670,240 1,605,696 9,376,634 307,865 9,684,499 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Interest expense (1,021,639) (2,168,000) (150) (160,642) (983,547) (4,333,978) 300,430 (4,033,548) Inter-segment (634,110) 833,224 (163,962) 25,963 (61,115) 1,873,896 2,075,059 (11,839) 34,908 509,598 561,034 5,042,656 608,295 5,650,951 Net non-interest Income(expense) Non-interest income 678,360 721,096 230,357 7,020,740 665,534 1,214,380 10,530,467 (8,463,129) 2,067,338 Non-interest expense (143,704) (290,347) (53,671) (6,964,671) (620,687) (550,919) (8,623,999) 7,618,618 (1,005,381) Inter-segment 132,690 70,016 (202,706) 667,346 500,765 176,686 56,069 44,847 460,755 1,906,468 (844,511) 1,061,957 Other income(expense) General and administrative expense (1,865,933) (868,608) (14,318) (18,452) (170,765) (967,923) (3,905,999) 281,966 (3,624,033) Reversal of allowance for credit loss and impairment losses due to credit loss (127,220) (61,064) 62,454 (16,861) (227,144) 102,574 (267,261) (62,313) (329,574) (1,993,153) (929,672) 48,136 (35,313) (397,909) (865,349) (4,173,260) 219,653 (3,953,607) Operating income(expenses) 548,089 1,646,152 212,983 55,664 156,536 156,440 2,775,864 (16,563) 2,759,301 Non-operating income(expenses) (20,208) 899 32,738 (5,547) 56,829 64,711 (19,140) 45,571 Net income(expense) before income tax expense 527,881 1,647,051 245,721 55,664 150,989 213,269 2,840,575 (35,703) 2,804,872 Income tax expense (145,167) (445,619) (67,573) (15,308) (36,222) (41,088) (750,977) (2,246) (753,223) Net income(expense) 382,714 1,201,432 178,148 40,356 114,767 172,181 2,089,598 (37,949) 2,051,649 (*) These adjustments are performed in order to present intersegment profit or loss adjustments based on managerial accounting as profit or loss in accordance with K-IFRS. 172 53 For the year ended December 31, 2017 Consumer Corporate Investment Capital Headquarters Adjustbanking banking banking market Credit cards and others Sub-total ments(*) Total Net Interest income Interest income 3,149,625 2,964,813 148,500 18,834 599,550 1,360,734 8,242,056 308,631 8,550,687 Interest expense (955,836) (1,681,652) (243) (135,947) (834,662) (3,608,340) 278,303 (3,330,037) Inter-segment (490,850) 512,216 (136,133) 18,049 96,718 1,702,939 1,795,377 12,124 36,883 463,603 622,790 4,633,716 586,934 5,220,650 Net non-interest Income(expense) Non-interest income 802,387 680,778 366,523 9,548,399 1,163,575 2,683,407 15,245,069 (12,858,172) 2,386,897 Non-interest expense (253,961) (170,268) (214,355) (9,478,728) (1,090,038) (2,132,053) (13,339,403) 12,204,532 (1,134,871) Inter-segment 101,524 60,826 (162,350) 649,950 571,336 152,168 69,671 73,537 389,004 1,905,666 (653,640) 1,252,026 Other income(expense) General and administrative expense (1,808,974) (832,429) (12,881) (16,567) (163,536) (954,238) (3,788,625) 257,824 (3,530,801) Reversal of allowance We Believe in Your Potential for credit loss and impairment losses due to credit loss (97,587) (316,859) (50,954) 31,229 (235,116) 14,832 (654,455) (130,678) (785,133) (1,906,561) (1,149,288) (63,835) 14,662 (398,652) (939,406) (4,443,080) 127,146 (4,315,934) Operating income 446,328 1,217,425 100,457 121,216 138,488 72,388 2,096,302 60,440 2,156,742 Non-operating income(expense) (98,510) (3,153) 39,350 (5,219) (112,734) (180,266) (26,970) (207,236) Net income before income tax expense 347,818 1,214,272 139,807 121,216 133,269 (40,346) 1,916,036 33,470 1,949,506 Income tax expense (84,172) (296,634) (33,834) (29,335) (32,055) 63,396 (412,634) (6,784) (419,418) Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Net income(expense) 263,646 917,638 105,973 91,881 101,214 23,050 1,503,402 26,686 1,530,088 (*) These adjustments are performed in order to present intersegment profit or loss adjustments based on managerial accounting as profit or loss in accordance with K-IFRS. (2) Information on products and services The products of the Group are classified as interest-bearing products such as loans, deposits and debt securities and non-interest bearing products such as loan commitment, credit commitment, equity securities, and credit card service. This classification of products has been reflected in the segment information presenting interest income and non-interest income. (3) Information on geographical areas Of the Group’s revenue (interest income and non-interest income) from services, revenue from the domestic customers for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 amounted to 10,440,668 million Won and 9,817,327 million Won, respectively, and revenue from the foreign customers amounted to 1,311,169 million Won and 1,120,257 million Won, respectively. Of the Group’s non-current assets (investments in joint ventures and associates, investment properties, premises and equipment and intangible assets), non-current assets attributed to domestic subsidiaries as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are 3,531,842 million Won and 3,550,764 million Won, respectively, and foreign subsidiaries are 236,050 million Won and 233,732 million Won, respectively. (4) Information about major customers The Group does not have any single customer that generates 10% or more of the Group’s total revenue. 173 54 6. CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS (1) Details of cash and cash equivalents are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Cash 2,107,850 2,009,363 Foreign currencies 725,083 617,155 Demand deposits 3,512,216 3,423,355 Fixed deposits 367,474 858,413 Total 6,712,623 6,908,286 (2) Significant transactions of investing activities and financing activities not involving cash inflows and outflows are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Changes in other comprehensive income related to valuation of financial assets at FVTOCI 2,505 We Believe in Your Potential Changes in other comprehensive income related to available-for-sale securities (84,498) Changes in other comprehensive income related to valuation of equity method investments 2,958 612 Changes in other comprehensive income related to valuation gain or loss on cash flow hedge (4,646) 777 Changes in financial assets at FVTOCI as a result of debt-equity swap 14,378 Changes in investments in associates due to debt-equity swap 51,227 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Changes in investments in associates due to accounts transfer (89,151) (62,571) Changes in unpaid dividends on hybrid equity securities 3,569 (10,658) Changes in equity related to assets held for distribution (sale) (17,342) 4,145 Classified to assets held for distribution (sale) from premises and equipment 15,594 Classified to assets held for distribution (sale) from deferred tax assets 9,778 174 55 (3) Adjustments of liabilities from financing activities in current year are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2018 Not involving cash inflows and outflows Variation of gains on valuation of January Foreign hedged December 1,2018 Cash flow Exchange items Others 31,2018 Borrowings 14,784,706 1,257,121 161,078 81 16,202,986 Debentures 27,869,651 602,331 267,339 (25,498) 12,039 28,725,862 Total 42,654,357 1,859,452 428,417 (25,498) 12,120 44,928,848 For the year ended December 31, 2017 Not involving cash inflows and outflows Variation of gains on We Believe in Your Potential valuation of January Foreign hedged December 1,2017 Cash flow Exchange items Others 31,2017 Borrowings 18,769,515 (3,634,883) (350,429) 503 14,784,706 Debentures 23,565,449 4,817,701 (478,249) (39,373) 4,123 27,869,651 Total 42,334,964 1,182,818 (828,678) (39,373) 4,626 42,654,357 7. FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FVTPL Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 (1) Financial assets at FVTPL are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss mandatorily measured at fair value 6,126,183 Financial assets held for trading 5,820,787 Financial assets designated at FVTPL 22,290 Total 6,126,183 5,843,077 (2) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss mandatorily measured at fair value and financial assets held for trading are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Deposits: Gold banking asset 26,935 25,972 Securities: Debt securities Korean treasury and government agencies 516,173 540,438 Financial institutions 533,393 1,476,498 Corporates 774,589 627,397 Equity securities 455,666 21,666 Capital contributions 422,481 Beneficiary certificates 985,417 13,041 Sub-total 3,687,719 2,679,040 Loans 385,450 Derivatives assets 2,026,079 3,115,775 Total 6,126,183 5,820,787 175 56 (3) Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss designated as upon initial recognition is nil as of December 31, 2018 and financial assets at fair value through profit or loss designated as upon initial recognition as of December 31, 2017 is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2017 Debt securities 9,694 Equity securities 12,596 Total 22,290 8. FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FVTOCI AND AFS FINANCIAL ASSETS (1) Details of financial assets at FVTOCI as of December 31, 2018 is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Debt securities: Korean treasury and government agencies 1,358,378 Financial institutions 11,252,790 We Believe in Your Potential Corporates 1,824,843 Bond denominated in foreign currencies 2,636,209 Sub-total 17,072,220 Equity securities 951,174 Securities loaned 40,029 Total 18,063,423 (2) Details of equity securities designated as financial assets at FVTOCI are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Purpose of acquisition Fair value Strategic business partnership 662,934 Debt-equity swap 287,990 Others (Cooperative insurance, etc.) 250 Total 951,174 (3) Changes in the loss allowance and gross carrying amount of financial assets at FVTOCI are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 1) Loss allowance For the year ended December 31, 2018 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Beginning balance (*1) (4,107) (129) (4,236) Transfer to 12-month expected credit losses Transfer to lifetime expected credit losses Transfer to credit-impaired financial assets Net provision of loss allowance (1,918) (109) (2,027) Others (*2) 86 86 Ending balance (5,939) (238) (6,177) (*1) The beginning balance was restated in accordance with K-IFRS 1109. (*2) Others consist of foreign currencies translation, etc. 176 57 2) Gross carrying amount For the year ended December 31, 2018 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Beginning balance 12,843,997 30,212 12,874,209 Transfer to 12-month expected credit losses Transfer to lifetime expected credit losses Transfer to credit-impaired financial assets Acquisition 13,275,429 10,000 13,285,429 Disposal (9,146,307) (15,047) (9,161,354) Gain (loss) on valuation 70,017 (59) 69,958 Amortization on the effective interest method 10,195 47 10,242 Others (*) 33,765 33,765 Ending balance 17,087,096 25,153 17,112,249 (*) Others consist of foreign currencies translation, etc. (4) The Group disposed equity securities designated as financial assets at FVTOCI as the creditors determined to sell the securities for the year ended December 31, 2018. The fair value and accumulative We Believe in Your Potential gain on valuation of that equity securities at disposal date are 9,379 million Won and 1,392 million Won, respectively. (5) Details of AFS financial assets as of December 31, 2017 is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2017 Cumulative Cumulative Amortized gains on losses on cost valuation valuation Fair value Debt securities: Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Korean treasury and government agencies 2,338,760 1,193 (9,386) 2,330,567 Financial institutions 5,225,921 1,504 (10,159) 5,217,266 Corporates 2,727,016 3,851 (5,635) 2,725,232 Asset-backed securities 309,518 (1,337) 308,181 Bond denominated in foreign currencies 2,449,954 3,100 (10,475) 2,442,579 Others 35,154 21 (12) 35,163 Sub-total 13,086,323 9,669 (37,004) 13,058,988 Equity securities 982,393 430,921 (2,236) 1,411,078 Beneficiary certificates 697,655 18,701 (3,728) 712,628 Securities loaned 169,988 664 (396) 170,256 Total 14,936,359 459,955 (43,364) 15,352,950 9. SECURITIES AT AMORTIZED COST AND HTM FINANCIAL ASSETS (1) Details of securities at amortized cost as of December 31, 2018 is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Korean treasury and government agencies 7,523,458 Financial institutions 9,474,922 Corporates 5,707,063 Bond denominated in foreign currencies 234,041 Loss allowance (6,925) Total 22,932,559 177 58 (2) Changes in the loss allowance and gross carrying amount of securities at amortized cost are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 1) Loss allowance For the year ended December 31, 2018 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Beginning balance (*1) (5,078) (5,078) Transfer to 12-month expected credit losses Transfer to lifetime expected credit losses Transfer to credit-impaired financial assets Net provision of loss allowance (1,922) (1,922) Disposal 22 22 Others(*2) 54 54 Ending balance (6,924) (6,924) (*1) The beginning balance was restated in accordance with K-IFRS 1109. (*2) Others consist of foreign currencies translation, etc. We Believe in Your Potential 2) Gross carrying amount For the year ended December 31, 2018 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Beginning balance 16,749,296 16,749,296 Transfer to 12-month expected credit losses Transfer to lifetime expected credit losses Transfer to credit-impaired financial assets Acquisition 15,622,847 15,622,847 Disposal / Redemption (9,426,757) (9,426,757) Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Amortization on the effective interest method (7,970) (7,970) Others (*) 2,068 2,068 Ending balance 22,939,484 22,939,484 (*) Others consist of foreign currencies translation, etc. (3) Details of HTM financial assets as of December 31, 2017 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2017 Cumulative Cumulative Amortized gains on losses on cost valuation valuation Fair value Korean treasury and government agencies 3,994,857 6,944 (15,266) 3,986,535 Financial institutions 7,245,426 2,923 (15,067) 7,233,282 Corporates 5,311,970 12,367 (25,326) 5,299,011 Bond denominated in foreign currencies 197,043 832 (1,024) 196,851 Total 16,749,296 23,066 (56,683) 16,715,679 178 59 10. LOANS AND OTHER FINANCIAL ASSETS AT AMORTIZED COST, AND LOANS AND RECEIVABLES (1) Details of loans and other financial assets at amortized cost as of December 31, 2018 and loans and receivables as of December 31, 2017 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Due from banks 14,150,027 8,868,378 Loans 260,819,917 251,523,301 Other financial assets(other receivables) 7,478,371 6,714,525 Total 282,448,315 267,106,204 (2) Details of due from banks are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Due from banks in local currency: Due from The Bank of Korea (“BOK”) 11,034,602 6,246,496 Due from depository banks 90,003 30,003 Due from non-depository institutions 76 150 We Believe in Your Potential Due from the Korea Exchange 30,000 50,000 Others 85,915 97,365 Loss allowance (3,069) (1,541) Sub-total 11,237,527 6,422,473 Due from banks in foreign currencies: Due from banks on demand 828,022 794,353 Due from banks on time 1,288,303 972,915 Others 798,493 679,554 Loss allowance (2,318) (917) Sub-total 2,912,500 2,445,905 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Total 14,150,027 8,868,378 (3) Details of restricted due from banks are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Counterparty December 31, 2018 Reason of restriction Due from banks in local currency: Due from BOK The BOK Reserve deposits 11,034,602 under the BOK Act Others The Korea Exchange Central counterparty KRW and others 81,889 margin and others Sub-total 11,116,491 Due from banks in foreign currencies: Due from banks The BOK and others Reserve deposits under the on demand 780,576 BOK Act and others Others Korea Investment & Overseas futures and options Securities and others 798,493 trade deposits and others Sub-total 1,579,069 Total 12,695,560 179 60 Counterparty December 31, 2017 Reason of restriction Due from banks in local currency: Due from BOK The BOK Reserve deposits 6,246,496 under the BOK Act Others The Korea Exchange Central counterparty KRW and others 94,394 margin and others Sub-total 6,340,890 Due from banks in foreign currencies: Due from banks The BOK and others Reserve deposits under the on demand 787,520 BOK Act and others Others The People’s Bank of Reserve deposits and others China and others 367,108 Sub-total 1,154,628 Total 7,495,518 (4) Changes in the loss allowance and gross carrying amount of due from banks are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): We Believe in Your Potential 1) Loss allowance For the year ended December 31, 2018 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Beginning balance (*1) (3,092) (3,092) Transfer to 12-month expected credit losses Transfer to lifetime expected credit losses Transfer to credit-impaired financial assets Net provision of loss allowance (2,219) (2,219) Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Others (*2) (76) (76) Ending balance (5,387) (5,387) (*1) The beginning balance was restated in accordance with K-IFRS 1109. (*2) Others consist of foreign currencies translation and etc. 2) Gross carrying amount For the year ended December 31, 2018 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Beginning balance 8,870,835 8,870,835 Transfer to 12-month expected credit losses Transfer to lifetime expected credit losses Transfer to credit-impaired financial assets Net increase 5,301,259 5,301,259 Other (16,680) (16,680) Ending balance 14,155,414 14,155,414 180 61 (5) Details of loans are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Loans in local currency 210,701,421 200,213,230 Loans in foreign currencies 15,239,032 13,147,888 Domestic banker’s letter of credit 2,934,366 2,516,907 Credit card accounts 8,051,384 6,827,295 Bills bought in foreign currencies 7,874,457 8,197,159 Bills bought in local currency 22,885 334,714 Factoring receivables 45,851 137,523 Advances for customers on guarantees 13,810 23,620 Private placement bonds 365,531 362,319 Securitized loans 1,377,072 563,152 Call loans 2,669,080 3,003,455 Bonds purchased under resale agreements 11,701,951 16,859,064 Others 1,037,283 607,325 Loan origination costs and fees 574,178 510,860 Discounted present value (10,308) (10,988) We Believe in Your Potential Loss allowance (1,778,076) (1,770,222) Total 260,819,917 251,523,301 (6) Changes in the loss allowance on loans for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2018 Consumers Corporates Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Beginning balance (*1) (101,479) (41,358) (117,168) (365,251) (255,922) (905,243) Transfer to 12-month expected credit losses (9,848) 8,966 882 (24,324) 22,658 1,666 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Transfer to lifetime expected credit losses 5,905 (7,183) 1,278 15,074 (407,780) 392,706 Transfer to credit-impaired financial assets 79,078 47,343 (126,421) 62,731 97,750 (160,481) Net reversal (provision) of loss allowance (86,224) (56,164) (49,637) (68,381) 193,392 (94,004) Recoveries of loans previously charged off (51,855) (127,630) Charge-off 204,552 290,109 Disposal 33 1,633 237 49,902 Unwinding effect 7,945 23,381 Others (*2) (1,941) (5) (1,115) 31,840 46 1,921 Ending balance (114,509) (48,368) (129,906) (348,311) (349,619) (527,673) For the year ended December 31, 2018 Credit card accounts Sub-total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Beginning balance (*1) (57,134) (71,463) (102,858) (523,864) (368,743) (1,125,269) (2,017,876) Transfer to 12-month expected credit losses (13,846) 13,738 108 (48,018) 45,362 2,656 Transfer to lifetime expected credit losses 5,871 (6,194) 323 26,850 (421,157) 394,307 Transfer to credit-impaired financial assets 82,406 84,048 (166,454) 224,215 229,141 (453,356) Net reversal (provision) of loss allowance (82,083) (98,260) (33,205) (236,688) 38,968 (176,846) (374,566) Recoveries of loans previously charged off (57,565) (237,050) (237,050) Charge-off 242,879 737,540 737,540 Disposal 270 51,535 51,805 Unwinding effect 31,326 31,326 Others (*2) (1) 29,898 41 806 30,745 Ending balance (64,787) (78,131) (116,772) (527,607) (476,118) (774,351) (1,778,076) (*1) The beginning balance was restated in accordance with K-IFRS 1109. (*2) Others consist of debt-equity swap, foreign currencies translation and etc. 181 62 Changes in the loss allowances on loans and receivables for the year ended December 31, 2017, are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2017 Consumers Corporates Credit card Others Total Beginning balance (163,858) (1,498,842) (155,372) (209,024) (2,027,096) Net reversal (provision) of loss allowance (131,275) (539,222) (203,968) 12,192 (862,273) Recoveries of loans previously charged off (45,060) (84,413) (51,366) (68) (180,907) Charge-off 142,099 453,249 228,640 63,181 887,169 Disposal 898 65,145 29,186 95,229 Unwinding effect 8,643 36,548 45,191 Others(*) 908 211,729 1 (193) 212,445 Ending balance (187,645) (1,355,806) (182,065) (104,726) (1,830,242) (*) Others consist of debt-equity swap, foreign currencies translation and etc. (7) Changes in the gross carrying amount of loans are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): We Believe in Your Potential For the year ended December 31, 2018 Consumers Corporates Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Beginning balance 103,502,347 5,487,758 326,739 131,096,396 4,466,354 1,622,409 Transfer to 12-month expected credit losses 1,921,485 (1,912,046) (9,439) 1,081,702 (1,077,895) (3,807) Transfer to lifetime expected credit losses (3,186,506) 3,199,993 (13,487) (2,275,984) 2,733,860 (457,876) Transfer to credit-impaired financial assets (218,943) (127,447) 346,390 (348,503) (275,189) 623,692 Charge-off (204,552) (290,109) Disposal (478) (31,910) (2,781) (166,347) Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Net increase (decrease) 8,600,859 (619,771) (22,247) 1,900,116 (813,091) (307,304) Ending balance 110,619,242 6,028,009 391,494 131,453,727 5,031,258 1,020,658 For the year ended December 31, 2018 Credit card accounts Sub-total Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Beginning balance 5,721,743 935,266 177,983 240,320,486 10,889,378 2,127,131 253,336,995 Transfer to 12-month expected credit losses 221,984 (221,841) (143) 3,225,171 (3,211,782) (13,389) Transfer to lifetime expected credit losses (287,623) 288,027 (404) (5,750,113) 6,221,880 (471,767) Transfer to credit-impaired financial assets (104,459) (95,758) 200,217 (671,905) (498,394) 1,170,299 Charge-off (242,879) (737,540) (737,540) Disposal (3,259) (198,257) (201,516) Net increase (decrease) 1,310,199 77,078 74,215 11,811,174 (1,355,784) (255,336) 10,200,054 Ending balance 6,861,844 982,772 208,989 248,934,813 12,042,039 1,621,141 262,597,993 182 63 (8) Details of other financial assets(other receivables) are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 CMA accounts 185,999 135,000 Receivables 4,864,403 4,459,318 Accrued income 1,000,427 1,026,273 Telex and telephone subscription rights and refundable deposits 982,925 984,620 Other receivables 512,339 166,877 Loss allowance (67,722) (57,563) Total 7,478,371 6,714,525 (9) Changes in the loss allowances on other financial assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2018 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Beginning balance (*1) (2,955) (1,832) (54,211) (58,998) Transfer to 12-month expected credit losses (150) 139 11 Transfer to lifetime expected credit losses 105 (416) 311 Transfer to credit-impaired financial assets 6,509 304 (6,813) We Believe in Your Potential Net provision of loss allowance (6,583) (166) (31,550) (38,299) Charge-off 28,200 28,200 Disposal 1 1,264 1,265 Others(*2) (176) (1) 287 110 Ending balance (3,250) (1,971) (62,501) (67,722) (*1) The beginning balance was restated in accordance with K-IFRS 1109. (*2) Others consist of foreign currencies translation and etc. (10) Changes in the gross carrying amount of other financial assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 millions): For the year ended December 31, 2018 Stage 1 Stage 2 Stage 3 Total Beginning balance 6,662,335 29,124 79,912 6,771,371 Transfer to 12-month expected credit losses 7,573 (7,556) (17) Transfer to lifetime expected credit losses (11,418) 11,734 (316) Transfer to credit-impaired financial assets (7,580) (1,110) 8,690 Disposal (28,201) (28,201) Net increase and others (5) (1,640) (1,645) Others 794,983 (3,994) 13,579 804,568 Ending balance 7,445,893 28,193 72,007 7,546,093 183 64 11. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL ASSETS AND LIABILITIES (1) The fair value hierarchy The fair value hierarchy is determined by the levels of judgment involved in estimating fair values of financial assets and liabilities. The specific financial instruments characteristics and market condition such as volume of transactions and transparency are reflected to the market observable inputs. The fair value hierarchy gives the highest priority to quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The Group maximizes the use of observable inputs and minimizes the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value of its financial assets and financial liabilities. Fair value is measured based on the perspective of a market participant. As such, even when market assumptions are not readily available, the Group’s own assumptions reflect those that market participants would use for measuring the assets or liabilities at the measurement date. The fair value measurement is described in the one of the following three levels used to classify fair value measurements: • Level 1—fair value measurements are those derived from quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. The types of financial assets or liabilities generally included in Level 1 are publicly traded equity securities, derivatives, and debt securities issued by governmental bodies. We Believe in Your Potential • Level 2— fair value measurements are those derived from inputs other than quoted prices included within Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly (i.e. prices) or indirectly (i.e. derived from prices). The types of financial assets or liabilities generally included in Level 2 are debt securities not traded in active markets and derivatives traded in OTC but not required significant judgment. • Level 3— fair value measurements are those derived from valuation technique that include inputs for the assets or liabilities that are not based on observable market data (unobservable inputs). The types of financial assets or liabilities generally included in Level 3 are non-public securities and derivatives and debt securities of which valuation techniques require significant judgments and subjectivity. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 The inputs used to measure fair value may fall into different levels of the fair value hierarchy. In such cases, the level within the fair value hierarchy is based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. The Group’s assessment of the significance of a particular input to a fair value measurement in its entirety requires judgment and consideration of inherent factors of the asset or liability. (2) Fair value hierarchy of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Level 1 (*1) Level 2 (*1) Level 3 Total Financial assets: Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss mandatorily measured at fair value Deposits 26,935 26,935 Debt securities 239,794 1,575,972 8,389 1,824,155 Equity securities 53,806 401,860 455,666 Capital contributions 422,481 422,481 Beneficiary certificates 2,130 128,988 854,299 985,417 Loans 205,000 180,450 385,450 Derivative assets 13,216 1,964,065 48,798 2,026,079 Sub-total 335,881 3,874,025 1,916,277 6,126,183 Financial assets at FVTOCI Debt securities 1,838,409 15,233,811 17,072,220 Equity securities 482,327 468,847 951,174 Securities loaned 40,029 40,029 Sub-total 2,320,736 15,273,840 468,847 18,063,423 Derivative assets (Designated for hedging) 35,503 35,503 Total 2,656,617 19,183,368 2,385,124 24,225,109 184 65 December 31, 2018 Level 1 (*1) Level 2 (*1) Level 3 Total Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss mandatorily measured at fair value Deposits due to customers 27,058 27,058 Derivative liabilities 2,245 2,071,925 16,691 2,090,861 Sub-total 29,303 2,071,925 16,691 2,117,919 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss designated as upon initial recognition Equity-linked securities 164,767 164,767 Derivative liabilities (Designated for hedging) 51,408 51,408 Total 29,303 2,123,333 181,458 2,334,094 December 31, 2017 Level 1 (*1) Level 2 (*1) Level 3 (*2) Total Financial assets: Financial assets held for trading We Believe in Your Potential Deposits 25,972 25,972 Debt securities 405,942 2,238,391 2,644,333 Equity securities 21,666 21,666 Beneficiary certificates 13,041 13,041 Derivative assets 1,021 3,093,272 21,482 3,115,775 Sub-total 454,601 5,344,704 21,482 5,820,787 Financial assets designated at FVTPL Debt securities 9,694 9,694 Equity securities 12,596 12,596 Sub-total 22,290 22,290 AFS financial assets Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Debt securities 2,710,172 10,348,815 13,058,987 Equity securities 399,214 1,011,864 1,411,078 Beneficiary certificates 68,722 643,906 712,628 Securities loaned 69,778 100,478 170,256 Sub-total 3,179,164 10,518,015 1,655,770 15,352,949 Derivative assets (Designated for hedging) 59,272 59,272 Total 3,633,765 15,921,991 1,699,542 21,255,298 Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading Deposits due to customers 25,964 25,964 Derivative liabilities 2,613 3,126,585 20,951 3,150,149 Sub-total 28,577 3,126,585 20,951 3,176,113 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL Equity-linked securities 160,057 160,057 Debentures 91,739 91,739 Sub-total 91,739 160,057 251,796 Derivative liabilities (Designated for hedging) 67,754 67,754 Total 28,577 3,286,078 181,008 3,495,663 (*1) There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value. The Group recognizes transfers among levels at the end of reporting period in which events have occurred or conditions have changed. (*2) Certain unquoted AFS equity securities were measured at cost as of December 31, 2017, that amounted to 37,092 million Won. These unquoted equity instruments mostly represent minority investments in structured entity vehicles, such as asset securitization structures. They are measured at cost because (a) observable inputs of financial information to measure fair value were not available to obtain, (b) there was a significant variance in likely estimated cash flows or (c) the probabilities for various estimated cash flows could not be measured reliably. In addition, the Group has no intention to dispose these investments in the foreseeable future. 185 66 Financial assets and liabilities at fair value through profit or loss mandatorily measured at fair value, financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss designated as upon initial recognition, financial assets at FVTOCI, and derivative assets (Designated for hedging) and liabilities (Designated for hedging) are recognized at fair value. Fair value is the amount that would be received to sell an asset, or paid to transfer a liability, in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Financial instruments are measured at fair value using a quoted market price in active markets. If there is no active market for a financial instrument, the Group determines the fair value using valuation methods. Valuation methods and input variables for each type of financial instruments are as follows: Valuation methods Input variables Loans The fair value of Loans is measured by the Values of underlying assets, Binomial tree given the values of underlying Volatility assets and volatility. Debt securities The fair value is measured by discounting the Risk-free market rate, credit projected cash flows of debt securities by spread applying the market discount rate that has been applied to a proxy company that has similar We Believe in Your Potential credit rating to the issuers of the securities. Equity securities, capital Among DCF (Discounted Cash Flow) Model, Risk-free market rate, market risk contributions and FCFE (Free Cash Flow to Equity) Model, premium, Beta, etc. Beneficiary certificates Comparable Company Analysis, Dividend Discount Model, Risk-adjusted Rate of Return Method, and Net Asset Value Method, more than one method is used given the characteristic of the subject of fair value measurement. Derivatives The in-house developed model which is based on Risk-free market rate, forward Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 the models that are used by market participants rate, volatility, foreign exchange in the valuation of general OTC derivative rate, stock prices, etc. products, such as options, interest rate swaps, currency swap and currency forward that are based on inputs observable in the market. However, for some complicated financial instruments of which valuation should be based on some assumptions since some significant or all inputs to be used in the model are not observable in the market, the in-house derived model which is developed from the general valuation models, such as Finite Difference Method (“FDM”) or Monte Carlo Simulation. Equity-linked securities The fair value of security linked to stock prices or Values of underlying assets, riskderivatives is measured by the models such as free market rate, market rate, DCF model, FDM, or Monte Carlo Simulation dividend and convenience yield, given the natures of the securities or underlying volatility, correlation coefficient, assets. credit spread, and foreign exchange rate Debentures The fair value is measured by discounting the Risk-free market rate, forward rate projected cash flows of a debenture by applying the market discount rate that is reflecting credit rating of the Group. 186 67 Valuation methods of financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value and classified into Level 3 and significant but unobservable inputs are as follows: Fair value measurement Impact of changes in significant unobservable technique Input variable Range inputs on fair value measurement Loans Binomial tree Stock, Volatility 15.49%~36.96% Fair value increases as volatility of underlying of underlying asset increases. asset Derivative Option valuation model Correlation 0.9~0.98 Variation of fair value increases as correlation assets and others coefficient coefficient increases. Volatility of 14.00%~34.28% Variation of fair value increases as volatility underlying asset increases. Derivative Option valuation model Correlation 0.9~0.98 Variation of fair value increases as correlation liabilities and others coefficient coefficient increases. Volatility of 14.00%~34.28% Variation of fair value increases as volatility underlying asset increases. Equity-linked Monte Carlo Simulation Correlation 0.005~0.658 Equity-linked securities’ variation of fair value securities and others coefficient increases if both volatility and correlation Volatility of 22.09%~31.19% coefficient increase. However, when correlation underlying asset coefficient decreases despite the increase in We Believe in Your Potential volatility, the variation of fair value of a compound financial instrument may decrease. Equity External appraisal value Terminal growth 0.00% Fair value increases as terminal growth rate securities, and others rate increases. capital Discount rate 3.67%~17.40% Fair value increases as discount rate decreases. contributions Volatility of real 0.00% Fair value increases as volatility of real estate sale and estate sale price price increases. Beneficiary certificates Fair value of financial assets and liabilities classified into Level 3 is measured by the Group using its own Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 valuation methods or using external specialists. Unobservable inputs used in the fair value measurements are produced by the internal system of the Group and the appropriateness of inputs is reviewed regularly. 187 68 (3) Changes in financial assets and liabilities measured at fair value classified into Level 3 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2018 Net Income Other Transfer to or January 1, (loss) comprehensiv Purchases/ Disposals/ out of Level December 2018 (*1) -e income issuances settlements 3 (*2) 31, 2018 Financial assets: Financial assets at fair value through profit or loss mandatorily measured at fair value Debt securities 9,694 (28) 3,000 (4,277) 8,389 Equity securities 280,171 56,271 67,953 (2,535) 401,860 Capital contributions 294,121 16,119 144,207 (31,966) 422,481 Beneficiary certificates 654,066 16,391 5,151,535 (4,971,003) 3,310 854,299 Loans 165,001 3,378 150,103 (138,032) 180,450 Derivative assets 19,346 75,696 4,722 (50,966) 48,798 We Believe in Your Potential Sub-total 1,422,399 167,827 5,521,520 (5,198,779) 3,310 1,916,277 Financial assets at FVTOCI Equity securities 451,287 19,688 432 (2,560) 468,847 Total 1,873,686 167,827 19,688 5,521,952 (5,201,339) 3,310 2,385,124 Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss mandatorily Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 measured at fair value Derivative liabilities 20,951 46,409 255 (50,921) (3) 16,691 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss designated as upon initial recognition Equity-linked securities 160,057 (16,243) 183,039 (162,086) 164,767 Total 181,008 30,166 183,294 (213,007) (3) 181,458 (*1) The losses that increase financial liabilities are presented as positive amounts, and the gains that decrease financial liabilities are presented as negative amounts. The gain amounting to 137,777 million Won for the years ended December 31, 2018, which is from financial assets and liabilities that the Group holds as at the end of the periods, has been recognized in net gain (loss) on financial assets at FVTPL and net gain (loss) on financial assets at FVTOCI in the consolidated statement of comprehensive income. (*2) The Group recognizes transfers between levels at the end of reporting period within which events have occurred or conditions have changed. 188 69 For the year ended December 31, 2017 Transfer to Net Other or out of January 1, Income comprehensivPurchases/ Disposals/ level 3 December 2017 (loss) (*1) e income Issuances Settlements (*2) 31, 2017 Financial assets: Financial assets held for trading Derivative assets 23,153 22,362 1,398 (25,431) 21,482 Financial assets designed at FVTPL Debt securities 4,348 346 5,000 9,694 Equity securities 12,652 (56) 12,596 Sub-total 17,000 290 5,000 22,290 AFS financial assets Equity securities 1,024,935 27,986 24,442 65,961 (131,460) 1,011,864 Beneficiary certificates 530,511 212 (4,321) 226,975 (109,471) 643,906 Sub-total 1,555,446 28,198 20,121 292,936 (240,931) 1,655,770 We Believe in Your Potential Derivative assets 99 329 (428) Total 1,595,698 51,179 20,121 299,334 (266,790) 1,699,542 Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading Derivative liabilities 33,524 24,866 500 (37,939) 20,951 Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL Equity-linked securities 673,709 112,015 (625,667) 160,057 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Total 707,233 136,881 500 (663,606) 181,008 (*1) The losses that increase financial liabilities are presented as positive amounts, and the gains that decrease financial liabilities are presented as negative amounts. The loss amounting to 34,621 million Won for the year ended December 31, 2017, which is from financial assets and liabilities that the Group holds, has been recognized in net gain (loss) on financial instruments at FVTPL and net gain (loss) on AFS financial assets in the statement of comprehensive income. (*2) The Group recognizes transfers between levels at the end of reporting period within which events have occurred or conditions have changed. (4) Sensitivity analysis on the unobservable inputs used for measuring Level 3 financial instruments The sensitivity analysis of the financial instruments has been performed by classifying with favorable and unfavorable changes based on how changes in unobservable assumptions would have effects on the fluctuations of financial instruments’ value. When the fair value of a financial instrument is affected by more than one unobservable assumption, the below table reflects the most favorable or the most unfavorable changes which resulted from varying the assumptions individually. The sensitivity analysis was performed for two types of level 3 financial instruments: (1) interest rate related derivatives, currency related derivatives, equity related derivatives, equity-linked securities beneficiary certificates and loans of which fair value changes are recognized as net income; (2) equity securities of which fair value changes are recognized as other comprehensive income. The equity investments classified as Level 3 equity securities whose costs(2,566,582 million Won and 1,880,550 million Won as of December 31, 2018 and 2017)are considered to provide the best estimate of fair value are excluded from sensitivity analysis(1,641,875 million Won and 1,146,751 million Won as of December 31, 2018 and 2017). 189 70 The following table presents the sensitivity analysis to disclose the effect of reasonably possible volatility on the fair value of a Level 3 financial instruments (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Net income (loss) Other comprehensive income (loss) Favorable Unfavorable Favorable Unfavorable Financial assets: Financial assets at FVTPL Derivative assets (*1) 4,578 (4,352) Loans 146 (127) Debt securities 68 (35) Equity securities (*2) (*3) 12,700 (9,165) Beneficiary certificates (*3) 1,582 (1,582) Financial assets at FVTOCI Equity securities (*2) (*3) 23,798 (10,078) Total 19,074 (15,261) 23,798 (10,078) Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss mandatorily measured at fair value Derivative liabilities (*1) 2,433 (2,751) We Believe in Your Potential Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss designated as upon initial recognition Equity-linked securities (*1) 1,561 (1,669) Total 3,994 (4,420) December 31, 2017 Net income (loss) Other comprehensive income (loss) Favorable Unfavorable Favorable Unfavorable Financial assets: Financial assets held for trading Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Derivatives assets (*1) 1,234 (526) Financial assets designated at FVTPL Debt securities (*4) 265 (309) Equity securities (*4) 670 (624) AFS Financial assets Equity securities (*2)(*3) 28,583 (15,246) Beneficiary certificates (*3) 1,861 (1,857) Total 2,169 (1,459) 30,444 (17,103) Financial liabilities: Financial liabilities held for trading Derivative liabilities (*1) 5 (513) Financial liabilities designated at FVTPL Equity-linked securities (*1) 8 (7) Total 13 (520) (*1) Fair value changes of equity related derivatives assets and liabilities and equity-linked securities are calculated by increasing or decreasing historical volatility of the stock price and correlation, which are major unobservable variables, by 10%, respectively. In the case of interest rate related derivative assets and liabilities, fair value changes are calculated by increasing or decreasing the volatility of interest rate, which are major unobservable variables, by 10%. (*2) Fair value changes of equity securities are calculated by increasing or decreasing growth rate (0~1%) and discount rate or liquidation value (-1~1%). The growth rate, discount rate, and liquidation value are major unobservable variables. (*3) Even if the sensitivity analysis of the capital contributions and beneficiary certificates is not possible in practice, fair value changes of beneficiary certificates and other securities whose major unobservable variables are composed of the real estate are calculated by increasing or decreasing price fluctuation of real estate which is underlying assets and discount rate by 1%. (*4) Changes of fair value are measured by increasing or decreasing the discount rate by 10%, which is major unobservable variable, respectively. 190 71 (5) Fair value and carrying amount of financial assets and liabilities that are recorded at amortized cost are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Fair value Book Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total value Financial assets: Securities at amortized cost 3,618,213 19,417,130 23,035,343 22,932,559 Loans and other financial assets at amortized cost 282,333,497 282,333,497 282,448,315 Financial liabilities: Deposits due to customers 248,763,952 248,763,952 248,690,939 Borrowings 16,203,070 16,203,070 16,202,986 Debentures 28,755,251 28,755,251 28,725,862 Other financial liabilities 21,444,937 21,444,937 21,426,064 December 31, 2017 Fair value Book Level 1 Level 2 Level 3 Total value Financial assets: We Believe in Your Potential HTM financial assets 1,206,292 15,509,387 16,715,679 16,749,296 Loans and receivables 265,570,649 265,570,649 267,106,204 Financial liabilities: Deposits due to customers 234,682,775 234,682,775 234,695,084 Borrowings 14,754,506 14,754,506 14,784,706 Debentures 27,889,781 27,889,781 27,869,651 Other financial liabilities 13,890,789 13,890,789 13,892,461 The fair values of financial instruments are measured using quoted market price in active markets. In case there is no active market for financial instruments, the Group determines the fair value using valuation methods. Valuation methods and input variables for financial assets and liabilities that are measured at Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 amortized costs are given as follows: Valuation methods Input variables Securities at amortized The fair value is measured by discounting the projected cash Risk-free market rate cost(HTM financial assets in flows of debt securities by applying the market discount rate and credit spread previous year) that has been applied to a proxy company that has similar credit rating to the issuers of the securities. Loans and other financial assets The fair value is measured by discounting the projected cash Risk-free market rate, at amortized cost flows of loan products by applying the market discount rate credit spread and (Loans and receivables in that has been applied to a proxy company that has similar prepayment-rate previous year) credit rating to the debtor. Deposits due to customers, The fair value is measured by discounting the projected cash Risk-free market rate borrowings, debentures and flows of debt products by applying the market discount rate and forward rate other financial liabilities that is reflecting credit rating of the Group. 191 72 (6) Financial instruments by category Carrying amounts of financial assets and liabilities by each category are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Derivatives assets Financial assets Financial asset at Financial assets Financial assets at (Designated for FVTPL at FVTOCI amortized cost hedging) Total Deposits 26,935 14,150,027 14,176,962 Securities 3,687,719 18,063,423 22,932,559 44,683,701 Loans 385,450 260,819,917 261,205,367 Derivative assets 2,026,079 35,503 2,061,582 Other financial assets 7,478,371 7,478,371 Total 6,126,183 18,063,423 305,380,874 35,503 329,605,983 December 31, 2018 Derivatives Financial liabilities liabilities We Believe in Your Potential Financial liabilities at Financial liabilities (Designated for FVTPL at amortized cost hedging) Total Deposits due to customers 27,058 248,690,939 248,717,997 Borrowings 164,767 16,202,986 16,367,753 Debentures 28,725,862 28,725,862 Derivative liabilities 2,090,861 51,408 2,142,269 Other financial liabilities(*) 21,473,881 21,473,881 Total 2,282,686 315,093,668 51,408 317,427,762 (*) Other financial liabilities include 47,817 million Won of financial guarantee liabilities measured at amortized cost included in provisions. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 December 31, 2017 Derivatives assets Financial assets Financial assets AFS financial HTM financial Loans and (Designated for at FVTPL assets assets receivables hedging) Total Deposits 25,972 8,868,378 8,894,350 Securities 2,701,330 15,352,950 16,749,296 34,803,576 Loans 251,523,301 251,523,301 Derivative assets 3,115,775 59,272 3,175,047 Other financial assets 6,714,525 6,714,525 Total 5,843,077 15,352,950 16,749,296 267,106,204 59,272 305,110,799 December 31, 2017 Derivatives Financial liabilities liabilities Financial liabilities at Financial liabilities (Designated for FVTPL at amortized cost hedging) Total Deposits due to customers 25,964 234,695,084 234,721,048 Borrowings 160,057 14,784,706 14,944,763 Debentures 91,739 27,869,651 27,961,390 Derivative liabilities 3,150,149 67,754 3,217,903 Other financial liabilities(*) 13,964,158 13,964,158 Total 3,427,909 291,313,599 67,754 294,809,262 (*) Other financial liabilities include 71,697 million Won of financial guarantee liabilities measured at amortized cost included in provisions. 192 73 (7) Income or expense from financial instruments by category Income or expense from financial assets and liabilities by each category during the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Fees and Interest Commissions Provision(reversal) Income(expense) Income(expense) of credit loss Others Total Financial assets at FVTPL 54,243 86,845 264,850 405,938 Financial assets at FVTOCI 280,371 66 (2,027) 24,707 303,117 Securities at amortized cost 376,788 (1,922) 431 375,297 Loans and other financial assets at amortized cost 8,973,097 317,316 (415,084) 79,101 8,954,430 Financial liabilities at FVTPL (3,164) 17,485 14,321 Financial liabilities at amortized cost (4,030,384) 27,742 25,498 (3,977,144) Derivatives assets(liabilities)(Designated for hedging) (672) (672) We Believe in Your Potential Off-balance provisions 89,459 89,459 Total 5,650,951 431,969 (329,574) 411,400 6,164,746 December 31, 2017 Fees and Interest Commissions Provision(reversal) Income(expense) Income(expense) of credit loss Others Total Financial assets at FVTPL 48,615 6,859 55,474 AFS financial assets 239,030 80,041 (31,300) 362,712 650,483 HTM financial assets 307,965 307,965 Loans and receivables 7,948,069 384,025 (862,273) 196,269 7,666,090 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Financial liabilities at FVTPL (111,240) (111,240) Financial liabilities at amortized cost (3,323,029) 39,373 (3,283,656) Derivatives assets(liabilities)(Designated for hedging) (109,447) (109,447) Off-balance provisions 77,140 77,140 Total 5,220,650 464,066 (816,433) 384,526 5,252,809 193 74 12. DERECOGNITION AND OFFSET OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (1) Derecognition of financial instruments Transferred financial assets that do not meet the condition of derecognition in their entirety. a) Bonds sold under repurchase agreements The financial instruments that were disposed but the Group agreed to repurchase at the fixed amounts at the same time, so that they did not meet the conditions of derecognition, are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, December 31, 2018 2017 Assets transferred Financial assets at FVTOCI 33,588 AFS financial assets 9,998 Securities at amortized cost 5,552 HTM financial assets 5,436 We Believe in Your Potential Total 39,140 15,434 Related liabilities Bonds sold under repurchase agreements 42,907 3,173 b) Securities loaned When the Group loans its securities to outside parties, the legal ownerships of the securities are transferred; however, they should be returned at the end of lending period. Therefore, the Group does not derecognize them from the financial statements as it owns majority of risks and benefits from the securities continuously, regardless of the transfer of legal ownership. The carrying amounts of the securities loaned are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 December 31, December 31, 2018 2017 Loaned to Financial assets Korean financial Korea Securities Finance at FVTOCI institution’s debt Corporation securities and others 40,029 AFS financial Korean treasury, Korea Securities Finance assets government bonds and Corporation and others others 170,256 Total 40,029 170,256 The details of the transferred financial assets that are not meet the condition of derecognition in their entirety, such as disposal of securities under repurchase agreement or securities loaned, are explained in Note 18. (2) The offset of financial assets and liabilities The Group possesses both the uncollected domestic exchange receivables and the unpaid domestic exchange payable, which satisfy offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032. Therefore, the total number of uncollected domestic exchange receivables or unpaid domestic exchange payable has been offset with part of unpaid domestic exchange payable or uncollected domestic exchange receivables and has been disclosed in loans at amortized cost and other financial assets (loans and receivables in previous year) or other financial liabilities of the Group’s statements of financial position. The Group possesses the derivative assets, derivative liabilities, receivable spot exchange and payable spot exchange that do not satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032, but provide the Group under the circumstances of the trading party’s defaults, insolvency or bankruptcy, the right of offsetting. Item such as cash collateral cannot satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032, but in accordance with the collateral arrangements and under the circumstances of the trading party’s default, insolvency or bankruptcy, the net amount of derivative assets and derivative liabilities, receivable spot exchange and payable spot exchange can be offset. 194 75 The Group has entered into a resale and repurchase agreement and accounted it as a collateralized borrowing. The Group has also entered into a resale and purchase agreement and accounted it as a secured loans. The resale and repurchase agreements can have the offsetting right only under the trading party’s default, insolvency or bankruptcy, which do not satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032. The Group recorded the collateralized borrowing in borrowings and the secured loans in loans and receivables. The Group under the repurchase agreements has offsetting right only upon the counterparty’s default, insolvency or bankruptcy; thus, the repurchase agreements are applied by the TBMA/ISMA Global Master Repurchase Agreement, which does not satisfy the offsetting criteria of K-IFRS 1032. The Group disclosed bonds purchased under resale agreements as loan at amortized cost and other financial assets (loans and receivables in previous year) and bonds sold under repurchase agreements as borrowings. As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the financial instruments to be off set and may be covered by master netting agreements and similar agreements are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Related amounts not setoff in Gross Gross Net the consolidated statement of amounts of amounts of amounts of financial position recognized recognized financial Netting Cash We Believe in Your Potential financial financial assets agreements collateral Net assets assets setoff presented and others received amounts Financial assets: Derivative assets (*1) 1,908,542 1,908,542 5,527,117 66,857 515,100 Receivable spot exchange (*2) 4,200,532 4,200,532 Bonds purchased under resale agreements (*2) 11,701,951 11,701,951 11,701,951 Domestic exchange settlement credits (*2)(*6) 30,090,598 29,699,412 391,186 391,186 Total 47,901,623 29,699,412 18,202,211 17,229,068 66,857 906,286 December 31, 2018 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Gross Related amounts not setoff in Gross amounts of Net the consolidated statement of amounts of recognized amounts of financial position recognized financial financial Netting Cash financial liabilities liabilities agreements collateral Net liabilities setoff presented and others pledged amounts Financial liabilities: Derivative liabilities (*1) 1,862,681 1,862,681 Equity-linked securities index in short 5,540,147 115,615 577,713 position (*3) 164,767 164,767 Payable spot exchange (*4) 4,206,027 4,206,027 Bonds sold under repurchase agreements (*5) 42,907 42,907 42,907 Domestic exchange settlement debits (*4)(*6) 36,832,774 29,699,412 7,133,362 6,231,538 901,824 Total 43,109,156 29,699,412 13,409,744 11,814,592 115,615 1,479,537 (*1) The items include derivatives held for trading, derivatives designated for hedging. (*2) The items are included in loan at amortized cost and other financial assets. (*3) The items are equity linked securities related to derivatives and are included in financial liabilities at FVTPL. (*4) The items are included in other financial liabilities. (*5) The items are included in borrowings. (*6) Certain financial assets and liabilities are presented as net amounts. 195 76 December 31, 2017 Related amounts not setoff in Gross Gross Net the consolidated statement of amounts of amounts of amounts of financial position recognized recognized financial Netting Cash financial financial assets agreements collateral Net assets assets setoff presented and others received amounts Financial assets: Derivative assets (*1) 2,992,476 1,710 2,990,766 5,787,448 174,415 796,629 Receivable spot exchange (*2) 3,767,726 3,767,726 Bonds purchased under resale agreements (*2) 16,859,064 16,859,064 16,859,064 Domestic exchanges settlement credits (*2)(*6) 39,050,227 38,985,354 64,873 64,873 Total 62,669,493 38,987,064 23,682,429 22,646,512 174,415 861,502 December 31, 2017 Gross Related amounts not setoff in Gross amounts of Net the consolidated statement of amounts of recognized amounts of financial position recognized financial financial Netting Cash We Believe in Your Potential financial liabilities liabilities agreements collateral Net liabilities setoff presented and others pledged amounts Financial liabilities: Derivative liabilities (*1) 3,000,160 1,710 2,998,450 Equity-linked securities index in short 5,866,682 157,750 857,961 position(*3) 160,057 160,057 Payable spot exchange (*4) 3,723,886 3,723,886 Bonds sold under repurchase agreements (*5) 3,173 3,173 3,173 Domestic exchanges settlement debits (*4)(*6) 40,284,515 38,985,354 1,299,161 1,293,931 5,230 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Total 47,171,791 38,987,064 8,184,727 7,163,786 157,750 863,191 (*1) The items include derivatives held for trading, derivatives designated for hedging. (*2) The items are included in loans and receivables. (*3) The items are equity linked securities related to derivatives and are included in financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss mandatorily measured at fair value. (*4) The items are included in other financial liabilities. (*5) The items are included in borrowings. (*6) Certain financial assets and liabilities are presented at as net amounts. 196 77 13. INVESTMENTS IN JOINT VENTURES AND ASSOCIATES (1) Investments in joint ventures and associates accounted for using the equity method of accounting are as follows: Percentage of ownership (%) December December Financial Joint ventures and Associates Main business 31, 2018 31, 2017 statements as of Woori Bank: Kumho Tire Co., Inc. (*1) Manufacturing 14.2 Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. (*4) Freight & staffing services 4.9 4.9 Nov.30,2018 (*3) Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. (*5) Credit information 9.9 9.9 Dec.31,2018 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. (*4) Security service 15.0 15.0 Nov.30,2018 (*3) Chin Hung International Inc. (*2) Construction 25.3 25.3 Nov.30,2018 (*3) Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. (*9) Construction 29.4 STX Engine Co., Ltd. (*10) Manufacturing 29.2 STX Corporation (*10) Wholesale of nonspecialized goods 19.7 We Believe in Your Potential Saman Corporation (*5) General construction Technology service 9.2 9.2 Sep.30,2018 (*3) Dongwoo C & C Co., Ltd. (*6) Construction 24.5 23.2 SJCO Co., Ltd. (*6) Aggregate transportation and wholesale 26.5 26.5 G2 Collection Co., Ltd. (*6) Wholesale and retail sales 28.9 28.9 The Base Enterprise Co., Ltd. (*6) Manufacturing 48.4 48.4 Kyesan Engineering Co., Ltd. (*6) Construction 23.3 23.2 Good Software Lab Co., Ltd. (*6) Service 29,4 28.9 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Wongwang Co., Ltd. (*6) Wholesale and real estate 29.0 29.0 Sejin Construction Co., Ltd. (*6) Construction 29.6 29.6 QTS Shipping Co., Ltd. (*6) Complex transportation brokerage 49.4 49.4 DAEA SNC Co., Ltd. (*6) Wholesale and retail sales 24.0 24.0 ARES-TECH Co., Ltd. (*6) Electronic component manufacturing 23.4 23.4 Force TEC Co., Ltd. (*6)(*7) Manufacturing 25.8 Sinseong Trading Co., Ltd. (*6)(*7) Manufacturing 27.2 Reading Doctors Co., Ltd. (*6) Other services 35.4 35.4 PREXCO Co., Ltd. (*6) Manufacturing 28.1 28.1 Hyunwoo International Co., Ltd. (*11) Manufacturing 25.9 Jiwon Plating Co., Ltd. (*6) Plating 20.8 20.5 Cultizm Korea LTD Co., Ltd. (*6) Wholesale and retail sales 31.3 31.3 Gil Co.,Ltd. (*6) Manufacturing 26.1 26.1 NK Eng Co., Ltd. (*6) Manufacturing 23.1 23.1 Youngdong Sea Food Co., Ltd. (*6)(*7) Processed sea food manufacturing 24.0 Woori Growth Partnerships New Technology Other financial services Private Equity Fund 23.1 23.1 Dec.31,2018 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Technology Venture Other financial services Fund 20.0 20.0 Dec.31,2018 K BANK Co., Ltd. (*5) Finance 14.1 13.0 Nov.31,2018( *3) Smart Private Equity Fund No.2 Other financial services 20.0 20.0 Dec.31,2018 Woori Bank-Company K Korea Movie Asset Other financial services Fund 25.0 25.0 Dec.31,2018 Well to Sea No. 3 Private Equity Fund (*12) Finance 50.0 50.0 Sep.30,2018( *3) Partner One Value Up Ist Private Equity Fund Other financial services (*8) 23.3 Dec.31,2018 197 78 Percentage of ownership (%) December December Financial Joint ventures and Associates Main business 31, 2018 31, 2017 statements as of IBK KIP Seongjang Dideemdol 1st Private Other financial services Investment Limited Partnership (*8) 20.0 Dec.31,2018 Crevisse Raim Impact 1st Startup Venture Other financial services Specialist Private Equity Fund (*8) 25.0 Dec.31,2018 Woori Investment Bank Co., Ltd.: Nomura-Rifa Private Real Estate Investment Other financial services Trust No.17 (*5) 19.4 25.0 Dec.31,2018 Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Ltd.: Uri Hanhwa Eureka Private Equity Fund (*5)(*8) Other financial services 0.8 Dec.31,2018 (*1) The Group did not have significant influence over the entity due to the termination of the joint management procedures of the creditors’ financial institution, and thus the entity was excluded from the investment in associates for the years ended December 31, 2018. (*2) The investments in associates that have quoted market prices are Chin Hung International Inc. (current period: KRW 2,065, previous year: KRW 1,915). (*3) The significant transactions and events between the end of reporting period of the associates and the Group have We Believe in Your Potential been properly incorporated. (*4) Most of the significant business transactions of associates are with the Group as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. (*5) The Group can participate in decision-making body and exercise significant influence over associates through business partnerships. (*6) The carrying values of investments in associates are nil as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. (*7) Even though the Group’s ownership ratio of the entity was more than 20%, the Group did not have significant influence over the entity because the entity was going through workout process under receivership and thus was excluded from the investment in associates. However, as the workout process was completed for the year ended December 31, 2018, it has been included in the investment in associates. (*8) Due to capital contribution by the Group for the year ended December 31, 2018, the entities has been included in the investment in associates. (*9) The Group lost significant influence over the entity due to the stock consolidation and the capital increase of the Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 associate during the year ended December 31, 2018, and thus the entity was excluded from the list of associates. (*10) The entity was sold after it was transferred to assets held for distribution (sale) and was excluded from the investment in associates. (*11) The entity was excluded from the associate as the group sold its entire stake during the year ended December 31, 2018. (*12) The Group has entered into a contract whereas the Group (or a third party designated by the Group) obtains a preemptive right to acquire the base assets (Aju Capital Co. Ltd.) of Well to Sea No. 3 Private Equity Fund, an affiliate of the Group, when the Fund disposes them. 198 79 (2) Changes in the carrying value of investments in joint ventures and associates accounted for using the equity method of accounting are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2018 Disposal AcquisitiJanuary 1, Share of Acquisiand others Change in ImpairDecember on cost 2018 profits (losses) tion (*) Dividends capital ment Others 31, 2018 Kumho Tire Co., Inc. 175,652 98,933 (10,451) (83,286) (5,196) Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 108 158 1 (2) 157 Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 3,313 5,816 1,087 (113) 6,790 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 3,267 3,519 (10) (54) 1 3,456 Chin Hung International Inc. 130,779 45,101 1,206 (1,725) 159 44,741 Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. 13,916 STX Corporation 50,760 6,947 (816) (5,865) (266) Saman Corporation 8,521 1,254 (98) 35 (177) 1,014 Woori Growth Partnerships New Technology Private Equity Fund 25,847 27,611 950 360 (3,346) (484) 25,091 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank We Believe in Your Potential Technology Venture Fund 15,000 6,840 8,160 300 15,300 K BANK Co., Ltd. 67,343 31,735 (10,705) 21,951 144 584 43,709 Smart Private Equity Fund No.2 3,000 2,932 (42) 2,890 Woori Bank-Company K Korea Movie Asset Fund 3,000 2,957 (257) 2,700 Well to Sea No.3 Private Equity Fund 101,992 182,309 22,546 (508) (517) (6,437) 197,393 Partner One Value Up Ist Private Equity Fund 10,000 (52) 10,000 9,948 IBK KIP Seongjang Dideemdol 1st Private Investment Limited Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Partnership 4,426 4,426 4,426 Crevisse Raim Impact 1st Startup Venture Specialist Private Equity Fund 3,025 3,025 3,025 Nomura-Rifa Private Real Estate Investment Trust No.17 1,000 939 (152) 787 Uri Hanhwa Eureka Private Equity Fund 350 (11) 350 (339) 621,299 417,051 3,196 48,272 (93,005) (1,170) (13,144) (177) 404 361,427 (*) Investments in joint ventures and associates decreased by 83,286 million Won through transfers to financial assets at FVTOCI (K-IFRS 1109) which occurred during the year ended December 31, 2018. 199 80 For the year ended December 31, 2017 Share of AcquisitiJanuary 1, profits AcquisiDisposal Change in ImpairOthers December on cost 2017 (losses) tion (*) and others Dividends capital ment (*) 31, 2017 Woori Blackstone Korea Opportunity No.1 Private Equity Fund 15,289 (4,617) (7,369) (3,303) Kumho Tire Co., Inc. 175,652 200,332 (102) 1,545 (102,842) 98,933 Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 108 145 21 (8) 158 Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 3,313 5,592 371 (147) 5,816 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 3,266 3,376 197 (54) 3,519 Chin Hung International Inc. 89,725 43,032 (14,375) 41,053 1,535 (26,144) 45,101 Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. 13,916 (6,733) 6,733 STX Engine Co., Ltd. 92,038 43,036 (1,010) (46,217) 4,191 Samho Co., Ltd. 7,492 19,729 2,021 (16,354) (73) (5,323) STX Corporation 42,215 (29,788) 8,546 417 27,772 6,947 Saman Corporation 8,521 8,699 (733) 26 (6,738) 1,254 Woori Growth Partnerships New Technology Private Equity Fund 13,602 13,118 (582) 15,729 (498) (156) 27,611 We Believe in Your Potential 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Technology Venture Fund 1,800 1,800 5,040 6,840 K BANK Co., Ltd. 32,500 30,442 (11,381) 12,892 (245) 27 31,735 Smart Private Equity Fund No.2 3,000 (68) 3,000 2,932 Woori Bank-Company K Korea Movie Asset Fund 1,500 (43) 3,000 2,957 Well to Sea No.3 Private Equity Fund 102,500 80,894 102,500 (508) (577) 182,309 Woori Renaissance Holdings 54,422 (622) (57,109) 3,309 Nomura-Rifa Private Real Estate Investment Trust No.17 1,000 (61) 1,000 939 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 592,148 439,012 13,389 192,760 (70,946) (60,621) 6,663 (114,903) 11,697 417,051 (*) Changes in investments in joint ventures and associates due to debt-equity swap is 51,227 million Won. (3) Summary financial information relating to investments in joint ventures and associates accounted for using the equity method of accounting is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Operating Net income Assets Liabilities revenue (loss) Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 5,066 1,886 15,803 819 Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 88,797 22,788 78,018 9,901 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 35,155 12,114 60,706 17 Chin Hung International Inc. 412,205 332,268 606,192 6,402 Saman Corporation 97,720 69,915 75,825 (869) Woori Growth Partnerships New Technology Private Equity Fund 109,167 440 5,943 4,117 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Technology Venture Fund 73,231 12 16 (1,510) K BANK Co., Ltd. 2,024,856 1,807,502 60,039 (69,256) Smart Private Equity Fund No.2 14,502 51 1 (209) Woori Bank-Company K Korea Movie Asset Fund 10,805 5 1,663 (299) Well to Sea No.3 Private Equity Fund 5,968,591 5,395,307 429,742 39,711 Partner One Value Up Ist Private Equity Fund 42,776 326 (224) IBK KIP Seongjang Dideemdol 1st Private Investment Limited Partnership 21,200 757 390 (1,268) Crevisse Raim Impact 1st Startup Venture Specialist Private Equity Fund 12,014 105 3 (191) Nomura-Rifa Private Real Estate Investment Trust No.17 20,197 16,178 10 (228) Uri Hanhwa Eureka Private Equity Fund 42,332 181 1 (1,349) 200 81 December 31, 2017 Operating Net income Assets Liabilities revenue (loss) Kumho Tire Co., Inc. 5,105,107 3,928,327 2,136,569 (61,748) Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 4,982 1,780 14,887 1,003 Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 75,504 19,323 68,750 3,580 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 33,915 10,461 55,610 1,071 Chin Hung International Inc. 341,284 259,454 513,285 28,698 Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. 241,063 309,925 107,360 (29,812) STX Corporation 595,348 543,458 1,371,272 342,869 Saman Corporation 98,435 69,929 76,135 (6,096) Woori Growth Partnerships New Technology Private Equity Fund 120,133 485 1,024 (3,199) 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Technology Venture Fund 32,815 380 6 (1,515) K BANK Co., Ltd. 1,244,270 1,001,121 19,231 (74,403) Smart Private Equity Fund No.2 14,711 51 1 (340) Woori Bank-Company K Korea Movie Asset Fund 11,830 2 16 (172) Well to Sea No.3 Private Equity Fund 5,068,424 4,534,957 131,488 162,743 Nomura-Rifa Private Real Estate Investment Trust No.17 20,265 16,507 62 (242) We Believe in Your Potential (4) The entities that the Group has not applied equity method of accounting although the Group’s ownership interest is more than 20% as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, are as follows: December 31, 2018 Associate (*) Number of shares owned Ownership (%) Orient Shipyard Co., Ltd. 464,812 21.4 Saenuel Co., Ltd. 3,531 37.4 E Mirae Tech Co., Ltd. 7,696 41.0 Jehin Trading Co., Ltd. 81,610 27.3 The Season Company Co., Ltd. 18,187 30.1 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Yuil PESC Co., Ltd. 8,642 24.0 CL Tech Co., Ltd. 13,759 38.6 December 31, 2017 Associate (*) Number of shares owned Ownership (%) Orient Shipyard Co., Ltd. 465,050 21.4 Saenuel Co., Ltd. 3,531 37.4 E Mirae Tech Co., Ltd. 7,696 41.0 Jehin Trading Co., Ltd. 81,610 27.3 The Season Company Co., Ltd. 18,187 30.1 Yuil PESC Co., Ltd. 8,642 24.0 Youngdong Sea Food Co., Ltd. 12,106 24.0 Sinseong Trading Co., Ltd. 2,584 27.2 CL Tech Co., Ltd. 13,759 38.6 Force TEC Co., Ltd. 4,780,907 25.8 Protronics Co., Ltd. 95,921 48.1 Instern Co., Ltd. 14,296 20.1 (*) Even though the Group’s ownership interest of the entity is more than 20%, the Group does not have significant influence over the entity since it is going through work-out process under receivership, thus it is excluded from the investment in associates. 201 82 (5) As of December 31, 2018 and 2017, the reconciliations from the net assets of associates based on the ownership ratio of the Group to its corresponding book value of investment in joint ventures and associates are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions except for ownership): December 31, 2018 Ownership Total net Ownership portion of net Basis Intercompany Book asset (%) assets difference Impairment transaction value Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 3,180 4.9 157 157 Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 66,009 9.9 6,544 246 6,790 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 23,041 15.0 3,456 3,456 Chin Hung International Inc. (*) 79,793 25.3 20,192 24,565 (16) 44,741 Saman Corporation 27,805 9.2 2,556 5,373 (6,915) 1,014 Woori Growth Partnerships New Technology Private Equity Fund 108,727 23.1 25,091 25,091 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Technology Venture Fund 73,219 20.0 14,644 656 15,300 K BANK Co., Ltd.(*) 290,597 14.1 40,984 2,725 43,709 Smart Private Equity Fund No.2 14,451 20.0 2,890 2,890 Woori Bank-Company K Korea Movie Asset Fund 10,800 25.0 2,700 2,700 We Believe in Your Potential Well to Sea No.3 Private Equity Fund (*) 396,248 50.0 198,027 (634) 197,393 Partner One Value Up Ist Private Equity Fund 42,776 23.3 9,948 9,948 IBK KIP Seongjang Dideemdol 1st Private Investment Limited Partnership 20,443 20.0 4,089 337 4,426 Crevisse Raim Impact 1st Startup Venture Specialist Private Equity Fund 11,909 25.0 2,977 48 3,025 Nomura-Rifa Private Real Estate Investment Trust No.17 4,019 19.4 780 7 787 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Uri Hanhwa Eureka Private Equity Fund 42,151 0.8 339 (339) December 31, 2017 Ownership Total net Ownership portion of net Basis Intercompany Book asset (%) assets difference Impairment transaction value Kumho Tire Co., Inc. (*) 1,065,421 14.2 150,767 48,459 (102,843) 2,549 98,932 Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 3,202 4.9 158 158 Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 56,181 9.9 5,568 248 5,816 Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 23,454 15.0 3,519 3,519 Chin Hung International Inc. (*) 81,686 25.3 20,671 24,565 (136) 45,100 Poonglim Industrial Co., Ltd. (*) (168,154) 29.4 (49,446) 54,542 (20,504) 15,408 STX Corporation 51,890 19.7 10,232 24,614 (27,904) 5 6,947 Saman Corporation 28,506 9.2 2,619 5,373 (6,738) 1,254 Woori Growth Partnerships New Technology Private Equity Fund 119,648 23.1 27,611 27,611 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Technology Venture Fund 32,435 20.0 6,487 353 6,840 K BANK Co., Ltd. 243,149 13.0 31,535 200 31,735 Smart Private Equity Fund No.2 14,660 20.0 2,932 2,932 Woori Bank-Company K Korea Movie Asset Fund 11,828 25.0 2,957 2,957 Well to Sea No.3 Private Equity Fund (*) 364,909 50.0 182,366 (57) 182,309 Nomura-Rifa Private Real Estate Investment Trust No.17 3,758 25.0 939 939 (*) The net asset amount is after reflecting debt-equity swap and others. 202 83 14. INVESTMENT PROPERTIES (1) Details of investment properties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Acquisition cost 416,649 404,741 Accumulated depreciation (38,580) (33,440) Net carrying value 378,069 371,301 (2) Changes in investment properties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Beginning balance 371,301 358,497 Acquisition 15,195 9,872 Disposal (3,045) (458) Depreciation (4,045) (3,902) Transfers from(to) premises and equipment 7,623 2,472 We Believe in Your Potential Classified to assets held for distribution (sale) (10,056) (371) Foreign currencies translation adjustments (5) (324) Others 1,101 5,515 Ending balance 378,069 371,301 (3) Fair value of investment properties is amounting to 438,407 million Won and 396,587 million Won as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. The fair value of investment properties has been assessed on the basis of recent similar real estate market price and officially assessed land price in the area of the investment properties, is classified as level 3 on the fair value hierarchy. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 (4) Rental fee earned from investment properties is amounting to 5,080 million Won and 4,579 million Won for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 15. PREMISES AND EQUIPMENT (1) Details of premises and equipment are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Equipment Leasehold Construction Land Building and vehicles improvement in progress Structures Total Acquisition cost 1,481,776 872,063 717,141 445,157 8,381 20 3,524,538 Accumulated depreciation (210,301) (485,119) (387,960) (17) (1,083,397) Net carrying value 1,481,776 661,762 232,022 57,197 8,381 3 2,441,141 December 31, 2017 Equipment Leasehold Construction Land Building and vehicles improvement in progress Structures Total Acquisition cost 1,487,278 867,804 1,024,186 429,665 64,559 20 3,873,512 Accumulated depreciation (186,958) (844,114) (364,878) (17) (1,395,967) Net carrying value 1,487,278 680,846 180,072 64,787 64,559 3 2,477,545 203 84 (2) Details of changes in premises and equipment are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2018 Equipment Leasehold Construction Land Building and vehicles improvement in progress Structures Total Beginning balance 1,487,278 680,846 180,072 64,787 64,559 3 2,477,545 Acquisitions 1,372 14,701 76,783 17,527 8,285 118,668 Disposals (29) (5,192) (737) (187) (6,145) Depreciation (26,014) (76,171) (32,162) (134,347) Classified to assets held for distribution (sale) (3,746) (2,742) (7,991) (397) (718) (15,594) Transfer (2,863) (4,760) 63,432 (63,432) (7,623) Foreign currencies translation adjustments (236) (257) (69) 323 (126) (365) Acquisition through business combination 969 661 1,630 Others (12) 189 7,195 7,372 Ending balance 1,481,776 661,762 232,022 57,197 8,381 3 2,441,141 For the year ended December 31, 2017 We Believe in Your Potential Equipment Leasehold Construction Land Building and vehicles improvement in progress Structures Total Beginning balance 1,488,745 691,699 189,902 68,958 18,717 4 2,458,025 Acquisitions 4,755 22,579 59,694 23,420 51,797 162,245 Disposals (1,840) (2,593) (442) (1,231) (6,106) Depreciation (26,156) (74,223) (31,728) (1) (132,108) Classified to assets held for sale (2,693) (1,059) 549 (3,203) Transfer (196) (2,134) 5,411 (5,553) (2,472) Foreign currencies translation adjustments (1,493) (1,393) (2,023) (1,315) (402) (6,626) Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Others (97) 1,204 6,683 7,790 Ending balance 1,487,278 680,846 180,072 64,787 64,559 3 2,477,545 16. INTANGIBLE ASSETS (1) Details of intangible assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Industrial Development Membership Construction Goodwill Software property rights cost Others deposit in progress Total Acquisition cost 153,602 38,839 1,250 305,114 728,399 24,099 10,415 1,261,718 Accumulated amortization (12,602) (688) (68,696) (589,557) (671,543) Accumulated impairment losses (2,920) (2,920) Net carrying value 153,602 26,237 562 236,418 138,842 21,179 10,415 587,255 December 31, 2017 Industrial Development Membership Construction Goodwill Software property rights cost Others deposit in progress Total Acquisition cost 108,707 203,418 1,063 260,087 634,150 27,337 153,209 1,387,971 Accumulated amortization (162,746) (524) (182,846) (516,467) (862,583) Accumulated impairment losses (137) (6,652) (6,789) Net carrying value 108,707 40,672 539 77,241 117,546 20,685 153,209 518,599 204 85 (2) Details of changes in intangible assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2018 Industrial Development Membership Construction Goodwill Software property rights cost Others deposit in progress Total Beginning balance 108,707 40,672 539 77,241 117,546 20,685 153,209 518,599 Acquisitions 6,839 195 20,935 45,205 5,162 97,067 175,403 Disposal (4,359) (196) (2,871) (7,426) Amortization (*) (14,028) (172) (46,045) (73,913) (134,158) Reversal of impairment loss 674 674 Classified to assets held for distribution (sale) (3,490) (3,902) (455) (2,419) (10,266) Transfer 188,189 51,672 (239,861) Acquisition through business combination 46,752 763 47,515 Foreign currencies translation adjustment (1,857) (165) (227) (52) (2,301) Others 5 (790) (785) Ending balance 153,602 26,237 562 236,418 138,842 21,179 10,415 587,255 We Believe in Your Potential (*) Amortization of other intangible assets amounting to 51,770 million Won is included in other operating expenses. For the year ended December 31, 2017 Industrial Development Membership Construction Goodwill Software property rights cost Others deposit in progress Total Beginning balance 124,803 35,477 313 70,697 164,364 20,086 67,999 483,739 Acquisitions 105 9,722 349 29,133 22,531 1,867 93,716 157,423 Disposal (37) (944) (981) Amortization (*) (16,258) (123) (22,534) (60,869) (99,784) Impairment loss (78) (159) (237) Transfer 7,987 (7,987) Foreign currencies Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 translation adjustment (16,201) (952) 36 (2,742) (160) (519) (20,538) Others 4,696 (91) (5,623) (5) (1,023) Ending balance 108,707 40,672 539 77,241 117,546 20,685 153,209 518,599 (*) Amortization of other intangible assets amounting to 48,292 million Won is included in other operating expenses. (3) Details of goodwill as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follow(Unit: Korea Won in millions) Goodwill is allocated to cash-generating units, based on management’s analysis, that are expected to benefit from the synergies of the combination for impairment testing, and cash-generating units consist of an operating segment or units which are not larger than an operating segment. The recoverable amount of a cash-generating unit is measured at the higher of its fair value less costs to sell and its value in use. The fair value less costs to sell is the amount obtainable from the sale in an arm’s length transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties, less the costs of disposal. If it is difficult to measure the amount obtainable from the sale, the Group measures the fair value less costs to sell by reflecting the characteristics of the measured cash-generating unit. If it is not possible to obtain reliable information to measure the fair value less costs to sell, the Group uses the asset’s value in use as its recoverable amount. Value in use is the present value of the future cash flows expected to be derived from an asset or cash-generating unit. The projections of the future cash flows are based on the most recent financial budget approved by management and generally cover a period of five years. The future cash flows after projection period are estimated on the assumption that the future cash flows will increase by 3.0% for all other cash-generating units. The key assumptions used for the estimation of the future cash flows are the market size and the Group’s market share. The discount rate is a pre-tax rate that reflects assumptions regarding risk-free interest rate, market risk premium and the risks specific to the asset for which the future cash flow estimates have not been adjusted. 205 86 17. ASSETS HELD FOR DISTRIBUTION (SALE) (1) Assets held for distribution (sale) are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Disposal group as held for distribution 75,590 Investments in joint ventures and associates 46,217 Premises and equipment, etc. (*) 17,912 2,407 Total 93,502 48,624 (*) The Group classified premises and equipment that are highly likely to be sold within one year as assets held for distribution (sale). (2) Disposal group as held for distribution: In accordance with the establishment of financial holding company and plans on share transfer, the Group classified assets, liabilities and equity of each subsidiary as of the end of the reporting period. The details of disposal group held for sale as of December 31, 2018 as follows: We Believe in Your Potential Intercompany Gross amount eliminations Net amount Disposal group as held for distribution Cash And Cash Equivalents 90,771 (55,500) 35,271 Financial assets at FVTPL 133 133 Loans and other financial assets at amortized cost 66,514 (57,251) 9,263 Investments in joint ventures and associates 339 339 Investment properties 127 127 Premises and equipment 9,351 9,351 Intangible assets 10,265 10,265 Current tax assets 242 242 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Deferred tax assets 9,778 9,778 Others 821 821 Total 188,341 (112,751) 75,590 Liabilities of a disposal group classified as held for distribution Debentures 10,000 10,000 Provisions 1,451 1,451 Net defined benefit liability 34,427 34,427 Current tax liabilities 2,519 2,519 Other financial liabilities 17,979 (576) 17,403 Other liabilities 6,860 6,860 Total 73,236 (576) 72,660 The Group calculated net fair value of each subsidiary subject to future distribution as of December 31, 2018 based on the value of net asset and net income. The computed value is 110,773 million Won, and classified as Level 3 in the fair value hierarchy. The Group measured assets held for distribution (sale) as the smaller amount between the fair value less cost of sale and book value. 206 87 18. ASSETS SUBJECT TO LIEN AND ASSETS ACQUIRED THROUGH FORECLOSURES (1) Assets subjected to lien are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Collateral given to Amount Reason for collateral Loan at amortized Due from banks on time in Daishin AMC and others Right of pledge cost and other local currency 1,500 financial assets Due from banks in local Samsung Securities Co., Margin deposit for futures currencies Ltd. and others 38,112 or option Due from banks in foreign Korea Investment & Foreign margin deposit for currencies Securities Co., Ltd. and future or option and others others 202,156 Financial assets at Korean financial institutions’ The BOK and others Settlement risk and others FVTOCI debt securities and others 2,919,042 Korean financial institutions’ Banco Bilbao Vizcaya Related to bonds sold under debt securities Argentaria, S.A 33,588 repurchase agreements (*) Securities at Korean treasury and Korea Securities Related to bonds sold under amortized cost government bonds Depository 5,552 repurchase agreements (*) Korean treasury and The BOK and others Settlement risk and others We Believe in Your Potential government bonds and others 6,382,188 Premises and Land and building Credit Counselling & Right to collateral and equipment Recovery Service and others others 5,987 Total 9,588,125 December 31, 2017 Collateral given to Amount Reason for collateral Loan and receivables Due from banks on time in Bank of China and others Collaterals for issuing letter local currency 6,629 of guarantee and others Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Due from banks in local Samsung Securities Co., Margin deposit for futures currencies Ltd. and others 10,809 or option Due from banks in foreign Korea Investment & Foreign margin deposit for currencies Securities Co., Ltd. and future or option and others others 9,136 Financial assets at Korean financial institutions’ Yuanta Securities Co., Substitute securities and FVTPL debt securities and others Ltd. and others 501,523 others AFS financial assets Korean treasury and corporate Korea Securities Related to bonds sold under bonds Depository and others 9,998 repurchase agreements (*) Korean treasury and The BOK and others Settlement risk and others government bonds and others 1,570,608 HTM financial assets Korean treasury and Korea Securities Related to bonds sold under government bonds Depository 5,436 repurchase agreements (*) Korean financial institutions’ The BOK and others Settlement risk and others debt securities and others 7,605,292 Premises and Land and building Credit Counselling & Leasehold rights and others equipment Recovery Service and others 6,186 Total 9,725,617 (*) The Group has the agreements to repurchase the sold assets at the predetermined price or the price that includes the rate of return and to provide the guarantee on the assets. The transferee has the right to sell or to provide as guarantee. Therefore, the Group does not derecognize the assets, but recognizes the relevant amounts as liability (bonds sold under repurchase agreements). 207 88 (2) There are no the carrying amounts of assets acquired through foreclosure and the carrying amounts of assets acquired through foreclosure of December 31, 2017 are as follows. (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Land 332 Buildings 44 Total 376 (3) Securities loaned are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, December 31, 2018 2017 Loaned to Financial assets Korean financial institutions’ Korea Securities at FVTOCI debt securities and others 40,029 Finance Corporation AFS financial Korean treasury, government Korea Securities assets bonds and others Finance Corporation 170,256 and others Total 40,029 170,256 We Believe in Your Potential Securities loaned are lending of specific securities to borrowers who agree to return the same quantity of the same security at the end of lending period. As the Group does not derecognize these securities, there are no liabilities recognized through such transactions relates to securities loaned. (4) Collaterals held that can be disposed and re-subjected to lien regardless of defaults of counterparties Fair values of collaterals held that can be disposed and re-subjected to lien regardless of defaults of counterparties as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 December 31, 2018 Fair values of collaterals Fair values of collaterals were disposed or re-subjected to lien Securities 12,262,041 December 31, 2017 Fair values of collaterals Fair values of collaterals were disposed or re-subjected to lien Securities 17,671,490 19. OTHER ASSETS Details of other assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Prepaid expenses 160,327 130,245 Advance payments 18,448 18,363 Non-operative assets 376 Others 18,057 9,420 Total 196,832 158,404 208 89 20. FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AT FVTPL (1) Financial liabilities at FVTPL are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss mandatorily measured at fair value 2,117,919 Financial liabilities held for trading 3,176,113 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss designated as upon initial recognition 164,767 Financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL 251,796 Total 2,282,686 3,427,909 (2) Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss mandatorily measured at fair value(Financial liabilities held for trading) are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Deposits We Believe in Your Potential Gold banking liabilities 27,058 25,964 Derivative liabilities 2,090,861 3,150,149 Total 2,117,919 3,176,113 (3) Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss designated as upon initial recognition(Financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL) are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Equity-linked securities index Equity-linked securities index in short position 164,767 160,057 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Debentures Debentures in local currency 91,739 Total 164,767 251,796 Financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss designated as upon initial recognition are designated in order to eliminate or significantly reduce accounting mismatch arising from recognition or measurement. (4) Accumulated changes in credit risk adjustments to financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss designated as upon initial recognition does not have. The adjustment to reflect Group’s credit risk is considered in measuring the fair value of equity-linked securities index and debentures. The Group’s credit risk is determined by adjusting credit spread observed in credit rating of Group. (5) The difference between carrying amount and maturity amount of financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss designated as upon initial recognition(Financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL) are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Carrying amount 164,767 251,796 Nominal amount at maturity 217,280 255,408 Difference (52,513) (3,612) 209 90 (6) Changes in equity in relation to financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss designated as upon initial recognition The cumulative gain or loss realized as a result of the derecognition of financial liabilities designated as at FVTPL that is presented in other comprehensive income and transferred within equity is 4 million (after income tax expense) Won for the year ended December 31, 2018. 21. DEPOSITS DUE TO CUSTOMERS Details of deposits due to customers by type are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Deposits in local currency: Deposits on demand 11,076,417 9,349,070 Deposits at termination 204,051,570 194,292,679 Mutual installment 30,783 34,055 Deposits on notes payables 1,891,556 1,323,679 Deposits on CMA 137,316 164,431 We Believe in Your Potential Customer deposit for security investment 30,000 50,000 Certificate of deposits 6,510,571 4,436,443 Other deposits 1,409,505 1,401,841 Sub-total 225,137,718 211,052,198 Deposits in foreign currency: Deposits in foreign currencies 23,626,234 23,682,896 Present value discount (73,013) (40,010) Total 248,690,939 234,695,084 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 22. BORROWINGS AND DEBENTURES (1) Details of borrowings are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Lenders Interest rate (%) Amount Borrowings in local currency: Borrowings from The BOK The BOK 0.5 ~ 0.8 1,335,459 Borrowings from government Small Enterprise And Market funds Service and others 0.0 ~ 3.5 1,771,379 Others The Korea Development Bank and others 0.0 ~ 4.0 4,716,231 Sub-total 7,823,069 Borrowings in foreign currencies: Borrowings in foreign The Export-Import Bank of Korea currencies and others 0.0 ~ 7.5 7,308,857 Offshore borrowings in JPMORGAN CHASE BANK foreign currencies 2.9 33,543 Sub-total 7,342,400 Bills sold Others 0.0 ~ 1.8 19,336 Call money Bank and others 0.0 ~ 7.3 975,358 Bonds sold under repurchase Other financial institutions agreements 0.8 ~ 12.7 42,907 Present value discount (84) Total 16,202,986 210 91 December 31, 2017 Lenders Interest rate (%) Amount Borrowings in local currency: Borrowings from The BOK The BOK 0.5 ~ 0.8 1,404,087 Borrowings from government Small Enterprise And Market funds Service and others 0.0 ~ 2.9 1,723,340 The Korea Development Bank and Others others 0.0 ~ 3.2 3,957,421 Sub-total 7,084,848 Borrowings in foreign currencies: Borrowings in foreign The Export-Import Bank of Korea currencies and others 0.0 ~ 6.8 6,996,551 Offshore borrowings in foreign currencies Commonwealth Bank 1.8 28,285 Sub-total 7,024,836 Bills sold Others 0.0 ~ 1.2 36,953 Call money Bank and others 1.5 ~ 2.7 635,061 Bonds sold under repurchase Other financial institutions agreements 0.6 ~ 12.7 3,173 We Believe in Your Potential Present value discount (165) Total 14,784,706 (2) Details of debentures are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Interest rate (%) Amount Interest rate (%) Amount Face value of bond(*): Ordinary bonds 1.6 ~ 4.5 22,422,183 1.5 ~ 5.8 22,468,908 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Subordinated bonds 3.0 ~ 12.6 5,358,838 3.4 ~ 12.6 4,781,301 Other bonds 1.9 ~ 17.0 974,230 1.6 ~ 17.0 649,615 Sub-total 28,755,251 27,899,824 Discounts on bonds (29,389) (30,173) Total 28,725,862 27,869,651 (*) Included debentures under fair value hedge relationships are 2,956,565 million Won and 3,089,751 million Won as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. Also, debentures under cash flow hedge amounting to 823,219 million Won and 694,548 million Won are included as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. 23. PROVISIONS (1) Details of provisions are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Asset retirement obligation 67,093 61,872 Provisions for guarantees (*1) 89,761 183,247 Provisions for unused loan commitments 121,535 66,115 Provisions for customer reward credits 49,180 40,445 Other provisions (*2) 62,293 58,791 Total 389,862 410,470 (*1) Provisions for guarantees includes provision for financial guarantee of 47,817 million Won and 71,697 million Won as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. (*2) Other provisions consist of provision for litigation and others. 211 92 (2) Changes in provisions for guarantees and unused loan commitments are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 1) Provisions for guarantees For the year ended December 31, 2018 Stage1 Stage2 Stage3 Total Beginning balance (*1) 47,132 18,281 127,511 192,924 Replaced with 12-month expected credit loss 92 (92) Replaced with expected credit loss for the entire period (237) 91,008 (90,771) Replaced with credit-impaired financial assets (38) (29) 67 Provisions used (20,429) (20,429) Net reversal of unused amount (4,866) (75,410) (25,709) (105,985) Others (*2) 23,249 2 23,251 Ending balance 44,903 33,760 11,098 89,761 We Believe in Your Potential (*1) The beginning balance was restated in accordance with K-IFRS 1109. (*2) This is the effect of new financial guarantee contracts that are initially measured at fair value. For the year ended December 31, 2017 Provision for guarantees Beginning balance 238,117 Provisions provided 4,876 Provisions used and others (24,898) Reversal of unused amount (60,300) Foreign currencies translation adjustments 9 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Others 25,443 Ending balance 183,247 2) Provisions for unused loan commitment For the year ended December 31, 2018 Stage1 Stage2 Stage3 Total Beginning balance (*) 75,232 27,875 1,878 104,985 Replaced with 12-month expected credit loss 7,770 (7,396) (374) Replaced with expected credit loss for the entire period (2,376) 2,525 (149) Replaced with credit-impaired financial assets (213) (1,579) 1,792 Net provision(reversal) of unused amount (5,813) 23,860 (1,521) 16,526 Others 24 24 Ending balance 74,624 45,285 1,626 121,535 (*) The beginning balance was restated in accordance with K-IFRS 1109. For the year ended December 31, 2017 Provision for unused loan commitments Beginning balance 87,909 Provisions provided 2,028 Provisions used and others (68) Reversal of unused amount (23,744) Foreign currencies translation adjustments (10) Ending balance 66,115 212 93 (3) Changes in asset retirement obligation are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Beginning balance 61,872 58,076 Provisions provided 1,489 2,225 Provisions used (913) (1,283) Reversal of provisions unused (1,038) (733) Amortization 564 428 Increase in restoration costs and others 5,119 3,159 Ending balance 67,093 61,872 The amount of the asset retirement obligation is the present value of the best estimate of future expected expenditure to settle the obligation – arising from leased premises as of December 31, 2018, discounted by appropriate discount rate. The restoration cost is expected to occur by the end of each premise’s lease period, and the Group has used average lease period of each category of leases terminated during the past years in order to rationally estimate the lease period. In addition, the Group used average amount of actual recovery cost for the past 3 years and the inflation rate for last year in order to estimate future recovery cost. We Believe in Your Potential (4) Changes in other provisions are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2018 Provisions for customer Other reward credits provisions Total Beginning balance 40,445 58,791 99,236 Provisions provided 70,138 8,384 78,522 Provisions used (98,170) (6,940) (105,110) Reversal of unused amount (52) (52) Foreign currencies translation Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 adjustments (194) (194) Transfer (*) 9,228 9,228 Others 27,539 2,304 29,843 Ending balance 49,180 62,293 111,473 For the years ended December 31, 2017 Provisions for customer Other reward credits provisions Total Beginning balance 22,093 22,282 44,375 Provisions provided 62,593 42,042 104,635 Provisions used (84,979) (8,014) (92,993) Reversal of unused amount (77) (77) Foreign currencies translation adjustments (249) (249) Transfer (*) 21,808 21,808 Others 18,930 2,807 21,737 Ending balance 40,445 58,791 99,236 (*) As the credits of the affiliates were transferred to the Group, the allowance for the provisions for customer reward credits increased for the years ended December 31, 2018, and 2017, respectively. (5) Others The Group provides settlement services for payments in Korean Won to facilitate trade transactions between Korea and Iran. In connection with these services, the Group is currently being investigated by US government agencies including US prosecutors (United States Attorney’s Office and New York State Attorney General’s Office) as to whether the Group has violated United States laws by participating in prohibited transactions involving the following countries: Iran, Sudan, Syria and Cuba, which have been sanctioned by the US. 213 94 24. NET DEFINED BENEFIT LIABILITY The characteristics of the Group’s defined benefit retirement pension plans are as follows: Employees and directors with one or more years of service are entitled to receive a payment upon termination of their employment, based on their length of service and rate of salary at the time of termination. The assets of the plans are measured at their fair value at the end of reporting date. The plan liabilities are measured using the projected unit method, which takes account of projected earnings increases, using actuarial assumptions that give the best estimate of the future cash flows that will arise under the plan liabilities. The Group is exposed to various risks through defined benefit retirement pension plan, and the most significant risks are as follows: Volatility of asset The defined benefit obligation was estimated with an interest rate calculated based on blue chip corporate bonds earnings. A deficit may occur if the rate of return of plan assets falls short of the interest rate. Decrease in profitability of blue A decrease in profitability of blue chip bonds will be offset by some We Believe in Your Potential chip bonds increase in the value of debt securities that the employee benefit plan owns but will bring an increase in the defined benefit obligation. Risk of inflation Defined benefit obligations are related to inflation rate; the higher the inflation rate is, the higher the level of liabilities. Therefore, deficit occurs in the system if an inflation rate increases. (1) Details of net defined benefit liability are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Present value of defined benefit obligation 1,209,669 1,071,170 Fair value of plan assets (1,070,987) (1,027,906) Net defined benefit liability 138,682 43,264 (2) Changes in the carrying value of defined benefit obligation are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Beginning balance 1,071,170 984,381 Current service cost 144,394 146,750 Interest cost 32,143 26,629 Remeasurements 100,854 (20,389) Foreign currencies translation adjustments (3) (279) Retirement benefit paid (74,952) (55,552) Curtailment or settlement (10,928) Transfer to assets held for distribution (sale) (65,351) Others 1,414 558 Ending balance 1,209,669 1,071,170 214 95 (3) Changes in the plan assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Beginning balance 1,027,906 990,653 Interest income 33,825 30,601 Remeasurements (14,783) (14,125) Employer’s contributions 128,926 43,114 Retirement benefit paid (71,672) (51,877) Curtailment or settlement (11,052) Transfer to assets held for distribution (sale) (30,924) Others (2,291) 40,592 Ending balance 1,070,987 1,027,906 (4) Plan assets wholly consist of fixed deposits as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. Among plan assets, realized returns on plan assets amount to 19,042 million Won and 16,476 million Won for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. We Believe in Your Potential Meanwhile, the contribution expected to be paid in the next accounting year amounts to 161,571 million Won. (5) Current service cost, net interest income, loss (gain) on the curtailment or settlement and remeasurements recognized in the consolidated statements comprehensive income are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended For the year ended December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Current service cost 144,394 146,750 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Net interest income (1,682) (3,972) Loss on the curtailment or settlement 124 Cost recognized in net income 142,712 142,902 Remeasurements 115,637 (6,264) Cost recognized in total comprehensive income 258,349 136,638 Retirement benefit service costs related to defined contribution plans amount to 2,437 million Won and 3,946 million Won for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively. (6) Key actuarial assumptions used in net defined benefit liability measurement are as follows: December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Discount rate 2,69% 3.18% Future wage growth rate 6.18% 6.18% Mortality rate Issued by Korea Insurance Issued by Korea Insurance Development Institute Development Institute Retirement rate Experience rate for each Experience rate for each employment classification employment classification The weighted average maturity of defined benefit liability is 8.05 ~ 13.21 years. 215 96 (7) The sensitivity to actuarial assumptions used in the assessment of defined benefit obligation is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018(*) December 31, 2017(*) Discount rate Increase by 1% point (116,812) (116,405) Decrease by 1% point 136,990 137,151 Future wage growth rate Increase by 1% point 135,767 136,707 Decrease by 1% point (118,020) (117,765) (*) The above sensitivity analyses are based on a change in an assumption while holding all other assumptions constant. In practice, this is unlikely to occur, and changes in some of the assumptions may be correlated. The sensitivity of the defined benefit obligation to changes in principal actuarial assumptions is calculated using the projected unit credit method, the same method applied when calculating the defined benefit obligations recognized on the statement of financial position. 25. OTHER FINANCIAL LIABILITIES AND OTHER LIABILITIES Other financial liabilities and other liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): We Believe in Your Potential December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Other financial liabilities: Accounts payable 5,407,025 4,692,320 Accrued expenses 2,212,350 2,049,861 Borrowings from trust accounts 3,747,492 3,271,817 Agency business revenue 396,735 344,591 Foreign exchange payables 539,554 590,667 Domestic exchange settlement credits 7,134,966 1,309,646 Other miscellaneous financial liabilities 1,990,426 1,635,156 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Present value discount (2,484) (1,597) Sub-total 21,426,064 13,892,461 Other liabilities: Unearned income 204,034 180,664 Other miscellaneous liabilities 134,241 103,317 Sub-total 338,275 283,981 Total 21,764,339 14,176,442 216 97 26. DERIVATIVES (1) Derivative assets and derivative liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 Assets Liabilities For fair Nominal value For cash flow For fair value amount hedge For trading hedge hedge For trading Interest rate: Futures Swaps 150,710,490 35,503 218,140 665 17,654 266,207 Purchase options 530,000 10,461 Written options 525,000 12,438 Currency: Futures 320,213 Forwards 88,376,776 843,621 777,039 Swaps 67,179,195 761,907 33,089 773,701 Purchase options 1,933,454 17,544 We Believe in Your Potential Written options 3,134,774 20,747 Equity: Futures 186,737 Swaps 441,573 31,377 1,217 Purchase options 4,925,315 143,029 Written options 6,145,935 239,512 Total 324,409,462 35,503 2,026,079 33,754 17,654 2,090,861 December 31, 2017 Assets Liabilities Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 For fair Nominal value For cash flow For fair value amount hedge For trading hedge hedge For trading Interest rate: Futures 75,845 Swaps 130,197,378 59,272 223,935 12,103 253,972 Purchase options 630,000 12,346 Written options 795,000 12,869 Currency: Futures 318,217 Forwards 72,526,956 1,314,368 1,375,799 Swaps 48,176,306 1,352,924 55,651 1,347,905 Purchase options 2,291,154 64,267 Written options 4,038,237 58,687 Equity: Futures 91,436 Swaps 15,000 103 10 Purchase options 5,060,706 146,775 Written options 4,504,290 99,770 Others: Futures Swaps 7,805 1,056 1,037 Purchase options Written options 5,000 100 Total 268,733,330 59,272 3,115,774 55,651 12,103 3,150,149 Derivatives held for trading are classified into financial assets at FVTPL (Note 7) and financial liabilities at FVTPL (Note 20), and derivatives designated for hedging are presented as a separate line item in the consolidated statements of financial position. 217 98 (2) Overview of the Group’s hedge accounting 1) Fair value hedge As of the current period end, the Group has applied fair value hedge on fixed interest rate foreign currency denominated debentures amounting to 2,956,565 million Won. The purpose of the hedging is to avoid fair value volatility risk of fixed interest rate foreign currency denominated debentures derived from fluctuations of market interest rate, and as such the Group entered into interest rate swap agreements designated as hedging instruments. Pursuant to the interest rate swap agreement, by swapping the calculated difference between the fixed interest rate and floating interest rate applied to the nominal value, the fair value fluctuation risk is hedged as the foreign currency denominated debentures fixed interest rate terms are converted to floating interest rate. Pursuant to the interest rate swap agreement, hedge ratio is determined by matching the nominal value to the face value of the hedging instrument. In this hedging relationship, only the market interest rate fluctuation, which is the most significant part of the fair value change of the hedged item, is designated as the hedged risk, and other risk factors including credit risk are not included in the hedged risk. Therefore, the ineffective portion of the hedge could arise We Believe in Your Potential from fluctuations in the timing of the cash flow of the hedged item, the change in the total amount and price of the hedged item, or significant credit risk fluctuation of either party of the hedging instrument. The interest rate swap agreements and the hedged items are subject to fluctuations in the underlying market rate of interest and the Group expects the fair value of the interest rate swap contract and the value of the hedged item to generally change in the opposite direction. The fair value of the interest rate swap at the end of the reporting period is determined by discounting future cash flows estimated using the yield curve at the end of the reporting period and the credit risk embedded in the contract and the average interest rate is determined based on the outstanding balance at the end of the Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 reporting period. The variable interest rate applied to the interest rate swap is USD Libor 3M (6M) plus spread. In accordance with the terms of each interest rate swap contract designated as a hedging instrument, the Group receives interest at a fixed interest rate and pays interest at a variable interest rate. 2) Cash Flow Hedge As of the end of the current period, the Group has applied cash flow hedge on foreign currency denominated debentures amounting to 723,308 million Won and debentures on local currency amounting to 99,911 million Won. The Group’s hedging strategies are to ① Mitigate risks of cash flow fluctuation from variable interest rate debentures due to changes in market interest rate by entering into an interest rate swap contract and thereby designating it as hedging instrument; ② Mitigate the risks of cash flow fluctuation from principal and interest of variable-interest rate debentures denominated in foreign currency due to changes in foreign exchange rates and interest rates by entering into a currency swap contract and thereby designating it as hedging instrument; and ③ Mitigate the risks of cash flow fluctuation from principal and interest of fixed-interest rate debentures denominated in foreign currency due to changes in foreign exchange rates by entering into a currency swap contract and thereby designating it as hedging instrument. This means exchanging a predetermined nominal amount as set forth in the interest rate swap contract adjusted by the differences between the fixed and variable interest rates, which results in the conversion of interest rates of debentures from variable interest into fixed interest, eliminating the cash flow fluctuation risk. In addition, this also means a payment of predetermined principal amount as set forth in the currency swap adjusted by fixed interest rate, an exchange of an amount calculated by applying variable interest rate to USD or applying fixed interest rate to SGD, and an exchange of the principal denominated in KRW and principal denominated in foreign currency at maturity eliminating cash flow fluctuation risk on principal and interest. 218 99 The hedge ratio is determined by matching the nominal amount of the hedging instrument to the face amount of the hedged item in accordance with interest rate swap and currency swap. Only interest rate and foreign exchange rate fluctuation risk, which is the most significant factor in the cash flow fluctuation of the hedged item, is addressed in this hedging relationship, and other risk factors such as credit risk are not subject to hedging. Thus, there could be hedge ineffectiveness arising from price margin set by the counterparty of hedging instruments and unilateral change in credit risk of any party to the transaction. The interest rate swap, currency swap contract and the hedged item are all affected by the changes in market interest rate and foreign exchange rates which are basic factors of the derivative. The Group expects that the value of currency swap contract and the hedged item will generally fluctuate in opposite direction. (3) The nominal amounts of the hedging instrument as of December 31, 2018 are as follows (Unit: USD, SGD and Korean Won in millions): 1 year to 5 More than 5 1 year or less years years Total We Believe in Your Potential Fair value hedge Interest rate risk Interest rate swap(USD) 1,350,000,000 1,300,000,000 2,650,000,000 Cash flow hedge Interest rate risk Interest rate swap(KRW) 100,000 100,000 Foreign currencies translation risk and interest rate risk Currency swap(USD) 50,000,000 450,000,000 500,000,000 Foreign currencies translation risk Currency swap(SGD) 204,000,000 204,000,000 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 (4) The average interest rate and average currency rate of the hedging instrument as of December 31, 2018 are as follows: Average interest rate and average currency rate Fair value hedge Interest rate risk Fixed 3.96% receipt and Libor 3M+1.61% floating paid Interest rate swaps(USD) Fixed 5.88% receipt and Libor 6M+2.15% floating paid Cash flow hedge Interest rate risk Interest rate swap(KRW) KRW 3Y CMS+0.395% receipt, KRW 2.38% paid Foreign currencies translation risk and interest rate risk USD 3M Libor+0.7% receipt, KRW 1.74% paid, USD/KRW = 1,136 Currency swap(USD) USD 1M Libor+0.517% receipt, KRW 1.70% paid, USD/KRW = 1,178 Foreign currencies translation risk Currency swap(SGD) SGD 1.91% receipt, KRW 1.98% paid, SGD/KRW = 828 219 100 (5) The amounts related to items designated as hedging instruments as of December 31, 2018 are as follows (Unit: USD, SGD and Korean Won in millions): Carrying amounts of the hedging instrument Line item in the statement of financial Changing in fair Nominal amounts of position where the value used for the hedging hedging instrument is calculating hedge instrument Assets Liabilities located ineffectiveness Fair value hedge Interest rate risk Interest rate Derivative assets swaps(USD) (Designated for hedging) Derivative liabilities 2,650,000,000 35,503 17,654 (Designated for hedging) (27,362) Cash flow hedge Interest rate risk Interest rate Derivative liabilities swap(KRW) 100,000 665 (Designated for hedging) (665) Foreign currencies translation risk and interest rate We Believe in Your Potential risk Currency swap Derivative liabilities (USD) 500,000,000 28,907 (Designated for hedging) 21,582 Foreign currencies translation risk Currency swap Derivative liabilities (SGD) 204,000,000 4,182 (Designated for hedging) 2,353 (6) Details of carrying amount to hedged and amount adjusted due to hedge accounting as of December 31, 2018 are as follows (Unit: Korean won in millions): Accumulated amount of fair Line item in the Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 value hedge adjustments on statement of Changing in the hedged item included in financial position fair value used Carrying amounts of the the carrying amount of the in which the for calculating Cash flow hedging item hedged item hedged item is hedge hedge Assets Liabilities Assets Liabilities included ineffectiveness reserve (*) Fair value hedge Interest rate risk Debenture 2,956,565 5,200 Debentures 25,498 Cash flow hedge Interest rate risk Debenture 99,911 Debentures 521 (371) Foreign currencies translation risk and interest rate risk Debenture 557,186 Debentures (16,790) (1,211) Foreign currencies translation risk Debenture 166,122 Debentures (1,762) (2,287) (*) After tax amount (7) Amounts recognized in profit or loss due to the ineffective portion of fair value hedges during the current period are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Hedge ineffectiveness Line item in the profit that includes hedge recognized in profit or loss ineffectiveness Fair value hedge Interest rate risk (1,864) Other net operating income 220 101 (8) Reclassification of profit or loss from other comprehensive income and equity related to cash flow hedges is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Changes in Changes in Amounts the value of Hedge the value reclassified hedging ineffective of foreign from cash Line item instruments ness basis Line item in the flow hedge affected in profit recognized in recognize spread profit or loss that reserve to or loss because of cash flow d in profit recognized includes hedge profit or the hedge reserve or loss in OCI ineffectiveness loss reclassification Cash Interest rate risk Other net Other net flow operating operating hedge (517) (148) expense expense Foreign currencies Other net Other net translation risk operating operating and interest rate income expense risk 21,429 153 (882) (expense) (23,084) Foreign currencies Other net Other net translation risk operating operating 2,353 (491) income (3,601) expense We Believe in Your Potential 27. DEFERRED DAY 1 PROFITS OR LOSSES Changes in deferred day 1 profits or losses are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Beginning balance 7,416 13,422 New transactions 23,678 500 Amounts recognized in losses (5,631) (6,506) Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Ending balance 25,463 7,416 In case some variables to measure fair values of financial instruments are not observable in the market, valuation techniques are utilized to evaluate such financial instruments. Those financial instruments are recorded the transaction price as at the time of acquisition, even though there are difference noted between the transaction price and the fair value. The table above presents the difference yet to be realized as profit or losses. 28. CAPITAL STOCK AND CAPITAL SURPLUS (1) The number of shares authorized and others are as follows: December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Shares of common stock authorized 5,000,000,000 Shares 5,000,000,000 Shares Par value 5,000 Won 5,000 Won Shares of common stock issued 676,000,000 Shares 676,000,000 Shares Capital stock 3,381,392 million Won 3,381,392 million Won (2) There are no changes in the number of shares issued and outstanding for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. (3) Details of capital surplus are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Capital in excess of par value 269,533 269,533 Other capital surplus 16,356 16,347 Total 285,889 285,880 221 102 29. HYBRID SECURITIES The bond-type hybrid securities classified as owner’s equity are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Interest rate December December Issue date Maturity (%) 31, 2018 31, 2017 Securities in local June 20, 2008 June 20, 2038 7.7 255,000 currency April 25, 2013 April 25, 2043 4.4 500,000 500,000 November 13, 2013 November 13, 2043 5.7 200,000 200,000 December 12, 2014 December 12, 2044 5.2 160,000 160,000 June 3, 2015 June 3, 2045 4.4 240,000 240,000 July 26, 2018 4.4 400,000 Securities in June 10, 2015 June 10, 2045 5.0 559,650 559,650 foreign currencies September 27, 2016 4.5 553,450 553,450 May 16, 2017 5.3 562,700 562,700 Issuance cost (13,837) (12,912) Total 3,161,963 3,017,888 We Believe in Your Potential The hybrid securities mentioned above are either without a maturity date or its maturity can be extended indefinitely at the maturity date without change of terms. 30. OTHER EQUITY (1) Details of other equity are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Accumulated other comprehensive loss: Net loss on valuation of financial assets at FVTOCI (87,182) Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Gain on valuation of AFS financial assets 301,930 Gain on financial liabilities at FVTPL(K-IFRS 1109) designated as upon initial recognition due to own credit risk Share of other comprehensive gain(loss) of joint ventures and associates 302 (1,251) Loss on foreign currency translation of foreign operations (244,735) (242,700) Remeasurement loss related to defined benefit plan (223,529) (152,624) Gain (loss) on valuation of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges (3,869) 777 Equity related to assets held for distribution (sale) (13,197) 4,145 Sub-total (572,210) (89,723) Treasury shares (34,113) (34,113) Other capital adjustments(*) (1,607,647) (1,815,438) Total (2,213,970) (1,939,274) (*) Other capital adjustments include gain or loss on capital transactions that was recognized in 2014 as a result of the merger of Woori Bank and Woori Finance Holdings Co., Ltd. 222 103 (2) Changes in the accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax, are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2018 Related to assets held Increase for Beginning (decrease) Reclassification distribution Income tax Ending balance (*1) (*2)(*3) adjustments (sale) effect balance Net gain (loss) on valuation of financial assets at FVTOCI (88,906) (8,677) 8,015 2,386 (87,182) Gain (loss) on financial liabilities at FVTPL (K-IFRS 1109) designated as upon initial recognition due to own credit risk (96) 132 (36) Share of other comprehensive gain (loss) of joint ventures and associates (2,656) 4,080 (1,122) 302 Gain (loss) on foreign currency translation of foreign We Believe in Your Potential operations (242,806) (2,661) 732 (244,735) Remeasurement gain (loss) related to defined benefit plan (152,358) (85,007) (13,197) 27,033 (223,529) Gain (loss) on valuation of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges 777 30,655 (26,871) (8,430) (3,869) Transfer to assets held for distribution (sale) 4,145 (17,342) (13,197) Total (481,900) (78,820) (18,856) (13,197) 20,563 (572,210) Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 (*1) The beginning balance was adjusted in accordance with K-IFRS 1109. (*2) Net gain (loss) on valuation of financial assets at FVTOCI included the 1,009 million Won transfer to retained earnings due to disposal of equity securities. (*3) Gain (loss) on financial liabilities at fair value through profit or loss designated as upon initial recognition due to own credit risk included the 4 million Won transfer to retained earnings due to redemption. For the year ended December 31, 2017 ReclassifBeginning Increase ication Income tax Ending balance (decrease)(*) adjustments(*) effect balance Gain (loss) on valuation of AFS financial assets 386,981 80,997 (164,803) (1,245) 301,930 Share of other comprehensive income (loss) of joint ventures and associates (1,863) 2,516 (1,904) (1,251) Gain (loss) on foreign currency translation of foreign operations (48,353) (193,272) (1,075) (242,700) Remeasurement gain (loss) related to defined benefit plan (163,397) 6,216 4,557 (152,624) Gain (loss) on valuation of cash flow hedges 1,025 (248) 777 Transfer to assets held for sale 4,145 4,145 Total 173,368 (98,373) (164,803) 85 (89,723) (*) For the change in gain (loss) on valuation of AFS financial assets, “increase (decrease)” represents change due to the valuation during the period, and “reclassification adjustments” represents disposal or recognition of impairment losses on AFS financial assets. 223 104 31. RETAINED EARNINGS AND OTHER RESERVE (1) Details of retained earnings are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Legal reserve Earned surplus reserve 1,857,754 1,729,754 Other legal reserve 46,384 45,668 Sub-total 1,904,138 1,775,422 Voluntary Business rationalization reserve 8,000 8,000 reserve Reserve for financial structure improvement 235,400 235,400 Additional reserve 7,759,804 7,418,806 Regulatory reserve for credit loss 2,578,457 2,438,191 Revaluation reserve 715,860 751,964 Other voluntary reserve 11,700 Sub-total 11,297,521 10,864,061 Retained earnings before appropriation(*) 3,922,998 2,980,523 Total 17,124,657 15,620,006 We Believe in Your Potential (*) The unappropriated retained earnings for the current period has been restated in accordance with K-IFRS 1109. i. Earned surplus reserve In accordance with the Article 40, Banking Act, earned surplus reserve is appropriated at least one tenth of the earnings after tax on every dividend declaration, not exceeding the paid in capital. This reserve may not be used other than for offsetting a deficit or transferring to capital. ii. Other legal reserve Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Other legal reserves were appropriated in the branches located in Japan, Vietnam and Bangladesh according to the banking laws of Japan, Vietnam and Bangladesh, and may be used to offset any deficit incurred in those branches. iii. Business rationalization reserve Pursuant to the Restriction of Special Taxation Act, the Group was previously required to appropriate, as a reserve for business rationalization, amounts equal to tax reductions arising from tax exemptions and tax credits up to December 31, 2001. The requirement was no longer effective from 2002. iv. Reserve for financial structure improvement From 2002 to 2014, the Finance Supervisory Services recommended banks in Korea to appropriate at least 10 percent of net income after accumulated deficit for financial structure improvement, until tangible common equity ratio equals 5.5 percent. But this reserve is not available for payment of cash dividends; however, it can be used to reduce a deficit or be transferred to capital. The reserve and appropriation are an Autonomous judgment matter of the Group since 2015. v. Additional reserve Additional reserve was appropriated for capital adequacy and other management purpose. vi. Regulatory reserve for credit loss In accordance with paragraphs 1 and 2 of Article 29 of the Regulation on Supervision of Banking Business (“RSBB”), if provisions for credit loss under K-IFRS for the accounting purpose are lower than provisions under RSBB, the Bank limits such shortfall amount as regulatory reserve for credit loss. 224 105 vii. Revaluation reserve In accordance with attached table 3 of the Regulation on Supervision of Banking Business Enforcement Rules Revaluation reserve is the amount of limited dividends set by the board of directors to be recognized as complementary capital when the gain or loss occurred in the property revaluation by adopting K-IFRS. 32. REGULATORY RESERVE FOR CREDIT LOSS In accordance with Paragraph 1 and 2 of Article 29 of the Regulation on the Supervision of Banking Business (“RSBB”), the Group shall disclose the difference as the planned regulatory reserve for credit loss. The planned provision (reversal) is recognized subsequent to December 31, 2018. (1) Balance of the planned regulatory reserve for credit loss is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, December 31, 2018 2017 Balance as at December 31 2,578,457 2,438,191 We Believe in Your Potential Planned provision (reversal) of regulatory reserve for credit loss (222,211) 140,266 Balance after recognizing the planned provision(reversal) 2,356,246 2,578,457 (2) Planned reserves provided, adjusted net income after the planned reserves provided and adjusted EPS after the planned reserves provided are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions, except for EPS amount): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Net income 2,051,649 1,530,088 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Provision of regulatory reserve for credit loss(*) 40,875 140,266 Adjusted net income after the provision of regulatory reserve 2,010,774 1,389,822 Adjusted EPS after the provision of regulatory reserve (Unit: Korean Won) 2,762 1,817 (*) The amount of reserve for credit loss for the year ended December 31, 2018 is calculated considering only the change in the reserve for credit loss after the accounting policy change due to adoption of K-IFRS 1109. Therefore, the effect of reducing the reserve for credit losses due to changes in accounting policies was excluded. 33. DIVIDENDS Dividends for the years 2018 and 2017 are 650 Won and 500 Won, respectively, and the total amount of dividends paid are 437,626 million Won and 336,636 million Won, respectively. The dividends for the current period will be submitted as an agenda in the upcoming annual shareholders’ meeting scheduled on March 27, 2019. 225 106 34. NET INTEREST INCOME (1) Interest income recognized is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Financial assets at FVTPL (K-IFRS 1109) 54,243 Financial assets at FVTOCI 280,371 Financial assets at amortized cost Securities at amortized cost 376,788 Loans and other financial assets at amortized cost: Interest on due from banks 112,581 Interest on loans 8,832,485 Interest of other receivables 28,031 Sub-total 9,349,885 Financial assets at FVTPL (K-IFRS 1039) 53,348 AFS financial assets 239,030 We Believe in Your Potential HTM financial assets 307,965 Loans and receivables: Interest on due from banks 83,325 Interest on loans 7,835,957 Interest of other receivables 31,062 Sub-total 7,950,344 Total 9,684,499 8,550,687 (2) Interest expense recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 2018 2017 Interest on deposits due to customers 2,917,165 2,380,263 Interest on borrowings 306,739 238,212 Interest on debentures 720,394 638,653 Other interest expense 89,250 72,909 Total 4,033,548 3,330,037 35. NET FEES AND COMMISSIONS INCOME (1) Details of fees and commissions income recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Fees and commission received for brokerage 162,344 164,041 Fees and commission received related to credit 173,233 166,364 Fees and commission received for electronic finance 121,250 110,105 Fees and commission received on foreign exchange handling 60,433 58,383 Fees and commission received on foreign exchange 66,036 61,552 Fees and commission received for guarantee 65,254 65,779 Fees and commission received on credit card 598,705 1,072,423 Fees and commission received on securities business 96,379 80,872 Fees and commission from trust management 177,456 141,766 Fees and commission received on credit Information 12,985 11,737 Other fees 146,689 136,176 Total 1,680,764 2,069,198 226 107 (2) Details of fees and commissions expense incurred are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Fees and commissions paid 174,669 164,834 Credit card commission 428,613 828,363 Brokerage commission 1,833 558 Others 5,675 4,977 Total 610,790 998,732 36. DIVIDEND INCOME (1) Details of dividend income recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Financial assets at FVTPL (K-IFRS 1109) 67,892 We Believe in Your Potential Financial assets at FVTPL (K-IFRS 1039) 446 Financial assets at FVTOCI 22,660 AFS financial assets 124,546 Total 90,552 124,992 (2) Details of dividends related to financial assets at FVTOCI are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2018 Dividend income recognized from assets held Equity securities 22,386 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Dividend income recognized in assets derecognized 274 Total 22,660 37. NET GAIN OR LOSS ON FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AT FAIR VALUE THROUGH PROFIT OR LOSS MANDATORILY MEASURED AT FAIR VALUE (K-IFRS 1109 AND 1039) (1) Details of gain or loss related to net gain or loss on financial instruments at FVTPL (K-IFRS 1109 and 1039) are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Gain on financial instruments at fair value through profit o r loss mandatorily measured at fair value 196,959 Gain on financial instruments held for trading 6,123 Gain on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss designated as upon initial recognition 17,484 Loss on financial instruments designed as at fair value through profit or loss (110,950) Total 214,443 (104,827) 227 108 (2) Details of net gain or loss on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss mandatorily measured at fair value and financial instruments held for trading are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Financial Securities Gain on valuation 137,237 2,764 assets at Gain on disposals 45,105 20,528 FVTPL Loss on valuation (25,499) (13,757) (financial Loss on disposals (26,728) (6,466) assets held Sub-total 130,115 3,069 for trading) Loans Gain on valuation 1,606 Gain on disposals 4,136 Loss on valuation (4,805) Loss on disposals (117) Sub-total 820 Other Gain on valuation 2,050 6,524 financial Gain on disposals 530 2,353 assets Loss on valuation (2,280) (7,885) We Believe in Your Potential Loss on disposals (86) (619) Sub-total 214 373 Sub-total 131,149 3,442 Derivatives Interest rate Gain on transactions and (for trading) derivatives valuation 1,255,581 1,088,192 Loss on transactions and valuation (1,303,244) (1,043,312) Sub-total (47,663) 44,880 Currency Gain on transactions and derivatives valuation 4,935,922 7,253,426 Loss on transactions and Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 valuation (4,822,915) (7,408,741) Sub-total 113,007 (155,315) Equity Gain on transactions and derivatives valuation 486,560 511,220 Loss on transactions and valuation (484,986) (397,462) Sub-total 1,574 113,758 Other Gain on transactions and derivatives valuation 4,138 4,056 Loss on transactions and valuation (5,246) (4,698) Sub-total (1,108) (642) Sub-total 65,810 2,681 Total 196,959 6,123 (3) Details of net gain(loss) on financial instruments at fair value through profit or loss designated as upon initial recognition and Losses on financial instruments designated as at fair value through profit or loss are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Gain(loss) on equity-linked securities: Loss on disposal of equity-linked securities (2,058) (79,965) Gain(loss) on valuation of equity-linked securities 17,945 (32,511) Sub-total 15,887 (112,476) Gain on other securities: Gain on valuation of other securities 290 Gain on other financial instruments: Gain on valuation of other financial instruments 1,597 1,236 Total 17,484 (110,950) 228 109 38. NET GAIN OR LOSS ON FINANCIAL ASSETS AT FVTOCI AND AFS FINANCIAL ASSETS Details of net gain or loss on financial assets at FVTOCI and AFS financial assets recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Gain on redemption of securities 53 47 Gain on transactions of securities 1,994 223,961 Impairment loss on securities (31,300) Total 2,047 192,708 39. IMPAIRMENT REVERSAL(LOSS) DUE TO CREDIT LOSS Impairment reversal (loss) due to credit loss are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 We Believe in Your Potential 2018 2017 Impairment loss due to credit loss on financial assets measured at FVTOCI (2,027) Impairment loss due to credit loss on securities at amortized cost (1,922) Reversal(provision) for credit loss on loan and other financial assets at amortized cost (415,084) Impairment loss due to credit loss (862,273) Reversal of provision on guarantee 105,985 55,424 Reversal of provision on (provision for) unused loan commitment (16,526) 21,716 Total (329,574) (785,133) Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 229 110 40. GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES AND OTHER NET OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSES) (1) Details of general and administrative expenses recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Salaries Short-term Salaries 1,484,236 1,317,826 employee Employee benefits benefits 468,012 559,562 Retirement benefit service costs 145,149 146,848 Termination 225,106 299,562 Sub-total 2,322,503 2,323,798 Depreciation and amortization 216,735 183,601 Other general Rent 321,198 313,080 and Taxes and public dues 115,454 111,248 administrative Service charges 222,530 198,828 We Believe in Your Potential expenses Computer and IT related 88,689 70,936 Telephone and communication 70,618 65,015 Operating promotion 43,540 43,850 Advertising 72,450 68,942 Printing 8,601 8,633 Traveling 12,757 13,064 Supplies 7,071 6,795 Insurance premium 8,355 8,548 Reimbursement 23,474 27,516 Maintenance 17,384 16,081 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Water, light and heating 14,686 14,165 Vehicle maintenance 10,264 9,902 Others 47,724 46,799 Sub-total 1,084,795 1,023,402 Total 3,624,033 3,530,801 (2) Details of other operating income recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Gain on transactions of foreign exchange 1,227,561 3,391,095 Gain on disposals of loans and receivables (*1) 205,490 Gain related to derivatives(Designated for hedging) 35,810 122 Gain on fair value hedged items 42,797 53,532 Others (*2) 82,417 86,159 Total 1,388,585 3,736,398 (*1) Gain (loss) on disposal of loan and receivables occurred during the year ended December 31, 2018 was presented as a separate account named ‘Net gain related to financial assets at amortized cost’ in accordance with the adoption of K-IFRS 1109. (*2) Other income includes income amounting to 29,316 million Won and 29,336 million Won, for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, that the Group recognized for it is to receive from other creditor financial institutions in accordance with the creditor financial institutions committee agreement. 230 111 (3) Details of other operating expenses recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Losses on transactions of foreign exchange 991,423 2,886,535 KDIC deposit insurance premium 315,315 304,055 Contribution to miscellaneous funds 298,416 286,000 Losses on disposals of loans and receivables(*1) 9,221 Losses related to derivatives (Designated for hedging) 36,483 109,569 Losses on fair value hedged items 17,299 Others (*2) 124,240 172,331 Total 1,783,176 3,767,711 (*1) Loss on disposal of loan and receivables occurred during the year ended December 31, 2018 was presented as a separate account named ‘Net gain related to financial assets at amortized cost’ in accordance with the adoption of K-IFRS 1109. (*2) Other expense includes such expenses amounting to 1,594 million Won and 5,237 million Won for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017, respectively, which are related to the Group’s expected payments to other We Believe in Your Potential creditor financial institutions in accordance with the creditor financial institutions committee agreement. In addition, in includes 51,770 million Won and 48,292 million Won, respectively, of intangible asset amortization expense. 41. OTHER NON-OPERATING INCOME (EXPENSES) (1) Details of gains or losses on valuation of investments in joint ventures and associates are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 2018 2017 Gains on valuation of investments in joint ventures and associates 25,791 83,506 Losses on valuation of investments in joint ventures and associates (22,595) (70,117) Impairment losses of investments in joint ventures and associates (177) (114,903) Total 3,019 (101,514) (2) Details of other non-operating income and expenses recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Other non-operating incomes 129,709 84,361 Other non-operating expenses (87,157) (190,083) Total 42,552 (105,722) (3) Details of other non-operating income recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Rental fee income 6,835 6,973 Gains on disposal of investments in joint ventures and associates 50,511 39,932 Gains on disposal of premises and equipment, intangible assets and other assets 30,278 5,028 Reversal of impairment loss of premises and equipment, intangible assets and other assets 761 666 Others 41,324 31,762 Total 129,709 84,361 231 112 (4) Details of other non-operating expenses recognized are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Depreciation on investment properties 4,045 3,902 Interest expenses of refundable deposits 620 459 Losses on disposal of investment in joint ventures and associates 2,931 38,713 Losses on disposal of premises and equipment, intangible assets and other assets 1,160 9,994 Impairment losses of premises and equipment, intangible assets and other assets 87 390 Donation 51,983 98,132 Others 26,331 38,493 Total 87,157 190,083 42. INCOME TAX EXPENSE We Believe in Your Potential (1) Details of income tax expenses are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Current tax expense: Current tax expense with respect to the current period 432,645 471,669 Adjustments recognized in the current period in relation to the tax expense of prior periods 5,923 (5,209) Sub-total 438,568 466,460 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Deferred tax expense(income): Changes in deferred tax assets (liabilities) relating to the temporary differences 314,655 (47,042) Income tax expense 753,223 419,418 (2) Income tax expense reconciled to net income before income tax expense is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Net income before income tax expense 2,804,872 1,949,506 Tax calculated at statutory tax rate (*) 760,978 471,318 Adjustments: Effect of income that is exempt from taxation (49,418) (55,983) Effect of expenses that are not deductible in determining taxable income 18,639 22,254 Adjustments recognized in the current period in relation to the current tax of prior periods 5,923 (5,209) Others 17,101 (12,962) Sub-total (7,755) (51,900) Income tax expense 753,223 419,418 Effective tax rate 26.9% 21.5% (*) The applicable income tax rate: 1) 11% for taxable income below 200 million Won, 2) 22% for above 200 million Won and below 20 billion Won, 3) 24.2% for above 20 billion Won and below 300 billion Won, 4) 27.5% for above 300 billion Won. 232 113 (3) Changes in cumulative temporary differences for the years ended Deferred 31, 2018 and 2017, are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2018 K-IFRS 1109 adoption effect Beginning Recognized as Recognized as balance after other Recognized other K-IFRS Recognized as comprehensive Beginning as retained comprehensive 1109 Business income income Ending balance earnings income (loss) adoption combination (expense) (expense)(*2) Balance(*3) Gain (loss) on financial assets 479,065 (150,140) 149,796 478,721 (102,170) (4,205) 372,346 Gain on valuation using the equity method of accounting 24,482 24,482 3,203 669 28,354 Gain (loss) on valuation of derivatives (10,260) (3,990) (14,250) (13,617) 360 (27,507) Accrued income (60,987) (60,987) 621 4,520 (55,846) Provision for loan losses (47,697) 47,446 (251) 399 (52,493) (52,345) We Believe in Your Potential Loan and receivables written off 9,777 9,777 (3,105) 6,672 Loan origination costs and fees (137,320) 36 (137,284) (17,147) (154,431) Defined benefit liability 284,234 284,234 317 43,821 31,715 360,087 Deposits with employee retirement insurance trust (287,333) (287,333) (31,092) 95 (318,330) Provision for guarantee 30,602 1,370 31,972 (20,598) 11,374 Other provision 45,153 25,879 71,032 4,162 75,194 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Others(*1) (72,265) 4,917 (67,348) 44 (130,137) (6,642) (204,083) Net deferred tax assets 257,451 (74,482) 149,796 332,765 1,381 (314,653) 21,992 41,485 (*1) Among the deferred tax assets and liabilities classified as ‘Others,’ the deferred tax asset arising from unused tax losses amounts to 18,154 million Won. (*2) Includes 1,429 million Won presented on non-controlling interests. (*3) Includes 9,778 million Won presented on assets held for distribution (sale) (Note 17). 233 114 For the year ended December 31, 2017 Recognized as other Recognized as comprehensive Beginning income income Ending balance (expense) (expense) balance Gain (loss) on financial assets 407,128 72,945 (1,008) 479,065 Gain on valuation using the equity method of accounting 32,859 (6,473) (1,904) 24,482 Gain (loss) on valuation of derivatives (43,818) 33,806 (248) (10,260) Accrued income (69,959) 8,972 (60,987) Provision for loan losses (46,811) (886) (47,697) Loan and receivables written off 53,915 (44,138) 9,777 Loan origination costs and fees (108,102) (29,218) (137,320) Defined benefit liability 225,045 54,533 4,656 284,234 Deposits with employee retirement insurance trust (226,321) (61,012) (287,333) Provision for guarantee 41,138 (10,536) 30,602 Other provision 32,392 12,761 45,153 Others(*) (87,479) 16,289 (1,075) (72,265) Net deferred tax assets 209,987 47,043 421 257,451 We Believe in Your Potential (*) Among the deferred tax assets and liabilities classified as ‘Others,’ the deferred tax asset arising from unused tax losses amounts to 15,652 million Won. (4) Unrealizable temporary differences are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Deductible temporary differences 272,911 126,818 Tax loss carry forward 149,035 96,135 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Taxable temporary differences (868,541) (1,298,586) Total (446,595) (1,075,633) No deferred income tax asset has been recognized for the deductible temporary difference of KRW 227,144 million associated with investments in subsidiaries and associates as of December 31, 2018, because it is not probable that the temporary differences will be reversed in the foreseeable future. KRW 45,767 million associated with others, respectively, as of December 31, 2018, due to the uncertainty that these will be realized in the future. No deferred income tax liability has been recognized for the taxable temporary difference of KRW 866,294 million associated with investment in subsidiaries and associates as of December 31, 2018, due to the following reasons: The Group is able to control the timing of the reversal of the temporary difference. It is probable that the temporary difference will not be reversed in the foreseeable future. KRW 2,247 million associated with others are not recognized as deferred tax liabilities as it is not probable that the associated temporary differences will be reversed in the foreseeable future. As of December 31, 2018, the expected extinctive date of tax loss carry forward that are not recognized as deferred tax assets are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): 1 year or less 1 – 2 years 2 – 3 years More than 3 years Tax loss carry forward 149,035 234 115 (5) Details of accumulated deferred tax charged directly to other equity are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Net gain on valuation of financial assets at FVTOCI 31,422 Loss on valuation of AFS securities (114,169) Share of other comprehensive loss of and associates (285) (954) Gain on foreign currency translation of foreign operations 8,183 15,855 Remeasurements of the net defined benefit liability 88,127 56,317 Gain (loss) on derivatives designated as cash flow hedge 1,140 (248) Total 128,587 (43,199) (6) Current tax assets and liabilities are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions) December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Current tax assets 20,488 4,722 Current tax liabilities 156,559 232,600 We Believe in Your Potential 43. EARNINGS PER SHARE (“EPS”) Basic EPS is calculated by dividing net income attributable to common shareholders by weighted-average number of common shares outstanding (Unit: Korean Won in millions, except for EPS and number of shares): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Net income attributable to Owners 2,033,182 1,512,148 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Dividends to hybrid securities (151,194) (167,072) Net income attributable to Common shareholders 1,881,988 1,345,076 Weighted-average number of common shares outstanding 673 million shares 673 million shares Basic EPS (Unit: Korean Won) 2,796 1,999 Diluted EPS is equal to basic EPS because there is no dilution effect for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. 235 116 44. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND COMMITMENTS (1) Details of guarantees are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Confirmed guarantees Guarantee for loans 125,870 157,299 Acceptances 371,525 320,519 Guarantees in acceptances of imported goods 158,179 108,238 Other confirmed guarantees 6,452,791 6,288,965 Sub-total 7,108,365 6,875,021 Unconfirmed guarantees Local letters of credit 305,057 383,117 Letters of credit 3,322,731 3,637,787 Other unconfirmed guarantees 669,677 505,689 Sub-total 4,297,465 4,526,593 Commercial paper purchase commitments and others 1,260,587 1,458,101 Total 12,666,417 12,859,715 We Believe in Your Potential (2) Details of unused loan commitments and others are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Loan commitments 97,796,704 80,760,325 Other commitments 5,041,314 4,546,090 (3) Litigation case Legal cases where the Group is involved are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 As plaintiff As defendant As plaintiff As defendant Number of cases (*) 77 cases 154 cases 83 cases 155 cases Amount of litigation 494,645 246,826 413,267 244,767 Provisions for litigations 17,925 9,277 (*) The number of lawsuits as of December 31, 2018 and 2017 does not include fraud lawsuits, etc. and those lawsuits that are filed only to extend the statute of limitation. 45. RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS Related parties of the Group as of December 31, 2018 and 2017, and assets and liabilities recognized, guarantees and commitments, major transactions with related parties and compensation to key management for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows: (1) Related parties Related parties Associates Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd., Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd., Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd., Chin Hung International Inc., 2016KIF-IMM Woori Bank Technology Venture Fund, K BANK Co., Ltd., Well to Sea No. 3 Private Equity Fund, and Others (Dongwoo C & C Co., Ltd. and other 28 associates) 236 117 (2) Assets and liabilities from transactions with related parties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, December 31, Related party A title of account 2018 2017 Associates Kumho Tire Co., Inc.(*1) Loans 170,917 Loss allowance (156,712) Deposits due to customers 666 Other liabilities 50 Woori Service Networks Co., Loans 69 45 Ltd. Deposits due to customers 1,967 1,311 Other liabilities 333 357 Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. Loans 7 6 Deposits due to customers 6,494 5,586 Other liabilities 19 54 Korea Finance Security Co., Loans 57 56 Ltd. Loss allowance (4) Deposits due to customers 5,040 2,854 We Believe in Your Potential Other liabilities 10 7 Chin Hung International Inc. Loans 411 408 Loss allowance (204) (22) Deposits due to customers 11,605 46,220 Other liabilities 2,974 1,658 Poonglim Industrial Co., Deposits due to customers Ltd.(*2) 4 STX Engine Co., Ltd.(*3) Loans 106,176 Loss allowance (88,734) Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Deposits due to customers 18,092 Other liabilities 29 STX Corporation(*3) Loans 47,711 Loss allowance (31,210) Deposits due to customers 77,555 Other liabilities 80 K BANK Co., Ltd. Loans 190 212 Well to Sea No.3 Private Loans 1,857 73,810 Equity Fund Loss allowance (9) (39) Deposits due to customers 356 61 Other liabilities 64 27 Others (*4) Loans 4,783 499 Loss allowance (324) (471) Other assets 9 1 Deposits due to customers 8,049 2,906 Other liabilities 165 73 (*1) The Group lost significant influence over the entity due to the termination of the joint management procedures of the creditors’ financial institution during the year December 31, 2018, and thus the entity was excluded from the list of associates. (*2) The Group lost significant influence over the entity due to the stock consolidation and the capital increase of the associate during the year ended December 31, 2018, and thus the entity was excluded from the list of associates. (*3) The shares of the entity were sold after it was transferred to assets held for distribution (sale) during the years ended December 31, 2018 and thus was excluded from the list of associates. (*4) Others include Saman Corporation, Kyesan Engineering Co., Ltd., DAEA SNC Co., Ltd., etc., as of December 31, 2018 and 2017. 237 118 (3) Gain or loss from transactions with related parties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 Related party A title of account 2018 2017 Corporation that has KDIC(*1) Interest expenses 15,331 significant influence over the Group Associates Kumho Tire Co., Inc. Interest income 1,098 2,641 (* 2) Fees income 5 Interest expenses 1 Impairment losses due to credit loss (reversal of allowance for credit loss) (156,712) 155,997 Woori Blackstone Fees income 6,225 Korea Opportunity Private Equity Fund No.1 (*3) We Believe in Your Potential Woori Service Other income 30 30 Networks Co., Ltd. Interest expenses 14 24 Fees expenses 561 543 Other expenses 580 507 Korea Credit Bureau Interest expenses 62 82 Co., Ltd. Fees expenses 2,310 2,079 Korea Finance Security Interest expenses 12 12 Co., Ltd. Impairment losses due to credit loss 4 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Other expenses 146 Chin Hung Interest income 364 International Inc. Fees income 1 Interest expenses 43 27 Impairment losses due to credit loss (reversal of allowance for credit loss) 182 (4,265) STX Engine Co., Ltd. Interest income 333 1,417 (*4) Fees income 28 Interest expenses 86 147 Reversal of allowance for credit loss (88,734) (797) Samho International Interest income 486 Co., Ltd.(*5) Fees income 5 Interest expenses 334 Reversal of allowance for credit loss (717) STX Corporation(*4) Interest income 219 Fees income 30 Interest expenses 2 4 Reversal of allowance for credit loss (31,210) (61,432) Woori Columbus 1st Fees income 272 Private Equity Fund(*3) 238 119 For the years ended December 31 Related party A title of account 2018 2017 Associates K BANK Co., Ltd. Fees income 1,134 Other income 19 1,051 Well to Sea No.3 Interest income 2,179 982 Private Equity Fund Interest expenses 9 4 (*6) Impairment losses due to credit loss (reversal of allowance for credit loss) (30) 39 Others (*7) Interest income 233 Fees income 23 Other income 14 Interest expenses 40 13 Impairment losses due to credit loss (reversal of allowance for credit loss) (147) 218 We Believe in Your Potential (*1) As its ownership interest in the Group is lower than 20% as of December 31, 2017, it has been excluded from the ‘corporation that have significant influence over the Group’ category. (*2) The Group lost significant influence over the entity due to the termination of the joint management procedures of the creditors’ financial institution during the year ended December 31, 2018, and thus the entity was excluded from the list of associates. (*3) The entity is excluded from the list of associates due to its liquidation for the year ended December 31, 2017. (*4) The shares of the entity were sold after it was transferred to assets held for distribution (sale) during the years ended December 31, 2018 and thus was excluded from the list of associates. (*5) The shares of the entity were sold after it was transferred to assets held for distribution (sale) during the year ended December 31, 2017 and thus was excluded from the list of associates. (*6) Due to capital contribution for the year ended December 31, 2017, the entity has been included in the list of Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 associates. (*7) Others include the amount transacted with Saman Corporation, Kyesan Engineering Co., Ltd., DAEA SNC Co., Ltd., etc., for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. (4) Major loan transactions with related parties for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017 are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the year ended December 31, 2018 Beginning Ending Related parties balance Loan Collection Others balance(*1) Associates Kumho Tire Co., Inc.(*2) 57,470 7,057 (50,413) Well to Sea No. 3 Private Equity Fund (*3) 73,810 16,857 88,810 1,857 STX Engine Co., Ltd. (*4) 39,886 2,177 (37,709) For the year ended December 31, 2017 Beginning Ending Related parties balance Loan Collection Others balance(*1) Associates Kumho Tire Co., Inc.(*2) 50,413 7,057 57,470 Well to Sea No. 3 Private Equity Fund (*3) 83,810 10,000 73,810 STX Engine Co., Ltd. (*4) 44,797 2,177 7,088 39,886 (*1) Settlement payment from normal operation among the related parties were excluded, and in the case of a limited loan, it was presented as a net increase or decrease. (*2) The Group lost significant influence over the entity due to the termination of the joint management procedures of the creditors’ financial institution during the year ended December 31, 2018, and thus the entity was excluded from the list of associates. (*3) Due to capital contribution, the entity was included in the list of associates during the year ended December 31, 2017. (*4) The shares of the entity were sold after it was transferred to assets held for distribution (sale) during the year ended December 31, 2018 and thus was excluded from the list of associates. 239 120 (5) There are no major borrowing transactions with related parties for the years ended December 31, 2018 and 2017. (6) Guarantees provided to the related parties are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Warranty Kumho Tire Co., Inc.(*1) Import credit in foreign currencies 4,181 and others 636 Unused loan commitment Korea Finance Security Co., Ltd. 203 204 Unused loan commitment Korea Credit Bureau Co., Ltd. 28 29 Unused loan commitment Woori Service Networks Co., Ltd. 131 155 Unused loan commitment Chin Hung International Inc. 32,058 31,891 Unused loan commitment STX Engine Co., Ltd.(*2) 68,858 Import credit in foreign currencies and others STX corporation (*2) 17,557 Import credit in foreign currencies and others 53 Unused loan commitment K BANK Co., Ltd. 15 Unused loan commitment Well to Sea No.3 Private Equity 208,143 236,190 Unused loan commitment We Believe in Your Potential Fund (*1) The Group lost significant influence over the entity due to the termination of the joint management procedures of the creditors’ financial institution during the year ended December 31, 2018, and thus the entity was excluded from the list of associates. (*2) The shares of the entity were sold after it was transferred to assets held for distribution (sale) during the year ended December 31, 2018 and thus was excluded from the list of associates. For the guarantee provided to the related parties, the amount the Group recognized as provisions for guarantees is nil and 71,459 million Won, as of December 31, 2018 and December 31, 2017, respectively. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 (7) Compensation for key management is as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Short-term employee salaries 12,326 12,024 Retirement benefit service costs 489 472 Total 12,815 12,496 Key management includes registered executives and non-registered executives. Outstanding assets and liabilities from transactions with key management amount to 2,816 million Won and 6,096 million Won, respectively, as of December 31, 2018, and with respect to the assets, the Group has not recognized any allowance nor related impairment loss due to credit losses. 240 121 46. TRUST ACCOUNTS (1) Trust accounts of the Bank are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Total assets Operating income For the years ended December 31 December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 2018 2017 Trust accounts 53,560,071 43,895,511 1,049,105 1,029,501 (2) Receivables and payables between the Bank and trust accounts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Receivables: Trust fees receivables 28,703 25,286 Payables: Deposits due to customers 574,330 585,832 Borrowings from trust accounts 3,020,371 2,711,529 We Believe in Your Potential Total 3,594,701 3,297,361 (3) Significant transactions between the Bank and trust accounts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): For the years ended December 31 2018 2017 Revenue: Trust fees 177,913 141,999 Termination fees 5,885 1,565 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Total 183,798 143,564 Expense: Interest expenses on deposits due to customers 7,813 17,768 Interest expenses on borrowings from trust accounts 38,873 31,956 Total 46,686 49,724 (4) Principal guaranteed trusts and principal and interest guaranteed trusts are as follows; 1) The carrying value of principal guaranteed trusts and principal and interest guaranteed trusts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Principal guaranteed trusts Old-age pension trusts 3,564 4,058 Personal pension trusts 521,200 530,556 Pension trusts 819,102 791,920 Retirement trusts 42,187 50,035 New personal pension trusts 8,104 8,563 New old-age pension trusts 2,134 2,467 Sub-total 1,396,291 1,387,599 Principal and interest guaranteed trusts Development trusts 19 19 Unspecified money trusts 835 801 Sub-total 854 820 Total 1,397,145 1,388,419 241 122 2) The amounts that the Bank must pay by the operating results of the principal guaranteed trusts or the principal and interest guaranteed trusts are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): December 31, 2018 December 31, 2017 Liabilities for the account (subsidy for trust account adjustment) 33 32 47. BUSINESS COMBINATION The business combination occurred during the current period is as follows: (1) Acquisition of WB Finance Co., Ltd. To expand Cambodia’s retail business, the Group had acquired 100% ownership of Vision Fund Cambodia in June 2018 and the Group changed its name to WB Finance Co., Ltd. The goodwill amounting to 46,752 million Won arising from the acquisition is based on the economic effect of combining the operation of the Group and its subsidiaries, and also from the customer base We Believe in Your Potential acquired. (2) Woori Bank Europe The Group acquired approval from the Deutsche Bundesbank(Central bank of Germany) for the establishment of Woori Bank Europe(Capital amounting to 50 million Euros) on October 9, 2018. Woori Bank Europe started its operation on November 1, 2018. (3) Details of the accounting for the business combination are as follows (Unit: Korean Won in millions): Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 WB Finance Co., Woori Bank Ltd Europe Total Consideration transferred: Cash and cash equivalents 87,562 64,062 151,624 Identifiable assets and liabilities recognized: Cash and cash equivalents 16,657 16,657 Financial assets at FVTOCI 17 17 Loans and other financial assets at amortized cost(*) 205,451 64,062 269,513 Premises and equipment 1,630 1,630 Intangible assets 763 763 Current tax assets 173 173 Deferred tax assets 1,381 1,381 Other assets 1,510 1,510 Assets subtotal 227,582 64,062 291,644 Deposits due to customers 54,615 54,615 Borrowings 120,644 120,644 Other financial liabilities 6,149 6,149 Current tax liabilities 640 640 Other liabilities 4,724 4,724 Liabilities sub-total 186,772 186,772 Identifiable net fair value 40,810 64,062 104,872 Goodwill 46,752 46,752 (*) The book value of loans and other financial assets at amortized cost is used as proxy for fair value since the difference between fair value and book value is not material. The total contractual amount of WB Finance is 208,623 million Won and the contractual cash flow that is not expected to be recovered is 3,182 million Won. 242 123 (4) Operating income and Net income of the Group Assuming that the acquisition date is the date of the beginning of reporting period, the amounts to be added to the operating income and net income in the Group’s statement of comprehensive income for the year ended December 31, 2018 are as follows: (Unit: Korean Won in millions): WB Finance Operating income 44,545 Net income 4,511 48. EVENT AFTER THE REPORTING PERIOD After the end of the reporting period, the financial holding company was established on January 11, 2019. In accordance with the established of financial holding company, six companies, Bank, Woori FIS Co., Ltd., Woori Finance Research Institute Co., Ltd., Woori Credit Information Co., Ltd., Woori Fund Service Co., Ltd., Woori Private Equity Asset Management Co., Ltd. became fully owned subsidiaries of the said financial holding company. After the financial holding company is established, the shares of the Bank was delisted from the Korea Stock We Believe in Your Potential Exchange and New York Stock Exchange on January 11, 2019, and the shares of the newly established financial holding company was listed on February 13, 2019, both Korea Stock Exchange and New York Stock Exchange. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 243 Organizational Chart 2 Unit 20 Groups 2 Divisions 64 Departments (26 Apr. 2019) Regional Banking Headquarters Business Promotion Unit Real Small & Retail Corporate Medium Institutional International Investment Trust & Estate Wealth Global Banking Banking Corporate Banking Trade Banking Pension Finance Management Banking Business Business Business Business Business Business Business Business Group Business Group Group Group Group Group Group Group Group Group We Believe in Your Potential Retail Corporate Small & MeInstitutional Wealth Global International Banking Real Estate Banking dium CorpoBanking Investment Management Business Trade Trust Products & Finance Products & rate Banking Products & Banking Strategy Strategy Business Department Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Marketing Department Marketing Products & Marketing Department Department Department Department Department Department Marketing Dept Department Foreign Wealth Global Retirement Marketing Housing Public Customer Project Management Business Pension Promotion Fund Fund Sales Banking Finance Business Promotion Business Department Department Department Business Department Department Department Department Department Wealth Global International Channel National Trustee & Management Business Trade Strategy Pension Custody Advisory Support Service Department Department Department Center Department Center Customer Center President & CEO Board of Directors 244 Customer Branch Corporate Banking Headquarters Business Support Unit Financial Digital Management Human Operation Information Credit Risk Consumer Market Banking IT & Finance Resources & Support Security Support Management & Brand Business Business Group Planning Group Group Group Group Group Group Group Group Group We Believe in Your Potential IT Corporate Planning Restructuring Division Division Digital Human General IT Information Loan Corporate Risk Strategy & Consumer Treasury Banking Resources Affairs Planning Security Policy Restoration Management Planning Protection Department Strategy Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Department Center Department Human Retail Credit Credit Loan Banking Credit Risk Finance & Public Resources Trading Big Data Analysis & Management Service Development Management Planning Relations Development Department Center Approval & Collection Center Center Department Department Department Department Department Department SME Credit Corporate Employee Settlement Deposit Digital Digital Loan Analysis & Accounting Social Satisfaction Support Service Marketing Development Review Approval Department Responsibility Center Department Center Department Center Department Department Department Large Global/ Corporate Security Digital Management Information Credit Control Channel Innovation Development Analysis & Department Department Approval Department Center Department Innovation Development Center Compliance Department Compliance Officer Anti-Money Laundering Center Board Audit Committee Standing Audit Committee Member/Director Audit Department 245 Global Woori Bank, Narayanganj Branch Woori America Bank,Palisades Park Branch Adamjee Export Processing zone, Shiddhirganj, 225 Broad Avenue Palisades Park, NJ 07650, USA Narayanganj-1431 Bangladesh Phone: 1-201-346-0055 Phone: 880-2769-2031~34 Network Gaeseong Branch (Temporary) B1, 51, Sogong-ro, Jung-gu, Seoul, Korea Woori America Bank, Closter Branch 234 Closter Dock Road Closter, NJ 07624, USA Phone: 1-201-784-7012 Phone: (Temporary) 82-2-2002-5059~61 Woori America Bank, Elkins Park Branch Sydney Branch 7300 Old York Rd Elkins Park, PA 19027, USA Suite 25.03, Level 25, 363 George Street Sydney NSW 2000 Phone: 1-215-782-1100 Australia Head Office Phone: 61-2-8222-2200 Woori America Bank, Annandale Branch Seoul Plaza 4231 Markeham St. Annandale, VA 22003, USA 51, Sogong-ro (203, Hoehyeon-dong 1-ga), Woori Bank Dubai Branch Phone: 1-703-256-7633 Jung-gu, Seoul, 100-792, Korea 1102A, Level 11, The Gate Building, East Wing, P.O. Box Phone: +82-2-2002-3000 506760, DIFC, Dubai, United Arab Emirates Woori America Bank, Bayside Branch Swift: HVBKKRSE Phone: 9714-325-8365 215-10 Northern Blvd. Bayside, NY 11361, USA Phone: 1-718-224-3800 Woori America Bank, Ellicott City Branch 100352 Baltimore National Pike Ellicott City, MD 21042, USA OVERSEAS BRANCHES REGIONAL HEADQUARTERS Phone: 1-443-973-3690 New York Agency 245, Park Ave. 43rd Floor, New York, NY 10167, USA Woori Bank India Regional Headquarters Woori America Bank, Wilshire Branch Phone: 1-212-949-1900 Unit 601, 6th floor, Birla Centurion, Century Mills 3540 Wilshire Blvd. Unit 104, Los Angeles, CA 90010, USA Compound, Pandurang Budhkar Marg, Worli, Mumbai, Phone: 1-213-382-8700 We Believe in Your Potential LA Branch Maharashtra-400030, India 3360, West Olympic Blvd. Suite 300, LA, CA90019, USA Phone: 91-22-6263-8100 Woori America Bank, Olympic Branch Phone: 1-213-620-0747~8 3360, West Olympic Blvd. Suite #300, LA, CA90019, USA Woori Bank Chennai Branch Phone: 1-213-738-1100 London Branch Lotte India, 2nd Floor, No.4/169, Rajiv Gandhi Salai(OMR), 9th Floor, 71 Fenchurch Street, London, EC3M 4BR,UK Kandhanchavadi, Perungudi Taluk, Chennai-600096, Tamil Woori America Bank, Fullerton Branch Phone: 44-207-680-0680 Nadu, India 5731 Beach Blvd., Buena Park, CA 90621, USA Phone: 91-44-3346-6900 Phone: 1-714-521-3100 Tokyo Branch Shiodome City Center 10th Floor, 5-2 Higashi-Shimbashi Woori Bank Gurgaon Branch Woori America Bank, Garden Grove Branch 1-Chome, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 105-7110 Japan 1st Floor, Salcon Platina Building, MG Road, Sector-28, 10120 Garden Grove Blvd. Suite 151Garden Grove, CA 92844, Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Phone: 81-3-6891-5600 Sikanderpur, Gurgaon-122001,Haryana, India USA Phone: 91-12-4270-6703 Phone: 1-714-534-6300 Hong Kong Branch Suite 1401, Two Pacific Place, 88 Queensway, HongKong Woori Bank Mumbai Branch Woori America Bank, Centreville Branch Phone: 852-2521-8016 Unit 601, 6th floor, Birla Centurion, Century Mills 13832 Braddock Road. Centreville, VA 20121, USA Compound, Pandurang Budhkar Marg, Worli, Mumbai, Phone: 1-703-988-9555 Singapore Branch Maharashtra-400030, India 10 Marina Boulevard #13-05 MBFC Tower 2, Singapore Phone: 91-22-6263-8100 Woori America Bank, Irvine Branch 018983 14252 Culver Dr. #G, Irvine, CA 92604, USA Phone: 65-6422-2000 Phone: 1-949-885-3760 Bahrain Branch Woori America Bank, Torrance Branch P.O. Box 1151, 4th Floor, Entrance 1, Manama Centre SubsidiarIES 2390 Crenshaw Boulevard, Units C Torrance CA 90501, USA Building, Manama, Bahrain Phone: 1-310-974-1880 Phone: 973-17-223503 United States of America Woori America Bank, Georgia LPO Woori America Bank Dhaka Branch 2472 Pleasant Hill Rd. Duluth, GA30096, USA 330 5th Avenue New York, NY 10001, USA Suvastu Imam Square (1st & 4th Fl.) 65 Gulshan Avenue, Phone: 1-404-904-9880 Phone: 1-212-244-3000 Dhaka, Bangladesh Phone: 880-2-5881-3270~3 Woori America Bank, San Jose LPO Woori America Bank, Manhattan Branch 2328 Walsh Ave, Santa Clara CA 95051 USA 330 5th Avenue New York, NY 10001, USA DEPZ Customer Service Center Phone: 1-415-652-9476 Phone: 1-212-244-1500 Dhaka Export Processing Zone(Old Area), Ganakbari, Ssvar, Dhaka-1349, Bangladesh Woori America Bank, Northern Woori America Bank, Flushing Branch Phone: 880-2778-8030 164-25 Northern Blvd. Flushing NY 11358, USA 136-88 39th Avenue Flushing New York, NY 11354, USA Phone: 1-929-362-3330 Phone: 1-718-886-1988 Woori Bank Chittangong Sub-Branch World Trade Center Chittagon(2nd Floor) Plopt No. 102Woori America Bank, Dallas LPO Woori America Bank, Fort Lee Branch 103, Agrabad Commercial Area, Chittagong, Bangladesh 1028 MacArthur Dr.Suite #108, Carrollton, TX, 75007, USA 2053 Lemoine Avenue Fort Lee, NJ 07024, USA Phone: 880-931-728221~4 Phone: 1-972-810-0166 Phone: 1-201-363-9300 Woori Bank Uttara Sub-Branch Woori America Bank, Chicago LPO Woori America Bank, Woodside Branch Paradise Tower(Ground Floor) Plot 11, Sector 3, Uttara 1247 Milwaukee Ave, Suite 207, Glenview, Illinois, 60025, USA 43-22 50th St. Woodside, NY 11377, USA Model Town,Uttara, Dhaka 1230, Bangladesh Phone: 1-224-938-9553 Phone: 1-718-429-1900 Phone: 880-2896-2125~6 Woori America Bank, Seattle LPO Woori America Bank, Ridgefield Branch Woori Bank Mirpur Sub-Branch 19401 40th Avenue West, Lynnwood, Washington, 98504, USA 321 Broad Avenue #104 Ridgefield, NJ 07657, USA Padma Bhaban(First Floor), 1/9 Mirpur Road Pallabi, Phone: 1-206-948-6691 Phone: 1-201-941-9999 Mirpur-12, Dhaka-1216, Bangladesh Phone: 880-2902-1061~2 246 CHINA Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Weihai Branch The Gedung Energy Branch No.106-1,No.106-2,No.106-3 Attached Qingdao MidGd The Energy Lot 11 A SCBD, Jl. Jendral Sudirman Kav 52 Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Road,Weihai, Shandong Province, China 53, Jakarta/12190, Indonesia Floor 11-12, Block A Building 13, District4, Wangjing East Phone: 86-631-599-6000 Phone: 6221-29951906 Park, Chaoyang District Beijing China 100102 Phone: 86-10-8412-3000 Woori Bank (China)Ltd.Tianjin Dongmalu Sub-Branch Ampera Branch 1-2F, No. 4 of TowerC,Yuding Plaza,Qixiang Street), Dongma Jl. Ampera Raya No. 20 Gd.Medco III/12560, Indonesia Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Head office business department Road, Nankai District, Tianjin, 300090, China Phone: 6221-7821756 Floor1 Block B Building 13 District4 Wangjing East Park Phone: 86-22-8776-9000 Chaoyang District Beijing China 100102 Purwokerto Branch Phone: 86-10-8441-7771 Woori Bank(China)Ltd. Chongqing Branch Jl. Jenderal gatot Subroto No.78 Purwokerto Jawa No. 25, Jiangbei street, Jiangbei District, Jiangbei District, Tengah/53116, Indonesia Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Beijing Branch Chongqing, No. 2 (Ping An Fortune Center), L2-1, 1 unit. Phone: 62281-622212 1F, West Tower, Twin Towers, B-12 Jianguomenwai Avenue, Phone: 86-23-6152-2222 Chaoyang District, Beijing 100022, China Malang Branch Phone: 86-10-8453-8880 Woori Bank(China)Ltd. Shanghai Lianyang Sub-Branch Jl. Letjen Sutoyo No. 27 MalangJawa Timur/65141, Indonesia No.52, Zendai Thumb Plaza Lane 199, FangDian Phone: 62341-421906 Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Shanghai Branch Road,Pudong New District, Shanghai, 200135, China 104B,502, Dongfangchunyi Building 1, 5F, Eshan Avenue 505 Phone: 86-21-6882-0608 Solo Branch Pudong New Area, Shanghai, 200122, China Jl. Ronggo Warsito No. 53 Kota, Solo Jawa Tengah/57131, Phone: 86-21-5081-0707 Woori Bank(China)Ltd. Beijing Sanyuanqiao Sub-Branch Indonesia 1-2F, Tower A, Tianyuangang Center, C2, North Road, East Phone: 62271-633600 Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Shenzhen Branch Third Ring Road, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100027, China B0105–B0210 Rongchao Landmark, 4028 Jintian Road, Tangerang city Branch Phone: 86-10-8440-7177 Futian District, Shenzhen, China Tangerang City Business park Blok F/50 Jl. Jend. Sudirman Phone: 86-755-3338-1234 No.1 Tangerang/15118, Indonesia Woori Bank(China)Ltd, Shenyang Branch 1F, 2F, Lotte North-Station Arcade,9-8Beiling Street, Phone: 6221-29529226 Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Suzhou Branch Huanggu District, Shenyang, Liaoning 110032, China We Believe in Your Potential 6F Building #58 Suzhou Center, Suxiu Road,Suzhou Industrial Pelembang Branch Phone: 86-24-8186-0808 Park, Jiangsu, China Jl. Basuki Rahmat No. 886 A Palembang/30127, Indonesia Phone: 86-512-6295-0777 Phone: 62711-315828 Woori Bank (China) Ltd. TianJin Branch Indonesia Sukabumi Branch NO.1 Building, Aocheng Commercial Square, Binshui West Bank Woori Saudara Head Office Jl. Jenderal Sudirman No. 31-Sukabumi/43111, Indonesia Road, Nankai District, Tianjin, 300381 China Treasury Tower 26th, 27th FL. District 8 SCBD Lot 28 JI.Jend. Phone: 62266-6251906 Phone: 86-22-2338-8008 Sudirman Kav. 52-53, Jakarta 12190, Indonesia Phone: 6221-50871906 Pekalongan Branch Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Shanghai Puxi Sub-Branch Jl. KH. Mansyur No.64, Perkalongan, Indonesia 1F, Maxdo Center, NO.8 Xingyi Road, Changning District, Corporate Branch Phone: 62-285-4460505 Shanghai, 200336, China Treasury Tower 26th, 27th FL. District 8 SCBD Lot 28 JI.Jend. Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Phone: 86-21-5208-1000 Sudirman Kav. 52-53, Jakarta 12190, Indonesia Madiun Branch Phone: 6221-50871888 Jl. Diponegoro No. 110, Madiun, Indonesia Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Beijing Wangjing Sub-Branch Phone: 62-351-4773000 1F,No.10, Furong Street, Chaoyang District, Beijing 100102, Wastukancana Branch China Jl Wastukencana No. 79 Kota. Bandung, Indonesia Jamber Branch Phone: 86-10-8471-8866 Phone: 6222-4209940 Jl. Gajah Made No. Ruko Gajah Mada Square Block A2-3, Indonesia Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Shanghai Wuzhonglu Sub-Branch Cirebon Branch Phone: 62-331-421648 1C, Liaoshen Building, 1068 Wuzhong Road, Minhang Komplek Cirebon Super Blok (CSB) Mall Office Park Kav. No. District, Shanghai, 201103, China 11 Jl. Cipto, Indonesia Kediri Branch Phone: 86-21-6446-7887 Phone: 62231-242006 Jl, Brawijaya No. 25A Kota Kederi, Indonesia Phone: 62-354-4526726 Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Shenzhen Futian Sub-Branch Bogor Branch Room 107, Daqing Building, NO.6027 Shennan Road, Futian Jl. Pangkalan Raya No. 8, Warung Jambu Bogor/16151, Indonesia Purwakarta Branch District, Shenzhen 518040, China Phone: 62251-8377887 Jl. Basuki Rahmat No. 94, Purwakarta/41114, Indonesia Phone: 86-21-6446-7887 Phone: 62264-8227474 Surapati Core Branch Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Shanghai Jinxiujiangnan Sub-Branch Komp Surapati Core F-01-02 Bandung, Indonesia Subang Branch No.101-1, 102 MT BLDG, 3999 Hongxin Road, Minhang Phone: 6222-87241326 JL. Ahmad Yani No. 36/41211, Indonesia District, Shanghai, China, 201101 Phone: 62260-421014 Phone: 86-21-3432-1116 Surabaya Branch Kompleks Ruko 21, Jl. Raya, Gubeng No.68 E Karawaci Tangerang Branch Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Beijing Shunyi Sub-Branch Surabaya/60281, Indonesia Ruko Pinangsia Blok H No. 1 Lippo Karawaci Kel. Cibodas 1F, Tower A, AMB Building, 2 Cangshang Street, Shunyi Phone: 6231-5041906 Tangerang/15139, Indonesia District 101300, China Phone: 6221-55772345 Phone: 86-10-8945-2220 Semarang Branch Ruko Imam Bonjol Square Kav 4 Kota. Semarang, Indonesia Garut Branch Woori Bank (China) Ltd. DaLian Branch Phone: 6224-3521906 Jl. Ahmad Yani No.33/44117, Indonesia 2F-218, Yoma IFC, NO.128 Jinma Road, Dalian Development Phone: 62262-544672 Area, Dalian, P.R. China, 116600 Tasikmalaya Branch Phone: 86-411-8765-8000 Ruko Plaza Asia Blok A5-A6, Jl. HZ. Mustofa No. 326 Medan Branch Tasikmalaya/46126, Indonesia Jl. Zainul Arifin No. 53A, Indonesia Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Zhangjiagang Sub-Branch Phone: 62265-2351906 Phone: 6261-42007100 B104/B205 Huachang Oriental Plaza, 11 Renmin East Road, Zhangjiagang Jiangsu, 215600, China Yogyakarta Branch Makassar Branch Phone: 86-512-5636-6696 Jl. Mangkubumi No. 45 Yogyakarta/55232, Indonesia Jl. Gunung Latimojong, Ruko Metro Square Blok E No. 1, Phone: 62274-549280 Indonesia Woori Bank (China) Ltd. Chengdu Branch Phone: 6241-18001859 No.302-306, 3F, Ping'an Fortune Center, No.1, Renmin South Denpasar Branch Road(Section 3), Chengdu, Sichuan, China, 610041 Ruko Griya Alamanda blok 3-4,Jl. Cok Agung Tresna RenonPhone: 86-512-028-6557-2336 Denpasar/80235, Indonesia Phone: 62361-263755 247 Buah Batu Sub-Branch Depok Sub-Branch Singaparna Sub-Branch Jl. Buah Batu No. 58 Bandung/40265, Indonesia Jl. Margonda Raya No.1 Rt 001/011 Kelurahan Depok Jl. Raya Timur No.45 Singaparna/46416, Indonesia Phone: 62227306347 Kecamatan Pancoran Mas/16431, Indonesia Phone: 62265-543111-3 Phone: 6221-7522091 Kopo Sub-Branch Ciamis Sub-Branch Komp Ruko Mas J-9 Jl. Kopo Cirangrang/40225, Indonesia Salatiga Sub-Branch Ruko Jl Pasar Manis No. 35 -Kab. Ciamis, Indonesia Phone: 6222-5436802 Ruko Wijaya Square B5 Jl.Diponegoro No. 110 Salatiga/50711, Phone: 62265-772221 Indonesia Cimahi Sub-Branch Phone: 62298-311828 Sleman Sub-Branch Jl. Raya Cibabat No. 310 Cimahi/40213, Indonesia Jl. Magelang KM 12.8 No.200/55514, Indonesia Phone: 6222-6634656 Sidoarjo Sub-Branch Phone: 62274-865922 Jl. KH. Mukmin No.11 Blok B-7 Sidoarjo/60281, Indonesia Sukajadi Sub-Branch Phone: 6231-8922842 Losari Sub-Branch Jl Sukajadi No. 248 Bandung, Indonesia Jl. Letjen S. Parman No. 20 Kecamatan Pabuaran , Kab. Phone: 6222-2042248 Mojokerto Sub-Branch Cirebon Jawa Barat, Indonesia Jl. Gajah Mada No.85B/60319, Indonesia Phone: 622318832738-39 Soekarno Hatta Sub-Branch Phone: 62321-383444 Jl. Soekarno Hatta No. 618 F/40286, Indonesia Bekasi/Pondok Gede Sub-Branch Phone: 6222-7509905 Cianjur Sub-Branch Jl Raya Jatimakmur Blok A No. 20 Pondok Gede, Kota Bekasi Jl. Abdulah Bin Nuh No.15/43253, Indonesia Ruko Taman Jatimakmur Indah, Indonesia Pemuda/Rawamangun Sub-Branch Phone: 62263260941, 260943 Phone: 6221-82611045-46 Jalan Paus No 91F, Pulogadung, Jakarta Timur, Indonesia Phone: 6221-47862070 Pamulang/Ciputat Sub-Branch Kudus Sub-Branch Jl. RE. Martadinata No. 167 B RT.03 RW. 05 Cipayung, Jl. Sunan Kudus No.5 a/509000, Indonesia Sumedang Sub-Branch Ciputat, Kota Tangerang Selatan, Indonesia Phone: 62291-4249241 Jl. Prabu Geusan Ulun No.76/45311, Indonesia Phone: 6221-7403205,7443335 Phone: 62261-206527 Pamanukan Sub-Branch Sumber Sub-Branch Jl. Eyang Tirtapraja No.54 Kab.Subang/41254, Indonesia We Believe in Your Potential Serang Sub-Branch Jl. Dewi Sartika No. 57 Sumber/45611, Indonesia Phone: 62260-551773 Jl. KH. Abdul fatah Hasan No.53 Kel. Cipare Serang/42124, Phone: 62231-8330618 Indonesia Majalaya Sub-Branch Phone: 62254-224142 Bantul Sub-Branch Jl. Alun-alun utara/Jl. Tengah komp ruko permata majalaya Jl. Jenderal Sudirman No. 130 Kabupaten Bantul/55713, Blok C6/40382, Indonesia Commercial Center Cikarang Sub-Branch Indonesia Phone: 6222-85963799 Cikarang Commercial Centre Blok A1-2, Jl. Cibarusah KM. Phone: 62274-367514 40 No. 2 Kampung pasir sari kec. Cikarang Selatan/17550, Pangalengan Sub-Branch Indonesia Balaraja Sub-Branch Jl. Raya Pintu Pangalengan KM-1/40378, Indonesia Phone: 6221-89835720 Komplek Ruko Balaraja Center Blok A No.2 Jl. Raya Serang Phone: 6222-5979222 Km. 24 Talaga Sari Balaraja-tangerang/15610, Indonesia Atrium/Cideng Sub-Branch Phone: 6221-29015618 Megablock Cilegon Sub-Branch Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Jalan Keseman No 2, Kota. Jakarta Pusat, Indonesia Jl. Raya Ahmad Yani Komp. Cilegon Green Megablock D3 No. Phone: 6221-3451964 Ciledug Sub-Branch 17 Kota. Cilegon, Indonesia Ruko Dian Plaza Jl. Raden Fatah No. 8A Kelurahan Sudirman Phone: 62254-8484772 Kebon Jeruk Sub-Branch Selatan,Ciledug/15225, Indonesia Jl. Kelapa Dua Raya(RayaPanjang) No.2, Rt 008, Rw 002 Kel. Phone: 6221-7330545 Rangkasbitung Sub-Branch Kelapa Dua Kec. Kebon Jeruk/12130, Indonesia Jl Hardiwangun No.6 B Rangkasbitung Kab. Lebak, Phone: 6221-53660160 Gunung Sabeulah Sub-Branch Indonesia JL. Gunung Sabeulah Kel.Tawangsari Kec. Tawang kota Phone: 62252-203612 Diponegoro Sub-Branch Tasikmalaya/46112, Indonesia Jl. Diponegoro No. 28 Bandung/40251, Indonesia Phone: 62265-326147 Tabanan Sub-Branch Phone: 6222-87831928 Jl. Ngurah Rai No. 73 Kediri/82121, Indonesia Magelang Sub-Branch Phone: 62361-814160 Lembang Sub-Branch Ruko Metro Square Blok F No.25/56172, Indonesia Jl. Grand Hotel Lembang No.25 Bandung/40391, Indonesia Phone: 62293-326498/326499 Surabaya /Darmo Boulevard Sub-Branch Phone: 6222-2784797 Office Park II B.2 No.11 , Indonesia Padalarang Sub-Branch Phone: 6231-7381906 Jababeka Cikarang Sub-Branch Jl. Raya Padalarang No.463 H/40553, Indonesia Ruko Metro Boulevard Kav. A Jl. Niaga Raya No. 10 Kawasan Phone: 6222-6803940/41 Soreang Sub-Branch Industri Jabeka/17835, Indonesia Jl. Raya Soreang No.412/40900, Indonesia Phone: 6221-89836020/ 89837020 Patrol Sub-Branch Phone: 6222-5896880 Jl. Raya Patrol Anjatan Blok Bunder No. 52/45256, Indonesia Majalengka Sub-Branch Phone: 62234-5613627 Ujung Berung Sub-Branch Jl. KH. Abdul Halim No.447 Majalengka/45411, Indonesia Jl AH Nasution No. 28 Kota.Bandung, Indonesia Phone: 62233-8285460 Gianyar Sub-Branch Phone: 6222-7834128 Jl. By.Pass Dharma Giri No.99/80511, Indonesia Kuningan Sub-Branch Phone: 62361-8958295 Jemur Sari/Surabaya selatan Sub-Branch Jl. Dewi Sartika No.4/45512, Indonesia Jl. Raya Jemursari No. 15C Surabaya/60237, Indonesia Phone: 622328880938 Gresik Sub-Branch Phone: 6231-8480454 Ruko KIG Jl. Tri Dharma Kav. A-14/61117, Indonesia Indramayu Sub-Branch Phone: 6231-3981758 Lur Agung Sub-Branch Jl. DI. Panjaitan No.103/45212, Indonesia Jl. Siliwangi No. 18 Kec Luragung, Kab Kuningan/45581, Phone: 62234-276236 Karawang Sub-Branch Indonesia Jl. Tuparev No.499 (Johar) Kab.Karawang, Indonesia Phone: 62232-870016 Cibubur Sub-Branch Phone: 62267-8454873/8454874 Cibubur Times Square Blok B1/1 Jl. Alternatif Cibubur KM 3 Pangandaran Sub-Branch Kel. Jatiraya, Kec. Jastisampurna Bekasi/17435, Indonesia Cibinong Sub-Branch Jl. Parapat, Desa Pangandaran, kec pangandaran kab Phone: 6221-84305050 Jl. Raya Mayor Oking No.158 V/16918, Indonesia ciamis/46396, Indonesia Phone: 6221-87904397 Phone: 62265-630400,630010 Cikampek Sub-Branch Jl. Terusan Sudirman No. 6B(Sudirman Center)/41373, Indonesia Phone: 62264-8385171/ 8385172 248 Purwodadi Sub-Branch Karangnunggal Sub-Branch Sadang Sub-Branch Jl. Letjend. S. Parman No. 13 Kel. Purwodadi Kec. Purwodadi Jl. Raya Karangnunggal KP.Karangmekar RT/RW 03/09 Sadang Terminal Square No.07,08,25 Jl. Raya Sadang Jawa Tengah/58111, Indonesia Desa Hegarwangi Kec. Bantarkalong Kab, Indonesia Purwakarta/41181, Indonesia Phone: 62292-423399 Phone: 62265 2584571/2584572 Phone: 62264-8220180 Leuwiliang Sub-Branch Cibatu Sub-Branch Cikajang Sub-Branch Jl. Raya Jasinga 11A Kel. Cibeber, Kec. Leuwiliang Kab Jalan Raya Cibatu Limbangan Ruko Perum Bunar Indah Jl. Raya Cikajang No. 80 Garut, Indonesia Bogor/16640, Indonesia Blok C-29 No 15-17 Rt 06 Rw 04 Desa Cibunar Kecamatan Phone: 6262-576094 Phone: 62251-8640297 Cibatu Kabupaten Garut, Indonesia Phone: 62262-467708 Cilimus Sub-Branch Ciawi Tasikmalaya Sub-Branch Jalan Raya Cilimus RT 017/04, Desa Cilimus Kecamatan Jl. Perjuangan No.80 Kp.Karanganyar Rt. 04 Rw. 05 Desa Wonogiri Sub-Branch Cilimus, Kabupaten Kuningan, Indonesia Pakemitan Kec Ciawi Kab. Tasikmalaya/46156, Indonesia Jalan Ahmad Yani No 66, Wonogiri, Indonesia Phone: 62232-615411 Phone: 62265-455163,455167 Phone: 62271-633600 Kendal Sub-Branch Cilacap Sub-Branch Kawali Sub-Branch Jl. Raya Utama No.9 weleri kendal, Indonesia Jl. Jend. A Yani No.46 Cilacap/53212, Indonesia Jl. Siliwangi No.262, Desa Kawali mukti, Indonesia Phone: 62294-644704 Phone: 62282-537929 Phone: 62265 791560 Wonosari Sub-Branch Jombang Sub-Branch Kepanjen Sub-Branch Jl. KH. Agus Salim No.71A Wonosari Kab Gunungkidul, Jl. KH. Wahid Hasyim No.71 Kota Jombang Jawa Jl. Kawi Ruko B7, Kepanjen, Indonesia Indonesia Timur/61411, Indonesia Phone: 6234-1-379840 Phone: 62274-3950673 Phone: 62321-878906, 62321-872906 Pamekasan Sub-Branch Purbalingga Sub-Branch Banjar Sub-Branch Jl. Kabupaten No.114, Indonesia Jl. Ahmad Yani No.42 Purbalingga, Indonesia Jl. Letjen Soewarto No.92/46321, Indonesia Phone: 62324-333905/62324-333906 Phone: 62281-895553 Phone: 62265-740557 Kebumen Sub-Branch Sragen Sub-Branch We Believe in Your Potential Boyolali Sub-Branch Jl. Ahmad Yani No.20, Kubumen, Indonesia Jl. Sukowati No.156 Sragen, Indonesia Jl. Pandanaran No.179 B Kab.Boyolali/57313, Indonesia Phone: 62287-3878168 Phone: 62271-895015 Phone: 62276-323655 Mangga Dua Sub-Branch Bintaro Sub-Branch Martadinata/Cihapit Sub-Branch Ruko Harco Mangga Dua Blok L. No.5, Indonesia Jl Kesehatan No 18B, jakarta, Indonesia Jl. RE Martadinata Pav 123 Bandung/40114, Indonesia Phone: 6221-62306495 Phone: 6221-7374693 Phone: 62227107090 Kelapa Gading Sub-Branch KCP PROBOLINGGO Radio dalam Sub-Branch Jl. Boulevard Barat Ruko MOI Blok I No.15, Indonesia Ruko Manunggal No. 2, Jl. Soekarno Hatta, Indonesia JL. Radio dalam raya No.4 Kel. Gandaria Utara Kec. Phone: 62-21-29364053 Phone: 6233-54491787 Kebayoran baru Jakarta selatan/12160, Indonesia Phone: 6221-7211005 Kayu Agung Sub-Branch KCP PANDEGLANG Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Jl. Letnan Muthtar Saleh, Kayuagung, Palembang, South Jl. Raya Labuan KM 1, Indonesia Singaraja Sub-Branch Sumatra, Indonesia Phone: 6225-35554739 Jl. Ngurah Rai No. 16 Singaraja Kelurahan Kendran Phone: 62-711-315828 Kecamatan Buleleng/81112, Indonesia KCP PASAR ATOM Phone: 62362-25098 Klaten Sub-Branch Jl. Pangampon No. 75, Indonesia Jl. Pemuda No. 246 Klaten, solo, Indonesia Phone: 6231-3503350 Manonjaya Sub-Branch Phone: 62-271-633600 Jl. RTA. Prawira Adiningrat No.214 A Desa Manonjaya kec. KCP CITRA RAYA Manonjaya-Tasikmalaya, Indonesia Parung Sub-Branch Ruko Cikupa Niaga Mas Blok A No. 12, Indonesia Phone: 62265-380510 Jl. Rayal Parung RT002/RW006, Kacamatan Parung, Phone: 6212-9014270 Kabupaten Bogor, Indonesia Surabaya Utara /kertajaya Sub-Branch Phone: 62-2151-861-9559 KCP CAKUNG Jl. Kertajaya Indah No. 9/F-105 Surabaya/60161, Indonesia Jl. Jawa Raya Blok A 14 No. 7 (Kawasan Berikat Nusantara), Phone: 6231-5927202 Pasuruan Sub-Branch Indonesia Jl. Panglima Sudirman No.45 Ruko I, Pasuruan, Malang, Phone: 6214-84556 Batu Sub-Branch Indonesia Jl. Brantas No.49 Batu-Malang/65314, Indonesia Phone: 62-343-561-4700 KCP PANTAI INDAH KAPUK Phone: 62341-513709 Jl. Marina Raya, Rukan Cordoba Blok A Nomor 11, Indonesia Pati Sub-Branch Phone: 6212-2571768 Palimanan Sub-Branch Jl. Ir. Susato No.40 Pati, Jawa Tengah, Indonesia Jl. Otto Iskandardinata No.503 Palimanan, Indonesia Phone: 62-24-352-1906 KCP CENTRAL PARK Phone: 62231-343950 Ruko Garden Shopping Arcade No. 9 A-C, Indonesia Sumenep Sub-Branch Phone: 6212-9334623 Cibadak Sub-Branch JI. Trunouyo No. 244 Sumenep, Indonesia Jl. Raya Suryakencana RT 03 RW 08, Cibadak Kab. Phone: 62-3428-6762234 KCP JEPARA Sukabumi Jl. Pemuda No. 21 D-E, Indonesia Phone: 6266-531915 Pelabuhan Ratu Sub-Branch Phone: 6291-4290507 Jl. Siliwangi Rt/Rw 02/18, Desa Pelabuhan Ratu, Indonesia Kemang Pratama Bekasi Sub-Branch Phone: 62-266-6249715 KCP BANJARNEGARA Jl. Niaga Raya Blok P No.22C RT 001/021 Kel. Bekasi, Jl. Letjend S Parman No. 29, Indonesia Indonesia Posco Cilegon Sub-Branch Phone: 6286-5963716 Phone: 62254-369755 Annex Building Lt. 1 Jl. Afrika No.2 Krakatau Posco Cilegon/42435, Indonesia Lawang Sub-Branch Wates Sub-Branch Phone: 62254-369755 Ruko Lawang View Kav 8, JI. Thamrin, Kecamatan Lawang, Jl. Kolonel Sugiyono No.3-Wates, Indonesia Indonesia Phone: 62274-6657325 Union Square Cikarang Sub-Branch Phone: 62-341-423540 Ruko Union Square Blok A No.6 Lippo Cikarang, Cikarang Tanjung Priok Sub-Branch Selatan, Indonesia Purworejo Sub-Branch Jl Tampak Siring No 12, Kota. Jakarta Barat, Indonesia Phone: 6221-89909797 JI. Ahmad Yani no.93, Purworejo, Indonesia Phone: 6221-4361667 Phone: 62-75-321457 249 Brebes Sub-Branch KK CIKANDE Ang Snoul Branch Jl. Jenderal Ahmad Yani No 26 F, Indonesia Jl. Raya Jakarta Serang KM 68, Ruko Grand Permata No. 10, #109, National road No.4, Village Bek Chan, CommuneBek Phone: 6288-34511421 Indonesia Chan, District Ang Snuol, Cambodia Phone: 6225-47951546 Phone: 855-23-999-355 Dalem Kaum Cash-Office Jl Dalam Kaum No. 5 Kota.Bandung, Indonesia Dalem Kaum Functional Office Phsar Depo Branch Phone: 6222-4211906 JL. Dalem Kaum No.5 Bandung, Indonesia #138D, St 215, Sangkat Veal Vong, Khan Prumpei Makara, Phone: 62224233810 Phnom Penh, Cambodia Batujajar Cash-Office Phone: 855-23-900-455 Jl. Batujajar No.324 Bandung, Indonesia Phone: 6222-86861018/17/15 HONG KONG AreyKshat Branch #76, St lum, Village Prek Lvea Commune Prek Takov, Distrcit Woori Global Markets Asia Limited Antapani / Suci Cash-Office Kshach Kandal, Kandal Province, Cambodia Rooms 1907-1909, 19/F, Gloucester Tower, The Landmark, 15 Jl. Terusan Jakarta Ruko Pelangi Antapani No. 4 Antapani Phone: 855-2490-0488 Queen's Road Central, Hong Kong Bandung, Indonesia Phone: 852-3763-0888 Phone: 6222-7279740 S'ang Branch #154, National Rd. 21 Preak Khsev Village, Rokar Khpos Commune, Jatinangor Cash-Office S'ang District, Kandal Province, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Jl. Raya Jatinangor KM 20.5 KKBI IKOPIN/45363, Indonesia Russia Phone: 855-2490-1455 Phone: 6222-7781587 AO Woori Bank 8th floor., Lotte Plaza, 8, Novinsky Boulevard, Moscow, Steung Meanchey Branch Darmaraja Cash-Office 121099, Russia No.19A St, Monireth, Phumdomnak Thom, Sangkat Stoeung Jl. Raya Darmaraja No.253 desa Darmaraja, Kec Darmaraja Phone: 7-495-783-9787 Meanchey, Khan Meanchey, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Kab.Sumedang/45372, Indonesia Phone: 855-23-901-345 Phone: 62262-429000,429069,428478 AO Woori Bank Saint-Petersburg Branch 1st Floor, Atlantic City, 126 Savushkina Street, SaintChom Chao Branch Cililitan Asabri Cash-Office Petersburg, 197374, Russia No.4A, St, Veng Sreng, Chrey Koung Village, Sangkat Chom Jl. Mayjen Sutoyo No.11 Gedung PT Asabri (persero) Jl. Phone: 7-812-327-9787 Chao, Phnom Penh, Cambodia We Believe in Your Potential Cililitan jakarta Timur/13630, Indonesia Phone: 855-23-901-355 Phone: 6221-80876494 AO Woori Bank Vladivostok Representative Office Vladivostok Business-Center<Hyundai> Office No. 614, 29, Char Ampov Branch Jatibarang Cash-Office Semenovskaya Str. Vladivostok, 690091, Russia #610B, National road No.1, Doem Sleng Village, Sangkat Jl. Letnan Joni No.178 Kec. Jatibarang Kab Phone: 7-423-240-7014 Chabar Ampov, Khan Chbar Ampov, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Indramayu/45273, Indonesia Phone: 855-23-999-026 Phone: 62834-352911 Brazil Toul Kork Branch Pacar Anyar / Taman Topi Cash-Office #1C, St 355, Phum 1, Sangkat Boeung Kok1, Khan Toul Kork, Jl. Sawojajar No.12 B, Kota. Bogor, Indonesia Woori Bank Brasil Phnom Penh, Cambodia Phone: 62251-8574423 Avenida das Nacoes Unidas, 14,171, Crystal Tower, Conj.803, Phone: 855-23-999-025 Vila Gertrudes, 04794-000, Sao Paulo-SP Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Ciwai bogor / Juanda Cash-Office Phone: 55-11-3511-3300 Chamkar Doung Branch Jl. Raya Sukabumi Km 2 Pertokoan MJ Center, Kab. Bogor, #2039, St 217, Taley Village, Sangkat Dong Kor, Khan Dong Indonesia Woori Bank Bom Retiro Branch Kor, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Phone: 62251-8243874 Rua Tres Rios, 261 Andar 2, Bom Retiro, Sao Paulo SP Phone: 855-23-999-027 Phone: 55-11-3511-3350 Ungaran Cash-Office Kampongspeu Branch Ruko permata hijau No.1 Jl. MT Haryono No. 16 Kel Ungaran #751, National Highway No 4, Kampongspeu, Cambodia Kec Ungaran Barat Kab. Semarang/50511, Indonesia Cambodia Phone: 855-25900-555 Phone: 6224-76911017 Woori Finance Cambodia Plc. Building No. 119B, Street271, Sangkat Phsar Doem Thkov Pshar Dey Huy Branch Serang / pamila CilegonCash-Office Khan Chamkarmon, Phnom Penh, Cambodia House N0. 11, Phnom Penh Hanoi Blv (1019), Phum Roung Chak Jl. Raya Serangpandeglang KM 11 Lingkungan waru Phone: 855-23-999-661 , Sangkat Kork Kleang, Khan Sen Sok, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Lor,Desa/kel. Kamanisa Kec Curug Kota serang/42117, Phone: 855-23-900-466 Indonesia Russey Keo Branch Phone: 62254-222133 House No 1A, National Road 5, Sangkat Kilomet Lek6 Khan Kandal Stueng Branch Russey Keo, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Land N0. 5, St. 38, Svay Ming Village, Barku Commune, Gading Serpong Cash-Office Phone: 855-23-999-664 Kandal Stueng District, Kandal Province, Cambodia Jl. Boulevard Raya Gading Sepong, Ruko Alexandrite 3, Phone: 855-24-900-066 No.21, Kabupaten Tangerang, Indonesia Pursenchey Branch Phone: 62-21-5421-2159 House No 6A, Russian Blvd, Tangoun Village, Sangkat Kakb, Odongk Branch Khan Pursenchey, Phnom Penh. Cambodia National Road No. 5, Mlue Moeun, Phsar Daek Commune, Bojonergoro Cash-Office Phone: 855-23-999-803 Popnhea Lueu District, Kandal Province, Cambodia Jl. Untung Suropati Ruko Adipura Block A-11, Indonesia Phone: 855-24-900-077 Phone: 62-353-311271 Kean svay Branch House No. 330, National Road 1, Toul Tuaut village, Korkey Mukh Kampul Branch Surya symantri Cash-Office Communce, kean Svay district, Kandal province, Cambodia House N0 271, National Road 6A, Kroum Village, Preaek Anhchanh Jl. Surya Sumantri No. 06 RT. 05 RW. 04, Indonesia Phone: 855-23-720-632 Commune, Mukh Kampul District,Kandal Province, Cambodia Phone: 62-22-2021760 Phone: 855-24-900-099 Takhmao Branch Asabri Cash-Office Building No. 31, Street2, Takhmao village, Takhmao WB Finance Jl. Kebonsari Elveka I No.5 Surabaya Gedung Kantor, Commune, Takhmao District, Kandal Province, Cambodia Buliding 398, Preah Monivong Blvd, Sangkat Boeun Keng Indonesia Phone: 855-24-998-333 Kang 1, Khan Chamkarmon, Phnom Penh 12302, Kingdom Phone: 62-31-82517971 of Cambodia PrekPhnov Branch Phone: 855-23-96-3333 KK KEMANG National highway 5, Kandal Village, Prek Phnov commune, Kemang Square Lt 2, Unit I-11 & I-12, Jl. Kemang Raya No. 3 A, Phnom Penh Cambodai, Cambodia Phnom Penh Head Office Indonesia Phone: 855-23-900-945 Lot No. 398, Monivong Blvd., Sangkat Beung Keng Kang 1, Phone: 6221-22716210 khan Chamkar Mon, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Phone: 855-23-96-9269 250 Kandal Regional Office Bati Branch Office Kraing Chek (Oudong II) Branch Office #240, National Road 2, Krapeu Ha Village, Sangkat Preak National Road no. 2, Smau Khnhei village, Trapeang Sab Ta Ni village, Krang Chek Commune, Odongk District, Ruessei, Ta Khmao City, Kandal Province, Cambodia commune, Bati district, Takeo province, Cambodia Kampong Speu province, Cambodia Phone: 855-87-63-4444 Phone: 0884839823 Phone: 0884839856 Sa'ang Branch Office Tramkok Branch Office Thporng Branch Office National Road no.21, Preaek Run village, Preaek Koy National Road no. 3, Angkh Tasaom village, Angkh Tasaom Tranh Veaeng Village, Prambei Mum Commune, Thpong commune, S'ang district, Kandal province, Cambodia commune, Tramkok district, Takeo province, Cambodia District, Kampong Speu Province, Cambodia Phone: 855-87-77-7993 Phone: 060855213 Phone: 0884839945 Kien Svay Branch Office Kirivong Branch Office Oral Branch Office National Road no.1, Tuol Tnaot village, Kaki commune, Kien Po Khvet Village, Phrah Bat Choan Chum Commune, Phsar Kontourt village, Sangkea Sartorb Commune, Oral Svay district, Kandal province, Cambodia Kirivong District, Takeo Province, Cambodia district, Kampong Speu province, Cambodia Phone: 855-87-77-7488 Phone: 060855886 Phone: 066574593 Kandal Stueng Branch Office Koh Andaet Branch Office Phnum Sruoch Branch Office #86, National Road no. 2, Preaek Roka village, Preaek Prey Malong Khang Tbong Village, Prey Khla commune, Koh Krang Khcheay village, Tang Sya commune, Phnum Sruoch Roka Commune, Kandal Stueng district, Kandal province, Andaet district, Takeo province, Cambodia district, Kampong Speu province, Cambodia Cambodia Phone: 0884839711 Phone: 0884837957 Phone: 855-87-77-7132 Samraong Branch Office Tuek Phors Branch Office Leuk Daek (Kampong Phnom) Branch Office Krang Lang Village, Cheung Kuon​Commune,Samraong Srae Ta Chey Vallage, Akphivoadth Communce, Tuek Phos National Road No. 1, Ampil Tuek village, Kampong Phnum District, Takeo province, Cambodia District, Kampong Chhnang Province, Cambodia commune, Leuk Daek district, Kandal province, Cambodia Phone: 0888551219 Phone: 087777010 Phone: 855-87-77-7279 Prey Kabas Branch Office Kampong Chhnang Regional Office Prey Veng Branch Office #408, St 108, Prey Lavea Ket Village, Prey Lavea Commune, National Road no.5, Tuol Kralanh village, Sangkat Kampong National Road No 11. Village 8, Sangkat Kampong Leav, Prey Prey Kabas district, Takeo povince, Cambodia Chhnang , Kampong Chhnang city, Kampong Chhnang We Believe in Your Potential Veng city, Prey Veng province, Cambodia Phone: 0884839908 province, Cambodia Phone: 010855644 Phone: 0974855006 Kampot (Chhouk) Regional Office Sithor Kandal Branch Office National Road no. 3, Damnak Toap Khang Tboung village, Kampong Leaeng Branch Office Preaek Sandaek Village Preaek Changkran Commune, Sithor Krang Snay commune, Chhuk​district, Kampot province, Kampong Boeng village, Kampong Hau commune, Kampong Kandal District Prey Veng Province, Cambodia Cambodia Leng district, Kampong Chhnang province, Cambodia Phone: 010855220 Phone: 0974855014 Phone: 090855763 Svay Rieng and Svay Chrom Regional Office Banteay Meas Branch Office Kampong Tralach Branch Office Keansang Village, Svay Rieng Commune, Svay Rieng City, Samrong village, Samrong Krom commune, Banteay Meas Soben village, Peani commune, Kampong Tralach district, Svay Rieng Province, Cambodia district, Kampot province, Cambodia Kampong Chhnang province, Cambodia Phone: 068855973 Phone: 0884844237 Phone: 090855820 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Preah Sdech Branch Office Angkor Chey Branch Office Boribour Branch Office Krasang Tong village, Angkor Reach commune, Preah Sdach Pral Village, Tani Commune, Angkor Chey District, Kampot Cheung Khnar Village, Ponley Communce, Boribour District, district, Prey Veng province, Cambodia Province, Cambodia Kampong Chhnang Province, Cambodia Phone: 0889201571 Phone: 060855085 Phone: 0886007498 Kampong Trabaek Branch Office Kampong Trach Branch Office Pursat Branch Office Doun Tong village, Prasat commune, Kampong Trabaek Kampong Trach 1 Village, Kampong Trach Khang Kaeut #475, National Road 5, Krang Pophleak Village, Svay At district, Prey Veng province, Cambodia Commune, Kampong Trach District, Kampot Province, Commune, Pursat District, Pursat province, Cambodia Phone: 0886450320 Cambodia Phone: 0886007540 Phone: 060855075 Mesang Branch Office Krakor Branch Office Vang Villege Chiphouch Commune, Mesang District, Prey Kampong Som Branch Office National Road 5, Phsar village, Anlong Tnaot commune, veng Provinece, Cambodia Village no. 03, Sangkat Lak 02, Quarter, Metapheap Ward, Krakor district, Pursat province, Cambodia Phone: 010855188 Preah Sihanouk City, Cambodia Phone: 0884838011 Phone: 068855997 Chantrea Branch Office Phnum Kravanh Branch Office Thnal Cheat Village, Sangkat Chrok Mates, Bavith City, Svay Sre Ambel Branch Office Pich Ban Village, Leach Commune, Phnum Kravanh​District, Rieng province, Cambodia Trapeang village, Sre Ambel commune, Sre Ambel district, Pursat Province, Cambodia Phone: 0889204613 Koh Kong province, Cambodia Phone: 0884845057 Phone: 0884837124 Romeashek Branch Office Veal Veaeng Branch Office Tatrav Village, Kampong Trach Commune, Romeashek Basedth Branch Office Pramaoy village, Pramaoy commune, Veal Veaeng district, District, Svayreing province, Cambodia Slab Leaeng village, Svay Rompea commune, Basedth Pursat province, Cambodia Phone: 0884831787 district, Kampong Speu province, Cambodia Phone: 0884845556 Phone: 0884874229 Kampong Ro Branch Office Kampong Thom Regional Office Svay Anat Village, Nhor Commune, Kampong Rou District, Kampong Speu Regional Office House #009 Group 01 National Road no. 6, Stueng Saen Svay Rieng Province, Cambodia National Road #4, Borei Kammeakkar Village, Rokar Thum Village, Sangkat Kampong Krabao,Stoung Sen City and Phone: 0889204643 Commune, Chbar Morn Municipality, Kampong Speu Kampong Thom Province, Cambodia Province, Cambodia Phone: 067855333 Rumduol Branch Office Phone: 066746666 Chak Village, Kampong Chak commune Rumduol District Romlong Branch Office Svay Rieng Province, Cambodia Korng Pisey Branch Office Rom Chek Village,Treal Commune, Baray District, Kompong Phone: 0889204641 Tuol Ta Sokh Village, Saen Die Commune, Samraong Tong Thom Province, Cambodia District, Kampong Speu Province, Cambodia Phone: 060855388 Takeo Regional Office Phone: 068855662 National Road No. 2, Thnorl bek village, Sangkat Roka Krao, Stoung Branch Office Doun Kaev city, Takeo province, Cambodia Oudong-1 Branch Office National Road no. 6, Leap Tong village, Kampong Chen Tboung Phone: 015493888 Bat Doeung village, Khsem Khsan commune, Oudongk commune, Stoung district, Kampong Thom province, Cambodia district, Kampong Speu province, Cambodia Phone: 0884836778 Phone: 060855776 251 Baray Branch Office Rovieng Branch Office Banteay Mean Chey Regional Office Prey Ta Trav Village, Balang Commune, Baray District, Tang Trak Village, Robieb commune, Rovieng District, Preah National Road no.6, Kampong Svay village, Sangkat Kampong Thom Province, Cambodia Vihear Province, Cambodia Kampong Svay, Serei Saophoan city, Banteay Mean Chey Phone: 0713855039 Phone: 0884845242 province, Cambodia Phone: 0884838900 Sandan Branch Office Trapaing Prasat Branch Office Toekmleang village, Sandan commune, Sandan district, Trapeang Prasat Village, Trapeang Prasat commune, Ou Chrov Branch Office Kampong Thom province, Cambodia Trapeang Prasat District, Oddar Meanchey Province, #15A, National Road no.5, Palilai village, Sangkat Paoy Paet, Phone: 0884827690 Cambodia Paoy Paet city, Banteay Mean Chey province, Cambodia Phone: 0884845248 Phone: 0884845706 Prasat Sambour Branch Office Sambo Village ,Sambo commune, Prasat Sambour district, Choam Khsant Branch Office Thma Puok Branch Office Kampong Thom province, Cambodia National Road 69B, Choam Khsant village, Choam Khsant Kasen village, Thma Puok commune, Thma Puok district, Phone: 0884836883 commune, Choam Khsant district, Preah Vihear province, Bantey Mean Chey province, Cambodia Cambodia Phone: 0884839749 Chamka Loeu Branch Office Phone: 0884845291 Thnol Bek Lech Village, Svay Tearb Commune, Chamkar Bavel Branch Office Loeu District, Kampong Cham Province, Cambodia Kampong Cham Regional Office #15, st. Aksor Te, Bavel 1village, Bavel commune, Bavel Phone: 0888472236 National Road 7, village Boeng Snay, Kampong Cham city, district, Battambang province, Cambodia Kampong Cham province, Cambodia Phone: 090281942 Battambang Regional Office Phone: 0884840089 #99, No. 03, Mphey Osakphea village, Sangkat Svay Pao, Phnom Proek Branch Office Battambang city, Battambang province, Cambodia Prey Chhor Branch Office Phnum Toch village, Pech Chenda commune, Phnum Proek Phone: 066855022 Doun Die village, Chrey Vean commune, Prey Chhor district, district, Battambang province, Cambodia Kampong Cham province, Cambodia Phone: 090855342 Banan Branch Office Phone: 0884842218 Siem Reap Regional Office Banan Village Kantueu Pir Commune, Banan District, #76, National Road no. 6, Chong Kao Sou village, Sangkat Battambang Province, Cambodia Stoeung Trang Branch Office Slor Kram, Siem Reap city, Siem Reap province, Cambodia We Believe in Your Potential Phone: 010855775 Tnaot Ta Say Village, Preak Kak Commune, Stueng Trang Phone: 0884845477 District, Kampong Cham Province, Cambodia Ratanak Mondul Branch Office Phone: 0884842804 Puok Branch Office #34, Sdau village, Sdau Commune, Rotonak Mondol distrcit, Kouk Thmei village, Puok commune, Puok district, Siem Battambang province, Cambodia Chulkiri Branch Office Reap province, Cambodia Phone: 010855977 Prey Kri Tbong Village, Prey Kri commune, Chulkiri district, Phone: 0884836879 Kampong Chhnang province, Cambodia Moung Ruessei Branch Office Phone: 0884839707 Srey Snom Branch Office Pou Muoy Village,Kear Commune, Moung Ruessei District, Chroy Neang Nguon village, Chroy Neang Nguon commune, Battambang Province, Cambodia Tbong Khmom Branch Office Srey Snam district, Siem Reap province Phone: 069855585 National Road no. 7, Cheung Lang village, Sangkat Suong, Phone: 060270442 Suong city, Kampong Cham province, Cambodia Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Moung Ruessei Branch Office Phone: 0886007526 Angkor Chum Branch Office Pou Muoy Village, Kear Commune, Moung Ruessei District, Kbal Cham Village,Char Chhuk commune, Angkor Chum Battambang Province, Cambodia Koh Sotin Branch Office District, Siem Reap Province, Cambodia Phone: 069855585 Phsar Thmey Village, Pearm Pror Thnours Commune, Koh Phone: 087555476 Sotin District, Kampong Cham Province, Cambodia Bakan Branch Office Phone: 0883031098 Samraong Chong Kal Branch Office Khnach Romeas Village, Beung Khnar Commune, Bakan at Doun Kaen Village, Samraong Commune, Samraong​ District, Pursat Province, Cambodia Ponhea Kraek Branch Office District, Oddar Meanchey province, Cambodia Phone: 0886007538 National Road no. 7, Peao Srok village, Kaong Kang Phone: 087666741 commune, Ponhea Kraek district, Thbong Khmom province, Pailin Branch Office Cambodia Chi Kraeng Branch Office O'Tapuk Le village, Pailin commune, Pailin city, Pailin Phone: 0979111030 #079, Group 01, Kampong Kdey1 Village, Kampong Kdey province, Cambodia Commune, Chikrek District, Siem Reap Province, Cambodia Phone: 0884873724 Kratie Regional Office Phone: 087555474 Oreussey Village, Kratie Ward, Kratie City, Kratie Province, Samlout Branch Office Cambodia Preah Net Preah Branch Office Ou Tontuem village, Ta sanh commune, Samlout district, Phone: 0888848041 National Road 6, Phnum Chonhcheang village, Chob Veari Battambang province, Cambodia commune, Preah Netr Preah district, Banteay Mean Chey Phone: 0884873767 Chhloung Branch Office province, Cambodia Chrouy Thma Kraom village, Chhloung commune, Chhloung Phone: 060855553 Kamrieng Branch Office district, Kratie province, Cambodia Dong Village, Boeng Reang Commune, Kamrieng District, Phone: 0888816546 Phnom Penh (Tuol Kork) Regional Office Battambang Province, Cambodia #152B2, St 516, 13 Village, Sangkat Boeung Kork 1, Khan Phone: 090309180 Snuol Branch Office Toulkork, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Kbal Snuol village, Snuol commune, Snuol district, Kratie Phone: 0719833384 Preah Vihear Regional Office province, Cambodia Lor Et village, Sangkat Kampong Branak, Preah Vihea city, Phone: 0884818019 Stueng Mean Chey Branch Office Preah Vihea province, Cambodia #B1, St. 371, Trea 3 village, Sangkat Stueng Mean Chey, Phone: 0884488844 Keo Sema Branch Office Khan Mean Chey, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Ou Arm Village, Sre Khtom Commune, Keo Sema District, Phone: 087888277 Kuleaen Branch Office Mondol Kiri Province, Cambodia Kuleaen Tboung Village, Kuleaen Tboung commune, Phone: 0884818026 Punhea Lueu Branch Office Kuleaen district, Preah Vihear province, Cambodia #87, National Road No. 5, Tep Pranom village, Vihea Luong Phone: 0886007523 Dambae Branch Office commune, Ponhea Lueu district, Kandal province, Cambodia National Road no. 73,Thnal village, Dambae commune, Phone: 0884843228 Sangkum Thmey Satellite Office Dambae district, Kampong Cham province, Cambodia Tbeang Village, Chamraeun commune, Sangkom Thmei Phone: 0884843373 Mukh Kampoul Branch Office district, Preah Vihear province, Cambodia National Road No. 6A, Kraom village, Preaek Anh Chanh Phone: 060855749 Memot Branch Office commune, Mukh Kampoul district, Kandal province, Masin Tuek Village, Memot Cummune, Memot District, Cambodia Kampong Cham Province, Cambodia Phone: 0884842169 Phone: 0884381224 252 Khsach Kandal (Preaek Tameak) Branch Office Taikkyi Branch Pyapon II Branch Knong village, Preaek Tameak commune, Khsach Kandal Room No.9, Natsinkone Road, Ohtan Ward, Taikkyi No. 18C, 8th St. 9th Ward, Pyapon Township, Ayeyarwady, district, Kandal province, Cambodia Township, Yangon, Myanmar Myanmar Phone: 0884842027 Phone: 95-9-7717-81028 Phone: 95-9-950311096 Svay Pak Branch Office Hmawbi I Branch Pantanaw I Branch National Road No. 5, Lu Village Svay Pak, Khan Russey Keo, 2F No(26) Tatkyee Kone village, Hmawbi Township, Yangon, No. 1, Sel Myaung St. Myo Kwet Thit 1, Pantanaw Township, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Myanmar Ayeyarwady, Myanmar Phone: 0884845604 Phone: 95-9-974563586 Phone: 95-9-764433931 Chaom Chau Branch Office Hmawbi II Branch Pantanaw II Branch Prey Svay Village, Sangkat Chaom Chau, Khan Pur SenChey, 1F No(26) Tatkyee Kone village, Hmawbi Township, Yangon, No. 1, Sel Myaung St. Myo Kwet Thit 1, Pantanaw Township, Phnom Penh, Cambodia Myanmar Ayeyarwady, Myanmar Phone: 0884840208 Phone: 95-9-97456395 Phone: 95-9-764433932 Chruoy Changvar Branch Office Maubin I Branch Gyobingauk I Branch lot No. A-01, Street 6A, Phum 3, Sangkat Chrouy Chang Var, Plot No(34), No(396), Building 01, Yei Le road, Ward 7, No. 154, Ashay Myopat St. Pan Tin Ward, Gyobingauk Khan Chroy Chang Var, Phom Penh City, Cambodia Maubine Township, Ayeyarwaddy, Myanmar (2F) Township, Bago, Myanmar Phone: 0884841986 Phone: 95-9-9712-25895 Phone: 95-9-764433935 Srey Sonthor Branch Office Maubin II Branch Gyobingauk I Branch Santey village, Preaek Po commune, Srey Sonthor district, Plot No(34), No(396), Building 01, Yei Le road, Ward 7, No. 154, Ashay Myopat St. Pan Tin Ward, Gyobingauk Kampong Cham, Cambodia Maubine Township, Ayeyarwaddy, Myanmar (1F) Township, Bago, Myanmar Phone: 0884845245 Phone: 95-9-9616-12763 Phone: 95-9-764433936 Ratanakiri Regional Office Kawhmu Branch Zigon Branch Chey Chumnas Village, sangkat Labanseak, City Banlung, No 192/B, Bogyoke St. South Wd Kawhmu Townshop, Hlaing Htate Khaung Tin St. No. 1 Ward, Zigon Township, Ratanakiri Province, Cambodia Yangon, Myanmar Bago, Myanmar We Believe in Your Potential Phone: 0884830845 Phone: 95-9-9742-91112 Phone: 95-9-780-113417 Stoeung Treng Branch Office Insein Branch Paungde I Branch Spean Thmor Village, Stoeung Treng Commune, Stoeung 115/A, Pyay Road, Saw Bwar Gyee Kone Ward(10 miles), Plot No. 79, Shwetaung Street, Min Kwet 3, Ward, Paungde Treng District Stoeung Treng Province, Cambodia Insein Township Yangon, Myanmar Township, Bago, Myanmar Phone: 0713261010 Phone: 95-1-643798 Phone: 95-9-780114012 Koh Nhek Branch Office Kungyangon Branch Paungde II Branch Reangsei village, Srae Sangkum commune, Kaoh Nheaek No 540, Yadanar Pone 2nd St, Kangyi / Magyi Ward, Plot No. 79, Shwetaung Street, Min Kwet 3, Ward, Paungde district, Mondul Kiri province, Cambodia Kungyangon Township, Yangon, Myanmar Township, Bago, Myanmar Phone: 0713855124 Phone: 95-9-975-890019 Phone: 95-9-780114068 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Borkeo Branch Office Zalun Branch Lewe I Branch Phum Muoy village, La Minh Commune, Bar Kaev District, Bogyok St. Nyaung Pin Zay Ward, Zalun Township, No. 17 Plot, Min Wine Yat, No. 4 Ward, Lewe Township, Nay Ratanakiri Province, Cambodia Ayeyarwady, Myanmar Pyi Taw, Myanmar Phone: 0713260505 Phone: 95-9-960996083 Phone: 95-9-402187901 Saen Monourom Branch Office Kyimyindaing Branch Pyinmana I Branch Chambak Village, Spean Mean Chey Commune, Saen No. 101, Tha Yet Taw(3) Upper St. Tha Yet Taw Ward, No. 181, Yarza Htarni St. Aung Thar Yar Ward, Pobbathiri Monourom District, Mondul Kiri Province, Cambodia Kyimyindaing Township, Yangon, Myanmar Township, Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar Phone: 0713855100 Phone: 95-9-960996092 Phone: 95-9-402187923 KAMPOT Branch Hinthada I Branch Pyinmana II Branch Kampong Bay Khang Cheung Village, Kampong Bay No. 49, U Wisarra St. Pha Tar Gyi Ward, Hinthada Township, No. 181, Yarza Htarni St. Aung Thar Yar Ward, Pobbathiri Sangkat, Kampot City, Kampot Province, Cambodia Ayeyardady, Myanmar Township, Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar Phone: 855-68-435555 Phone: 95-9-960996099 Phone: 95-9-402187924 Hlaing Branch Lewe II Branch Myanmar No. 101, Tha Yet Taw(3) Upper St. Tha Yet Taw Ward, No. 241, Office Street, Min Wine Yat, No. 4 Ward, Lewe Kyimyindaing Township, Yangon, Myanmar Township, Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar Woori Finance Myanmar Plc. Phone: 95-9-960996089 Phone: 95-9-441580466 115/A, Pyay Road, Saw Bwar Gyee Kone Ward(10 miles), Insein Township Yangon, Myanmar Hinthada II Branch Dekkhinathiri Branch Phone: 95-1-643798 No. 93, Nat Maw St. Panbetan Ward, Hinthada Township, No. Da-2410, Wai Da 10 St. Dekkhinathiri Township, Nay Pyi Ayeyarwady, Myanmar Taw, Myanmar MingaladonI Branch Phone: 95-9-961010611 Phone: 95-9-441580468 115/A, Pyay Road, Saw Bwar Gyee Kone Ward(10 miles), Insein Township Yangon, Myanmar Hinthada III Branch Lewe III Branch Phone: 95-1-643798 No. 93, Nat Maw St. Panbetan Ward, Hinthada Township, No. 241, Office Street, Min Wine Yat, No. 4 Ward, Lewe Ayeyarwady, Myanmar Township, Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar NorthOkkalapa Branch Phone: 95-9-961010611 Phone: 95-9-403663020 No. M(56), Thiriyadanar Wholesale Market NorthOkkalapa Township, Yangon, Myanmar Twantay Branch Takkon I Branch Phone: 95-99-6889-2300 No. 49, Bo Kyoke St. Kon Gyan(Middle) Ward, Twantay No. (ma-127), Yin Mar Street, Area (3), Mya Waddy Ward, Township, Yangon, Myanmar Takkon Township, Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar MingaladonII Branch Phone: 95-9-961010511 Phone: 95-9-441473341 4F, 115/A Pyay Road, Saw Bwar Gyee Kone Ward(10miles), lnsein Township, Yangon, Myanmar Pyapon I Branch Takkon II Branch Phone: 95-1-643798 No. 18C, 8th St. 9th Ward, Pyapon Township, Ayeyarwady, No. 93, Thatoeminsaw Yat, Aung Zaya Ward, Takkon Myanmar Township, Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar Nyaungdon Branch Phone: 95-9-950311093 Phone: 95-9-441481276 Room No. 103, 1st Street, 5 Quarter, Nyaungdon Township, Ayarwaddy, Myanmar Phone: 95-99-7674-7709 253 Ottarathiri Branch Tagbilaran Banking Center Bac Ninh Branch No. Ou-1513, Shwe Nant Thar Ward, Ottarathiri Township, Ground Floor, No. 15 JS Torralba St., Poblacion 2, Tagbilaran 1-2 Floor Halla Bld, Yen Phong Industrial Zone, Yen Trung Nay Pyi Taw, Myanmar City, Bohol, Philippines Commune, Yen Phong District, Bac Ninh Province, Vietnam Phone: 95-9-893642032 Phone: 63-38-411-4860 Phone: 84-222-369-9431 Nattalin Branch Iloilo Banking Center Hai Phong Branch No.52, Apyin Tharzi Street, Tharzi Ward, Nattalin Township, Ground Floor, ACCE Bldg., Mabini Ledesma St., Liberation, NO. 4, Lot 22A, Le Hong Phong Street (Cat Bi Airport New Bago, Myanmar Iloilo City, Philippines Urban Area), Dong Khe Ward, Ngo Quyen District, Hai Phong Phone: 95-9-773579731 Phone: 63-33-338-4419 City, Vietnam Phone: 84-255-730-0101 Cagayan De Oro Banking Center Philippines Ground Floor, Jammin Lui Bldg., corner A. Velez & Gomez Thai Nguyen Branch Sts. Poblacion, Cagayan de Oro City, Misamis Oriental, 12nd Floor, Gate 1, Samsung Electronics Vietnam Co.,Ltd. Wealth Development Bank Philippines Thai Nguyen, Yen Binh Industiral Zone, Dong Tien ward, Pho Taft Financial Center, Cardinal Rosales Avenue, Cebu Phone: 63-88-856-8974 Yen town, Thai Nguyen Province, Vietnam Business Park, Cebu City, Cebu, Philippines Phone: 84-208-730-0010 Phone: 63-32-415-5265 Davao Branch Ground Floor, Door 8, 9 & 10 Grand MenSeng Hotel Pichon Binh Duong Branch Alabang Branch St., 1-E Poblacion, Davao City, Davao del Sur, Philippines 10th Floor, Becamex Building, No.230, Binh Duong Unit 103, South Center Tower Condominium 2206 Market Phone: 63-82-225-3318 boulevard, Thu Dau Mot City, Binh Duong Province, Vietnam Street, Madrigal Business Par Alabang, Muntinlupa City, Phone: 84-274-222-2631 Philippines Tacloban Branch Phone: 63-2-801-5335 Sukwan Bldg, corner Real and Burgos Streets, Tacloban City, Phu My Hung Transaction Office Philippines Unit SA-01, Riverpark Residence Complex, 341 Ha Huy Tap Angeles Marquee Mall Branch Phone: 63-53-832-3435 Street, Tan Phong Ward, District 7, Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam Ground Floor , Marquee Mall, Don Bonifacio St., Pulung Phone: 84-28-7303-0510 Maragul Angeles City, Pampanga, Philippines Caloocan Branch Phone: 63-45-624-0072 Rizal Avenue Extension, East Grace Park, Caloocan 1400, Dong Nai Branch We Believe in Your Potential Metro Manila, Philippines Ton Duc Thang road, Nhon Trach 3 Industrial Zone, Phase1, Legazpi Pacific Mall Branch Phone: 63-2-930-5126 Hiep Phuoc, ward, Nhon Trach district, Dong Nai Provincem G/F Expansion II, Pacific Mall Legazpi, Landco Business Vietnam Park, F. Imperial Street Cor. Circumferential Road, Legazpi Gensan Branch Phone: 84-251-730-0370 City 4500, Philippines Gaisano mall, Jose Catolico Sr. Avenue, General Santos City, Phone: 63-52-480-0038 South Cotabato, Philippines Lucena Pacific Mall Branch Phone: 63-83-250-1238 Germany Ground Floor L 1-26, Pacific Mall, M.L. Tagarao St. Landco Woori Bank Europe Dumaguete Branch Business Park, Brgy. III , Lucena City, Quezon, Philippines MesseTurm, 29th floor, Friedrich-Ebert-Anlage 49, 60308, 1F Jose Building South Road Calindagan, Dumaguete City, Phone: 63-42-795-3771 Frankfurt am Main, Germany Philippines Phone: +49(0)69-299-254-0 Phone: 63-35-523-5532 Woori Bank Annual Report 2018 Taguig Market Market Branch Ground Floor, Play Ground Zone, Metro Market Market Mall, Woori Bank Kuala Lumpur Representative Office Bacolod Branch Mckinley Parkway, Fort Bonifacio Global City, Taguig City, Unit 4129/4130, 41/F, Vista Tower, The Intermark 182 Jalan Lacson-Luzuriaga Streets, Bacolod City, Negros Occidental, Philippines Tun Razak, Kuala Lumpur 50400, Malaysia Philippines Phone: 63-2-889-0275 Phone: 60-3-2163-8288 Phone: 63-34-447-0227 Cebu Ayala Branch Woori Bank Yangon, Myanmar Office Butuan Branch Ground Floor, Taft Financial Center, Cardinal Rosales No.115(A) First Floor), Pyay Road, 10 Miles, Insein JC Aquino Ave, corner, Pareja Subdivision, Butuan City, Avenue, Cebu Business Park, Brgy. Luz, Cebu City, Township, Yangon, Myanmar Mindanao, Philippines Philippines Phone: 95-1-646951 Phone: 63-917-870-7390 Phone: 63-32-415-4888 Woori Bank Iran Representative Office Naga Branch Cebu Ramos Branch 1st Floor, No; 18, J St., Moghadas Ardebili St., Mahmodiyeh, Ground Floor, Super Metro Camarines Sur, Panganiban Ground Floor, Hilario Chu Bldg., No. 148 F. Ramos St. Santa Tehran, Iran Drive, Naga City, Casmarines Sur, Philippines Cruz, Cebu City, Philippines Phone: 98-22-04-6975/98-90-3826-3169 Phone: 63-54-881-2836 Phone: 63-32-412-6302 Woori Bank Poland Represetative Office Baguio Branch Cebu Carbon Branch Uniwersytecka 13, 40-007, Katowice, Poland NRC Building, Abanao Street, Baguio City, Benguet, Ground Floor, M.C. Briones & Plaridel Sts., Cebu City, Phone: 48-323-076-417 Cordillera Administrative Region, Philippines Philippines Phone: 63-74-665-2394 Phone: 63-32-416-9077 Binondo Branch Cebu Mandaue Branch Lucky Chinatown Mall, Reina Regente St. Binondo, Manila, Ground Floor, G/F Meritz Building, A.C. Cortes Ave. Ibabao, National Capital Region, Philippines Mandaue City, Cebu, Philippines Phone: 63-343-8144 Cebu Tabunok Branch Vietnam Ground Floor, AGSy Bldg., National Hi-Way, Tabunok Talisay Woori Bank Vietnam City, Cebu, Philippines 34F, Keangnam Landmark 72, E6 Pham Hung Road, Tu Liem Phone: 63-32-272-2955 District. Hanoi, Vietnam Phone: 84-4-7300-6802 Cebu Mandaue Pacific Mall Metro Branch Ground Floor, Mandaue Pacific Mall Metro National Highway Hanoi Branch corner M.B. Fernan Ave. Estancia, Ibabao, Mandaue City, 24F, Keangnam Landmark 72, E6 Pham Hung Road, Tu Liem Metro Cebu, Philippines District. Hanoi, Vietnam Phone: 63-32-239-1072 Phone: 84-4-3831-5281 Cebu Mambaling Branch Hochiminh Branch G/F Metro Store Mambaling, Cebu, N. Bacalso Avenue corner 13832 2 Floor, Kumho Asiana Plaza Saigon, 39 Le Duan St., F. Llamas Street, Basak San Nicolas, Cebu City, Philippines Dist 1, HCMC, Vietnam Phone: 63-32-414-4233 Phone: 84-8-3821-9839 254 Contact Information Directed by Kim, Eun Kyung(Christine) Woori Bank, Finance & Planning Dept. Tel: 82-2-2002-5042 ekk@wooribank.com Created by Lee, Eun Hwoa Lucre Inc. Tel: 82-2-542-6725 www.lucrebeyond.com Photo by Han, Ze Hun ROUND TABLE Tel: 82-2-3288-6005 www.roundtableic.com 51, Sogong-ro(203, Hoehyeon-dong 1-ga), Jung-gu, Seoul, 04632, Korea Tel. +82-2-2002-3000 www.wooribank.com
