統 合 報 告 書 REPORT INTEGRATED ディスクロ ー ジャー 誌 本 編 —ANNUAL REPORT— 2018 2019 Year en ded Marc h 3 1 , 2 0 1 9 Management Principles (“Mission”) (I) Swiftly provide comprehensive solutions to our clients by fully utilizing the significant expertise and comprehensive capabilities. (II) Adhere to the principles of sound management based on a high degree of self-discipline with the background of fiduciary spirit and establish strong credibility from society. (III) Strive to fulfill all shareholder expectations by creating distinct values through fusing the various functions featuring the trust bank group. (IV) Offer a workplace where the diversity and creativity of its employees are more fully utilized to add value to the organization and where employees can have pride and be highly motivated in fulfilling their missions. Ideal Model (“Vision”) —Towards “The Trust Bank”— Based on the fiduciary spirit and with significant expertise and comprehensive capabilities, the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group will create distinct values by leveraging a new business model, combining its banking, asset management and administration, and real estate businesses, and will move onto the global stage as a leading trust bank group which boasts the largest and highest status in Japan. Codes of Conduct (“Value”) In order to pursue the Management Principles of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group, the executives and employees commit themselves to comply with the six Codes of Conduct described below. Completely Client-oriented­—Truthfulness and Loyalty We will adhere to the highest degree of “Truthfulness and Loyalty” as well as credibility and sureness, and will carry out all our responsibilities for client satisfaction and comfort as our top priority. Contribution to Society—Dedication and Development We will remain dedicated in all our efforts, with “Frontier Spirit,” and continue to contribute to society. Realization of Organizational Capability—Trust and Creativity We will realize our organizational capabilities with full of mutual trust and creativity through improvement by mutual learning and continuous personal transformation of various people who share the enthusiasm for trust. Establishment of Individuality—Self-help and Self-discipline With a spirit of self-help and self-discipline as well as a sense of ownership, we will carry out our responsibilities. Strict Compliance with Applicable Laws and Regulations We will strictly comply with all applicable laws, rules and regulations, and will ensure that all our corporate activities meet the highest standards of social norms. Resolute Stance against Antisocial Forces We will continue to take a resolute stance against antisocial forces, which may threaten public order and the security of civil society. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Contents Overview P2 Business Strategy P48 2 History of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group 50 Group Structure 4 Group Information 52 Retail Total Solution Services Business 6 Financial Highlights 54 Wholesale Total Solution Services Business 7 Non-financial Highlights 56 Wholesale Asset Management Business 58 Stock Transfer Agency Services Business 60 Real Estate Business 62 Global Markets Business Vision P8 64 Fiduciary Services Business 8 Value Creation Process 66 Asset Management Business of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group 10 Group Strengths (Advantages of capital) 11 Creating Shared Value and its Positive Impact 12 Top Message Management Foundation P68 20 Message from Head of Finance 68 Risk Appetite Framework 70 Risk Management 74 Compliance ESG Initiatives P24 76 Compliance with International Financial Regulations 24 Materiality Management 77 Internal Auditing 26 Corporate Governance 78 Client-Oriented Initiatives 34 Dialogue between External Director and Investors 84 Digitalization Strategy 36 Our Board of Directors and Executive Officers 86 Human Resources Strategy 38 Initiatives Related to Sustainability 92 Communication with Shareholders and Investors 93 Initiatives to Facilitate Financing Corporate Information P94 94 Financial Review 98 Corporate Information Editorial Policy The Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group has prepared this integrated report so readers can understand the Group’s initiatives for creating shared value aimed at sustainable growth and at providing values for all our stakeholders. In this report, after spelling out the Group’s mediumto long-term vision, we explain our environmental, social and governance (ESG) initiatives and the management foundation supporting our business strategy as a financial group specialized in trust banking. In applying our editorial approach, we strive to improve and expand not just financial information but also non-financial information such as business model and ESG factors, referencing the integrated reporting framework issued by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). We also disclose information appropriately, in accordance with our disclosure policy. For more specific financial information and ESG information, please see the Financial Data Section, the ESG Report and visit our website. <Reporting Coverage> Reporting Period: From April 1, 2018 to March 31, 2019 (Partially including the information after April 1, 2019) Scope of Reporting: The Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group; including Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc., Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited, other subsidiaries and affiliated companies Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 1 Overview History of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group 1924 Established 2000 The Mitsui Trust Merged to become Company, Limited The Chuo Mitsui Trust and Banking Company, Limited 2011 Established Sumitomo Mitsui *Established as the first trust company in Japan based on the Trust Business Act Trust Holdings, Inc. (“SuMi TRUST Holdings”) 1962 Established The Chuo Trust & Banking Co., Ltd. 2000 Established 1925 Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. Established Sumitomo Trust Co., Ltd. 2009 Acquired Nikko Asset 1986 Management Co., Ltd. Established Sumitomo Mitsui Trust *Established as a trust company based on Asset Management Co., Ltd. the Trust Business Act History of Finance and Trusts 1923 2008 2010 2011 Enforcement of the Trust Act and the Trust Business Act The collapse of The European The Great East Japan Lehman Brothers debt crisis Earthquake 1952 Enforcement of the Loan Trust Act 2004 1966 Started handling employees’ pension Enforcement of the revised fund trust Trust Business Act 1972 Started handling asset formation trusts 2007 2012 1975 Started handling special donation trusts Enforcement of the revised Started handling designated 1977 Started handling charitable trusts Trust Act and the Trust donation trusts Business Act Started handling legal guardianship 1984 Started handling land trusts system support trusts 2 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Ideal Model (“Vision”) Towards “The Trust Bank” Based on the fiduciary spirit and with significant expertise and comprehensive capabilities, the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group will create distinct values by leveraging a new business model, combining its banking, asset management and administration, and real estate businesses, and will move onto the global stage as a leading trust bank group which 2015 boasts the largest and highest status in Japan. Overview SuMi TRUST Bank • Launched the operations of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Thai) Public Company Limited • Acquired Citi Cards Japan, Inc. changed its name to Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Club Co., Ltd. 2018 2014 Vision • Integrated the asset management function of SuMi TRUST SuMi TRUST Bank Bank and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management • Completed integration of • Established JTC Holdings, Ltd., a wholly owning parent systems company of Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. and Trust & Custody Services Bank, Ltd. ESG Initiatives 2017 • Shifted to a company with Three Committees 2016 • Developed the Policies regarding the Fiduciary Duties of 2012 Business Strategy the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Established Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited (“SuMi TRUST Bank”) Management Foundation 2016 2017 The Bank of Japan introduced Inauguration of the Trump the negative interest rate policy administration in the U.S. 2014 Corporate Information The government launched NISA 2013 2015 Started handling the Tuition Fund Started handling the Marriage and Endowment Trust Child-rearing Support Trust Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 3 Group Information The Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (the “SuMi TRUST Group”) has many Group companies with businesses in areas such as banking, asset management and administration, and real estate. Through the mutual coordination and cooperation of these Group companies with Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (“SuMi TRUST Bank”), we can harness our comprehensive capabilities by integrating our trust and banking functions to provide total solutions from the standpoint of our clients. (as of July 1, 2019) Listed company Main subsidiaries of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings (“SuMi TRUST Holdings”) [61 consolidated subsidiaries; 30 equity-method affiliated companies] 100% 84.8% 100% 100% 100% 50% 100% 91.9% 100% The role of financial holding companies is to oversee group management. 100% 33.3% 100% Ratio of ownership with voting rights is shown, including indirect ownership via subsidiaries. SuMi TRUST Bank has built a domestic branch network with a well-balanced footprint that is conDomestic Network centrated in the greater Tokyo metropolitan, Kinki, and Chubu regions. Furthermore, SuMi TRUST Bank’s internet banking and SBI Sumishin Net Bank offer services nationwide over the Internet. (as of June 30, 2019) Greater Tokyo Providing online services across Japan metropolitan area Kinki area 70 branches 34 branches The SuMi TRUST Bank branch network Hokkaido, Tohoku, Chugoku, Chubu area Shikoku, and Kyushu 21 branches 23 branches * The substantial number of branches is 117 when the branches at the same business site are counted on an aggregated basis. For detail of branches, please see pages 8-11 of the Financial Data Section. 4 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Group Information The SuMi TRUST Group is Japan’s largest asset manager and custodian, and it is the trust bank Status group that is top ranked in each business. (as of March 31, 2019) Assets under Management*1 ¥93 trillion Domestic financial institutions No.1 Overview Assets under Custody* ¥211 trillion Domestic financial institutions No.1 2 Balance of Corporate Pension Funds ¥12 trillion Trust banks No.1 Lead Manager for Corporate Pension Funds 1,322 funds Trust banks No.1 Entrusted Balance of Investment Trusts ¥75 trillion Trust banks No.1 Trust (Fee) Business Number of Shareholders under 26.70 million Administration*1 shareholders Trust banks No.1 Vision Real estate related profit*1,3 ¥54.3 billion Trust banks No.2 Entrusted Balance of Securitized Real Estate ¥16 trillion Trust banks No.1 Sales Volume of Investment Trusts/ Discretionary Investment*3 ¥0.9 trillion Domestic banks No.1 Number of Will Trusts 32,000 cases Trust banks No.2 Balance of Loans to Individuals ¥9 trillion Domestic banks No.4 ESG Initiatives Banking Business Balance of Loans to Corporations ¥19 trillion Domestic banks No.5 Total Loan Balance ¥28 trillion Domestic banks No.5 Includes estimates based on investigations by SuMi TRUST Holdings (as of March 31, 2019) *1 Group companies combined (Items other than those with *1 are SuMi TRUST Bank) *2 Trust asset balance. Trust banks specializing in asset administration services are excluded because their trust assets include many retrusted parts. *3 FY2018 Result Business Strategy We have our own bases in key markets around the world, and with these bases and through alliOverseas Network ances and cooperation with local financial institutions and asset managers, we are working to expand our global presence. (as of June 30, 2019) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust (Ireland) Limited London Branch New York Branch Sumitomo Mitsui Trust (UK) Limited Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (U.S.A.) Limited Sumitomo Mitsui Trust International Limited Nikko Asset Management Americas, Inc. Nikko Asset Management Europe Ltd. Midwest Railcar Corporation Management Foundation Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Luxembourg) S.A. Seoul Representative Office Shanghai Branch BIDV-SuMi TRUST Leasing Co., Ltd. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Thai) Hong Kong Branch Public Company Limited Sumitomo Mitsui Trust (Hong Kong) Limited Affin Hwang Asset Management Berhad Rongtong Fund Management Co., Ltd. Singapore Branch Zijin Trust Co., Ltd. Corporate Information Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Nanjing Zijin Financial Leasing Co., Ltd. Leasing (Singapore) Pte. Ltd. Beijing Representative Office (Banking Business) Nikko Asset Management Asia Limited Beijing Representative Office (Securities Business) Jakarta Representative Office Nikko Asset Management New Zealand Limited Nikko AM Limited Overseas Branches (SuMi Trust Bank) Overseas Representative Offices (SuMi Trust Bank) Subsidiaries Key Affiliates Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 5 Financial Highlights Net Income Attributable to Owners of the Parent Return on Shareholders’ Equity* 200.0 (Billions of Yen) 10.0 (%) 173.8 7.95 8.0 150.0 6.0 100.0 4.0 50.0 2.0 0 0.0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) * Page 20 for calculation method Fee Income Ratio* Overhead Ratio*1 1,000.0 (Billions of Yen) 57.1 (%) 60.0 800.0 (Billions of Yen) 60.9 (%) 60.0 800.0 722.6 50.5 600.0 40.0 600.0 440.4 40.0 400.0 413.2 400.0 20.0 235.8 20.0 200.0 200.0 0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) Fee income ratio (right) Overhead ratio (non-consolidated)(right) Overhead ratio (right) Net fees and commissions and related profit (left) General and administrative expenses (non-consolidated)*2 (left) Substantial consolidated gross business profit (left) Substantial general and administrative expenses (left) * Net fees and commissions and related profit divided by gross business profit *1 General and administrative expenses divided by substantial consolidated gross business profit *2 SuMi TRUST Bank (non-consolidated) Non-Performing Loan*1 (NPL) Ratio*2 Capital Adequacy Ratio, etc. 200.0 (Billions of Yen) (%) 1.00 20.0 (%) 16.77 150.0 0.75 15.0 14.18 12.18 100.0 0.50 10.0 84.2 0.3 50.0 0.25 5.0 0 0 0.0 March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, 2015 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2019 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 NPL (left) NPL ratio (right) Common equity Tier 1 capital ratio Tier 1 capital ratio *1 Problem assets based on the Financial Reconstruction Act Total capital ratio *2 SuMi TRUST Bank (non-consolidated) 6 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Non-financial Highlights ESG Management—External Evaluation Overview The SuMi TRUST Group’s ESG Evaluation Status of PRI assessment of SuMiTAM (2018 MSCI rating) (September 30, 2018) AA We aim to become the No. 1 financial institution for ESG A + Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management (SuMiTAM) management, as we reflect the perspectives of ESG invessigned the PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment) in tors in our management. We are acclaimed for our ESG May 2006, and has made efforts in accordance with these Vision efforts, such as receiving the top rating of a financial instituprinciples. SuMiTAM has won the highest rating, “A+,” in tion in Japan from MSCI, an influential research institution in a comprehensive annual assessment for four years running. the field. ESG Initiatives ESG Management—Enhanced Initiatives Sustainability in Our Business E (Volume of Greenhouse-gas Emissions) (FY2018) 5+2+1 (34) Business Strategy % In addition to further business development of five major SuMi TRUST Bank has significantly reduced total greenthemes including climate change, we established two business house-gas emissions from facilities within the scope of the models as total solution services for corporations in FY2018. We Building Energy Efficiency Act, from their peak level followalso implemented green procurement for the first time through ing management integration (in FY2013). the issuance of green bonds. (See page 40 for details.) Management Foundation S (Number of personnel who passed the Gerontology Test) G (Functional enhancement of the Board of Directors) (June 30, 2019) (March 31, 2019) 293 1+5 Corporate Information SuMi TRUST Bank has obliged all branch managers to The external director serves as chairman of the Board obtain the “Gerontology Test” certification since 2014. They of Directors. In addition, external directors and extercan use this certification to provide services and consulting nal experts serve as chairpersons of the five committees to senior clients. (Nominating Committee, Compensation Committee, Audit Committee, Risk Committee and Conflicts of Interest Committee). (See page 28 for details.) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 7 Vision Value Creation Process Mission, Vision and Value Six Types of Leveraging Capital Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Financial Capital Optimal allocation of Environment surrounding the Group Human Capital six types of capital Formulation of Control basic strategy Intellectual Capital Manufactured Capital Group companies Social and Realizing sustainable growth Relationship Capital by effectively leveraging allocated capital Natural Capital Formulating a Business execution strategic story (See page 10 for details about the types of capital) Materiality (High priority issues that 8 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Value Creation Process The core competency of a company is the creation of shared value. The SuMi TRUST Group uses various types of capital (management resources) to carry out business, and maximizes value provided to our clients, shareholders, investors, employees, communities, and other stakeholders from an impact perspective. At the same time, the Group enhances its corporate value. The value we create enhances our capital and forms the foundation for further development. In the value creation process, the Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) serves the function of monitoring whether or not the capital is being allocatOverview ed and leveraged optimally by checking various indicators. (See pages 68 and 69 for details about RAF.) Monitoring Vision Contribute to maximizing value for each stakeholder Creating RAF (Risk Appetite Framework) Shared Value Reconversion to six types ESG Initiatives Clients Impact Shareholders and Investors Economic, Societal, of capital Environmental Business Strategy Maximize positive impact Employees (and minimize negative impact) Communities/ Public Sector Management Foundation Monitoring Corporate Information have impact on value creation process) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 9 Group Strengths (Advantages of capital) Financial Capital Human Capital Adequate capital in both quality and quantity (March 31, 2019) Number of consolidated employees 21,498 12.18 (March 31, 2019) CET1 ratio*1 Pro-forma figure on Finalized Basel III reform % basis is at 9% level Pool of human resources with high level of expertise (SuMi TRUST Bank, March 31, 2019) Total assets ¥68 trillion (fifth among Japanese banks) • Registered real estate • Fellows of the Institute of • High quality loan portfolio transaction agents Actuaries of Japan Non-performing loan ratio*2 0.3% (March 31, 2019) 5,638 44 Appropriate preparation for risk 80 • Employees who have passed • Certified securities • Financial Strategic shareholding (market price) 3rd-grade FP exam or higher analysts consultants hedge ratio*2 (March 31, 2019) % 7,788 832 264 Fee income ratio*1 (FY2018) 57 *1 SuMi TRUST Holdings consolidated *2 SuMi TRUST Bank non-consolidated % Diversity & Inclusion (SuMi TRUST Bank) • Appointment of female employees to management positions (March 31, 2019) • Section manager level or higher increased 1.4 times in three years • Nearly one in three female employees are in management positions Intellectual Capital (assistant manager level or higher) Enhance human capital via health promotion and improved productivity  bility to develop products that grasp the needs of A •  Platinum Kurumin Certification: Support for employees balancing work society by using the high level of expertise unique and childcare (SuMi TRUST Bank) •  Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization (White 500): to a financial group specialized in trust banking Practicing good health and productivity management (SuMi TRUST Holdings) (Past) • Loan trust: Contribute to postwar recovery • Pension trust: Supporting the lifestyles of corporate employees after retirement Manufactured Capital (Present) • 100-Year Life Solution Trust (100-Year Passport): Preparing peace of mind, safety and joy of life in the “era of 100-year life” Optimally placed base network (SuMi TRUST Bank, June 30, 2019) • Positive Impact Finance • Branches in Japan • Overseas bases A  ccumulating extensive knowledge of inheritance and asset succession • Number of will trusts held • Number of wills executed 117 * 15 *The substantial number of branches consolidating branches at the same business site (March 31, 2019) (Total for five years until March 31, 2019) 32,000wills 5,200wills • Providing high added value and promoting efficiency through trust type next-generation branches Expanding to all branches by FY2022 Creative ability Number of applications for “activities for employees to shape their own futures,” recruiting ideas from employees to create new businesses SBI Sumishin Net Bank Broad client base and leading IT business base 213 applications (from 468 people) • Loan balance • Deposit balance Various functions amassed via collaboration within the Group Social and Relationship Capital ¥ 3.6trillion (March 31, 2019) ¥ 4.8trillion (March 31, 2019) IT system-related expenses* (FY2018) High quality client base (March 31, 2019) • Upfront investment to reduce • Assets under management • A  ssets under custody • Total loan balance and streamline future expenses ¥ 41.0billion ¥ 93trillion* 1 ¥ 211trillion* ¥28trillion* 2 3 *SuMi TRUST Bank non-consolidated (1st among Domestic (1st among Domestic (5th among Financial Institutions) Financial Institutions) Domestic Banks) Natural Capital • Number of shareholders • Number of listed companies under administration under management*1 S  ocial common capital shared by all persons and organizations, and 26.7million shareholders* 1 Approximately compositions forming the basis for the existence of the Group itself and its stakeholders (No.1 in trust banks) 40% of listed companies The air, water, land, minerals, forests, biodiversity, and eco-system health (Definition of natural capital according to the International Integrated *1 Group companies combined (No.1 in trust banks) *2 Trust asset balance. Trust banks specializing in asset administration services are excludReporting Framework) ed because their trust assets include many retrusted parts. *3 SuMi TRUST Bank non-consolidated Accumulation of knowledge in the Group (example efforts) • Developed a policy for dealing with biodiversity issues Years in business 2008 (First time by domestic bank) 95years The first trust company in Japan (Established in 1924) • Signed the UNEP FI Natural Capital Declaration 2012 (First time by domestic financial institution) Corporate brand • Start of environmental rating loans with natural capital evaluation A corporate brand backed by Mitsui and Sumitomo’s combined 400-year 2013 (World’s first loan product of its type, according to the history of contributions to society and relationships of trust with their clients Group’s research) 10 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Creating Shared Value and its Positive Impact The Group creates shared value together with stakeholders by maximizing positive impact (minimizing negative impact) from economic, societal, and environmental perspectives, which are three aspects of the SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals).* *17 global-scale priority issues to be addressed by the entire world by 2030, which were adopted by the United Nations Sustainable Development Summit in September 2015 Overview Approach 1: Maximizing direct positive impact on stakeholders The Group aims to maximize positive impact (minimize negative impact) on stakeholders from economic, societal, and environmental perspectives via investments and loans, dialogue with investors, human resources measures, and social activities. Approach 2: Supporting stakeholders as the starting point for maximizing positive impact Vision The Group supports stakeholders maximizing positive impact (minimizing negative impact) on a sustainable society from economic, societal, and environmental perspectives via investments and loans, dialogue with investors, human resources measures, and social activities. The Group’s Stakeholders Approa ch 2 ESG Initiatives Ap pro Clients ach 1 Shareholders and Investors Creating Shared Value Sustainable The Group Maximize positive impact Maximize positive impact Society Employees (and minimize negative impact) (and minimize negative impact) Communities/ Public Sector Business Strategy Impact Perspectives: Economic, Societal, Environmental (three aspects of SDGs) Examples of the impact of Approach 1 Examples of the impact of Approach 2 • Providing best solutions by grasping current and potential • Promoting business that contributes to solving environmental Management Foundation needs and societal problems Clients • Providing a variety of highly specialized products and services • Contributing to local economies, such as by creating employment • N ot just reducing our own greenhouse gas emissions and waste, but working on reductions along supply chains as well • Realization of earnings greater than capital costs • Pursuing new investment opportunities that contribute to • Maximization of mediumto long-term shareholders’ value achieving SDGs Shareholders • Constructive dialogue • Fulfilling fiduciary responsibilities as a responsible investor, and Investors including consideration of ESG • Highly transparent disclosure of information including nonfinancial information • Providing workplaces where diverse human resources can dis• Practicing diverse work styles and work-life balance Corporate Information play their abilities to achieve the Group’s business model with • P articipating in social activities via volunteering Employees hope and pride • Preventing acts that lead to infringement of human rights, • Fair assessment and treatment in accordance with abilities, such as harassment roles and results • Contributing to the sound development of local communities, • Efforts on environmental and social issues conducted by NPOs Communities/ our operating base and NGOs Public Sector • Reflecting the opinions of civil society on financial transactions • Constructing an SDG promotion platform with the public sector • Using public promotion frameworks of ESG and SDGs Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 11 Top Message We aspire to provide highly valueadded services unique to a financial group specialized in trust banking to meet the changing needs of society. Through this endeavor, we shall contribute to the creation of a sustainable society while maintaining stable growth trajectory. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. Director, President Tetsuo Ohkubo 12 Top Message Social role of a financial group specialized in trust banking in a changing society Overview Society is currently undergoing significant changes in terms of both structure and values. In Japan, a declining birthrate and aging population continue to advance. We are realizing that the era of the “100-year life” is now fully upon us. For individuals, it has become necessary to make a life plan based on the assumption of longevity for both themselves and their family members. In order to ensure safety and peace of mind in life, the younger generation must engage in systematic asset formation for the future. The senior generation must consider how to increase, protect and pass on their assets to the next generation. As Vision healthy life expectancies extend and lifestyles of each generation diversify, there is rising interest in how to lead a rich life going forward. As for corporations, the major challenges are how to deal with the growing burden of corporate pensions and health insurance and how to secure human resources amid a declining working-age population and advancing longevity. Corporations must also address ESG management, a three-pronged approach ESG Initiatives that takes into account environmental, social and governance factors, and which is taking on more and more importance both in Japan and overseas. These ESG initiatives are not only essential for the sustainable growth of corporations, but are increasingly vital as part of our social responsibility to the next generation to realize overall economic development and rich lifestyles for individuals. ESG issues have also captured the attention of stakeholders. By leveraging our accumulated know-how as a financial group specialized Business Strategy in trust banking, we provide a wide range of solutions to address various client needs generated by changes in social structure and values such as the advent of the “100-year life” and the growing importance of ESG management. For example, to meet the needs of individual clients, we are strengthening our lineup of products that realize a secure and prosperous life for as many people as possible. These include insurance products that combine different protection Management Foundation features according to stages of clients’ lives, package products that respond to concerns about dementia and other problems of aging, Silver College seminars that help seniors enjoy a prosperous old age, and inheritance-related products. For corporate clients as well, we strive to offer a wide range of solutions in response to increasingly complex management challenges, such as revisions of pension systems, enhancement of company welfare programs, corporate governance, IR/SR consulting, and environmentally friendly construction consulting. We are also working to expand our options for realizing a sustainable society, includCorporate Information ing the world’s first Positive Impact Finance with unspecified use of funds. This involves comprehensive evaluations and analysis of activities that have a positive impact on the environment and society and loans to support these activities. Amid the accelerated pace of digitalization and other major changes in financial institutions’ environment and expectations, it is becoming increasingly important for the institutions to accurately understand the needs of clients and society and to create added value that leverages our areas of specialization. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 13 Top Message At this turning point in our era, society is experiencing a rapid and unprecedented transformation. I believe we are called upon to play a role in resolving various social challenges as a financial group specialized in trust banking that has diverse functions and advanced expertise, as well as consulting capabilities, while pursuing further reforms ourselves. Initiatives to Transform Business Model Fee Business Progress Evaluation of Midterm Management Plan 450.0 (Billions of Yen) The current midterm management plan began in April 2017. During this 408.3 405.4 413.2 381.5 period, the Group is implementing measures aimed at shifting to an earnings 363.5 93.2 105.6 92.8 structure resilient to business fluctuations and market volatility by transforming to 100.3 300.0 111.8 a business model that accurately responds to diversifying client needs in a changing society. Specifically, we worked to bolster and diversify the fee business, a specialty 302.6 312.5 320.0 of ours. We also enhanced the profitability of the loan/investment related busi150.0 251.7 281.1 ness and improved the OHR (overhead ratio). As a result, both fee related income and effective interest related earnings*1 increased, and consolidated OHR improved in fiscal year 2018 compared to fiscal year 2017. The qual0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 ity of earnings also improved, including an increase in stable recurring fees. (Fiscal Year) Shareholder ROE reached 7.95%, approaching the 8% targeted in our midterm Stable earnings (Mainly recurring fees) Other management plan. Performance has been strong on the business front. However, growth has been slow in some areas, such as investment in financial products by individual clients, which has not expanded as expected. Furthermore, in order to steadily address *1 Effective interest related earnings including profit attributable to deployment of surplus foreign currency funds the changes mentioned above, we believe that our major management issues included in net other operating profit. are: enhancing our future creation capabilities, developing new solutions, making upfront investments in computer systems that support that development, and striving to control total expenses by improving overall group productivity. Business Operations Going Forward Fiscal year 2019 marks the final year of our midterm management plan. We endeavor to achieve steady results based on our efforts of the past two years by putting the finishing touches on reforms such as strengthening stable recurring fees, which form the foundation for sustainable growth, and further improving balance sheet profitability. We will resolutely take on challenges in new growth fields that capture major social developments. (1) Strengthening Profitability to Support Stable Growth We are working to steadily expand our client base and balance of assets under management and to build a stable revenue base, while enhancing the quality of consulting marketing and building up recognition and trust from both individual and corporate clients. For individual clients, in addition to making mediumto long-term asset formation proposals, we are promoting cross-generation transactions in 14 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Top Message Overview Vision ESG Initiatives inheritanceand succession-related businesses where needs are growing. We will reinforce our consulting services for all assets and liabilities, including equity, real estate and financial assets. For corporate clients, we will provide high value added services such as support for pension system reforms associated with extending the retirement age, investment education for employees, and consulting on enhancement of corporate governance and support for ESG management. Business Strategy In the loan/investment related business, we will continue our efforts to improve balance sheet profitability by striving to reduce funding costs, and shifting our loan portfolio to high-profit areas where we have strengths. In the meantime, we will respond appropriately to our clients’ funding needs. In the asset management business, we will contribute to mediumto longterm asset formation by providing competitive asset management products to meet the diverse management needs of individual and corporate clients, mainly Management Foundation through Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Co., Ltd. and Nikko Asset Management Co., Ltd. We will also pursue alliances with regional financial institutions and take advantage of our expert functions to provide high-quality services to a wide range of individual and corporate clients. (2) Cultivating Growth Areas Corporate Information We will take on the challenge of expanding our services and diversifying our earnings structure by cultivating growth areas based on accurately understanding client needs generated by social changes and creating new solutions to address them. For example, we strengthened our insurance consulting functions in May 2019 with the establishment of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Life Partners Co., Ltd. In June 2019, we launched sales of the 100-Year Life Solution Trust (100-Year Passport), Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 15 Top Message a trust product that includes features such as asset administration for when a person starts to show symptoms of dementia and a function for passing assets on to the next generation. In this way, we will make maximum use of diverse functions of the Group to address various concerns and needs arising from the advent of the “100-year life era” by developing products and services that offer clients security, safety and richness of life. In addition, as announced in June 2019, we entered into a capital and business alliance in the wealth management business with the UBS Group, a global leading company in the area of asset management services for wealthy individuals. By leveraging the strengths of both groups, we seek to offer “Total Wealth Management” comprehensive financial services that provide optimal solutions for clients, not limited to products alone. Furthermore, we are pursuing measures to address the rapidly advancing digitalization of society. We are taking advantage of digital technology in new areas such as enhanced marketing using AI and verification experiments regarding the use of blockchain in the real estate business. Other than these, we held a contest for ideas from Group employees for creating new future-oriented businesses in fiscal year 2018. We selected four of the over 200 proposals submitted and are now commercializing them. We will continue these initiatives and intend to further revitalize the corporate culture of an “enterprising spirit” cultivated by the Group. (3) Cost Structure Reform and Investment in Growth for the Future As noted above, we consider ongoing efforts to enhance group-wide efficiency to be a major management issue. We will therefore implement well-balanced measures from fiscal year 2019 onward. First, we will press ahead with improvements in operational efficiency using *2 Robotic Process Automation digital technologies such as RPA*2, while reducing headquarters staff by 10% 16 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Top Message during fiscal year 2019 and shifting these employees to highly profitable frontline marketing. We are making steady progress in reducing administrative workloads at Reduction of branch backoffice work Overview branches, a task we have been working on since fiscal year 2017. We expect a • Reduce branch backoffice work by 70% in 40% reduction during fiscal year 2019 and are planning a reduction of 70% by the five years since fiscal year 2017 fiscal year 2021. Our policy is to demonstrate the added value unique to a trust • Create the workforce equivalent of approximately 1,600 employees bank while reducing the amount of space used in branches and improving effiExpect to achieve 40% reduction during FY2019 ciency. To do so, we will enhance convenience for clients and provide more space <Reduction Plan> for contact with them through the introduction of new multifunction devices, Phase 1 while at the same time shifting to “trust type next-generation branches” that (Introducing host-DB linked devices for use in client visits) reduce operation space. Meanwhile, we will begin making necessary upfront investments in computer 10% reduction Vision systems that are the foundation supporting high-quality products and services from the perspective of improving mediumto long-term profitability, while Phase 2 focusing on efforts to improve cost efficiency. (Extending functions of devices, etc.) 50% reduction (4) Practicing Appropriate Risk Control ESG Initiatives Looking over the current economic environment, political and geopolitical risks FY2022 are on the rise overseas, including growing trade friction between the U.S. and Phase 3 (Further digitalization) China and the delayed BREXIT negotiations. Concerns are growing in Japan as well with regard to an economic slowdown mainly due to economic volatility overseas. 70% reduction We are reinforcing our risk preparations as downside-risk management has taken on even greater importance amid uncertainty in the economic and financial environment both in Japan and overseas. Business Strategy For example, in addition to controlling the risk of fluctuations in the yen and U.S. interest rates, we had hedged approximately 80% of the market capitalization of strategic shareholdings held by the Group as of March 31, 2019. We will continue working to strengthen our financial base by preparing for the risk of fluctuations in the market price of shares while systematically reducing our strategic shareholdings. With respect to credit risk, we will redouble our efforts focused on risk predicManagement Foundation tor management and risk management while responding steadily to the funding needs of clients. Initiatives to Enhance Management Infrastructure In order to swiftly and steadily carry out the initiatives I have mentioned thus far, we will enhance our corporate governance system and further strengthen human resources that underlie total solutions. As a Group that emphasizes trust, Corporate Information we will promote compliance with strict international regulations and strive to build a framework to handle our expanding global business. Initiatives to Enhance Governance In the interests of enhancing mediumto long-term corporate value, SuMi TRUST Bank and Nikko Asset Management, the Group’s primary subsidiaries, each transitioned to a Company with Audit and Supervisory Committee in June 2019, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 17 Top Message following the similar transition of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management in October 2018. With this change, we aim for greater management flexibility and to enhance our audit and supervisory functions. In addition, SuMi TRUST Holdings made Nikko Asset Management a directly owned subsidiary in July 2019, to build a highly transparent asset management business system. New Diversity Management Selection Developing Human Resources and Expanding Areas for 100 project Active Participation The Group has always considered human resources to be the greatest source of our competitiveness, and it has worked to expand areas in which diverse human resources can play active roles. In recognition of these efforts, SuMi TRUST Bank won a place in the New Diversity Management Selection 100 for the first time. Certified Health and Productivity We also view work style reforms and health promotion management that enhance Management Organization (White 500) production while reducing total working hours as high priority issues for achieving sustainable growth for the Group. Specific efforts include working from home and mobile work, as well as smoking bans at all locations. These activities have been highly regarded. The Group was selected as a “Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization (White 500)” for the second consecutive year. We continue to view human resources as the source of the Group’s sustainable development and will focus our efforts on both developing diverse personnel and expanding areas in which they can play active roles. Specifically, we will boost the expertise, comprehensive capabilities and creative power of employees through enhanced in-house training. In the meantime, we will provide opportunities for growth and active participation among the mid-career and young segments, as well as proactively promote female employees. We are also implementing measures such as extending the retirement age so that senior employees with abundant experience can participate actively with purpose and motivation. Enhancing Shareholder Return The Group intends to make solid returns to shareholders from the results of our business activities. In May 2017, we set our shareholder return policy of maintaining a consolidated dividend payout ratio of around 30%, while gradually raising the total payout ratio to approximately 40% in the medium term by carrying out share repurchases. For fiscal year 2019, we announced a dividend (forecast) of ¥150 per share of common stock, an increase of ¥10 compared to the previous fiscal year, as well as a repurchase of shares in May 2019. Through these efforts, we expect the total payout ratio to be around 40% of net income attributable to owners of the parent (full-year forecast) for fiscal year 2019, achieving the targeted level of “approximately 40% in the medium term” ahead of schedule. We will continue to meet the expectations of shareholders by making a substantial return to shareholders, while aiming to raise ROE in the medium term in line with sustainable and stable growth befitting a financial group specialized in trust banking. 18 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Top Message In Conclusion We recognize even more expectations for diverse functions, advanced expertise and high-quality consulting cultivated by the Group, as client issues become Overview increasingly diverse and complex amid significant changes in the structure and values of society. We are proud and confident to be a financial group specialized in trust banking. We will strive to earn even greater trust and support as the best partner to resolve all our clients’ concerns in a new era and a new environment. At the same time, we will help realize a sustainable society by providing Group services to a wide range of clients by making full use of various networks. We ourselves will strive for constant transformation and create an even stronVision ger portfolio of varied and unique functions and businesses, including real estate, asset management and asset administration, in addition to banking operations. We will thus establish a business model that is clearly distinct from the conventional commercial banking model centered on financial intermediary services, in order to realize sustainable and stable growth. Going forward, all directors, officers and employees of the Group, myself ESG Initiatives included, will do our utmost to live up to the expectations and trust of stakeholders, who range from clients to society and beyond. We appreciate your continued understanding and cooperation. July 2019 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. Director, President Business Strategy Management Foundation Corporate Information Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 19 Message from Head of Finance Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Managing Executive Officer Head of Finance Hitoshi Sato 1. Looking Back on Fiscal Year 2018 (Second Year of Midterm Management Plan) Looking back on fiscal year 2018, the second year of the the loan/investment related business owing to replacement current midterm management plan, turning first to busiof assets and control of funding costs. Both revenue and ness performance, we achieved profit growth in line with profit increased even after implementing further efforts to the plan for both net business profit before credit costs and enhance financial soundness, including realization of U.S. net income attributable to owners of the parent. This was treasury related unrealized loss and impairment of goodwill due to steady growth in the fee businesses, including asset at subsidiaries. As a result, return on shareholders’ equity management, real estate and the stock transfer agency was 7.95%, nearing the level of 8% set as a medium-term services business, in addition to improved profitability in target under the midterm management plan. FY2017 FY2018 Change from FY2019 Plan Target KPIs (Billions of yen) Actual Plan Actual Against plan FY2017 Net business profit 270.5 280.0 282.2 +11.6 +2.2 290.0 before credit costs Profit targets Net income attributable to 153.9 175.0 173.8 +19.9 (1.1) 180.0 owners of the parent Profitability Fee income ratio 57.4% 57.1% (0.3%) — — Approx. 60% indicators Overhead ratio (OHR) 61.7% 61.1% 60.9% (0.8%) (0.2%) 60.8% Mid 50% level Financial Shareholder ROE* 7.40% — 7.95% +0.55% — Approx. 8% 8% or more indicators Common equity Tier 1 ratio 11.33% — 12.18% +0.85% — — Approx. 10% * Return on shareholders’ equity = [Net income attributable to owners of the parent / (FY-start total shareholders’ equity + FY-end shareholders’ equity) / 2] × 100 20 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Message from Head of Finance Looking at each business separately, results fell short of in new credit costs arising in the second half compared the plan for investment management consulting, etc. amid to the first due to worsening of credit of some borrowan uncertain market environment, and there are areas ers. However, considering credit risk as well as market risk Overview where our efforts to strengthen the client base should be overall, including share prices and interest rates, I believe accelerated. If we look carefully, we can see that we need our efforts to appropriately control downside risks are proto step up our credit risk management, given the increase gressing steadily. 2. Outlook for Fiscal Year 2019 In the business environment for fiscal year 2019, there investments. We will work to keep consolidated OHR Vision are growing concerns about an economic downturn mainly at a low level by controlling total expenses and steadily stemming from overseas factors such as U.S.-China trade growing the top-line through constant efforts to reduce friction and its increasing impact, as well as geopolitical general expenses. risks in Europe and the Middle East. We need to continue With regard to performance in fiscal year 2019, we are to prepare ourselves for downside risks, including rapid planning gradual increases in both revenue and profit, ESG Initiatives changes in financial markets. In fiscal year 2019, while with net business profit before credit costs of ¥290.0 bilthe pillars of our strategy remain unchanged, including lion and net income attributable to owners of the parent strengthening the fee business and improving the profitof ¥180.0 billion, and expecting return on shareholders’ ability of the credit portfolio as set out in the midterm equity (ROE) in the range of 8%. Although we are planning management plan, we will work even more aggressively to for ¥10.0 billion less in net business profit before credit further accelerate and enhance various measures. costs compared to the midterm management plan primarWe will also further bolster efforts to improve cost ily due to an expected increase in total expenses owing Business Strategy efficiency group-wide. At the same time, we will make to upfront investments in systems to reduce future costs, IT-related upfront investments designed to produce net income attributable to owners of the parent is in line cost reduction effects and enhance our client service with the midterm management plan level, reflecting profit capabilities in the future, based on diversified, selective secured through ongoing sales of strategic shareholdings. Management Foundation 3. Financial Agendas I think that our biggest financial challenge is how to profitability. At the same time, we will strive to further solidachieve high levels of financial soundness along with high ify our goal of shareholder ROE of 8% or more by steadily profitability and capital efficiency. expanding the fee business and stepping up efforts to International capital regulatory reforms agreed upon improve cost efficiency, while also working to reach our by the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (finalized long-term target of 10% as early as possible. With the Basel III) at the end of 2017 will raise capital requirements Group’s transaction base with its corporate and individual Corporate Information for credit portfolios and strategic shareholdings. As one of clients, and a sustainable growth model centered on varithe Domestic Systemically Important Banks (D-SIBs), and ous fee businesses, I think it is fully possible to achieve a trust banking group premised on long-term transactions both financial soundness and capital efficiency. with clients, I believe we need to strengthen our financial base even more by increasing capital and improving asset Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 21 Message from Head of Finance As for strategic shareholdings, while we have hedged Ratio of strategic shareholdings to Common Equity Tier 1 capital* economic risk corresponding to approximately 80% of (Billions of yen) market capitalization of such shareholdings as of March 31, 42% 2019, we will strive to continuously reduce the balance of 35% 31% strategic shareholdings from the standpoint of capital effi694.5 630.4 598.9 ciency. In accordance with our reduction plan formulated in fiscal year 2016, “Aiming to cut the ratio of strategic shareholdings to Common Equity Tier 1 capital by 50% in approximately five years,” we decreased the ratio from 42% to 31% over the past three years. With the understanding of our business partners, we aim to achieve our 1,636.4 1,809.1 1,944.6 target of a 50% reduction over the remaining two years. March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, 2016 Actual 2018 Actual 2019 Actual 2021 Plan Common Equity Tier 1 capital (excluding valuation differences on available-for-sale securities) Stocks (Acquisition cost of stocks on a consolidated basis) Ratio of strategic shareholdings to Common Equity Tier 1 capital * Stocks (acquisition cost of stocks on a consolidated basis) ÷ Common Equity Tier 1 capital (excluding valuation differences on available-for-sale securities) 22 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Message from Head of Finance 4. Capital and Shareholder Return Policy Our basic policy on capital and shareholder returns is 1) management plan. We plan a dividend per share of ¥150, Overview to set a goal of achieving both higher levels of adequacy which is an increase of ¥10 per share for the second conand efficiency of capital, and to engage in capital managesecutive year, and will increase the amount of share repurment that strikes the best balance between 2) investment chases compared to the previous fiscal year to a maximum in profit growth opportunities and 3) strengthening shareof ¥16.0 billion. holder returns in the medium term. Shareholder return As for capital adequacy, we have set a target of steadily (Billions of yen) (%) 50 securing a Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) ratio of approxiApprox. 40% mately 10%. As of March 31, 2019, we have secured a Vision 40 35.7 CET1 ratio of 12.1%, exceeding our target. However, we believe that it will be necessary to accumulate further capi56.7 30 53.0 tal at this stage, given that our pro-forma CET1 ratio based 50.0 on Finalized Basel III reform basis, which is expected to be 20 phased in from March 31, 2022, would be 9% level. However, considering the steady progress of the mid16.0 10 ESG Initiatives 8.9 term management plan mentioned earlier, and our expectations with regard to goal 1), we set a policy for fiscal 0 0 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Fiscal year) year 2019 to achieve ahead of time a 40% total payout Dividends (left) Share repurchases (left) (Forecast) ratio, which is a medium-term target under the midterm Total payout ratio (right) 5. In Conclusion Business Strategy As stated in the Top Message, as Japan’s only financial corporate governance and ESG initiatives, and by engaggroup specialized in trust banking, I believe we can deming in so-called shareholder relations (SR) activities. onstrate an outstanding presence in the financial sector in Through these efforts, we will actively contribute to the terms of our financial profile, including capital adequacy Group’s value creation process from the standpoint of finance. and efficiency, by establishing a more robust business Management Foundation Earnings per share (EPS) model that is distinct from the commercial bank model. We are also committed to further increasing manage500 (Yen) 475 458 ment transparency by strengthening our efforts to engage in dialogue with various stakeholders, including disclosure 400 of financial as well as non-financial information such as 300 KPI* Corporate Information FY2018 Actual FY2019 Plan 200 Profit growth ¥173.8 billion ¥180.0 billion Capital efficiency 7.95% Approximately 8% 100 Shareholder return 35.7% Approximately 40% * Profit growth: Net income attributable to owners of the parent 0 Capital efficiency: Shareholder ROE 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 (Fiscal year) Shareholder return: Total payout ratio (Forecast) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 23 ESG Initiatives Materiality Management Materiality (high priority issues) refers to events that have a material impact on a company’s value creation process. The SuMi TRUST Group promotes materiality management that identifies materiality issues that need to be addressed as priorities from a mediumto long-term perspective, and dealt with at the top level of management. Materiality is identified both in terms of impact on the Group’s One of the strengths of the Group is that we do not meremediumto long-term enterprise value, and in terms of the impact ly define materiality through slogans. Rather, the Sustainability of the Group on society through its relationships with stakeholders. Management Office of the Corporate Planning Department plays In this process, we consider themes related to our management the role of an “in-house quasi-investor,” and engages in dialogue foundation, including governance, social themes, such as relationwith related departments. This creates an opportunity for departships with employees and the community, and environmental ments that have little direct dialogue with external institutional themes that are directly related to resource and energy problems. investors and stakeholders to become aware of issues from an Accordingly, materiality is a concept that overlaps with ESG (enviinvestor perspective, and to examine specific measures to address ronmental, social, and governance). these issues. The SuMi TRUST Group’s Value Creation Process Mission, Vision and Value Environment surrounding the Group Monitoring Financial Capital RAF Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Creating Contribute to maximizing value Shared Value for each stakeholder Human Capital Optimal allocation of Reconversion to six types of capital Clients Intellectual Capital Shareholders and Impact Investors (Risk Appetite Framework) Manufactured Capital six types of capital Group companies Employees Social and Relationship Capital Realizing sustainable growth Communities/ Public Sector by effectively leveraging Natural Capital allocated capital Monitoring Materiality Identification and management of high priority issues (materiality) Materiality Map of the SuMi TRUST Group that impact the value creation process Highest materiality issues Corporate governance • Stability of the financial system Identified highest materiality issues Risk management and resilience Impact of the Group on society • Personal privacy data protection e • Safety of financial products an c • Cyber attacks rt • Consideration of environmental and social impact of po investment and financing targets Im Compliance • Fair trade considerations • Transactions with antisocial forces • Crime prevention Human capital Dialogue with stakeholders Client satisfaction/fiduciary duties Impact on the Group’s enterprise value over the medium to long term 24 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Materiality Management Materiality Identification and Practice STEP 1 STEP 2 STEP 3 STEP 4 STEP 5 Select materiality Input from Create a materiality map Conduct internal Initiatives for increasing enterOverview issues stakeholders engagement prise value over the long term Based on various reports The materiality issues are The evaluation results from STEP From among the high materiality The Board of Directors engagand guidelines, we select evaluated by external direc2 are mapped. The highest mateissues, the Sustainability Managees in discussions from a variety materiality issues emphators and external auditors, riality issues are designated as ment Office engages in dialogue of perspectives, based on the sized by the major ESG relevant internal departthe highest priority ESG issues, (engagement) with relevant departfindings of the Risk Commitevaluation agencies that ments, and external experts identified at the Executive Comments on the themes that have the tee and the report on interprovide information to from two perspectives: 1) mittee and reported to the Board strongest investor interest, and for nal engagement. This step is investors. the impact on enterprise of Directors. The Risk Committee, which the Group still faces some taken to address the “environvalue over the mediuman advisory body to the Board of issues. The Sustainability Managemental and social issues over to long-term, and 2) the Directors, examines the appropriment Office reports to the Executhe sustainability” that should impact on stakeholders. ateness of the materiality issues tive Committee and the Board of be addressed by the Board that are identified, and reports its Directors regarding the status of of Directors, as prescribed in findings to the Board of Directors. the initiatives. the Basic Policy on Corporate Vision Governance. Main Discussions Regarding ESG initiatives at the Board of Internal Engagement Directors Meeting Held in February 2019 Evaluation/engagement Financial (Non-financial matters are given lower priority) matters • Further contributions to the resolution of domestic and foreign issues through ESG measures in business fields in which the Non-financial ESG Initiatives matters Group has strengths Investors Evaluation ESG research institutions • Enhancement of communications in order to further foster underCorporate Administration standing of ESG measures, both inside and outside the Group Department • Enhancement of internal engagement aimed at increasing the Human value provided to stakeholders Resources Non-financial Engagement matters Department • Leadership in implementing the principles for responsible banking Sustainability Risk management-related Management Office departments, etc. • Visualization of contributions to SDGs and SDG results achieved in-house quasi-investor through Positive Impact Finance Internal Engagement in FY2017-2018 Business Strategy Theme Target Departments Engagement in FY2017 Results from FY2017/ Engagement in FY2018 Provided evaluation results on the Group received from Provided evaluation results on the Group’s governance reforms Corporate Administration ESG research institutions, and relayed the Group’s issues Corporate received from ESG research institutions, and relayed recent Department, from the perspective of investors. Expanded the disclogovernance items of interest among investors and the Group’s issues from Corporate Secretariat sure of information such as the President’s standard comthe perspective of investors pensation table Enhancing After the previous fiscal year’s engagement, prepared a map of Further improved the map of linkages and expanded the linkages between HR measures and enterprise value, and human capital, Human Resources disclosure of quantitative data. In particular, expanded disclosed the information in an integrated report/ESG report; increasing Department content disclosed on website regarding diversity & inclucontinuously discussed methods to enhance the level of discloManagement Foundation enterprise value sion promotion measures and their results sure of content regarding human capital Shared awareness regarding the loan and investment risks reAs a general rule, it was decided not to engage in project Wholesale Business Planning lated to fossil fuels of particular interest to investors; engaged financing for the coal-fired power generator business in Climate change Department*1 in in-depth discussions regarding project financing for coalJapan and overseas. This was reported in the integrated fired power generators report Measures on dementia literacy improvement and comThe expertise accrued through collaborations with COLTEM*2 munity coordination were implemented at branch ofDementia-related was used to organize information regarding the impact of defices. In related internal departments, external experts Related departments*1 problems mentia-related problems on Retail Total Solution Services Busiwere invited as workshop lecturers. Information regardness. This information was provided to related departments ing problems was shared through these workshops. A foundation was established for group-wide coordination Integrated reports were used to explain the importance Value creation All business supervision of the value creation process to investors. All businesses — Corporate Information process departments*1 were instructed to begin considering their own value creation processes The global tide of focusing on SDGs was explained. All All business supervision SDGs — businesses were instructed to formulate business stratedepartments*1 gies linked to SDGs Global trends in fixed income investment, such as ESG SuMiTAM Actively Managed Sustainable integration and impact investment, which have been Fund Department Fixed — investment growing in recent years, and their background were exIncome Investment Unit, etc. plained. Opinions were shared regarding this topic *1 SuMi TRUST Bank *2 “A development center of social technologies integrating law, engineering and medicine that seamlessly support community life for the elderly from the period of sound health to the onset of dementia.” The project is carried out through collaboration between industry, government, and academia. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 25 Corporate Governance As Japan’s only financial group specialized in trust banking, the SuMi TRUST Group is enhancing its corporate governance system in line with its business model. When changing into a “company with Three Committees” in June 2017, in addition to the statutory committees required by the Companies Act, SuMi TRUST Holdings established the Risk Committee and the Conflicts of Interest Committee, as advisory bodies to the Board of Directors. Furthermore, an external director serves as chairman of the Board of Directors, in order to increase the Group’s management transparency. 1. History of Enhancement of Corporate Governance As Japan’s only financial group specialized in trust banking, the TRUST Holdings set the ratio of external directors, in principle at SuMi TRUST Group has worked to refine its business model, which one-third or higher, and voluntarily established the Nominating provides unique added value, and to enhance profitability through and Compensation Committee and the Audit Committee, a majorcollaboration among Group companies, by swiftly and accurately ity of the members of each of which is comprised by external providing total solutions for clients through the combination of its directors, as advisory bodies to the Board of Directors. banking business, asset management and administration business, Having confirmed the effectiveness of these efforts, and in order and real estate business. to promote the further improvement of profitability and enhanced At the same time, the SuMi TRUST Group has continued its efforts corporate governance in the future, while responding appropriateto strengthen its corporate governance, recognizing that in order to ly to rapid changes in the environment surrounding the financial establish the unwavering trust of our clients and society, it is essential industry, we consider it important to establish both management to adhere to the principles of sound management, based on a high capabilities to realize prompt business execution, and supervisory degree of self-discipline with the background of fiduciary spirit. and restraining capabilities to ensure sound management. To this With regard to the system, two external directors, among ten end, as part of our measures to further strengthen its system, SuMi directors, took office in June 2013. Subsequently, following the TRUST Holdings changed to become a “company with Three introduction of the Corporate Governance Code in 2015, SuMi Committees” on June 29, 2017. (Statutory) Establishment of the Nominating Committee, the Compensation Committee, and the Audit Committee (Voluntary) (Voluntary) Establishment of the Nominating Establishment of the Risk Committee Number of external directors and the Conflicts of Interest Committee and Compensation Committee Number of external auditors and the Audit Committee Launch of Percentage of external directors 47% SuMi TRUST Holdings 33% 33% 20% 20% 0 4 0 4 2 4 2 4 3 2 3 3 7 A company with A company with a Board of Corporate Auditors Three Committees 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 26 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Corporate Governance 2. Basic Initiative Policy In order to adhere to the principles of sound management, Overview based on a high degree of self-discipline with the background of fiduciary spirit, and to establish strong credibility with society, SuMi TRUST Holdings commits itself to enhancing its corporate governance system in line with the following basic philosophy, with the objective of supporting sustainable growth and mediumto long-term enhancement of the enterprise value of the SuMi TRUST Group. In addition, the Board of Directors sets out and discloses the SuMi TRUST Group’s Management Principles (“Mission”), Ideal Model (“Vision”), and Codes of Conduct (“Value”) as the anchor for all of our activities, which is shared by all of the directors, offiVision cers, and employees of the SuMi TRUST Group. Basic Philosophy • SuMi TRUST Holdings shall respect shareholder rights, and its Disclosure Policy, and endeavor to appropriately disclose endeavor to develop an environment in which shareholders can corporate information, including non-financial information, and exercise their rights appropriately and effectively, and to secure ensure the transparency of its corporate management. ESG Initiatives the effectively equal treatment of shareholders. • As the financial holding company that assumes the corporate • By recognizing the importance of its social responsibilities management function of the SuMi TRUST Group, SuMi TRUST and public mission, SuMi TRUST Holdings shall endeavor to Holdings adopted the institutional design of a “company with appropriately cooperate with its stakeholders, including shareThree Committees,” and, by separating the execution and holders, clients, employees, business partners, and local comsupervision of business, shall endeavor to ensure the Board of munities, and to establish a corporate culture and climate in Directors’ role of effective supervision. which it conducts sound business operations based on a high • SuMi TRUST Holdings shall engage in constructive dialogue degree of self-discipline. with its stakeholders in order to contribute to sustainable • In order to establish a basis for constructive dialogue with its growth, as well as the mediumto long-term enhancement of Business Strategy stakeholders, SuMi TRUST Holdings shall separately set out the enterprise value of SuMi TRUST Holdings. 3. Perspectives Regarding the Corporate Governance System SuMi TRUST Holdings is a financial holding company with Management Foundation subsidiaries such as SuMi TRUST Bank, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management, Nikko Asset Management, JTC Holdings, and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Research Institute, etc. and aims to be our clients’ “Best Partner,” by providing “Total Solutions” that combine our banking business, asset management and administration business, and real estate business, based on a fiduciary spirit, and by making full use of our significant expertise and creativity. In addition, in order to fulfill our principles and meet the expectations of stakeholders, SuMi TRUST Holdings endeavors to Corporate Information ensure the soundness and reliability of its business model and the transparency of the management of the SuMi TRUST Group, and further enhances the SuMi TRUST Group’s corporate governance. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 27 Corporate Governance 4. Board of Directors (1) Roles of the Board of Directors board that is, as a whole, sufficiently balanced and diverse in terms The Board of Directors ensures the fairness and transparency of of knowledge, experience, and capability to properly supervise the the SuMi TRUST Group’s corporate management as its central role, wide range of business fields in which SuMi TRUST Holdings has by setting out the basic management policy of the SuMi TRUST dealings, as a trust bank group. Group and supervising the overall management of the Group. Thus, Composition of the Board of Directors with the exception of matters that are required by law to be decided by the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors, in principle, delegates decisions on the execution of business to executive officers, Chairman and supervises the execution of business by executive officers, etc. Meanwhile, the Board of Directors provides and improves an environment in which external directors may properly supervise the External directors Internal directors execution of duties by the Board of Directors and the top manage(7 directors) (8 directors) ment, as well as any conflicts of interest that may arise between Percentage of external directors 47% SuMi TRUST Holdings and the management team, etc. from the standpoint of stakeholders, in order to support sustainable growth Non-executive directors Executive directors and the mediumto long-term enhancement of the enterprise value (11 directors) (4 directors) of the SuMi TRUST Group. In light of the importance of environmenPercentage of non-executive directors 73% tal and social issues related to sustainability, the Board of Directors prescribes a basic policy regarding social responsibility that is to be  ll seven external directors have been registered as independent officers with the A implemented by each Group company (the “Sustainability Policy”). relevant financial instruments exchange. Under this Sustainability Policy, the Board of Directors enhances Breakdown of 15 directors: 14 men, 1 woman 16 Board of Directors’ meetings were held during the period of July 1, 2018 to awareness among its officers and employees, and promotes posiJune 30, 2019. Attendance of all Board members was 100% for all 16 meetings. tive efforts to resolve these issues while taking its stakeholders into consideration, with the aim of supporting the sustainable growth (3) External Director Serving as Chairman of the Board of society and increasing the enterprise value of the SuMi TRUST of Directors Group. Furthermore, the Board of Directors establishes policies While a “company with Three Committees” is, in principle, able regarding the provision of products and services suitable for the to delegate important business execution decisions to executive true benefit of our clients (the “Policies regarding the Fiduciary officers, the Board of Directors is required to exercise a greater Duties of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group”), acts to ensure client supervisory function. In light of the role expected of the Board of comfort and satisfaction by sharing our “client-orientation” policy Directors, SuMi TRUST Holdings has appointed Mr. Isao Matsushita, within the SuMi TRUST Group, and promotes the practice of fiduan external director, as chairman of the Board of Directors. ciary duties in the SuMi TRUST Group by supervising each Group In addition, SuMi TRUST Holdings has established the Corporate company’s commitment to its fiduciary duties. Secretariat as an organization that assists the chairman in fulfilling his duties, thereby providing information for use in the selection of (2) Composition of the Board of Directors agendas for Board of Directors meetings, and offering assistance The Board of Directors of SuMi TRUST Holdings is comprised regarding matters such as the clarification of points related to the of no more than 20 directors, which is the number of directors preagendas of Board of Directors meetings. scribed in the Articles of Incorporation, and includes the number of directors that is necessary and appropriate to provide an effective Chairman of the Board of Directors supervisory system required of a financial holding company that serves the corporate management function of the SuMi TRUST Group. Due consideration is also given to ensuring the diversity and expertise of the Board of Directors. In light of the importance of the functions of external directors External director in corporate governance, as a general rule, at least one-third of Isao Matsushita the directors on the Board of Directors are independent external directors. The Board of Directors establishes and discloses Assistance Independence Standards of Independent Directors. Corporate Secretariat In determining candidates for directors, SuMi TRUST Holdings takes into consideration, among other factors, a balance between • P  rovides information for use in the selection of individuals who are capable of exerting strength in the manageagendas for Board of Directors meetings ment of specific business fields, and individuals who are suitable for • C  larifies points related to the agendas of Board of Directors meetings, etc. corporate management. SuMi TRUST Holdings strives to secure a 28 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Corporate Governance (4) R  esults of the FY2018 Evaluation of the Board of Directors Measures to Address FY2017 Challenges SuMi TRUST Holdings conducts an annual evaluation of the Based on the efforts for tackling challenges in fiscal year 2017, effectiveness of the Board of Directors as a whole (the “Evaluation described below, the FY2018 Evaluation of the Board of Directors Overview of the Board of Directors”), and reviews and implements remedial checked the status of improvements for each challenge, and conmeasures for the challenges it recognizes, thereby implementing a firmed that the conditions had improved for all challenges, comPDCA cycle to improve the effectiveness of the Board of Directors. pared with conditions in fiscal year 2017. The key points of the FY2018 Evaluation of the Board of Directors are as indicated below. (1) Refinement of the infrastructure for operation of the Board of Directors to contribute to efficient and enhanced deliberation PDCA Cycle • With regard to the topics to be deliberated on in greater depth Formulation of annual schedule by the Board of Directors, an annual deliberation schedule was (deliberated on by Board of Directors) formulated, and the topics were discussed by the Board of Directors. Appropriate deliberation opportunities were provided to the Board of Directors and committees. • Board of Directors materials were improved with an eye toward Vision Operation of the Board of Directors monitoring by the Board of Directors. (2) Further demonstration of supervisory functions over management matters important for promotion of the midterm management plan • From a supervisory perspective, management priority issues and Effectiveness evaluation and understanding of issues mediumto long-term themes were selected as “management (deliberated on by Board of Directors) themes” and deliberated on in-depth by the Board of Directors. • Progress in the deliberation of risk appetite framework ideals, based on the trust bank group business model, was confirmed. ESG Initiatives (3) Enhancement of coordination between the Board of Directors Deliberation regarding approaches to use in addressing issues, deliberation of critical deliberation issues and each committee with a view toward ensuring the further dem(deliberated on by Board of Directors) onstration of their functions • Through deliberations by the Board of Directors, processes were introduced for clarifying the advisory issues of each committee FY2018 Key Evaluation Points of the Board of Directors for fiscal year 2018. (1) Implementation of multifaceted evaluations, including a selfevaluation by the Board of Directors and each committee’s R  esults of the FY2018 Evaluation of the Board of Directors self-evaluation, as well as the Board of Directors’ evaluation and Future Measures Business Strategy of each committee and executive officers’ evaluations of the Through the FY2018 Evaluation of the Board of Directors, SuMi Board of Directors TRUST Holdings concluded that the Board of Directors and each (2) Implementation of third-party evaluations through questionnaires and interviews with directors by external experts committee had been operated with a sense of their own pur(3) Confirmation of some degree of effectiveness through selfpose, in an effort to invigorate deliberation and enhance objecevaluations based on third-party evaluations; recognition of tivity and transparency, and that they had maintained a certain future issues level of effectiveness. (4) Exchanges of opinions at the external directors’ meeting regardOn the other hand, through the Evaluation of the Board of ing the results of the evaluation of the Board of Directors Directors, SuMi TRUST Holdings identified the following three Management Foundation challenges as requiring improvement and enhancement by the FY2018 Implementation Schedule for the Evaluation of the Board of Directors and each committee, and is working continuBoard of Directors ously to address these issues. Month and Year Evaluation Process (1) Enrichment of discussions of mediumto long-term manageConducted questionnaires on directors, executive ment challenges and strategies, including formulation of the January-February officers, and members of each committee (including next midterm management plan 2019 external committee members other than directors. (2) Enhancement of monitoring aimed at improvement of group Same hereinafter) governance February-March External experts conducted interviews with directors (3) Enhancement of framework that supports the operation of Corporate Information The board of directors deliberated the results of the evaluation of the board of directors the Board of Directors April Exchanges of opinions by external directors at the External Directors Meeting In its pursuit of sustainable growth and the mediumto longAreas of greater focus for future deliberations were term enhancement of enterprise value, SuMi TRUST Holdings is May discussed by the board of directors committed to further enhancing the effectiveness of the Board of Additional matters for consultation for each commitDirectors and each committee, by continuously implementing the tee were prepared June PDCA cycle through the Evaluation of the Board of Directors. An annual deliberation schedule for the board of directors was prepared Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 29 Corporate Governance 5. Committees In order to ensure the effectiveness of its corporate goverthe Board of Directors of SuMi TRUST Bank and Sumitomo Mitsui nance system and further enhance the soundness and reliability Trust Asset Management, and deliberates and makes reports of its business model and the transparency of its management of regarding these matters. The Nominating Committee consists of the SuMi TRUST Group, SuMi TRUST Holdings has established three or more directors, and a majority of the members are indethe Risk Committee and the Conflicts of Interest Committee pendent external directors. The chairperson of the Nominating as advisory bodies to the Board of Directors, in addition to the Committee is selected from the pool of committee members who Nominating Committee, the Compensation Committee, and the are independent external directors. Audit Committee, the establishment of which is required under (2) Compensation Committee the Companies Act. Independent external directors participate in The Compensation Committee prescribes policy regarding the Risk Committee and the Conflicts of Interest Committee. decisions on the content of compensation for individual executive As a financial group specialized in trust banking, we have estabofficers and directors, and determines the content of compensalished the Conflicts of Interest Committee, which has supervisory tion for individual executive officers and directors, in accordance functions unparalleled in other financial groups. with this policy. It receives requests for consultation regarding (1) Nominating Committee policies on decisions on the content of compensation for indiThe Nominating Committee determines the content of proposvidual directors, etc. from the Board of Directors of SuMi TRUST als regarding the election and dismissal of directors to be submitBank and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management, and delibted to the General Meeting of Shareholders, receives requests for erates and makes reports on these matters. The Compensation consultation regarding the election and dismissal of executive offiCommittee consists of three or more directors, and a majority of cers including the President, as well as the succession plan for the the members are independent external directors. The chairperson management team from the Board of Directors, and deliberates of the Compensation Committee is selected from the pool of and makes reports on these matters. It also receives requests for committee members who are independent external directors. consultation regarding the election and dismissal of directors from Nominating Held 18 times between Compensation Held 11 times between Committee July 2018 and June 2019 Committee July 2018 and June 2019 • Decided on proposal for candidates for directors of • Designed a compensation system for directors and SuMi TRUST Holdings executive officers, including major subsidiaries Activity Status of Each • Selected next-generation top management candidates • Discussed the compensation system, taking into conbased on succession plans and considered improvesideration monthly compensation, director/executive Committees ments to development plans officer bonuses, stock option composition, short-, • Clarified and established dismissal policies and procemedium-, and long-term incentives. Partially revised the dures through discussions regarding dismissal of direcsystem for director/executive officer bonuses tors and other personnel Corporate Governance System General Meeting of Shareholders Supervisory body Board of Directors Statutory committee Supervision of the execution of duties of directors and executive officers Voluntary committee Nominating Committee Compensation Committee Audit Committee Determination of compensation for Audit of execution of duties of Election and dismissal of directors directors and executive officers directors and executive officers Risk Committee Conflicts of Interest Committee : Chairman Chairperson Enhancement of the conflict of (Board of Directors) (Each Committee) Advice on risk governance interest management framework : External : Internal/Non-executive : Internal/Executive Supervise Executive body Executive Committee Representative Executive Officers Executive Officers, etc. Individual Committees 30 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Corporate Governance (3) Audit Committee internal control system related to compliance management of the The Audit Committee audits the execution of duties by executive SuMi TRUST Group, and reviews and reports on their appropriateofficers and directors, and prepares audit reports. It determines the ness. In principle, a majority of the members of the Risk Committee content of proposals regarding the election and dismissal of a finanare independent external directors and external experts. The chairOverview cial auditor, and regarding refusals to reappoint a financial auditor person of the Risk Committee is selected from the pool of committhat are submitted to the General Meeting of Shareholders. tee members who are independent external directors. In order to fulfill its role and responsibilities, the Audit Committee (5) Conflicts of Interest Committee appropriately exercises its authority to investigate the status of busiThe Conflicts of Interest Committee receives requests for consultaness and the assets of companies belonging to the SuMi TRUST tion from the Board of Directors on (i) matters concerning the validity Group. It appropriately utilizes the internal control system of the of the conflict of interest management framework of the SuMi TRUST SuMi TRUST Group, and systematically and efficiently conducts Group, (ii) matters concerning the effectiveness of conflict of interest audits by receiving reports from executive officers, directors, and a management, client explanation management, and client support financial auditor, and through communications with these individumanagement of the SuMi TRUST Group, as well as the enhancement als. The Audit Committee consists of three or more directors who Vision of associated systems, (iii) matters concerning Policies regarding the do not concurrently serve as executive officers, and a majority of its Fiduciary Duties of the SuMi TRUST Group and the action plans, etc. members are independent external directors. The chairperson of of each Group company, (iv) particularly important matters concerning the Audit Committee is selected from the pool of committee memthe dissemination of conflict of interest management and fiduciary bers who are independent external directors. duties in the SuMi TRUST Group, and other matters, and reviews and (4) Risk Committee reports on their appropriateness. In principle, a majority of the memThe Risk Committee receives requests for consultation from the bers of the Conflicts of Interest Committee are independent external Board of Directors on (i) matters concerning the business environdirectors and external experts. The chairperson of the Conflicts of ESG Initiatives ment surrounding the SuMi TRUST Group, top risks, and materiality, Interest Committee is selected from the pool of committee members and (ii) matters concerning the operation of its risk appetite framewho are independent external directors or external experts with prowork, risk management, and monitoring of the effectiveness of the fessional knowledge and expertise in the concerned field. Held 16 times between Held 8 times between Conflicts of Held 5 times between Audit Committee Risk Committee July 2018 and June 2019 July 2018 and June 2019 Interest Committee July 2018 and June 2019 • Carried out organization auditing (auditing using •C  arried out discussions on topics such as the risk appe• E stablished a stewardship subcommittee and the internal control system). Performed organized, tite framework, based on the Group’s business model enhanced supervision based on the integration of Business Strategy efficient auditing through appropriate collabora• Evaluated external environment assumptions on investment management functions of a trust bank tion between executive officers, directors, the which the management plan is based, and the • Deliberated on scandals involving other compaInternal Audit Department, a financial auditor, etc. Group’s recognition of top risk conditions nies at meetings of the Board of Directors, etc. • Reported important auditing matters, including • E valuated and provided instruction regarding Enhanced executive management, such as reflectaudit instructions from the Board of Directors, to restructuring and liquidation procedure plans foring these scandals in company-wide training aimed the Board of Directors each quarter mulated as D-SIBs at fostering a risk culture and considering improvements to performance evaluation management Members of Committees ( : Chairperson, : Member (external), : Member (internal/non-executive), : Member (internal/executive)) Nominating Compensation Audit Risk Conflicts of Interest Management Foundation External Directors Isao Matsushita Takeshi Suzuki Mikio Araki Shinichi Saito Takashi Yoshida Hiroko Kawamoto Mitsuhiro Aso Experts Hideki Kanda* Haruyuki Toyama* Corporate Information Akiko Hosokawa* Internal Tetsuo Ohkubo Masaru Hashimoto Yutaka Nishida Kuniyuki Shudo Kouji Tanaka * Mr. Hideki Kanda is an external director of SuMi TRUST Bank. Mr. Haruyuki Toyama and Ms. Akiko Hosokawa are external experts. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 31 Corporate Governance 6. Compensation System for Directors and Executive Officers (1) P  olicy Regarding Decisions on the Content of Compensation companies, and determine individual compensation based on • Compensation for directors and executive officers is intended to highly transparent, fair, and objective evaluations. function effectively as an incentive for the improvement of cor• The Compensation Committee forges deeper collaborations porate performance and expansion of enterprise value. with committees in order to build a higher accountability com• Rather than focusing on a single-year performance evaluation pensation system, and engages in deliberations with the aim of in which short-term contributions to profit are emphasized, we operating a fair and balanced compensation system. are building a compensation system with a balance of near-term • Neither internal nor external committee members participate in incentives and mediumto long-term incentives, with rewards decisions regarding their own compensation. based on a comprehensive evaluation that reflects earnings contributions over the medium to long term. (2) Overview of the Compensation System • We accurately assess the roles that directors and executive offiIn principle, compensation is paid via a combination of monthcers of SuMi TRUST Holdings must perform in corporate manly compensation (fixed compensation and individual perforagement, as well as the results of their efforts, in order for them mance compensation), director/executive officer bonuses, and to adequately discharge their supervisory duties over the Group stock options. FY2018 Approx. 40% Approx. 30% Approx. 15% Approx. 15% Compensation ratio*1 Individual performance Company StockFixed compensation portion of Compensation type compensation portion of performance-linked compensation-type monthly compensation monthly compensation*2 bonus stock options • Evaluation for previous fiscal year • Single fiscal year • Consolidated net performance • Mediumto long-term performance business profit contributions • Stock price Payment standard • Paid based on position, etc. before credit costs • Mediumto long-term activity status • Other manage• Consolidated net • Qualitative assessment of capabiliincome ment environment, ties, etc. etc. *1 For the President (also applies to table’s content) *2 Ranging between 70% and 160% of the standard amount 7. Succession Plan In order to realize the sustainable growth of the Group and enhance its enterprise value, the Group has created succession Succession plans Succession plans for top personnel for top plans for the top management of SuMi TRUST Holdings and its in each business management Top major subsidiaries, SuMi TRUST Bank and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust management Asset Management. We have also created management personnel development plans for the personnel that will be responsible for Nextgeneration the management of each business and corporate management. top management candidates These plans define the ideals and requirements of directors Highly specialized and executive officers, and assist with the management and personnel Pool of in each Second-tonextdevelopment of a pool of candidates that meet these ideals and business generation next-generation top management candidates candidates requirements. The status of the progress of succession plans and management personnel development plans is reported regularly to the Nominating Committee, which reports to the Board of Directors. Main successors in Main successors in each corporate each business management department 32 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Corporate Governance 8. Changes to the Institutional Design of Group Companies In order to enhance the SuMi TRUST Group’s corporate govChanges to the Institutional Design of Group Companies/ Transfers within the Group Overview ernance system, three primary Group companies of SuMi TRUST Bank, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management, and Nikko SuMi TRUST Holdings became a “company with June 2017 Asset Management, have changed from a “company with a Three Committees” Board of Corporate Auditors” to a Company with an Audit and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Supervisory Committee. October 2018 became a Company with an Audit and Supervisory Committee Furthermore, Nikko Asset Management has changed from being a directly owned subsidiary of SuMi TRUST Bank to being SuMi TRUST Bank and Nikko Asset June 2019 Management became a Company with an Audit a directly owned subsidiary of SuMi TRUST Holdings. In doing so, and Supervisory Committee it aims to further promote the Group’s asset management busiNikko Asset Management became a directly Vision ness while enhancing corporate governance, such as efficient and July 2019 owned subsidiary of SuMi TRUST Holdings appropriate management of conflicts of interest within the Group. 9. Management Themes for Enriching Agendas at Board of Directors Meetings The Board of Directors supervises the status of the execution order to enrich the agendas at Board of Directors meetings. of duties by executive officers, etc., defines basic management Implementation of Management Themes ESG Initiatives policy, and selects business models and makes decisions regarding risk-taking by formulating a management plan. August 2018 Client evaluation In order to thoroughly play this role, the Board of Directors of September Personnel globalization SuMi TRUST Holdings selects management themes, consisting of Study of cases of governance deficiencies in November legal and regulatory requirements, priority management issues, other companies and mediumto long-term themes, and discusses these themes in Utilization of trust functions to address social December the Board of Directors meetings. and economic issues In addition to directors of SuMi TRUST Holdings, external April 2019 (Results of the evaluation of the Board of Directors) Business Strategy directors of SuMi TRUST Bank also participate as observers in May Next midterm management plan discussions regarding these management themes. Discussions are (Themes for enriching future meeting agendas) conducted freely, without any obligation to reach conclusions. The * Items in parentheses were implemented as part of the Board of Directors evaluation process perspectives and expertise of external directors are leveraged in 10. Early Stage Participation in the Midterm Management Plan Formulation Process Management Foundation Fiscal year 2019 is the final year of the current midterm manScenario Concept analysis, Detailing of Plan’s agement plan. Full-fledged discussions were carried out with the deliberations, competitor measures finalization etc. aim of formulating the next midterm management plan, to begin analysis, etc. in fiscal year 2020. In formulating the plan, management themes were discussed at the Board of Directors from the early stages of Reflection of the opinions of external directors deliberation regarding its concepts. In addition, management plan discussions were carried out by external directors outside of Board Discussions on management themes at the Board of Directors of Directors meetings. These discussions leveraged the expertise Management plan discussions for external directors, etc. of external directors. Corporate Information 11. External Directors’ Meetings In order to further improve the effectiveness of our corporate and unrestrained, sharing information and awareness from indegovernance, we regularly hold external directors’ meetings, which pendent and objective positions. These meetings contribute to the are only attended by external directors. greater objectivity and independence of the Board of Directors. These external directors engage in discussions that are active Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 33 Dialogue between External Director and Investors Below is an overview of the Q&A session held during “SuMi TRUST IR Day,” a briefing session for institutional investors, in December 2018. External Director Chairperson of Audit Committee Shinichi Saito Q uestion issues in their discussions. What does the Group see as its group management challenges? Improving profitability is an important discussion point, as With regard to group management, we believe it is essenare ROA and how to utilize RAF (risk appetite framework) to tial to consider the vulnerabilities of the systems used by each strategically allocate capital. We clarify top risks and jump risks, company and to take a group-wide approach, including examincluding foreign currency liquidity, and are conducting more ining what kinds of compliance or operational incidents have comprehensive reviews than ever of asset quality issues and, at occurred. Furthermore, we discuss the viability of each Group the same time, business-related latent risks. We also focus on company’s capitalization and any financial discipline issues. the issue of asset efficiency while discussing, for example, how The SuMi TRUST Group engages in major integration of to improve per-business ROE. I think these are all major changes. asset management and administration businesses, so not only is group management important for us, but revenue contributions Q uestion are also rising for Group companies other than SuMi TRUST What kinds of discussions have taken place about the nomiBank, our core company. Given this, we see group management nation and terms of external directors? as the launching point of our management priority issues. Nomination and terms are deliberated on by the Nominating Committee. The committee has started considering whether it Q uestion would be best to change external directors after they have been How has asset profitability management changed since the in office for a certain duration. shift to a “company with Three Committees” in June 2017? With regard to nomination standards, external directors’ roles Key to asset profitability management is the quality of and contributions are important points, but we believe that the assets. We engage in various discussions from perspectives largest issue may be diversity. We have an unusual nature, as of profitability, risks, and returns. Specifically, for our Audit we are a financial institution, so it is important that we not only Committee members, issues such as strategic shareholdings, consider internal logic, but also take into consideration outside credit, and impairment loss risks and goodwill in business perspectives and use them to enhance our management. investments are extremely important. They focus on these 34 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Dialogue between External Director and Investors Q uestion Q uestion The committees exist in order to check the management What are your opinions on the Board of Directors’ discusstructure and management team. Please tell us how the sions and the implementation status of governance funcOverview committees themselves are checked. tions in emergency situations? Before each committee, a Board of Directors evaluation is As far as how the Audit Committee should respond in an conducted, and then individual committee evaluations are conemergency situation, the committee’s response is key if we ducted. There are also regular opportunities for each committee are exposed to risks when a crisis occurs. I believe that initial to report on their duty execution status to the Board of Directors. response is particularly important. Currently, the Audit Committee’s evaluation is a self-evaluation. The first thing to do is to identify the facts. This is followed by However, discussions are currently underway regarding confirming the extent of damages caused by the incident and evaluations by other directors or, if necessary, executives. considering how to respond and what reoccurrence measures to implement. It is often impossible to completely avoid criVision Q uestion ses, so instead the problem lies in preventing such crises from Have there been any changes to the Company’s relationbecoming long-term latent issues. I believe that the Three Lines ships with supervisory agencies as a result of the transition of Defense and the functions of the Board of Directors and to a “company with Three Committees”? Are there any Audit Committee are the most important. opportunities for external directors to directly communicate The question is therefore how to handle actual risk managewith supervisory agencies? ment and communications, and I believe that for the Audit ESG Initiatives I myself was a corporate auditor when the Company was a Committee, what is important is the committee’s structure. “company with a Board of Corporate Auditors,” and an Audit Having a structure that ensures neutrality and objectivity in the Committee member after the Company became a “company event of a crisis is of particular importance. with Three Committees” in 2017. As a corporate auditor, I had multiple opportunities to engage in discussions with superviQ uestion sory agencies. I believe the agencies needed to recognize the The activities of Audit Committee members seem extremely importance of external directors and external auditors in financial extensive. Do you think such a burden is appropriate for Business Strategy institutions, while at the same time requiring financial institutions external directors? to have a deep understanding of financial administration. In a The activities of Audit Committee members (compared to reflection after the financial crisis, I think there was the recognition corporate auditors when the Company was a “company with a of a need for closer communication and mutual understanding Board of Corporate Auditors”) have, indeed, increased, and I between regulatory agencies and financial institutions. sometimes come to the Company twice a week. In addition to I have not noticed any particular changes since becoming activities of the Audit Committee, there are preparatory briefa “company with Three Committees.” Communication has ings, etc. for the Board of Directors. Management Foundation increased, but this is a change that has been brought on by SuMi TRUST Holdings, in particular, is only in its second year the changing times, and is not something unique to SuMi as a “company with Three Committees,” so it is important to TRUST Holdings. share information, understand operations, and have a deep understanding of what kind of person is doing what kind of work. Governance does not function properly just by creating a system. The personnel side is also important. In particular, for coordination between the first, second, and third lines, we get a feel through communications with various executive officers Corporate Information and internal control units. This is a responsibility, not a burden. Such activities are essential for executing the duties of the Audit Committee and its chairperson. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 35 Our Board of Directors and Executive Officers*1 *2 (As of July 1, 2019) Directors (internal) Director, Tetsuo Ohkubo has experience in positions for supporting part of corporate management, President being in charge of corporate management departments of SuMi TRUST Holdings, and assumed office as President in April 2017 and as Director, President in June 2017. In addition, he has (Representative Executive Officer) experience of being in charge of corporate management departments of SuMi TRUST Bank. He served as Deputy President of SuMi TRUST Bank for 1 year from April 2016, and as Director from Tetsuo Ohkubo April 2017. Director, Jiro Araumi has been in charge of the Asset Management Business Planning Department as Senior Managing Executive Officer Senior Managing Executive Officer since April 2017, and Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, since June 2017. He also has been in charge of the Fiduciary Services Business and the (Representative Executive Officer) Asset Management Business as Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer of SuMi TRUST Bank. Therefore, he has extensive knowledge and experience regarding the corporate manageJiro Araumi ment and business operations of a trust bank group. Director, Yutaka Nishida has been Regional Executive for Europe and General Manager of London Senior Managing Executive Officer Branch of SuMi TRUST Bank. Since April 2017, he has been in charge of the Risk Management Department, Compliance Department, Legal Department, and other departments as Senior (Representative Executive Officer) Managing Executive Officer of SuMi TRUST Bank. Therefore, he has extensive knowledge and experience regarding the corporate management and business operations of a trust bank Yutaka Nishida group. Director, Masaru Hashimoto has been in charge of corporate management departments of SuMi TRUST Holdings. From October 2016 to March 2017, he served as Deputy President and Executive Executive Officer Officer. Since June 2017, he has served as Director, Executive Officer, in a position of assisting the Group’s overall management. At SuMi TRUST Bank, he has been responsible for overall Masaru Hashimoto management since he took office as President in April 2017. Director Kunitaro Kitamura served as President of SuMi TRUST Holdings for 5 years from April 2012 and as Chairman of SuMi TRUST Bank from April 2012. Therefore, he has extensive knowledge and Kunitaro Kitamura experience with regard to the overall management of a trust bank group. Director Hitoshi Tsunekage has served as Chairman of SuMi TRUST Holdings since April 2011, and also served as President of SuMi TRUST Bank up to March 2017 and Chairman from June 2017. Therefore, he has extensive knowledge and experience with regard to the overall management Hitoshi Tsunekage of a trust bank group. Kuniyuki Shudo has served as general manager of the Fiduciary Services Business and overseas Director units, Regional Executive for the Americas and General Manager of New York Branch. He then served as Managing Executive Officer of SuMi TRUST Bank, Executive Officer of SuMi TRUST Holdings, in charge of the Global Business Management Office and the Americas Business Kuniyuki Shudo Management Office. Therefore, he has extensive knowledge and experience regarding the corporate management and business operations of a trust bank group. Director Kouji Tanaka has served as general manager of the Real Estate Business and general manager of domestic branches. He then served as Managing Executive Officer of SuMi TRUST Bank, in charge of the Internal Audit Department. Therefore, he has extensive knowledge and experience regardKouji Tanaka ing the corporate management and business operations of a trust bank group. Executive Officers Senior Managing Executive Officer, Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 (Stock Transfer Agency Services Business)*3 Managing Executive Officer Executive Officer*2 (Wholesale Total Solution Services Business)*3 Executive Officer*2 Atsushi Kaibara Kazuya Oyama Yukihiro Kitano Masahiro Tsuchiya Akira Yokota Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Managing Executive Officer Executive Officer, Executive Officer*2 (Retail Total Solution Services Business)*3 (Fiduciary Services Business)*3 Executive Officer*2 Hitoshi Sato Kiyomitsu Asahi Tsuyoshi Saito Toru Takakura Toshio Masui Executive Officer*2 Managing Executive Officer Executive Officer Executive Officer*2 (Wholesale Asset Management Business)*3 Executive Officer*2 Futoshi Itani Junya Ueda Yasumi Nose Kengo Noguchi Yoshio Hishida 36 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Our Board of Directors and Executive Officers Area of expertise Corporate Financial Directors (external) manageaccountLaw ment ing Mr. Takeshi Suzuki has extensive experience and knowledge in the fields of accounting, finance, affiliated company management, etc. as a former Senior Overview Director (external) Managing Director of Toyota Motor Corporation. He has been involved in the management of companies operating finance related businesses, serving as — Takeshi Suzuki*1 Representative Director and President of Toyota Financial Services Corporation and Representative Director and Chairman of Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. (He has served as an external director at SuMi TRUST Holdings since June 2015.) Mr. Mikio Araki has extensive experience in bank management and policyDirector (external) based finance, etc. as a former Representative Director and Deputy President of Development Bank of Japan Inc., and has extensive knowledge regarding domestic and foreign financial and economic circumstances as Chairman of the Board of — Mikio Araki*1 Japan Economic Research Institute Inc. (He has served as an external director at SuMi TRUST Holdings since June 2015.) Mr. Isao Matsushita has extensive experience in the general management of Director (external) companies, as a former Representative Director and President of JX Holdings, Vision Inc. (currently JXTG Holdings, Inc.), which is a representative integrated energy, resources, and material enterprise group in Japan. — Isao Matsushita*1 (He has served as an external director and chairman of the Board of Directors at SuMi TRUST Holdings since June 2017.) Mr. Shinichi Saito has extensive knowledge and experience in financial accountDirector (external) ing as the former General Manager of the Finance Department of Marubeni Corporation. In addition to engaging in management at an investment company, he also has acquired deep insight as a company executive. — Shinichi Saito*1 (He served as an external auditor at SuMi TRUST Holdings from June 2013 to June 2017, and as an external director at SuMi TRUST Holdings since June 2017.) ESG Initiatives Mr. Takashi Yoshida had been a member of a major audit firm for many years, and has extensive knowledge and experience in financial accounting as a certified public Director (external) accountant in charge of auditing financial institutions and operating companies. He has been engaged in management as a representative partner and managing director — — Takashi Yoshida*1 of an audit firm, and also has global knowledge based on overseas work experience. (He served as an external auditor at SuMi TRUST Holdings from June 2016 to June 2017, and as an external director at SuMi TRUST Holdings since June 2017.) Ms. Hiroko Kawamoto served as Executive Vice President of All Nippon Airways Director (external) Co., Ltd. from April 2013, and as Executive Vice President and Member of the Board from April 2016. She was responsible for the overall management of the company and promotion of women’s activities. — — Hiroko Kawamoto*1 (She served as an external director at SuMi TRUST Bank from June 2016 to June 2017, and as an external director at SuMi TRUST Holdings since June 2017.) Business Strategy Mr. Mitsuhiro Aso has served as Superintending Prosecutor of Fukuoka High Director (external) Public Prosecutors Office and Interlocking Professor at Hosei University Law School. Therefore, he has specialized knowledge regarding the law and experience regarding organization management. — — Mitsuhiro Aso*1 (He served as an external auditor at SuMi TRUST Bank from June 2016 to June 2019, and as an external director at SuMi TRUST Holdings since June 2019.) *1 External director as prescribed in Article 2, item 15 of the Companies Act. The overall balance, including areas of expertise above, is taken into consideration when external directors are selected. *2 Executive Officers as defined in our internal policy; unless otherwise annotated, Executive Officers are defined in the Companies Act. Management Foundation Executive Officer*2 (Real Estate Business)*3 Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Shigeki Tanaka Toshiaki Nakano Masaya Noda Yasuyuki Suzuki Kazuteru Wakao Corporate Information Executive Officer*2 (Global Markets Business)*3 Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Yoshinori Momose Takuji Marui Atsushi Matsumoto Shinichi Nonomura Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Executive Officer*2 Nobuaki Yamaguchi Satoshi Kitai Nobuhisa Takahashi Manatomo Yoneyama *3 Items in parentheses are business segments in charge at SuMi TRUST Bank. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 37 Initiatives Related to Sustainability The Group views the three pillars of its sustainability initiatives to be “materiality management,” as the strengthening of its management foundation, “sustainability initiatives in our business/providing value to the community,” as business strategies, and the “appeal to investors” of these two activities. 1. Three Pillars of Sustainability Initiatives (Role of Sustainability Management Office) The Sustainability Management Office of the Corporate In addition, the office also gathers and analyzes informaPlanning Department conducts a detailed analysis of tion regarding the latest trends in sustainability, and, in feedback from investors and ESG evaluation bodies, and collaboration with the departments in charge and branch contributes to the enhancement of initiatives through diaoffices in each business, plays a leading role in business logue (internal engagement; for details, please see page strategies, including product and service development, 25) with the departments in charge regarding any issues and provides advice and support for activities. that are raised. Internal engagement with departments in charge (improving initiatives, enhancing information disclosure, etc.) Cooperation with departments in charge and branch offices (product development, advice, marketing support, etc.) Three Pillars of Sustainability Initiatives (1) Strengthening the management (2) Business strategies (P.39-47) foundation (P.24-25) Sustainability Management Office of Materiality management Sustainability initiatives in business/ the Corporate Planning Department (Materiality: High priority issues) Providing value to the community Information Monitoring gathering and analysis and analysis Information (3) Appeal to investors disclosure Investors (Including Latest trends in ESG evaluation Information disclosure via Integrated Report, ESG Report, etc. sustainability bodies, etc.) 2. Sustainability Promotion System of Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group “Sustainable development of society and improveCommittee held as part of the Executive Committee, and ment of corporate value through proactive sustainabilsupervised by the Sustainability Promotion Office of the ity efforts” is clearly stated in the Group’s Basic Policy on Corporate Planning Department. With regard to issues Corporate Governance as the role of the Board of Directors. related to materiality, the Risk Committee and Business Risk Specific activities are based on the midterm policy and Management Committee function as advisory bodies to the fiscal year plan decided by the Sustainability Promotion Board of Directors and Executive Committee respectively. SuMi TRUST Holdings Advisory SuMi TRUST Bank Head office departments, Board of Directors Risk Committee Executive Committee branch offices Report (Issues related to materiality) (Sustainability Promotion Committee) (Sustainability officers) Advisory Executive Committee Business Risk Management (Sustainability Promotion Committee) Report Committee Sustainability Promotion Office of Group companies Group companies the Corporate Planning Department Sustainability Committee (Sustainability officers) 38 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Initiatives Related to Sustainability 3. Business Strategies (Overview) (1) Sustainability Initiatives in Business a leading part on a global level, in order to establish new Overview (Please see pages 40-45) roles for finance. Leveraging the functions of a financial group specialized Furthermore, there have been increasing calls recently for in trust banking, the Group provides total solutions that financial institutions to consider the environment and sociaddress the social issues faced by our clients. We are develety in their investment and loan operations, primarily from oping a variety of business models that will help maximize the viewpoint of controlling negative impact. The Group is the positive impact (and minimize the negative impact) proactively implementing measures in this regard as well, of the Group on its clients, and of the clients themselves such as by becoming a signatory of the Equator Principles, on a sustainable society, from the perspective of the three and taking actions with respect to climate change. dimensions of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), Vision namely, the economy, society, and the environment. (2) Providing Value to the Community We believe that by providing such client-oriented ser(Please see pages 46-47) vices, we will maximize the value of clients themselves over Providing value to the community, which is a component the long term, while enhancing the Group’s position as our of society, is linked to maintaining a sound business founclients’ “best partner.” dation, and we therefore consider it to be a social license ESG Initiatives From this perspective, since January 1, 2019, the that is necessary to conduct business. From this point of Group has participated in the Positive view, the Group practices providing value to the communiImpact Initiative led by the United Nations ty in various forms through its “With You” activities (please Environment Programme Finance Initiative see page 46), while also bearing in mind the SDGs. (UNEP FI). Our policy is to continue to play Background of initiatives to establish business model Business Strategy 2003 Around 2004 2006 Around 2010 Building business Launched ESG investment Launched environmental Began “With You” Made super-aging foundation (Developed SRI fund) finance initiatives activities society issues a theme Focused on themes related Developed total solutions Building business in each business from an to issues unique to the model elderly, such as dementia ESG investment perspective Promoted initiatives to resolve enviEstablished management systems for “With Management Foundation and residential options ronmental problems through trusts You” activities, including budgets, point systems and communications (branch blogs, etc.) Establishment of business model related to sustainability Five major themes Natural capital Environmentally Sustainable investment Climate change Super-aging society (biodiversity issues) friendly property (ESG investment) Clients Corporate Information Two total solution services Positive Impact Finance ESG Total Consulting (Support for maximizing client value, (Support for maximizing positive impact through clients’ own businesses) such as information disclosure from an ESG perspective) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 39 Initiatives Related to Sustainability 4. Business Strategies (Detail) (1) Sustainability Initiatives in Business The Group has positioned climate change and other issues as the five major themes of business sustainability, and is developing Positive Impact Finance and ESG Total Consulting as total solutions for our clients. In addition, in September 2018, based on this track record, we engaged in green funding procurement for the first time by issuing green bonds. Five Major Themes Climate Change Issues See Climate Change Report 2018/2019 Basic Strategy for Realizing SDGs (points) • Providing solutions for building a society with net zero carbon emissions using our finance, trust, and real estate functions (renewable energy and energy-saving finance, development of asset management products, environmental performance assessment of buildings, etc.) • Promoting stewardship activities related to climate change as a responsible institutional investor etc. Renewable Energy Finance Contributions to CO2 Reduction via SuMi TRUST Bank supports the promotion of wind power and solar Renewable Energy Finance power generation through project finance and fund management. The Category of Number of Potential capacity Annual output CO2 reduction effect total power generation capacity of the projects in which SuMi TRUST power generation projects (MW) (GWh/year) (10,000t-CO2/year) Bank has been involved is 14,149 MW, while the amount of power genSolar 102 4,226 6,791 321 erated annually is 38,749 GWh, which is equivalent to an overall annual Wind 29 2,845 8,103 339 CO2 emissions reduction effect of 17,230 thousand t-CO2. In addition, Offshore wind 14 6,726 21,703 1,014 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic Finance provides support mainly for mega-solar projects, and has helped to implement 30 mega-solar projOther 8 417 2,153 53 ects, with a total power generation capacity of 52 MW. Total 153 14,214 38,749 1,727 Renewable Energy Fund and Asset Management Products Target of calculation: Total of SuMi TRUST Bank’s project finance and renewable energy fund (as of March 31, 2019) for Investors Capacity calculations: Numerical values of potential generation capacity, gigawatt hours of output SuMi TRUST Bank has established and operates a renewable energy per year, and CO2 reduction effect covers all projects in each category. fund that specializes in investing in large-scale renewable energy Subtotals may not add up to totals due to rounding. power generation projects. As of March 2019, SuMi TRUST Bank has invested in large-scale solar Business Scheme of Micro-power Generation in power generation projects in 27 locations and wind power generation Water Supply System Purchases electricity projects in 2 locations (total power generation capacity of 440 MW). Of Invests at fixed price Generation Electric utility the total project cost of ¥187.3 billion, SuMi TRUST Bank fund invested a system makers Power provider total of ¥23.5 billion. These projects generate 545 GWh per year, which is (maker subsidiary) equivalent to an annual CO2 emissions reduction of 280 thousand t-CO2. Lease contracts project order/consignment * In calculating CO2 emission reduction amounts, a different emission coefficient was used for each power producer, based on project location. Pays facility use fee, ¥ Project contractor, Pays water flow fee Micro-power Generation in Water Supply Systems Sumitomo Mitsui O&M provider Trust Panasonic Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic Finance promotes the use of natural Public water Finance energy and regional measures to combat global warming by proposing authority the introduction of micro-power generation systems at water supply facili[Features of the Leasing System (Benefits for Local Governments)] ties nationwide. As of March 2019, the high-efficiency power generation • Projects established with no initial investment budget systems used in this scheme have been, or are scheduled to be installed at •M  aintenance and management of power generation systems carried out by power producers 16 facilities nationwide, with a total power generation capacity of 427 kW. • Stable leasing income, and tax income from fixed assets Renewable energy fund scheme N-REIF No. 1 Generation project PJ Investment Limited Partnership Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Investment from Investment from Limited liability Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Investment Co., Ltd. Nonrecourse an anonymous an anonymous loans partnership partnership Unlimited liability ITOCHU ENEX Co., Ltd. • We contribute by providing equity-like funding for the spread of renewable energy projects. 40 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Initiatives Related to Sustainability Natural Capital (Biodiversity Issues) See Natural Capital Report 2018/2019 Basic Strategy for Realizing SDGs (points) • Identification of natural capital risks that would have a major impact on overseas procurement and business or project continuity; working on investment and loan processes from an ESG perspective • Expanding sales of environmental rating loans with the evaluation of natural capital preservation, development of forestry trusts, and promotion of related businesses etc. Overview Forestry Trusts—Sustainable Use of Japan’s Natural Capital Overview of the forestry trust scheme Approximately two-thirds of Japan’s land consists of forests. Although these forest resources, which consist mainly of artificial Forest owner Forestry business Trustee (entrustor) operator forests developed after the Second World War, are now ready for fullOperation scale use, in reality, many have been left untended. SuMi TRUST Bank Trust entrustment • Forest and has started developing a forestry trust scheme that will consolidate and Individual mountain SuMi TRUST business enhance the efficiency of forestry operations by accepting entrustment • Power business of forests in which operations are not being conducted due to the ownBank • Beneficiary Business revenue • Mushroom ers being elderly or living far away, or for other reasons, and entrusting Individual rights etc. farming forestry operations to a forestry entity. In February 2018, SuMi TRUST • Dividend business Bank was entrusted with a basic services survey for the introduction of Vision forestry trusts by Nishiawakura village in Okayama Prefecture. Environmental Rating Loans with Evaluation of Natural Capital Preservation The sustainable use of natural capital as resources is vital for a concept of evaluating impacts on natural capital and a company’s initiacompany to continue its business. There is a growing awareness that tives into the environmental rating evaluation process that assesses its natural capital-related procurement risk management across the global environmental measures. This is the world’s first attempt to incorporate supply chain is an indispensable part of management strategy. natural capital evaluation into loan criteria, and the Bank’s efforts have In April 2013, SuMi TRUST Bank launched its Environmental Rating been cited in Japanese government environmental white papers and Loans with Evaluation of Natural Capital Preservation, which embed the European Commission reports as an example of leading-edge practice. ESG Initiatives Environmentally Friendly Property See Environmentally Friendly Property Report 2018/2019 Basic Strategy for Realizing SDGs (points) • Support for acquiring environmental performance certification, such as CASBEE for Real Estate and CASBEE for Urban Development, etc. • Support for realizing environmentally friendly property through construction consulting and assistance with subsidy selection • Creating businesses linked to the promotion of environmentally friendly property, including green finance Business Strategy and environmentally friendly property funds etc. Initiatives of creating environmentally friendly property market Step Step Step Step Advocated theory of Organized sustainable real estate Participated in the real estate Led development of CASBEE for Researched and published environmental added research group with experts invitworking group of the United Real Estate that can be acquired correlation between CASBEE value for real estate ed from industry, government Nations Environment Programme easily by those involved in real evaluation and building rents (2005) and academia (2007) Finance Initiative (2007) estate (2013) (2015) Management Foundation Developed theory of Built network in Japan and overseas, and prepared the base for Following introduction of certification system (labeling), published economic value that development of evaluation standards for environmentally friendly demonstration analysis of high correlation between environmental would be starting point property in accordance with international standards friendliness level and rent (market effectiveness) Promotion of environmentally Creation and expansion of friendly property business environmentally friendly at the Group property market Consulting for Application Support for CASBEE Certification CASBEE for Real Estate CASBEE for Urban Development SuMi TRUST Bank engages in consulting services to support applicaCASBEE for Urban Development is an environmental performance Corporate Information tions for CASBEE for Real Estate Certification. In addition to supportevaluation for the urban development of wide areas of residential or ing the selection of real estate applying for certification, CASBEE for commercial land. SuMi TRUST Bank carries out evaluations of environReal Estate accredited professionals with proper qualifications evaluate mental performance based on CASBEE for Urban Development, and the environmental performance of real estate, and support the submisoffers support including advice regarding procedures for applying for sion of applications for certification to certifying bodies. In addition to certification and on the CASBEE screening process. In July 2018, “LIST CASBEE for Real Estate evaluations, these professionals also identify GARDEN nococo-town,” a large eco-town in Totsuka, Yokohama City, issues for improving environmental performance and offer advice on became the first-ever recipient of the highest certification rank (“S”) for efforts for improvement. CASBEE for Urban Development, with support from SuMi TRUST Bank. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 41 Initiatives Related to Sustainability Sustainable Investment (ESG Investment) See Stewardship Report 2018/2019 Basic Strategy for Realizing SDGs (points) • Promotion of ESG investment strategies and engagement activities, based on an SDG perspective at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management and Nikko Asset Management etc. FY2019 ESG Activity Themes at Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Themes Specific activities Relevant SDGs Climate change • Independent engagement with the major greenhouse gas-emitting industries (cement, paper & pulp, electricity, petroleum, etc.) • Full-fledged initiatives for the global climate change initiative Climate Action 100+ (engagement with Japanese and other Asian companies) Water resources and • Addressing ocean plastic pollution (engagement with chemicals, food, and retail industries, etc.) marine pollution • Requesting greater awareness of water resource risks and improved measures (engagement with beverages, food, and apparel industries, etc.) Supporting governance • Supporting higher levels of independence on company boards and the promotion of diversity, reforms such as higher ratios of female directors • Sustainable improvements in “earnings power” and appropriate capital allocation (balance between growth investments and surplus cash returns) Promoting ESG • Encouraging companies to disclose information reflecting the attainment of SDGs (contributions information disclosure to solving ESG issues and earnings contributions) • Strengthening involvement in the TCFD information disclosure rules (collaboration with relevant government agencies) Super-aging Society Issues See ESG Report 2018/2019, pages 35-45 Basic Strategy for Realizing SDGs (points) • Support for productive aging* by providing a range of information on financial services, residential options, etc. • Improving employee knowledge regarding dementia, promoting collaboration among employees, enhancing property administration services etc. *Way of life participating actively in society, even during old age Property Administration Product Lineup that Meets Dementia-Related Needs See “Considering the Problems of Dementia” A Digest Report for Seniors (Japanese only) A lack of judgement capacity due to dementia or other causes makes in everyday life. It is also important to communicate one’s intentions in it difficult to administer savings and deposits, and to carry out various a personal contract with regard to what one would like to have done, contracts for oneself. The first priority, in terms of property administrain the event that it becomes difficult to communicate one’s wishes due tion is to put measures in place to safeguard finances, for example, to dementia. SuMi TRUST Bank develops a variety of trust product and against money transfer scams. The second essential element involves explains their use, along with public support services. the provision of daily living support to help with money management Conclude a contract prescribing matters Daily CommuHas no problems Need to implement Conclude a discretionary guardianship conSafeliving nicating on the delegation of a representative for guarding making decisions a way of commuphysical custody and asset management tract with delegated representative support intentions nicating intentions in preparation for SafeSuMi TRUST Bank’s Discretionary Guardianship System Support Trust guarding decreased decision(entrust additional safeguarding which is not covered under discretionary guardianship contract to trust bank) (additional) making capacity Daily CommuTrusts incorporating a range of funcSafeSuMi TRUST’s 100-Year Life Solution Trust living nicating tions and various services guarding support intentions Has the capacity to conclude contracts CommuLimit withdrawal requirements and enSafenicating SuMi TRUST Bank’s Anshin Support Trust guarding trust asset management to trust bank intentions CommuEntrust asset management to family nicating members under contract Conclude a family trust agreement with family members intentions Feels insecure about Prevent fraud damage with trust with Safemaking decisions SuMi TRUST Bank’s Security Trust guarding termination limitations Receive daily living support from Daily Safepublic agencies (Japan National Utilize the support program for self-reliance in daily life guarding living Council of Social Welfare) support Min. Max. Receive support according to one’s level of Daily Capacity to make decisions Application of legal guardGuardianSafeliving decision-making capability from an adult guardian Support Assistance ship guarding has decreased considerably appointed by the family court ianship system support SafeTrust bank’s guardianship system support trust guarding (addi(for some guardianships, the trust bank manages assets pursuant to the decision of the family court) tional) 42 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Initiatives Related to Sustainability Two total solution services Positive Impact Finance Positive Impact Finance involves a comprehensive analysis and evaluation of the positive and negative impacts of corporate activities on the economy, society, and the environment, and provides financing (investing) to support these activities on an ongoing basis. Positive Impact Finance is carried out in line with procedures based on the Principles for Overview Positive Impact Finance and guidelines for their implementation established by the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative Introducing initiatives of the (UNEP FI). The most distinctive feature of this type of finance is that it Group at the UNEP FI Regional Roundtable for Asia Pacific discloses the degree to which a company has contributed to achieving (June 2019, Shanghai) the SDGs, using the evaluation indicators of that company to indicate the degree of contribution, in a clear and concrete manner. The Group participated in UNEP FI’s Positive Impact Initiative in January 2019, and plays an active role in the development of tools for evaluation and analysis, while holding repeated discussions with participating members from overseas, in order to establish new roles and global standards for finance that contribute to achieving the SDGs. Vision World’s First “Positive Impact Finance with Unspecified Use of Funds” In March 2019, SuMi TRUST Bank concluded a Positive Impact Finance FI. The loan is the first of its kind worldwide. SuMi TRUST Bank considers loan agreement with FUJI OIL HOLDINGS INC. (“Fuji Oil Group”), based that the Fuji Oil Group contributes to the SDGs by controlling its negative on the “loan with unspecified use of funds” model established by UNEPimpact, and pursuing positive impacts in all business fields and areas. ESG Initiatives ESG Total Consulting Amid dramatic changes in the environment, companies are under SuMi TRUST Bank leverages the knowledge of its analysts and other pressure to make major changes in their stance toward capital markets, employees who have been involved in asset management operations including a growing international discussion in pursuit of sustainability, for many years, as well as its own know-how regarding sustainability serrapid expansion of the ESG market, and cultivation of space for sound vices and the creation of integrated reports/ESG reports, to make various dialogue with investors due to the introduction of the Stewardship Code. custom-tailored ESG proposals to clients who are issuing reports. Consulting Examples Business Strategy Integrated Report Review Services perspective, to suggesting improvements, formulating the value We review clients’ integrated reports, etc. based on our knowledge as creation process, and supporting identification of materiality. Based investors and as a report producer, and help improve future editions. on the provided support, we also propose content and conduct Support Services for Integrated Report Preparation reviews during the preparation process. We provide support for preparation of integrated reports, based Survey of ESG Trends Among Major Shareholders on our knowledge as investors and as a report producer. We offer a We conduct surveys of trends in ESG efforts by major shareholders, wide range of services, from support for the enhancement of activiand analyze the impact on the company issuing the report, while Management Foundation ties, such as analyzing the status of initiatives from an ESG investor supporting the development of a foundation for sound dialogue. Green Funding Procurement Issuance of Green Bonds SuMi TRUST Bank issued its first green bonds on September 25, 2018, on overseas markets. Overview of Green Bond Issuance Use of these bonds is limited to funding projects that contribute to environmental improveIssuer Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited ment, such as renewable energy projects including solar and wind power generation, acquisiCurrency Euro Corporate Information tion and construction of environmentally friendly property, and addressing climate changes. Yield 3-month Euribor rate + 0.25% Pricing date September 18, 2018 The bonds were issued and managed based on the Green Bond Framework of the SuMi Issue date September 25, 2018 TRUST Bank, in line with the ICMA’s Green Bond Principles (2018) and the Ministry of the Coupon dates 25th of March, June, September, and Environment’s Green Bond Guidelines (2017). The opinion of a third-party certification body December every year (Sustainalytics) was also obtained with regard to this framework. Credit ratings Moody’s: A1; S&P: A We have also been held in high regard for our ESG efforts by ESG investors, the number Issue size 500 million of which has increased significantly in recent years, and our green bonds have sold steadily. Maturity September 25, 2020 (2 years) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 43 Initiatives Related to Sustainability Environmental and Social Friendliness in Investment and Loan Business Basic Policy on Environmental and Social Considerations Environmental and Social Considerations in Asset Management The SuMi TRUST Group identifies “consideration of environAs a responsible institutional investor, Sumitomo Mitsui mental and social impact of investment and financing targets” Trust Asset Management has established the ESG guidelines. as one of its most important (materiality) issues from the standThese guidelines are based on the United Nations Global points of both the impact on the Group’s corporate value and the Compact, which is a global corporate code of conduct, and Group’s impact on society, especially with the purpose of minimizarticulate the Group’s expectations of investee companies, ing negative impact. namely to minimize the impact on the environment, adhere to international labor rights, prohibit discrimination in employBasic Policy on the Social Responsibility of the Sumitomo ment, prohibit child labor, eradicate forced labor, and avoid Mitsui Trust Group (Sustainability Policy) all forms of corruption including extortion and bribery, among others. In accordance with the ESG guidelines, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management is involved in numerous Environmental Policy Human Rights Policy engagements (dialogue) with investee companies regarding Action Guidelines for ESG issues. Engagements are carried out by its analysts and Mitigating Climate Change the dedicated members of the Stewardship Development Action Guidelines for Please refer to the SuMi TRUST Department, and joint engagements are also carried out Holdings’ website for further details, Preserving Biodiversity with domestic and overseas institutional investors on specific etc. of each of the above policies. themes, such as palm oil and forest resources. Under the “Basic Policy on the Social Responsibility of the As an asset management company, Nikko Asset Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group,” the Group provides products Management’s mission is to prioritize clients’ interests in its and services that contribute to solving environmental probactions. Nikko Asset Management positions fiduciary prinlems through its business. The Group has also established the ciples and ESG principles at the highest level among its corpo“Environmental Policy” to reduce the environmental burden rate principles and activities, and has established the Code of arising from its business activities. Furthermore, it has estabConduct Regarding Fiduciary and ESG Principles. lished the “Action Guidelines for Mitigating Climate Change” SuMi TRUST Bank, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset and the “Action Guidelines for Preserving Biodiversity” to Management, and Nikko Asset Management are signatory promote initiatives to address the two globally important enviinstitutions of the Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI), ronmental issues, and has been making efforts to engage in which promotes the inclusion of ESG in the investment process. dialogue and cooperation with various stakeholders. In terms of social issues, with the aim of respecting each individual’s Establishment of Policies for Specific Sectors human rights and diverse values and rejecting unjustifiable acts The Group has established policies for specific sectors that of discrimination, the Group has established the “Human Rights promote business activities with significant environment and Policy” and gathers information regarding how the investment social impacts and restricts loans and investments to compaand financing targets negatively impact human rights. In addinies and projects with negative impact. tion, the Policy provides that the Group takes necessary counIn specific terms, SuMi TRUST Bank does not provide loans termeasures in cases where legal norms, etc. are violated. to companies that manufacture cluster bombs, regardless of whether they are located in Japan or overseas. In asset manageSigning of the Equator Principles and Initiatives ment, we prohibit active investment, actively conduct engageIn February 2016, SuMi TRUST Bank became a signatory to the ments to demand the suspension of manufacturing of cluster Equator Principles, a set of international guidelines for private bombs in passive investment, and publicize such engagements. financial institutions that requires project proponents to give due The Group also intends to establish a policy for sectors that consideration to the impact on the natural environment and the are considered to be involved in the manufacture of palm oil regional community when approving project finance. and the destruction of tropical rainforests during fiscal year 2019 When making decisions on loans, we review the environ(see page 45 for project financing for coal-fired power plants). mental and social impact of the project and conduct a comprehensive risk assessment. In fiscal year 2018, SuMi TRUST Bank has implemented 22 projects subject to the Equator Principles (including one Project-Related Corporate Loan). 44 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Initiatives Related to Sustainability Initiatives Related to Climate Change tion disclosure, engagement, policy proposals, and investment. • Climate Change Governance The Investor Agenda provides guidance for global institutional The Group positions responses to climate change as an investors who are working together to address issues related Overview important management issue for both the corporate value of to climate change. Nikko Asset Management participates in the Group and the construction of a sustainable society. We Climate Action 100+ as part of the “engagement” area. have established the Action Guidelines for Mitigating Climate Change, and are enhancing risk management and information Collaboration with LGIM disclosure, and developing solution businesses to help solve In June 2019, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management these issues. agreed to collaborate with Legal & General Investment Management (“LGIM”), a subsidiary of the Legal & General Action Guidelines for Mitigating Climate Change Group, a major U.K. life insurer, on ESG activities including cli1. Implementation of Initiatives and Support for Climate Change mate change. The ICSA (Institute of Chartered Secretaries and Mitigation, etc. Administrators), a U.K. corporate governance association, has Vision 2. Provision of Products and Services presented LGIM with the Best Investor Engagement award for 3. Cooperation with Stakeholders four years running, from 2015 to 2018. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust 4. Education and Training 5. Information Disclosure Asset Management will further enhance its engagement activities related to climate change and other issues with individual overseas companies, by making the most of LGIM’s experience • Declaration of Support for TCFD and knowledge base on stewardship activities, which will also ESG Initiatives SuMi TRUST Holdings, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset serve to enhance our stewardship activities in Japan. Management, and Nikko Asset Management support the Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related • Project Finance for Coal-fired Power Generation Financial Disclosures (TCFD) established by the Financial Regarding the issue of climate change, which has become Stability Board (FSB), and promote initiatives in line with these a major global issue, SuMi TRUST Bank has always made carerecommendations, based on our recognition that climate risks ful decisions regarding coal-fired power generation projects, are already manifesting as financial risks. which emit a relatively large amount of CO2, by setting certain internal criteria on factors including power generation effiBusiness Strategy Since fiscal year 2013, the Group has issued ciency and environmental impact. As initiatives for realizing a a special report on climate change, and our policy is to enhance the content of this report low-carbon society are crucial management issues for financial according to TCFD standards. institutions in the industrialized world, SuMi TRUST Bank, in principle, does not engage in new projects for the construction of coal-fired power plants. However, in cases where exemptions • Dealing with Climate Change Issues in Asset Management are considered, lending decisions will be made carefully, with a Member of Climate Action 100+ comprehensive consideration of backgrounds and characterisManagement Foundation Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management and Nikko Asset tics undertaken on a case-by-case basis, under strict standards Management are members of Climate Action 100+, a five-year that address the environmental impact, such as the OECD initiative to implement joint engagement for agreement on Guidelines and the energy efficiency of the specific projects. a list of at least 100 of the world’s top greenhouse gas (GHG) emitters, through a global collaboration of institutional inves• Pursuing Business Opportunities tors. While Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management has The Group views climate change issues as one of the five conducted its own engagement with the cement, pulp-andmajor sustainability themes in its business, and is actively paper, electricity, oil, and other industries, which are large GHG developing businesses that contribute to resolving climate emitters, the company has also been active in collaborative changes (please see page 40). Corporate Information engagement through Climate Action 100+, and has played a leading role among the numerous target companies, which include overseas corporations. In October 2018, Nikko Asset Management became the first Asian asset management company to declare its support for the four areas listed in The Investor Agenda, namely informaSumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 45 Initiatives Related to Sustainability (2) Providing Value to the Community • Basic Philosophy The Group engages in various social contribution and regional contribution initiatives, while also considering the perspective of the SDGs, in communities to which the business bases of the Group companies belong. Because providing value to the community, which is a component of society, helps to maintain a sound business foundation, we consider it to be a license that is required to conduct business. From this point of view, the SuMi TRUST Group practices providing value to the community in various forms, while also incorporating the perspective of the SDGs. * See ESG Report 2018/2019 for details. “With You” Activities at SuMi TRUST Bank In order to build strong relationships of trust with community members, SuMi Trust Bank carries out sustainability activities, known as “With You” activities, which are linked to achievement of the SDG targets at branch offices across Japan. Through the steady implementation of activities rooted in local communities, SuMi Trust Bank aims to establish a greater presence within communities and contribute to the long-term growth of its client transaction base. “With You” Activities Related to the Targets of the 17 SDGs Activities supporting National Trusts (SDGs 14 and 15) Silver College (seminars) (SDGs 3 and 4) Engagement in activities in various regions to increase Holding seminars that provide seniors trust lands in Japan, as an investment to support the with opportunities to learn about top•Book donation project foundation for living ics such as residential options in old •Used eyeglasses donations age, dementia issues, and a satisfactory •Sending seminar instructors for outside classes end of life •.Activities in collaboration with outside partners and local communities •Support for food donations to developing •.Publicity efforts countries and the poor •Lobby exhibits about peace (introducing •.Silver College NPO/NGO initiatives, etc.) •.Partnerships with comprehensive •.Donations of supplies to conflict zones regional support centers •.Paper crane donations •.Dementia supporter lectures, financial guide read-throughs •.Seminars and lobby exhibits on •Remote village preservation health, nursing, and medical care •Forest Cemetery lobby exhibits •.Blood drives, Pink Ribbon activities •.Reduced paper consumption SDGs •Donations to Bellmark •.Company tours, workplace tours •.Beach cleanups × •.Family visits •Lobby exhibits on disaster “With You” activities readiness (climate-related •.Initiatives for diversity disaster measures) •In-house SDG workshops and inclusion •SDG lobby exhibits •“Iku-boss” initiatives •Recycling activities •Endangered species preservation activities for connection •.Lobby exhibits on housing options with protection and restoration •.Initiatives to prevent special scams of water eco-systems •.Lobby exhibits on disaster readiness (earthquake-related disaster measures) •.Power consumption reductions, •.Community cleanups power conservation •.Eco drives •Awareness-raising for the Help Mark •.Asset management and inheritance Education for Sustainable Development seminars Support for UWC ISAK Japan summer (ESD) projects for the next generation school (SDGs 1 and 4) •.Introductions of trust products to (SDGs 4, 6, 11, 14 and 15) support seniors (e.g. Guardianship Supporting schools that aim to nurture Providing opportunities for children to System Support Trust, Security Trust, global leaders who can play an active become aware of the existence of the Anshin Support Trust, 100-year Life role worldwide, through education, abundant natural environment and living Solution Trust, etc.) regardless of their economic conditions creatures around them, and to think about •.Severance pay lobby exhibits the significance of preservation activities 46 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Initiatives Related to Sustainability In order to promote “With You” activities, the Corporate Planning Department’s Sustainability Management Office divides activities into categories, measures their degree of difficulty and effectiveness, and defines activity targets under a standard point system that has been introduced for use as a guideline for the targets. It has also introduced activity budget allocation and award systems. In fiscal year 2019, each branch office thought about which activities would be its own strengths, formulated an “Our SDGs Declaration” for itself, and began to carry out specific activities. Goals of “With You” Activities Standard point achievement rates (%) 100 99 100 100 100 96 88 Achieving Reducing 80 Standard points Overview Business Environmental Results Burden achievement rate 60 Evaluation For three consecutive terms points 40 Improving Disseminating 20 100% Brand Image Information 0 First half Second half First half Second half First half Second half of 2016 of 2016 of 2017 of 2017 of 2018 of 2018 The “With You” branch blog, which was launched in 2012, is an information dissemination tool that introduces the “With You” activities being conducted at branch offices across Japan. Each branch office posts text, along with a visual illustration and a logo that shows how its Vision “With You” activities contribute to achieving the SDGs. The number of blog updates is rising each year, and reached a total of 1,391 posts in the second half of 2018, which was a record high. The blog has become an increasingly important tool for communicating specific information in a timely manner to a wide range of stakeholders. “With You” Branch Blog Number of branch blog updates URL: https://branchblog.smtb.jp/ (Updates) ESG Initiatives 1,500 1,391 1,165 1,176 Total Number 1,013 990 1,000 of Posts 818 500 10,641 (as of March 31, 2019) 0 Business Strategy First half Second half First half Second half First half Second half of 2016 of 2016 of 2017 of 2017 of 2018 of 2018 Management Foundation The Group, with the aim of ensuring that each and every employee becomes responsible for promoting and raising awareness of the SDGs, is implementing measures to promote understanding of the SDGs, so that they can be understood and practiced by all employees. In order to enable employees to practice “With You” activities, which contribute to achieving the SDGs, “SDG In-house Study Groups” have been held at SuMi TRUST Bank’s Retail Total Solution Services Business branches across Japan, with a total of 3,112 employees from all branches participating. In May 2019, all employees of SuMi TRUST Bank began wearing SDG badges. Expansion of this initiative to all Group companies is planned during fiscal year 2019. Explaining why the Group works on SDG initiatives and how each business is linked to the SDGs Number of Number of SDG participants in Corporate Information badges distributed “SDG In-house Approximately Study Groups” 14,500 3,112 (March to June 2019) Employee “Future Bloom” in-house booklet E-learning held in December 2018 (November 2018 to March 2019) Integrated Report (October 2018 edition) (May 2018 edition) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 47 Business Strategy Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited President Masaru Hashimoto Continuing to Evolve as Our Clients’ “Best Partner” Japan’s social structure is undergoing significant changes, including the coming of an aging society, the rapid evolution of digital technologies, and the diversification of working styles and lifestyles. In light of these developments, we believe clients’ needs will become even more diverse and sophisticated than in the past. In what is called “the age of 100-year life,” the average life expectancy in Japan has grown thanks to the evolution of medical technologies, with many people living long lives of around 100 years. However, the various social security programs currently in place don’t assume people will live to 100 years, making many people feel uncertain. This has resulted in a wide variety of needs. We have gradually expanded our service menu in order to support individual clients in this age of 100-year life with an individual life plan design and the realization of affluent living. Our menu includes all areas, not only asset growth, but also preparation and protection through insurance product development, consulting, and monitoring, enjoyment of life through Diners Club and Silver College, and assistance with passing wealth on to the next generation through inheritance and gifting-related services. 48 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report For corporate clients, it is becoming necessary to respond to growing corporate pension and health insurance burdens and a diversification of employment forms to compensate for a lack of human resources. We will offer comprehensive solutions that cover addressing Overview challenges other than loan/investment services including appropriate life-plan consulting in consideration of the respective corporate plans for employees, in addition to comprehensive consulting on retirement benefits and corporate pension plans. As the social structure changes significantly in this era of increasingly diverse and sophisticated needs, it is important not only to respond to clients’ requests as needs that have become apparent, but also for each and every employee to have a good knowledge of the client and the imagination required for envisioning potential needs from the client’s perspective. To this end, it is necessary for us to thoroughly implement client-oriented business operations to an even greater extent than in the past. I believe this will be the biggest difVision ferentiator that will enable the Group to be a financial institution that clients will continue to choose as the only financial group in Japan specialized in trust banking. There has been growing social pressure on financial institutions related to fiduciary duties and customer satisfaction. We will go back to client-oriented business operations, which are a basic principle of trusts and our starting point, and refine these operations. We will leverage ESG Initiatives our strength of possessing significant expertise and a client-oriented fiduciary spirit, which has not changed since our foundation, as a driving force as we blaze a trail in this new era as a “Best Partner” for clients. July 2019 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Business Strategy President Management Foundation Corporate Information Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 49 Group Structure Making full use of advanced expertise and comprehensive capabilities, the SuMi TRUST Group creates distinct values by leveraging a business model that combines its banking, asset management and administration, and real estate businesses. Banking Loan/investment related business Fee business Corporate Credit Loans to Individuals Bank Deposits ALM Bond investment Banking business Trust related Sales of investment trusts Real Estate Loans business and insurance, etc. Management and administration of Will Trusts Asset securities, etc. Inheritance Services Real Estate Brokerage Pension Stock Transfer Real Estate Administration Agency Services Securitization Asset Management Real Estate and Administration Retail Total Wholesale Total Wholesale Asset Stock Transfer Solution Services Solution Services Management Agency Services Business Business Business Business Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Tokyo Securities Wealth Partners Co., Panasonic Finance (Hong Kong) Limited Transfer Agent Co., Ltd. Ltd. Co., Ltd. Major subsidiaries Sumitomo Mitsui Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Japan Securities and affiliates Trust Club Co., Ltd. Loan & Finance Co., Ltd. Investment Co., Ltd. Agents, Ltd. Sumitomo Mitsui Sumitomo Mitsui Trust SBI Sumishin Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Trust Bank (Thai) Real Estate Investment Net Bank, Ltd. TA Solution Co., Ltd. Public Company Limited Management Co., Ltd. Japan Stockholders Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Zijin Trust Co., Ltd. Data Service Company, Life Partners, Co., Ltd. Limited 50 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Group Structure Net business profit before credit costs by segment Overview Global Markets Business Retail Total Solution Services Business ¥30.3billion ¥30.9billion Fiduciary Services Business Net business profit (including asset management) before credit costs ¥63.0billion Vision ¥ 282.2 billion*1 Real Estate Business Wholesale Financial Services*2 ¥30.1billion ¥123.4billion ESG Initiatives *1 In addition to the total net business profit before credit costs for Stock Transfer Agency the six businesses, includes the amount of corporate management Services Business department costs not classified in a reporting segment ¥18.4billion *2 Wholesale Total Solution Services Business and Wholesale Asset Management Business Real Estate Global Markets Fiduciary Services Asset Business Business Business Management Business Strategy Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Japan Trustee Services Management Foundation Asset Management Realty Co., Ltd. Bank, Ltd. Co., Ltd. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Sumitomo Mitsui Nikko Asset Research Institute Trust Bank (U.S.A.) Management Co., Ltd. Co., Ltd. Limited Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Sky Ocean Asset Corporate Information (Ireland) Limited Management Co., Ltd. Japan Pension JP Asset Management Operation Service, Ltd. Co., Ltd. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 51 Retail Total Solution Services Business Through our high-quality comprehensive consulting, the Retail Total Solution Services Business provides diverse services unique to a financial group specialized in trust banking to meet the wide-ranging needs of individual clients that vary with their life stages. The services include asset management, asset formation, inheritance and succession, and property administration. Deputy President and Head of Retail Total Solution Services Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Executive Officer, SuMi TRUST Holdings Tsuyoshi Saito Vision Aimed for by the Business In what has been called “an age of 100-year life,” there based on the characteristics of individual clients’ assets and have been growing needs for extending the life of assets liabilities, which change along with different stages in their lives, through asset management, becoming better prepared for a with the aim of becoming our clients’ “Best Partner.” long life, and ensuring the smooth transfer and succession of We strive to be fully client-oriented and to further improve assets to the next generation. the specialist skills that form the foundation of our consultThe Group strives to use the significant expertise and diverse ing services in order to grow together with the clients. These products and services unique to a financial group specialized efforts are in accordance with our “Policies regarding the in trust banking to provide comprehensive consulting services Fiduciary Duties of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group.” Main Group Companies Provides services to meet wide-ranging needs of individual clients SuMi TRUST Bank (asset management, asset formation, housing acquisition, inheritance, and succession, etc.) Provides specialized, tailor-made consulting services regarding asset inheritance and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Wealth Partners business succession to individual and corporate clients Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Club Sole issuer of Diners Club Cards in Japan. Utilize its brand strengths to provide high-quality services Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Card Issues global brand credit cards, VISA and MasterCard Provides guarantee services for clients with mortgage loans, consumer loans, etc. provided by Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Guarantee SuMi TRUST Bank Online bank that provides 24-hour yen savings accounts, real-time foreign currency deposits, SBI Sumishin Net Bank integration with SBI SECURITIES accounts, non-face-to-face mortgage loans and card loans, etc. Joint venture with BNP Paribas Cardif; provides insurance products through SuMi TRUST Bank and Cardif Assurance Vie Japan other Japanese financial institutions Established in May 2019. Insurance sales company that sells insurance to individual clients and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Life Partners, Co., Ltd. provides monitoring for contract holders Recognition of environment and challenges Opportunities and our strengths  rolonged negative interest rates and decline in fee rates for P  trategic deployment centered around face-to-face consulting S financial instruments unique to a financial group specialized in trust banking (clientIncrease in elderly population size, mediumto long-term popuoriented business structure, one-stop provision of comprehenlation decline sive consulting, etc.) Acceleration of shift from savings to asset formation  road client base that ranges from asset-formation generation B Business process and branch reform through digitalization to seniors 52 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Retail Total Solution Services Business Key Measures Increasing of assets under management Assets under management Overview (Trillions of Yen) Investment trust balance We aim to establish stable profit structures by increasing the Discretionary investment balance amount of assets under management through the provision of 5 diverse products and services unique to a financial group spe4 3.54 3.56 3.72 3.82 3.49 cialized in trust banking. These include asset management and 3 administration, wills and inheritance, and real estate with con2.80 2.64 2.79 2.89 2.93 2 sulting based on the client’s life stage and comprehensively 1 responding to diverse needs. 0 0.74 0.84 0.76 0.83 0.89 March 31, 2015 March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Expansion of the branch network and improving operaNumber of cases of wills and inheritance handled Vision tional efficiency (Thousand Cases) (Cases) Number of will trusts (left axis) We will expand and optimize our branch network with the Number of wills executed and estate settlement cases 40 handled (right axis) 4,000 aim of expanding opportunities for face-to-face consulting, 2,737 2,836 30 2,356 2,583 3,000 which are a source of competitiveness. We will also work to 1,917 dramatically improve productivity and strengthen consulting 20 2,000 capabilities by significantly reducing administrative work con31 33 27 29 10 25 1,000 ducted at branches. ESG Initiatives 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) Aiming to be the Best Partner in an age of 100-year life —Start handling of 100-Year Life Solution Trust (100-Year Passport) Real estate brokerage deals for individuals* The 100-Year Passport was born as a trust product that can (Billions of Yen) Fee amount (left axis) (Cases) Number of deals handled (right axis) be relied upon to ensure living with a 30.0 12,797 13,051 15,000 11,568 11,933 peace of mind in the age of 100-year life. 10,847 It has a function that provides reassurance 20.0 10,000 in the face of future uncertainties such Business Strategy as dementia and other health concerns 10.0 18.9 19.6 20.1 5,000 15.0 16.9 and a range of various services for a more 0 0 enjoyable and fulfilling life. The product 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) is proposed according to the individual *Only Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Realty brokerage deals circumstances of each and every client. Improvements in efficiency of branch operations Reduction of back office work at branches by 70% over five years from Alliance with the UBS Group in the wealth management fiscal year 2017 Management Foundation business Reassignment of an equivalent of approximately 1,600 employees to strengthen consulting capabilities We aim for total wealth management that offers optimal <Reduction plan> FY2022 solutions through the flexible combination of the world-leadPhase 1 Phase 2 Phase 3 ing asset management and securities services of the UBS (Introduction of tablet-type devices for client visits) (Device function extension, etc.) (Further digitization) Group and the wide range of products and services of the 10% reduction 50% reduction 70% reduction SuMi TRUST Group, including inheritance and succession and real estate. Expected to achieve 40% reduction in fiscal year 2019 Sustainability initiatives Corporate Information Super-aging society issues We will fulfill a leading role in the financial sector with a focus on the super-aging society issues, one of the five major sustainability themes. We will employ such means as asset management and the steady succession of wealth to the next generation, consultations on housing, participation in the industry, government, and the academia collaborative project COLTEM in response to the issue of dementia, which has become more serious recently, and the expansion of property administration services (for details, please see page 42). Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 53 Wholesale Total Solution Services Business The Wholesale Total Solution Services Business serves as a general point of contact for all transactions with corporate clients, in addition to the services under its supervision, such as loans and arrangement of various financing schemes, corporate consultations, and M&A advisory services. Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Head of Wholesale Total Solution Services Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Executive Officer, SuMi TRUST Holdings Masahiro Tsuchiya Vision Aimed for by the Business Government initiatives such as those related to the Corporate are expanding needs for investment education and employee Governance Code and work style reform are contributing to welfare, such as the introduction of employee savings systems. major changes in the challenges faced by our corporate clients The issues faced by corporate divisions, especially non-financial in such corporate divisions as corporate planning, corporate management challenges that do not involve loan/investment administration, human resources, finance, and accounting. transactions, are growing. One of the Group’s strengths is our In the area of governance, there are growing needs for a ability to provide one-stop support through the multiple points review and revision of executive compensation systems and govof contact we have with companies’ corporate divisions. ernance structures including operation of the Board of Directors, The Group will leverage its strengths to contribute to client as well as improvements to ROE. As for asset formation, there development in various fields as a “Best Partner” for clients. Main Group Companies General point of contact for all matters related to corporate transactions, such as financing schemes, SuMi TRUST Bank corporate consultations, and M&A advisory services Comprehensive finance company owned by Panasonic Corporation and SuMi TRUST Bank that Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Panasonic Finance offers leases, credit, etc. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Loan & Finance Finance company wholly owned by SuMi TRUST Bank and focusing primarily on mortgage loans Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Thai) Wholly owned overseas subsidiary of SuMi TRUST Bank that conducts banking services in Thailand Zijin Trust Trust company headquartered in Nanjing, China that is 19.9% owned by SuMi TRUST Bank Joint venture of Marubeni Corporation and the SuMi TRUST Bank Group engaged Midwest Railcar Corporation in the freight railcar leasing business in North America Leasing company jointly established by SuMi TRUST Bank and BIDV, which is one of BIDV-SuMi TRUST Leasing Company Vietnam’s top four state-owned commercial banks Recognition of environment and challenges Opportunities and our strengths Uncertainty on the outlook of the global economy Base of blue-chip clients with high creditworthiness Continuation of excessive liquidity at a global level S  trategic deployment centered around extensive and advanced Tighter financial regulations on a global level expertise and the provision of comprehensive solutions unique Prolonged negative interest rates in Japan to a financial group specialized in trust banking L abor shortage as a result of the declining birthrate and aging Multiple strong contact points with clients and one-stop support population Financial business model reform through digitalization 54 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Wholesale Total Solution Services Business Key Measures Corporate credit portfolio plan Overview Promotion of credit portfolio reform 25 (Trillions of Yen) We will reform credit portfolios with the aim of improving 20.49 20.02 20.81 20.75 20 20.49 profits by increasing the profitability of balance sheets rather 15 than by expanding their scale. In the meantime, we will take into 10 consideration the uncertainty toward global economic trends. 5 We will continue to pursue corporate transactions with 0 clients as part of total solutions while further strengthening March 31, 2016 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2020 product-related assets. Actual Actual Actual Actual Plan We will focus on profitability and safety (recovery rates and Vision Product related (Foreign currency) Product related (Yen) tenor) in the product-related assets that are being focused on. Corporate (Foreign currency) Corporate (Yen) ESG/SDG initiatives Measures in response to ESG/SDGs related needs Information disclosure In order for companies to continue to grow, appropriate and • ESG advisory timely responses to the expectations required by stakeholders • Integrated report creation support in the operating environment are necessary. • Integrated report review • Governance and executive compensation surveys In particular, there has been an increase in stakeholders call• ESG/IR support ESG Initiatives ing for ESG/SDG initiatives. Responding to such demands is becoming a management issue. We offer a variety of solutions Finance Real estate and other in response to the management issues of clients through vari• Sustainable finance overall • CASBEE consulting • Positive impact finance • WELL authentication ous proposals from perspectives including information disclo• Green loans/private placement bonds •E nvironmentally friendly construction consulting • Green joint money trusts •P rovision of green/ESG sure, finance, and real estate. (trusts), etc. investment products, etc. • Forestry trust development Life plan consulting based on corporate plans Business Strategy Ways of thinking about individual life plans are becoming Life plan consulting based on corporate plans more diverse as a result of changes in the working environLife plan consulting ment of employees, along with the coming of the age of 100Offer life plan consulting based on a corporate plan year life. for the employees of client companies It can be expected that companies will need to respond in Elements required of a life plan Asset Mortgage the form of measures for company welfare and human resourcInheritance Real estate management loan es. We offer appropriate life plan consulting in line with the Management Foundation corporate plans of clients for the employees of clients. Elements required of a life plan based on a corporate plan Post-retirement asset Retirement benefit Insurance enrollment formation consultations and review • Gaining advance understanding of corporate plan of client company Salary system, retirement benefits/pension plans, group insurance plans, etc. • Providing appropriate advice in consideration of these factors as well Sustainability initiatives Corporate Information Positive impact finance SuMi TRUST Bank signed a loan agreement for positive impact finance with unspecified use of funds for an operating company with FUJI OIL HOLDINGS INC. in March 2019 as prescribed by the UNEP FI (United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative). This was the world’s first agreement of its type (for details, please see page 43). Related to all 17 of the SDGs targets Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 55 Wholesale Asset Management Business The Wholesale Asset Management Business offers corporate clients total solutions unique to a financial group specialized in trust banking, encompassing both assets and liabilities, amid the asset management difficulties brought about by changes in the social structure and the financial environment and the management challenges produced by these factors. Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Head of Wholesale Asset Management Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Executive Officer, SuMi TRUST Holdings Kengo Noguchi Vision Aimed for by the Business We aim to be an essential and reliable best partner for unlisted shares (private equity), aircraft, and real estate, in clients by providing asset management solutions through pursuit of mediumto long-term investment profitability and accurate consulting and thorough monitoring for financial and risk diversification. non-profit organization clients. We also offer total solutions We will broadly develop win-win collaborative business to that leverage the diverse property administration functions ensure that regional financial institutions that have a strong unique to a financial group specialized in trust banking. presence in the regional economy take advantage of the We will work to expand a lineup of differentiated investGroup’s diverse functions including inheritance, succession, ment products by focusing on the development of new asset and real estate. The aim is to create mutual, sustainable busimanagement products that invest in real assets including ness growth and contribute to local communities. Main Group Companies Provides total solutions encompassing both assets and liabilities to clients including financial and SuMi TRUST Bank non-profit organizations Provides investment advisory services such as advice related to investments and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust (Hong Kong) Limited private equity fund investments Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Investment Provides various services related to private equity fund management and related advisory services Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Real Estate Real estate investment advisory company engaged in real estate private placement fund Investment Management management for investors mainly consisting of institutional investors Recognition of environment and challenges Opportunities and our strengths S  upport for the management issues of clients in response to P  rovision of asset management solutions centered around changes in the social structure and the financial environment consulting that encompasses both assets and liabilities and an including prolonged negative interest rates, the declining birthabundant product lineup rate and aging population  rovision of total solutions in response to management issues P  ontinuing to take on the challenge of improving competitiveC that leverage the diverse property administration functions ness in the constantly evolving asset management industry unique to a financial group specialized in trust banking  ontributions to the realization of SDGs including the healthy C  in-win collaboration with the regional financial institutions, W development of the regional economy and response to environetc. mental issues 56 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Wholesale Asset Management Business Key Measures Wholesale Asset Management Business AUM Overview Growth of AUM* from clients We focus on expanding AUM that has been entrusted from 12 (Trillions of Yen) Over financial and non-profit organization clients through proposals ¥10 trillion for optimal asset management portfolios, depending on cli8 ents’ financial characteristics, investment experience, etc. In an aim to further strengthen asset management solutions, 4 we will endeavor to offer more sophisticated consulting in 0 response to the asset management needs of clients and expand March 31, March 31, March 31, our abundant lineup of asset management products. These 2017 2018 2019 include distinct alternative products, private investment trusts, Vision and joint money trusts. *Assets under management Expansion of alternative products Private investment trust for financial organizations and In the constantly evolving asset management industry, there alternative product AUM are growing investment needs for alternative assets, such Over 4 (Trillions of Yen) ¥3 trillion ESG Initiatives as unlisted shares, loan receivables, infrastructure, and real 3 estate. These can have limitations in terms of liquidity, but they enable the pursuit of mediumto long-term returns. 2 We will expand AUM in various alternative products includ1 ing an unlisted shares fund that has an investment track record of 20 years, while focusing on expanding the lineup of prod0 ucts that can be offered. March 31, March 31, March 31, 2017 2018 2019 Business Strategy Development of collaborative businesses with regional financial institutions, etc. Collaborative business with the regional financial institutions, etc. As changes in the social structure advance, including the declining birthrate and aging population, there are broader opportunities that require the varied expertise of the Group in Individual area Wholesale area areas such as inheritance, succession, and real estate in an aim Asset management to achieve regional revitalization. In order to further develop win-win collaborative business Management Foundation Inheritance and Various solutions that combines the client base of regional financial institutions succession and the property administration functions of the Group, we Real estate will work to increase the number of partners and the amounts handled through such partnerships. Sustainability initiatives Contributing to the building of a sustainable society Corporate Information Industry, governRenewable We manage a fund that invests in typical forms of renewable energy such as solar ment, and academia energy collaboration power generation projects. We also participate in initiatives that use private sector funds involving regional public infrastructure such as the renewal of waterworks facilities. Contributing to the building of a new ecosystem that resolves challenges In response to the challenges facing local communities and society, we will contribfacing local communities and society ute to the building of a new ecosystem through collaboration with various partners. Related to all 17 Regional of the SDGs targets The goal is to achieve solutions that take advantage of the knowledge of not only the Infrastructure revitalization financial area but also the non-financial area. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 57 Stock Transfer Agency Services Business The Stock Transfer Agency Services Business, as our clients’ “Best Partner,” provides a wide range of solutions that assist with stock practices and support for the general meeting of shareholders, strengthening governance, and promoting dialogues with institutional investors by taking advantage of the valuable data, information, and case studies gained from our client base, the number one in the industry in terms of both the number of listed companies under management and the number of shareholders under administration. Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Head of Stock Transfer Agency Services Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Senior Managing Executive Officer, Executive Officer*, SuMi TRUST Holdings Atsushi Kaibara *Executive Officers as defined in our internal policy Vision Aimed for by the Business We seek to be our clients’ “Best Partner.” We offer solutions Cabinet Office Ordinance on Disclosure of Corporate Affairs. In from a cross-business perspective in response to management the meantime, client needs are expanding beyond stock pracissues for investors/capital strategies, which are becoming tices and support for general meetings of shareholders up until increasingly important due to changes in the external environnow to include enhancement of governance and consulting ment, with the strong relationship we have cultivated as our on incentive compensation and institutional design, becoming clients’ “Best Partner” for stock practices. more complex and diverse. Transformation in governance reform that will lead to The Group contributes to the further improvement of clients’ improvements in corporate value is getting fully underway corporate and market value by providing optimal, high-quality including revisions to the Corporate Governance Code and the solutions to management issues for investors/capital strategies. Main Group Companies SuMi TRUST Bank Shareholder list management services and consulting services related to IPO, governance, IR/SR, etc. Tokyo Securities Transfer Agent Shareholder list management services and consulting services related to IPO, governance, IR/SR, etc. Overall stock transfer agency services and securities services including administration and delivery Japan Securities Agents settlement of investment trusts and general bonds Sumitomo Mitsui Trust TA Solution Administration and system operations for the entire range of stock transfer agency services Japan Stockholders Data Service Undertaking administration of the shareholders’ registry and system development and operations Recognition of environment and challenges Opportunities and our strengths Further pursuit of effective measures in governance reform C  lient base that is the number one in the industry in terms of  ore stringent voting rights exercising standards for instituM both the number of listed companies under management and tional investors and growing presence of activists the number of shareholders under administration  equirements for expanded scope of disclosure including nonR  ata gained through Japan’s largest governance survey and D financial information executive compensation survey  eed to provide speedy and accurate solutions because clients’ N S  pecialized personnel and specialist staff backed by an abunneeds are becoming more diverse and growing as a result of dance of experience in corporate legal affairs, executive comthe environment above pensation, and IR/SR areas 58 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Stock Transfer Agency Services Business Key Measures Industry Share of Stock Transfer Agency Services Business* Overview Expand transaction base (March 31, 2019) The Group’s largest strengths are our client base, the num<Number of Listed Companies <Number of Shareholders ber one in the industry in terms of both the number of listed under Management> under Administration> No. 1 in industry No. 1 in industry companies under management and the number of shareholders under administration, and its track record and expertise in responding to an abundance of cases. We will further expand this solid client base to establish a 42.3 43.0 % % firm position as a leading company in the stock transfer agency services market. Vision * Total for SuMi TRUST Bank, Tokyo Securities Transfer Agent, and Japan Securities Agents Enhance solution marketing Governance survey/executive compensation survey Corporate governance survey We have been conducting both surveys since fiscal year 2017. • 1,407 participating companies, among the highest number of survey We will continue to enhance the reliability of this data by participants in Japan (approximately 40% of all listed companies) securing among the highest number of participating companies • Supervised by Professor Kunio Ito (Adjunct Professor, School of in both surveys in Japan and improve the usefulness of the data Business Administration, Hitotsubashi University), an authority in corESG Initiatives porate governance reform in Japan by adding questions as appropriate according to the times. • Indexation of statistical data that will contribute to strengthening govThis tremendous amount of survey data not only makes it ernance + analysis through scoring possible to assess initiatives related to overall governance or Executive compensation survey* executive compensation in listed companies, but also identify • Data on executive compensation for over 10,000 people at 659 particclient issues and needs by comparing the results of analyses of ipating companies, among the highest number of survey participants individual companies against average initiative conditions in in Japan other companies, narrowed down by industry, company scale, or • Survey also conducted on evaluation system structure and system in addition to the standard and composition of compensation Business Strategy the like. We will use this to increase our consulting revenue by *In coordination with Deloitte Tohmatsu Consulting providing solutions tailored to clients’ issues and needs. Among the largest Assessment amount of survey data of status of Individual measures we will particularly focus on in fiscal in Japan initiatives by companies Proposal of year 2019 Establishment of solutions that (1) In light of demands for constructive dialogue with institutionstatistical data contribute to the by company type improvement in al investors that are stronger than ever, we will significantly Assessment corporate value Management Foundation expand the contents and number of subscriber companies Individual company of challenges analysis through of individual to FOCUS CLUB that provides IR/SR related information scoring companies throughout the year and tie this into stable revenue earned. (2) We will constantly explore cutting-edge solutions as an (3) We will actively use RPA/AI in an aim to provide solutions that industry leader, including the expansion of the smart exerare speedier and more accurate, and work to improve the cising function for the voting rights exercising service using solidity of business operations. smartphones that was started from 2018. Sustainability initiatives Corporate Information Various forms of consulting We support the ESG activities of clients through consulting services for investors/capital strategies to support clients’ investor strategies, capital strategies, and public relations activities (IR/SR) including ESG advisory services, integrated report review services, and support for evaluations of the effectiveness of the board of directors. Related to all 17 of the SDGs targets Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 59 Real Estate Business In our Real Estate Business, by providing one-stop, optimized real estate solutions to the increasingly complex and diverse business issues faced by corporate clients and assisting with asset formation for individual clients, we continue to be the “Best Partner” for clients in real estate. Managing Executive Officer, Head of Real Estate Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Executive Officer, SuMi TRUST Holdings Shigeki Tanaka Vision Aimed for by the Business In Japan, we are continuing to produce top class results in We have also secured the top position in Japan in terms of our real estate brokerage for corporate clients, the core of both real estate securitization trusts and J-REIT business, and our Real Estate Business. In addition to coordinating with our we will continue to support investment management for cliGroup companies, we also make use of our external networks ents including institutional investors and provide the important with regional financial institutions and overseas financial social infrastructure function of contributing to the growth of organizations to utilize real estate assets in line with their the real estate investment market. management issues and business strategies, and for clients We aim to create and provide value that responds to the true whose core business is real estate investment to increase real needs of clients as the “Best Partner” for clients in real estate. estate revenue. In addition, we will further contribute to the achievement of In our real estate brokerage for individuals, we will further SDGs through means such as the provision of environmentally improve our provision of real estate information aligned with friendly property consulting in an aim to improve the environthe life stages and life events of clients and endeavor to maximental performance of real estate that has attracted much mize asset value for our clients. attention and acquire performance evaluations. Main Group Companies SuMi TRUST Bank Investment and business use real estate brokerage and consulting services, primarily for corporate clients Transaction services such as residential, investment, and business use real estate brokerage, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Realty primarily for individual clients Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Research Institute Real estate market research and consulting services, primarily for corporate and public institution clients Recognition of environment and challenges Opportunities and our strengths  ontinuation of plateauing real estate prices underpinned by C  bundant specialized personnel and specialist staff with top-class A low interest rates and strong office demand experience and know-how related to the real estate market  owever, there is a need to keep a close watch for signs of H  apabilities for proposing and executing speeding business C changes in market conditions partnerships and total solutions unique to a financial group spe eed to strengthen support in response to the strong investN cialized in trust banking ment appetite of overseas investors toward Japanese real estate N  eutral position that makes it possible to build a win-win relaP  rovision of real estate services in response to the increase in tionship with regional financial institutions and overseas financial the elderly population and number of inheritances is essential organizations, etc. 60 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Real Estate Business Key Measures Varied service menu according to the real estate management cycle Overview One-stop provision of solutions according to the real estate management cycle •Facility management •Environmentally friendly property consulting We provide optimal solutions aligned with each stage of the real estate management cycle over the medium to long term Real estate administration and management based on a deep understanding of the relationship between the status of real estate owned by clients and their investment •Brokerage for leasing •Administration trusts Real estate Base restructuring policy and business strategy. management Portfolio rebalancing We will continue to offer a varied menu of one-stop sercycle •CRE consulting vice options including not only support for real estate buying •Consulting on Vision and selling, but also support for repair and renewal work and effective use of Real estate buying and selling reconstruction in the administration and management phase properties •Brokerage for buying and selling •Construction as well as CRE (corporate real estate) consulting regarding •Real estate securitization trusts consulting facility management for improving the efficiency of and rationalizing administration and management and base strategy. Strengthening alliance efforts (Cases) (Number of institutions) 400 386 80 Strengthening alliance efforts 64 We are expanding and revitalizing alliances with Japanese 300 65 60 ESG Initiatives 48 financial institutions including regional financial institutions 267 200 40 and external networks with overseas financial organizations 193 34 and major overseas real estate companies. 100 20 41 As a real estate business professional, we will respond care0 0 fully to the real estate needs and resolve the challenges of cli2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) ents that don’t have a business relationship with the Group in Number of deals closed through alliances (left axis) order to contribute to the business of not only clients, but also Number of partner financial institutions and others (right axis) alliance companies. Business Strategy Sales of real estate resulting from an inheritance occurrence* (Cases) (%) Real estate for individuals 300 12.0 10.8 10.8 SuMi TRUST Bank and Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Realty mainly 9.7 8.6 215 work together in response to the real estate buying and selling 200 207 8.0 182 165 Growing further needs of individual clients. along with 100 the increase in 4.0 As both the elderly population and the number of inherithe number of inheritances tance cases can be expected to increase going forward, we Management Foundation 0 0 will take advantage of the many qualified real estate transacFirst half Second half First half Second half FY2019 tion agents at branch offices in the Retail TS Business to stimuof FY2017 of FY2017 of FY2018 of FY2018 and onward late demand and strengthen services for real estate acquisition Number of deals closed from inheritance occurrence (left axis) for inheritance to the next generation, sales of inherited real Share among sales deals closed (right axis) *Deals starting from inheritance occurrence among individual client real estate sales deals estate, residence change into barrier-free properties, etc. closed in business with SuMi TRUST Bank are counted Sustainability initiatives Environmentally friendly property consulting Corporate Information The Group has been a pioneer in the creation of the environmentally friendly property market up until now. In particular, we have conducted research on the price formation mechanism incorporating the perspective of real estate transactions in environmentally friendly initiatives including energy conservation in construction that had been a matter exclusively managed by builder, made recommendations to the national government on the introduction of new labeling systems and verification of improvements in value, and led initiatives aimed at the materialization of such efforts. We are involved with support for nearly half of CASBEE certifications acquired, which is a certification system for the environmental performance of real estate, and working to promote and spread the CASBEE. The Group is also focused on the development of new products and services that take advantage of this kind of knowledge. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 61 Global Markets Business Our Global Markets Business includes three functions — client service functions, which undertake marketing operations and marketmaking operations that meet client needs regarding such matters as interest rate and foreign exchange related transactions; market functions, which handle investment operations and financial management operations; and administrative functions. We combine these three functions and operations to leverage our significant expertise and comprehensive capabilities and provide services in a timely manner. Managing Executive Officer, Head of Global Markets Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Executive Officer, SuMi TRUST Holdings Yoshinori Momose Vision Aimed for by the Business The uncertainty surrounding the market is growing, due to The optimal solutions we offer our clients make use of all factors including monetary policies of developed countries and the volatility management know-how of our group of experts, economic trends in emerging countries, as well as the global including knowledge of marketing operations and marketpolitical situation and geopolitical risks. Market risks also exist making operations, as well as technologies such as market in clients’ asset holdings and balance sheets. We will protect risk control backed by many years of experience in investment clients’ asset value by providing solutions to appropriately manoperations and financial management operations. age market volatility. Business Model of Global Markets Business Market Synergy between individual functions Markets transactions The SuMi TRUST Group Added value Clients Providing significant expertise Access to various markets Various Money Marketing operations market-based Client service financial products Retail market Offering services Market functions transactions Market-making operations Foreign Solution services Corporate exchange Investment operations Market Financial Securities functions risk management Government Cash and Financial management operations securities settlement Settlement Derivatives Operational Management and settlement services Overseas functions Recognition of environment and challenges Opportunities and our strengths Prolongation of negative interest rates Market risk and liquidity risk management capabilities  reparations for market risks and liquidity risks arising from facP Leading player in the financial markets tors including a disruption in international coordination and risks Outstanding client base of deterioration in economic conditions N  eutral position that makes it possible to build a win-win relaIncrease in the elderly population, mediumto long-term poputionship with regional financial institutions, etc. lation decline Acceleration of shift from savings to asset formation 62 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Global Markets Business Key Measures (Example) “B to B to C” in foreign exchange transactions with Overview Expand foreign exchange and derivative transactions with regional financial institutions financial organizations Regional company Regional financial (1) Proposals for hedging institution The advance of globalization is stimulating overseas expanforeign exchange risk BANK sion, including M&As, by Japanese companies and foreign asset management by financial organizations, producing a rising need for appropriate hedging against interest rate and foreign (2) Foreign exchange transactions exchange risks. Our specialized market volatility management functions can be used not only by the Group’s clients, but also (3) Foreign exchange hedge transactions for the enrichment of client services offered by regional financial institutions through transactions with the Group, mutually Vision The SuMi TRUST Group expanding business opportunities. (build win-win relationship) Promote foreign currency deposits This also increases! Current assets Living expenses In Japan, which depends on foreign countries for resources Current assets Living expenses Foreign curand food, the price of imports soars when the yen weakens rency deposImports significantly, producing inflation. In addition, as negative interForeign currency its Imports ESG Initiatives deposits When the yen est rates have become prolonged in Japan, individuals have depreciates... Yen Domestic Yen Domestic growing needs for long-term asset formation accompanying deposits products deposits products changes in the social structure including an aging population. Future earnings Current liabilities Future earnings Current liabilities From the perspective of protecting clients’ asset value (purchasSalary and Salary and ing power), we propose to clients foreign currency deposits as a pension Loans pension Loans tool to hedge their risks. Money Money Money Money that can be used that is spent that can be used that is spent Business Strategy Improve financial literacy In our Global Markets Business, we issue publications on an ongoing basis to deepen the understanding of a broad range of people toward financial markets and financial products. We will contribute to asset formation by clients and the development of sound financial markets through improvements to financial literacy. •“The Financial Markets Forecasting Handbook for Investors” Management Foundation (6th Edition, NHK Publishing) •“Derivatives: 360 Keywords” (5th Edition, Kinzai Institute for Financial Affairs, Inc.) •“Workings of the Financial Market You Should Know by Age 60” (NHK Publishing) Sustainability initiatives Corporate Information Issuance of green bonds Recently, new types of green financing methods such as green bonds and social bonds have attracted much attention, and a large market centered around Europe has formed for these instruments. SuMi TRUST Bank has also issued green bonds for the purpose of accelerating sustainable finance initiatives related to climate change, natural capital, and environmentally friendly property (for details, please see page 43). Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 63 Fiduciary Services Business The Fiduciary Services Business seamlessly combines our significant expertise and know-how with the Group as a whole as we provide client-oriented, high added value services ranging from design of pension systems to management and administration. Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, Head of Fiduciary Services Business, SuMi TRUST Bank Executive Officer, SuMi TRUST Holdings Toru Takakura Vision Aimed for by the Business As a leading financial group in Japan, we will lead the trend management and asset administration businesses to further “from savings to asset formation” and contribute to “formation refine and enhance existing strengths, while seeking to expand of the people’s assets,” “sustainable growth of Japan’s econoour balance of assets under management and custody, revenue, my and corporations,” and “diversification and advancement of and client base. Japanese investment chains,” while serving as an engine of the In addition, through the completion of the integration of Group’s fee business growth. the asset management business of SuMi TRUST Bank and To that end, we will increase the pension plan member base Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management and asset adminand improve service quality including investment education istration bank integrations planned for the future, we will with a focus on defined contribution pension funds in the penstrengthen asset management capabilities and rationalize and sion business and pursue diversification of services in asset improve services in the asset administration business. Main Group Companies Trust bank that performs marketing and planning of services including: design, operation, SuMi TRUST Bank management, and consulting of corporate pension-related systems; asset management primarily for institutional investors; and asset administration services such as investment trust mandates Company specializing in administration and computer systems for pension fund administration Japan Pension Operation Service (joint venture with Mizuho Trust & Banking) Japan Trustee Services Bank Trust bank specializing in asset administration services (joint venture with Resona Bank) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (U.S.A.) U.S. base for overseas security administration operations Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank (Luxembourg) European base for overseas security administration operations Sumitomo Mitsui Trust (UK) U.K. base for overseas security administration operations Sumitomo Mitsui Trust (Ireland) Central base for foreign-domiciled fund administration operations Recognition of environment and challenges Opportunities and our strengths G  rowing needs for asset formation in preparation for an age of  omprehensive support for pension systems, pension asset C 100-year life management, and company welfare programs G  rowing needs for pension system reform along with work style Broad product lineup reforms and the extension of retirement age S  ervice provision capabilities based on close coordination  ngoing asset management and administration needs along O between Group companies with the prolongation of negative interest rates Catering to outsourcing needs, economies of scale  efinement of asset management methods and diversification R of assets managed 64 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Fiduciary Services Business Key Measures Trend of DC Plan Members Overview Strengthen defined contribution pension funds As defined contribution pension funds become increasingly (Thousand members) 1,500 1,410 important from the perspective of changes to systems in light of the extension of retirement age and strengthening com1,000 pany welfare programs to secure human resources, SuMi TRUST Holdings has leveraged its strong reputation among clients for 500 investment education, online service, call centers, and other services to continue growth in the number of DC plan members 0 and maintain a top position in the industry. We will contribute to March 31, March 31, Vision 2014 2018 improvements in financial literacy enhancing investment education and supporting asset formation by DC plan members in order to achieve even further sustainable growth. Establishment of JTC Holdings Structure after management integration In March 2018, we reached an in-principle agreement Step 1 (completed October 2018) Step 2 (2021 (target)) between the major shareholders of Japan Trustee Services Bank ESG Initiatives (JTSB) that is the core company of the asset administration busiJTSB TCSB JTSB TCSB shareholders shareholders shareholders shareholders ness and Trust & Custody Services Bank (TCSB) that is a subsidiary of Mizuho Financial Group, to merge the two companies. JTC Holdings [Integration] In October 2018, a holding company that wholly owns both Custody Bank of Japan companies was established in order to establish an integrated (JTC Holdings company with 2021 as a target. The economies of scale will be JTSB TCSB + JTSB + TCSB) leveraged to rationalize and enhance their service levels. Business Strategy Increase in assets under custody of the Group Assets under custody of the Group Assets under custody of the Group have gradually increased Domestic Overseas in both Japan and overseas. We aim to further increase our (Trillions of Yen) (Billions of Dollars) balance and expand our client base through the refinement of 150 151.5 400.0 403.5 57.4 asset management methods and diversification of the assets we 283.7 100 76.4 manage for our balance of domestic assets under custody, and 19.8 69.5 200.0 Management Foundation the refinement of services for Japanese clients as local overseas 346.1 50 37.4 263.9 subsidiaries and domestic departments in Japan work closely 75.0 together for our balance of overseas assets under custody. 0 32.1 0 March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, 2012 2019 2013 2019 Other than investment trusts Fund administration Investment trusts Custody Sustainability initiatives Corporate Information SRI and ESG fund development The Group has led Japan’s ESG market through the development of new investment methods including Japan’s first environmental fund (1999), a Chinese stock SRI fund (2010), and biodiversity companies support fund (2010). The SRI fund that was first provided for corporate pensions in Japan in 2003 before the establishment of PRI is an investment concept that focused on ESG from the beginning, through which the Group has accumulated investment know-how and track Related to all 17 of the SDGs targets record as a pioneer in ESG investment to the letter. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 65 Asset Management Business of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group The asset management business of the Group provides an asset management function to clients, centered around Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management and Nikko Asset Management. We have approximately ¥94 trillion* of assets under management on a Group basis, which is among the highest level in Asia. *As of March 31, 2019 Representative Director and President President & Co-CEO Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Nikko Asset Management Yoshio Hishida Hideo Abe Efforts to refine governance In light of our position of managing the assets of clients, we focus on efforts to refine governance and have actively strengthened and promoted governance through such efforts. As a specific example of an initiative, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management and Nikko Asset Management have been transitioned into a company with an audit and supervisory committee. In addition, Nikko Asset Management became a directly-owned subsidiary of SuMi TRUST Holdings in July 2019, in the same manner as Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management. Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer, SuMi TRUST Holdings Jiro Araumi Vision Aimed for by the Business As the global asset management market has grown year by has strengths in product development capabilities leveraging a year, the Group has positioned the asset management business global network, as well as Sky Ocean Asset Management and JP as both a core business and growth area and strengthened this Asset Management that were established in partnership with other business. financial groups. As part of these efforts, the asset management function of SuMi The Group will pursue a multi-boutique strategy that fully leverTRUST Bank that has a solid track record with institutional invesages the characteristics and strengths of the various asset managetor clients including pension funds was integrated with Sumitomo ment companies and provide optimal asset management solutions Mitsui Trust Asset Management in October 2018. In addition, the to clients ranging from institutional investors to individual in Japan Group includes companies such as Nikko Asset Management that and overseas. Main Group Companies Asset management company that integrated the asset management function of SuMi TRUST Bank in Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management October 2018 and forms the core of the Group Nikko Asset Management Unique asset management company that operates globally with a focus on Asia Asset management company established as a joint venture with the Bank of Yokohama, Bank of Kyoto, Sky Ocean Asset Management Gunma Bank, and Tokyo Kiraboshi Financial Group JP Asset Management Asset management company jointly established with Japan Post Bank, Japan Post, and Nomura Holdings Recognition of environment and challenges Opportunities and our strengths Increase in assets under management on a global level  usiness foundation capable of supporting the needs of a broad B Scale of asset management companies becoming larger and range of clients ranging from institutional investors to individularger due to cross-border reorganization als in Japan and overseas Downward pressure on fees as a result of factors including Strong presence in corporate pension business (defined benefit, adoption of passive investment, intensifying competition, and defined contribution, etc.) in the field of asset management with regulations trust banking as the origins Broad sales channel in the domestic investment trust market 66 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Asset Management Business of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Key Measures Extend asset management capabilities and product develStrengthening of Asset Management/Asset Administration Functions Overview opment capabilities Asset class サービス • Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management The company has the most assets under management in Asia, Illiquid assets Expand Asset under management “JABIS”※ and it will aim for even further growth in the domestic retail market active assets and revenue growth ミドル業務 as a growth area in addition to the presence it has developed among Multiアウトソース domestic institutional investors up until now. assets • Nikko Asset Management ファンドアドミ Smart β カストディ The company has a network of business bases (including JVs) in 11 レンディング countries around the world, and it can leverage strengths that include Current status of asset 資産 management business Traditional Vision unique product development capabilities that actively take advantage assets active • Operation in cooperation Expand • 国内 of this network and sales support that has a strong reputation in Japan. with the Group companies client base 投信 軸に • Leverage the Group’s 管理系信託 • グル We have expanded assets under management by providing asset Index networks in Japan and 活用 overseas management and products that support the diverse needs of a wide variety of clients while taking advantage of the characteristics and Client base Domestic Overseas 国内 strengths of primarily these two companies. So that we can continue to Pension contribute to the maximization of profits for clients, we will refine these funds/ Financial Retail PB* Institutional Retail PB*/ institutions investors wealthy class mutual aid strengths and expand into new fields of active assets including smart ESG Initiatives and illiquid asset for which needs are growing in order to strengthen * PB: Private banking ※ JABIS: 運 asset management capabilities and product development capabilities. Assets under management Accelerate global expansion [Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management and Nikko Asset Management] Global expansion is becoming more important to achieve sustainable 100 (Trillions of Yen) 93.8 growth in the asset management business. We will work to expand the overseas business of both Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management and 75 23.6 Nikko Asset Management in the global market that continues to grow. 50 In addition, we will accelerate global expansion as a Group through Business Strategy 25 70.1 alliance strategy (including investment) with asset management compa0 nies overseas. March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Expand assets under management in an aim to become a Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Nikko Asset Management global top 20 company As a group with one of the highest balances of assets under manAssets under management agement in Japan and Asia, we will also demonstrate our presence in [Sky Ocean Asset Management and JP Asset Management] the global market. Over the medium to long term, we aim to become Management Foundation 300.0 (Billions of Yen) a global top 20 company and drive growth for the Group’s fee business. 259.4 200.0 Expand the service provision base 100.0 85.5 By providing the Group’s asset management know-how to Sky Ocean Asset Management and JP Asset Management, we will offer 0 mediumto long-term and stable asset management services to a wide March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 range of clients such as regional financial institutions. Sky Ocean Asset Management JP Asset Management Sustainability initiatives Corporate Information Sustainable investment (ESG investment) We will contribute to the expansion of the ESG investment market and increase in corporate consideration of the environment and society through stewardship activities through the issuance of various ESG funds and stewardship activities (global engagement, ESG integration, and exercise of voting rights) (for details, please see page 42). Related to all 17 of the SDGs targets Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 67 Management Foundation Risk Appetite Framework 1. Positioning of the Risk Appetite Framework The Risk Appetite Framework (RAF) is a group-wide corand enhance risk management, and promote the enhancement porate management framework consisting of the process for of the transparency of deliberation and determination process determining risk appetite (the type and amount of risk to be for the overall risk taking policy in capital allocation and profit willingly taken to achieve the management plan) within the maximization, etc. through the setting, communication, and Group’s risk capacity, in order to achieve the management stratoversight of risk appetite, as well as the optimization and speedegies formulated by management based on the Group’s social up of allocation of management resources and reinforce the role and management principles, together with the internal conmonitoring system through the use of RAF as the universal lantrol system underpinning that process. guage of the Group. The Group’s RAF aims primarily to strengthen profitability Outline of the Risk Appetite Framework Social role Risk culture Management policies / Management strategies Business characteristics / Risk characteristics / Risk governance Environmental assumptions / Risk to be taken Risk awareness Risk to be avoided Stress Risk capacity tests Management plans, etc. Risk appetite Internal control system 2. Operation of Risk Appetite (1) Determining Risk Appetite The risk-taking policy and risk appetite indicators are deterThe Group classifies risks into two categories: (1) risk to be mined in accordance with the management plan. These are taken (that occurs in relation to activities that generate returns) reviewed at any time at least once a year or when necessary. and (2) risk to be avoided (such as conduct risk that cannot be tolerated by the Group). (2) Monitoring of Risk Appetite Under RAF, the Group establishes a risk-taking policy, which is In order to verify that risk taking is carried out appropriately an overriding management policy based on its Mission, Vision, based on its business model, the Group sets separate risk appeand Value, and sets risk appetite indicators to be resolved by tite indicators from the perspective of return, risk, and cost, and the Board of Directors. In addition, the Group sets more inmonitors them regularly. If the indicators deviate from the set depth risk-taking policy and risk appetite indicators by business levels, the Group analyzes the cause and implements counterwithin the scope of policy set by the Board of Directors, which measures or revises the levels. will be resolved by the Management Committee. 68 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Risk Appetite Framework (3) Risk Governance with the aim of achieving the sound development of the Group. Risk governance, which forms a part of corporate goverSuMi TRUST Holdings strives to enhance the operation of nance, is a framework for identifying, measuring, managing, and risk appetite through discussions at the Risk Committee and the Overview controlling risks, as well as ensuring appropriate risk taking, by Conflicts of Interest Committee, etc. as part of its initiatives to clarifying and monitoring risk appetite. enhance corporate governance. The Group promotes the enhancement of risk governance, Risk Appetite Framework Operating System Supervision • Deciding on the RAS and basic matters related to the RAF Vision Board of Directors • Supervising execution of business based on relevant decisions Audit Committee • Auditing execution of business based on basic matters related to the RAF • Deliberating the status of operation and execution related to RAF and Risk Committee making recommendations to the Board of Directors SuMi TRUST Holdings Conflicts of • Verifying the appropriateness of the conflict of interest management framework ESG Initiatives Interest Committee and making recommendations to the Board of Directors Execution • Drafting the RAS and basic matters related to the RAF Executive Committee • Enhancing the RAF and executing business based on the RAF Business Risk • Enhancing the RAF and promoting execution of business based on the RAF Business Strategy Management Committee • Monitoring the operating status of the RAF Conflict of Interest • Developing and strengthening the conflict of interest management framework Management Enhancement Committee and checking the implementation status 3. Fostering a Risk Culture that Takes Root across the SuMi TRUST Group Management Foundation The Group defines risk culture as a basic philosophy that preGroup, we have formulated risk-taking policies for each busiscribes the codes, attitudes, and conduct of the Group’s organess to clarify management strategies, and are endeavoring to nizations, as well as its directors, officers and employees, that have all its employees secure soundness through appropriate flexibly carry out risk taking, risk management, and risk control risk taking and develop a sustainable business model. In addibased on an appropriate assessment of risks, guided by a high tion, we have formulated a Risk Appetite Statement clearly degree of self-discipline based on the fiduciary spirit. stating our RAF, which is used as a universal language in lively In order to foster a risk culture that takes root across the discussions concerning risk appetite within the Group. Corporate Information Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 69 Risk Management 1. Basic Policy on Risk Management In order to ensure sound management, secure revenue control and mitigation, validation for advancement, and review, through risk taking based on management strategies, and based on the Group’s management policy and basic policy on achieve sustainable growth, the Group follows a basic policy of the internal control system. accurately assessing risk conditions and implementing necesThe Group’s risk management framework encompasses the sary risk-related measures through a series of risk management Risk Appetite Framework, and integrates it to function organiactivities, including risk identification, evaluation, monitoring, cally within the Group. 2. The Group’s Risk Characteristics Based on a fiduciary spirit, and leveraging its significant Group’s businesses. With regard to trust business risks, SuMi expertise and comprehensive capabilities, the Group, as a finanTRUST Bank provides management primarily in the operational cial group specialized in trust banking, strives to create distinct risk category, particularly in terms of its duty of due care as a value through a total solution business model that combines prudent manager, duty of loyalty, and duty to segregate propits banking, asset management and administration, real estate erty as a trustee. businesses and others. Reporting is regularly performed regarding whether the The Group faces various risks, including credit risk, market overall risk of the Group, combining the risks of each business, risk, funding liquidity risk, and operational risk, which vary is within the limits of risk capacity (soundness and liquidity) that depending on the business characteristics of each of the have been determined by the Board of Directors. Risk Definition Risk Category Definition Risk that the Group may incur losses due to a decrease or impairment of the value of assets (including off-balance sheet assets), for reasons such as deterioration of the financial condition of obligors. In this regard, “country risk” in Credit Risk particular refers to the risk that the Group may incur losses on credit provided overseas, due to the foreign exchange, political, or economic conditions in the country of obligors. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to fluctuations in the value of assets/liabilities (including off-balance sheet assets/liabilities), or in the earnings generated from assets/liabilities, due to fluctuations in various market risk factors, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, stocks, commodities, and credit spreads. In this regard, “market liquidiMarket Risk ty risk” in particular refers to the risk that the Group may incur losses due to a situation in which it becomes impossible to conduct transactions in the market, or becomes obligatory to trade at prices that are significantly more disadvantageous than usual, due to market turmoil. Risk that the Group may incur losses in a situation where it becomes impossible to secure necessary funds, or Funding Liquidity Risk becomes obligatory to raise funds at interest rates significantly higher than usual. Operational Risk Risk that the Group may incur losses due to inadequate or failed bussiness processes, the activities of executives or (Below are “risk sub-categories” within Operational Risk) employees, computer systems, or due to external events. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to inappropriate business procedures arising from executives or employees Business Processing Risk neglecting to engage in proper business activities, or other incidents such as accidents or fraud. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to reasons such as computer system failures, malfunctions, and defects, as System Risk well as the risk that the Group may incur losses due to unauthorized computer usage. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to the improper management or maintenance of information assets. This Information Security Risk includes information leaks, information errors, and misuse of information, as well as an inability to use the information system. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to uncertainty regarding the legal aspects of transactions, or due to insufLegal & Compliance Risk ficient compliance with laws, regulations, etc. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to personnel and labor management issues, such as unequal or unfair manHuman Resource Risk agement of personnel, and harassment. Risk that the Group may incur losses due to external events that impair business, such as natural disasters, crimes such Event Risk as terrorism, damage to public infrastructure that prevents its functioning, and the spread of infectious diseases, or due to the inappropriate use or management of tangible assets. Risk that the Group may incur losses as a result of a deterioration of the reputation of SuMi TRUST Holdings or its subsidiarReputational Risk ies, due to reasons such as mass media reports, rumors, or speculation. 70 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Risk Management 3. Risk Governance System For the group-wide risk governance system, the Group has individual risk management-related departments (second line of Overview developed a Three Lines of Defense system consisting of risk defense), and validation by the Internal Audit Department (third management by individual businesses (first line of defense), line of defense). risk management by the Risk Management Department and Risk Governance System General Meeting of Shareholders SuMi TRUST Holdings Reporting Board of Directors Statutory committees Reporting Nominating Committee Compensation Committee Audit Committee Vision Supervisory Internal Audit Department Body Voluntary committees Risk Committee Conflicts of Interest Committee Supervision Executive Committee Executive Body Conflict of Interest Management Business Risk Management Committee IT Committee Enhancement Committee ESG Initiatives Internal Audit-related Departments Individual Businesses Department Conducting Risk Management Risk Management Department Retail TS Consultation/ Reporting Human Corporate Legal Dept. / Wholesale TS IT & Business Resources Administration Compliance Process Planning Dept. Auditing Dept. Dept. Dept. Wholesale AM Stock Transfer Agency Services Supervision/ Funding Business Human Legal & Guidance Risk Credit Market Operational System Information Event Reputational Risk Liquidity Processing Resource Compliance Real Estate Categories Risk Risk Risk Security Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Risk Global Markets Fiduciary Services Risk Management-related Departments Auditing Asset Management Business Strategy First Line of Defense Second Line of Defense Third Line of Defense (1) First Line of Defense risk management to the Executive Committee and the Board Each Group business identifies and gains an understanding of of Directors. the risk characteristics involved in carrying out its own business, (3) Third Line of Defense based on knowledge of the services and products in that business. The Internal Audit Department verifies the effectiveness and Each business engages in risk taking within the established appropriateness of the group-wide risk governance system and Management Foundation range of risk appetite, and, when a risk materializes, promptly processes from an independent standpoint. implements risk control at the on-site level. (4) Executive Committee (2) Second Line of Defense The Executive Committee is composed of representative The Risk Management Department performs overall risk manexecutive officers and executive officers designated by the agement, identifies and evaluates group-wide risks, creates a risk President. It makes decisions on matters concerning risk manmanagement process, and sets risk limits in accordance with the agement and undertakes preliminary discussions regarding matgroup-wide risk management policy determined by the Board of ters to be resolved by and reported to the Board of Directors. Directors. In addition, it formulates group-wide recovery strate(5) Board of Directors Corporate Information gies, in advance, to prepare for cases when risks materialize. The Board of Directors is composed of all of the directors. It The Risk Management Department and risk managementdecides on the Group’s management policy and strategic goals related departments act as a restraint function for the risk for risk taking, formulates a risk management policy, etc. that taking of the first line of defense, and supervise and provide reflects these strategic goals based on a solid understanding of guidance regarding the risk governance system. the location and nature of risks, and develops an appropriate risk The Risk Management Department reports on the status of governance system and supervises its implementation. The Board Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 71 Risk Management of Directors has voluntarily established the Risk Committee and reports its findings. the Conflicts of Interest Committee, as advisory bodies, based on • Conflicts of Interest Committee the business strategies and risk characteristics of the Group. The Conflicts of Interest Committee receives requests for • Risk Committee consultation from the Board of Directors on matters concerning The Risk Committee receives requests for consultation from the Group’s fiduciary duties and conflict of interest managethe Board of Directors on matters concerning the business ment, which are the foundation on which the Group seeks to circumstances surrounding the Group and the effectiveness of become the “Best Partner” of its clients based on a fiduciary its risk management, etc., reviews their appropriateness, and spirit, reviews their appropriateness, and reports its findings. 4. Risk Management Process In the Group, the Risk Management Department and indiguidance, and advice are given to each of the Group’s busividual risk management-related departments act as the second nesses based on the risk conditions. Monitoring contents are line of defense, performing risk management using the followreported and submitted to the Board of Directors, the Executive ing procedure. This risk management process, along with its Committee, and other bodies regularly or as needed. associated systems, undergoes regular auditing by the Internal Audit Department, which acts as the third line of defense. Risk predictor management for top risks, etc. (1) Risk Identification Risk appetite indicators are defined for risks resulting from internal factors, based on the features of the Group’s business The risks faced by the Group are comprehensively identified, model and risk characteristics, and these management indicawhile ensuring the comprehensiveness of the Group’s operators are monitored. Regarding risks resulting from external tions, and the risks to be managed are identified based on the factors, the top risks (risks that have a high probability of occurrence and that would have a large impact on the Group) are scale and characteristics of the identified risks. selected, and risk predictors are monitored. Countermeasures (2) Risk Evaluation are implemented based on the monitoring results for all types of risks. The risks identified as requiring management undergo analyOur top credit risks include “worsening of credit among sis, assessment, and measurement in a manner appropriate for major obligors,” our top market risks include “falling prices the business scale, characteristics, and risk profiles. for strategic shareholdings, etc.,” and our top operational risks include “cyber-attacks” and “risk of insufficient measures When risks cannot be quantified, their impact is assessed to against money laundering and terrorism funding.” the greatest extent possible, and they are managed through measures such as implementing preventive measures based on (4) Risk Control and Mitigation the nature of the risks. If any incidents that could have a significant impact on the (3) Risk Monitoring soundness of management occur, such as the risk amounts Risk conditions are monitored with appropriate frequenexceeding the risk limits, or the existence of concerns that it cy, given the conditions of the Group’s internal environment might do so, appropriate reports are presented to the Board of (risk profiles, allocated capital usage status, etc.) and exterDirectors, the Executive Committee, and other bodies, and the nal environment (economy, markets, etc.). Recommendations, necessary countermeasures are implemented. 5. Enterprise Risk Management (1) Enterprise Risk Management System be quantitatively measured using a single standard, such as We manage risks by comprehensively grasping the risks faced VaR, and compare the combined value against our corporate by the Group, which are evaluated on an individual risk category strength (capital position), thereby managing risks (integrated basis, and comparing and contrasting them against our corporisk management). rate strength (enterprise risk management). (2) Capital Allocation Operations Among the risks we manage through our enterprise risk For the purpose of the Group’s capital allocation operamanagement, we combine the risk values for risks that can tions, SuMi TRUST Holdings allocates capital to each business, 72 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Risk Management including the Group companies, based on each risk category allocated capital and risk appetite, to the Board of Directors, (credit risk, market risk, and operational risk) in consideration of and others. the external environment, risk-return performance status, sce(3) Stress Tests and Assessment of Capital Adequacy Level Overview nario analysis, and the results of assessments of capital adequaThe Risk Management Department performs three types cy levels. The capital allocation plan is subject to the approval of of stress tests (hypothetical scenario stress testing, historithe Board of Directors. Capital allocation levels are determined cal scenario stress testing, and examination of probability of based on the Group’s risk appetite. occurrence) each time a capital allocation plan is formulated Each business is operated within both the allocated amount or reviewed, with the aim of ensuring capital adequacy from of risk capital and its risk appetite. The Risk Management the standpoint of depositor protection. Based on the results of Department measures the risk amount on a monthly basis, these stress tests, it assesses the level of capital adequacy, and and reports regularly on the risk conditions, compared to the reports to the Board of Directors, and others. Vision 6. Crisis Management The Group has developed systems to swiftly and appropriare envisioned as having a significant impact, we are enhancately implement emergency and crisis response measures in ing our response system through the preparation of backup the event of natural disasters, computer system failures, outoffices and backup systems. ESG Initiatives breaks of new infectious diseases, and the like, which are rootWe are also strengthening our security measures at the initiative ed in its public mission and social responsibilities as a financial of management to respond to cyber attacks, which are causing institution, and strives to disseminate information regarding damage throughout society, through the formulation of the “Cyber these systems throughout the organization. Security Management Declaration.” Specifically, the Group has Specifically, we have developed BCPs (business continuestablished SuMiTRUST-CSIRT as an internal organization for gathity plans) for continuing business in the event of a crisis, after ering information, conducting analysis, implementing measures securing the safety of our clients, directors, officers, employconcerning cyber attacks, and allocating necessary staffing. The Business Strategy ees, and their families. In order to ensure the effectiveness of Group also works to continuously strengthen human resources and our BCPs, we periodically conduct exercises and revise their to enhance the management system through collaboration with content. In addition, we have created a response system in external specialized agencies. In addition, we are endeavoring to which, in the event of a crisis, an emergency response headstrengthen our ability to respond to incidents through the creation quarters is created, which is headed by the President. and improvement of manuals, etc. for use in both normal times For large-scale natural disasters such as earthquake, which and emergencies, and periodic training and drills. Management Foundation 7. New Product and New Operation Examination System When introducing a new product or new operation, it is necesProduct Examination Process (SuMi TRUST Bank) sary to develop various systems in order to continue offering the Product Examination Departments in charge product or running the operation, including making an advance Office of risk checks Fiduciary Duties Planning Departments and Promotion Dept., determination regarding the existence of any inherent risks and in charge Customer Satisfaction of product 1) Promotion Dept., identifying their types, evaluating and managing such risks, and Risk Management Dept., Legal Dept., management Compliance Dept. IT & Business Process providing explanatory materials and methods to clients. To that Corporate Information Planning Dept., Planning and Coordination Dept., end, we have developed a new product and new operation examiFinancial Planning Dept., etc. nation system. In the product examination process, multiple departProduct examination request 2) Product examination referral ments carry out verification from various angles, with an emphasis Product Examination Committee on introducing products and operations that will earn the trust of 3) * Conflict of Interest Management clients. We also conduct validation through regular monitoring after Enhancement Committee Notification of * Held jointly, as necessary to consider merchantability and a new product or new operation has been introduced. examination results the perspective of conflicts of interest Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 73 Compliance 1. Basic Initiative Policy The Group has positioned compliance as one of its most Compliance System of SuMi TRUST Holdings important management issues necessary for the realization of Board of Directors “The Trust Bank,” its management principles and ideal model, Supervisory body and set out “strict compliance with applicable laws and regulaRisk Committee Conflicts of Interest Committee tions” in the Codes of Conduct (“Value”). The Compliance Rules formulated by the Board of Directors Executive Committee define the Group’s overall basic policy, the standards that Business Risk Management Conflict of Interest Management Executive directors, officers and employees must follow, and the Group’s Committee Enhancement Committee body organization structure for realizing compliance, creating a comCompliance Department pliance system befitting “The Trust Bank.” Discussion / Reporting Supervision / Guidance SuMi TRUST Bank Group companies 2. Group Compliance Framework The Group formulates the Compliance Program, which SuMi TRUST Holdings manages the compliance framework consists of specific practice plans for implementing complifor the entire Group in order to create an appropriate frameance within the Group each fiscal year, with the approval of work in line with the characteristics of operations of each the Board of Directors, and the Board of Directors periodiGroup company. This is done by formulating the companies’ cally receives reports on the progress and evaluation of the Compliance Programs and providing guidance and oversight Compliance Program. on the progress and achievement status of these programs. 3. Initiatives to Foster Compliance Awareness The Group has created a Compliance Manual containing and study sessions in accordance with the characteristics of explanation of laws and regulations that must be followed and operations and products of each company and attributes of cliactions to be taken in the event of the discovery of compliance ents, as well as e-learning on specific themes, to foster compliinfractions, with the approval of the Board of Directors, and ance awareness among employees. employees across the Group are thoroughly informed regarding Furthermore, in order to accurately grasp the status of the its contents. penetration of compliance awareness, the Group conducts SuMi TRUST Holdings is also improving compliance educaan awareness survey on compliance at major subsidiaries and tion to promote the fostering of compliance awareness throughelsewhere each fiscal year. The survey is to identify and address out the entire Group. Specifically, we provide training materials, issues. It is designed to grasp issues shared across the Group dispatch instructors, and plan and implement discussion-based and to implement effective measures by means such as setting study sessions on themes shared by the entire Group. In addicommon questions. The Group is working to grasp the current tion to the above, each Group company implements training situation with this survey. 4. Hotline System The Group has established a compliance hotline system ensure the protection of whistleblowers, and strictly prohibits through which all directors, officers and employees can their adverse treatment. A simple reporting function (reportreport violations directly to the Compliance Department and ing via the website) has also been put in place. an external attorney’s office. This hotline system enforces the An accounting hotline system has also been established rigorous control of information and protection of privacy to for the reporting of inappropriate accounting. 74 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Compliance 5. Prevention of Money Laundering*1 The Group has released its “Anti-Money Laundering Compliance place, and has a system in place for employees, when coming Overview Policy” with the approval of the Board of Directors, and made across transactions suspected to be related to illegally obtained clear its resoluteness in standing up to money laundering. money or used to finance terrorism, to immediately report to We oversee the status of the anti-money laundering framethe person in charge, who notifies the relevant authorities. work’s development and provide guidance on improving the In addition, we support internal training programs by each framework at each Group company through periodic risk assessGroup company and employees’ acquisition of specialized cerment on the framework. This effort is to prevent abuse of finantifications on anti-money laundering. Internal training programs cial services within the entire Group including overseas bases. on anti-money laundering are provided periodically. For risks that are identified, each Group company implements *1 Money Laundering is the act of hiding a source of money obtained illegally (for examrisk control measures according to risks. For instance, SuMi ple, through the sale of illegal drugs) by routing it through multiple bank accounts or Vision financial instruments. Terrorists and perpetrators of remittance scams are examples of TRUST Bank carries out additional confirmation according to people who may abuse the accounts of financial institutions. It is the responsibility of financial institutions to prevent the misuse of financial services. Such efforts are referred the transactions’ content, and it verifies, using an AML systo as “money laundering prevention countermeasures.” tem*2, whether any illicit transfers between accounts have taken *2 AML system: Anti-Money Laundering system 6. Initiatives to Prevent Bribery ESG Initiatives The Group, with the approval of the Board of Directors, close-knit collaboration between our overseas bases and local has published its “Anti-Bribery and Corruption Compliance legal offices to allow for swift and proper responses at overPolicy,” and under the supervision of the management team, seas bases, where such risk is high. implements anti-bribery and anticorruption programs. We In addition, the Group provides directors, officers and review and strengthen the programs through regular assessemployees with regular training each fiscal year. Also provided ment of risks related to bribery and corruption, and endeavor is additional specialized training for employees at departments Business Strategy to improve the framework for prevention of bribery and corwith a high potential risk of facing bribery, and written pledges ruption. We do this by taking such measures as fostering a for compliance are obtained from the employees. 7. Response to Antisocial Forces The Group has declared its resolute stance against antisocial Japan, before providing new personal loans, etc. In cases in which forces in its Codes of Conduct (“Value”) and takes initiatives to the counterparty in a transaction is found to be an antisocial force Management Foundation prevent transactions by antisocial forces. The aim is to realize after the commencement of a transaction, we take measures in “The Trust Bank,” the Group’s management principles, and ideal close coordination with the police and other external expert orgamodel. Specifically, we have incorporated a clause to exclude nizations for the eventual cancellation of the transaction. organized crime from transactions in various products, services, In addition, we provide directors, officers and employees etc., and established a framework to prevent transactions with with training for the prevention of transactions with antisocial antisocial forces by checking with a database operated by the forces each fiscal year to strengthen awareness of preventing National Police Agency, via the Deposit Insurance Corporation of such transactions. Corporate Information 8. Initiatives to Prevent Insider Trading The Group strictly manages insider information through its In addition, we have established a framework for regular “Rules on Insider Information Management,” which mandate training on prevention of insider trading, and we obtain written the reporting of such information that may be obtained during pledges for compliance with internal rules from all directors, the execution of working duties. It also specifies the methods to officers, and employees. be used for its communication and management. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 75 Compliance with International Financial Regulations 1. Compliance with Finalized Basel III Reforms Triggered by the financial crises in 2008, the Basel Committee to introduce a new capital floor based on the standardized on Banking Supervision (BCBS) made the agreement to impleapproaches to the risk-weighted assets measurement approach ment new regulations, called “Basel III.” Basel III includes the in the calculation of the capital adequacy ratio. implementation of higher capital requirements, leverage ratio “Finalized Basel III” is required to be implemented from and liquidity requirements. In Japan, Basel III has been imple2022. The Group will work to secure the target level through the mented in phased manner from the end of March 2013. future accumulation of capital and other means, and promote Subsequently, in December 2017, an international agreeappropriate profitability and portfolio management to establish ment was reached on “Finalized Basel III,” which aims to cona framework for introducing tighter capital requirements. strain the use of internally modelled approaches by banks and Conceptual Diagram of Risk-weighted Assets Measurement Capital Floor Structure Approach for Credit Risk Floor Current New not applied Floor Exposures Standards Standards applied Standardized SA Internal add-on Equity Approach RWAs RWAs 72.5% of Model SA RWAs RWAs Internal Financial Institution Foundation Model Advanced IRB RWAs or Approach Large corporate Corporate Foundation Standardized Floor Internal Model Internal Model Small and medium-sized IRB Approach Advanced corporate or Approach(SA) (SA RWAs ×72.5%) RWAs Floor RWAs > Floor Specialized Lending Foundation RWAs (e.g.Real estate non-recourse loan) IRB Approach Standardized Approach: Supervisory risk weight according to external credit ratings • In the case where 72.5%* of SA RWAs (Floor) is larger than internal Foundation IRB Approach: Risk weight calculated based on banks’ own estimates of model RWAs, Add-on RWAs are charged. probability of default (PD) * As for the applicable multiplier of the floor, starting at 50% in 2022, it will be raised Advanced IRB Approach: Risk weight calculated based on banks’ own estimates of probby 5% each year to 72.5% in 2027. ability of default (PD) and loss given default (LGD) 2. Strengthening of Regulations on Non-financial Risk Areas Regarding financial risks, BCBS made the agreement on risk areas yet, and we are still in a stage where various proposals Basel III as described above, and major frameworks for various are being made. Some of the areas, such as cybersecurity, require liquidity risk regulations and Single Counterparty Credit Limit continuous enhancement of regulations. (SCCL) are close to being determined and although minor The Group, as a trust bank group entrusted with the investmodifications of details are still needed, the hardest part is over. ment and management of the assets of our clients, is commitWith this background, international organizations and the ted to further strengthening and enhancing the framework of financial authorities of each country are focusing on tightening asset investment and management, while paying close attention and enhancing regulations on non-financial risk areas. Examples to these global regulatory trends. of non-financial risk areas include: Framework for Compliance with International Financial Regulations • Conduct risk management Corporate Planning Dept. • A ML/CFT (Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Overall supervision (Global Business Management Office) Financing of Terrorism) Capital adequacy ratio/ Risk Management Dept., Financial Planning Dept. • Cybersecurity Liquidity requirements • Subcontractor (third party) management Extra-territorial application Compliance Dept. (Global Compliance Office) of laws Conduct risks • Maintenance of important functions/strengthening business continuity framework of financial institutions Global Business Planning and Coordination Dept.*, Support for regulations for Global Markets Business Planning Dept.*, These areas are correlated and we are being required to strengthoverseas bases Fiduciary Business Planning Dept.*, en regulations across areas, not only tightening management of Asset Management Business Planning Dept. our own conduct risk and cybersecurity, but also checking the Risk Management Dept., Cybersecurity IT & Business Process Planning Dept. management status of those of subcontractors and requiring Overseas Office Recovery Corporate Planning Dept. (Corporate Information them to establish a certain level of management framework. & Resolution Planning Office), Risk Management Dept. There is no established method in place for the financial *SuMi TRUST Bank authorities or the financial industry to tighten these non-financial 76 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Internal Auditing 1. Basic Initiative Policy The SuMi TRUST Group believes that establishing an efficient and the internal management system, SuMi TRUST Holdings and Overview and effective internal auditing system commensurate with the size its main Group companies have established internal auditing and nature of its business, the content of laws and regulations units that are independent of departments involved in business that apply to operations, and the type of risks is indispensable execution and that adequately act as a restraint function. The to achieve management targets, appropriate legal compliance, internal auditing units verify the appropriateness and effectivefacilitating financing, client protection, and risk management. ness of the business execution system and internal management Therefore, with the aim of ensuring the soundness of managesystem, provide comments and recommendations for correcting ment by improving and enhancing the business execution system problems, and follow up on the status of improvement measures. 2. Internal Auditing Implementation System Vision (1) SuMi TRUST Holdings supervising the Group’s internal auditing, receives consulta1) Organization tions from each Group company regarding the audit plan, and In addition to establishing an Internal Audit Department indeconfirms its consistency with the basic policy. The Internal Audit pendent of departments involved in business execution under Department carries out internal audits in collaboration with the the Board of Directors, SuMi TRUST Holdings has strengthened internal auditing unit of each Group company. The role of the the supervisory and restraint capabilities (governance) with regard Internal Audit Department also includes receiving reports of interESG Initiatives to management and business execution departments, by posinal audit results from Group companies, assessing and verifying tioning the Internal Audit Department in a direct instruction and the internal auditing system and its implementation status at each reporting relationship with the Audit Committee. Group company, and providing guidance as necessary. 2) Functions and Roles The Internal Audit Department formulates an internal audit (2) Group Companies plan, taking into account the basic policy on internal audits, Internal auditing units that are independent of departments which dictates the direction to be taken in the development involved in business execution have also been established at Business Strategy of the SuMi TRUST Group’s internal auditing system, as well the main Group companies including SuMi TRUST Bank, and as significant group-wide risks. After receiving the consent of conduct internal audits. Each Group company formulates an the Audit Committee, the plan is approved by the Board of internal audit plan in line with the basic policy on internal audits Directors. The Internal Audit Department reports the results set by the holding company, which is approved by the Board of of the internal audit, without delay to the President and the Directors after consultation with the holding company. Audit Committee, while also analyzing the internal audit results, Results of internal audits are reported, without delay to the including those for Group companies, and reporting regularly to president, the holding company and others, and are also reportManagement Foundation the Board of Directors. ed regularly to the Board of Directors. In addition, the Internal Audit Department, as the department The SuMi TRUST Group SuMi TRUST Holdings (holding company) Board of Directors Audit Committee (chaired by external director) Report/Discussion Approval/Instruction Report Corporate Information President Executive Officers Internal Audit Department Internal audit (holding company) Business Execution Departments Management/ Report/Discussion Supervision/Guidance Group Companies Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 77 Client-Oriented Initiatives 1. Providing Value to Clients The SuMi TRUST Group aims to accurately understand the Consumer-Orientation in June 2019 and will take concrete initianeeds of individual and corporate clients, and to provide total tives in order to become a group trusted by clients and society, solutions that offer a wide range of highly specialized products and to grow together continuously through constant efforts for and services as the best way to address those needs. In an era of improving customer satisfaction and thoroughly implementing dramatic environmental change, the needs of both individual and a client-oriented approach, as well as contributing to resolving corporate clients to build, manage, and review their assets and social issues including super-aging society. plan for succession are becoming increasingly complex, and their needs for trustworthy financial institutions are growing. The SuMi Voluntary Declaration of Consumer-Orientation TRUST Group, as the only independent financial group specialThe Voluntary Declaration of Consumer-Orientation is the Group’s declaration for the approach toward consumerizing in trust banking in Japan, will leverage its comprehensive oriented management (a business activity respecting gencapabilities that combine trust and banking functions, as well as eral consumers’ viewpoints and gaining consumer trust as the various trust functions within the Group, under a stringent the providers of a sound market, while being aware of its conflict of interest management framework, with the aim of being social responsibilities, and working toward the creation of a sustainable and desirable society) as promoted by the the “Best Partner” for providing the greatest value to clients. The Consumer Affairs Agency and others. Group formulated and published the Voluntary Declaration of 2. Enhancement of Customer Satisfaction (1) Initiatives to Link the “Voice of Customers” to Enhanced Customer Satisfaction 1) SuMi TRUST Bank receives a large amount of feedback the results, we search for measures for improvement, and strive to from clients and many requests via our branch offices throughout provide better products and services. Japan, as well as its telephone centers and the Group’s website, along with questionnaires collected by mail, etc. 2) In order to 2) CS (Customer Satisfaction) Analyzing realize customer satisfaction by utilizing the hundreds of thouPromotion Cycle of client SuMi TRUST Bank feedback sands of cases of feedback we receive each year, we use the “CS Voice of Customers Portal,” which is a system to analyze client feedback. We are striving to meet our clients’ needs by making client feedback “visible,” so that we can better “recognize” such 1) 3) needs. 3) Furthermore, regarding opinions and requests received Considering and Collecting from clients, branches and the head office cooperate to invesimplementing client improvement tigate and analyze the causes, and identify problems. Based on feedback measures (2) Product Development Capabilities Supporting Total Solutions In order to leverage the flexibility and expertise of its various would be difficult to categorize within the domains of individual financial and trust functions as a financial group specialized in businesses or Group companies. trust banking, and put together an extensive lineup of unique Specifically, SuMi TRUST Bank has established a product and sophisticated products and services that are essential to development department in each business, as well as the providing total solutions, the SuMi TRUST Group focuses on Business Research and Development Department, and a prodpromoting group-wide initiatives that combine the expertise uct development off-site meeting as its product development of each business and Group company, rather than simply using organization. The product development departments in each their strengths and know-how. In this manner, the SuMi TRUST business analyze the client needs that have been collected Group is creating a product development system that carries in the course of business, and engage in improvement and out medium-term, ongoing research activities on themes that development, mainly of products for immediate application, 78 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Client-Oriented Initiatives including reviews of existing products and design of new prodThe SuMi TRUST Group also focuses its efforts on nurturucts. In addition, the Business Research and Development ing human resources who are capable of flexible thinking that Department, which was established as a dedicated unit primarsustains product development. At SuMi TRUST Bank, product Overview ily for the development of trust products, serves as the engine development experience is included in the new employee trainthat drives product development and provides development ing curriculum, and human resource development seminars support for each business, while carrying out planning, developon product development are held twice each year for product ment, and promotion of mediumto long-term development development personnel with little experience. At these semiprojects across businesses. Furthermore, the product developnars, groups engage in exhaustive discussions on the topic of ment offsite meeting has been established as a forum for disnew products to satisfy target client needs that are assigned in cussion among executive officers and general managers, where advance, with the goal of enabling participants to acquire an regular exchanges of opinion are held regarding product develunderstanding of breakthrough points and problem-solving opment, not only at a practical working level, but also based on methods in product development. Vision management strategy from a mediumto long-term viewpoint. (3) Technologies to Support Total Solutions As digitization progresses at a rapid pace, the SuMi TRUST spanning multiple generations, while actively utilizing digital Group regards digital reform initiatives as one of its most technologies such as introducing new tablet devices. In this ESG Initiatives important management strategies. manner, we will transform branches from places to handle proSuMi TRUST Bank introduced AI assisted automatic forecast cedures to spaces for consultation. analysis to understand the changing client needs due to the By providing total solutions through the optimal combination advent of the age of 100-year life and make proposals that are of consulting and digital technologies, we will continually strive more client focused and appropriate. At trust type next generato provide a client experience that exceeds their expectations tion branches, we provide consultation spaces that can comfort(please see page 84). ably accommodate clients together with their family members Business Strategy (4) Status of Initiatives Aimed at Becoming Our Clients’ “Best Partner” and Key Performance Indicators (KPIs) The SuMi TRUST Group regularly makes public indicators that allow confirmation of the status of initiatives aimed at becoming our clients’ “Best Partner.” These indicators are revised periodically as we promote and enhance these activities. Initiatives in Connection with Financial Education Assisting Clients with Long-term Asset Formation and Literacy Improvement of Clients Management Foundation Number of Seminar Sessions Held Ratio of Dividend Distribution* to Balance of Investment Trusts 3,000 (sessions) 10 (%) 2,000 5 1,000 0 0 Corporate Information 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) SuMi TRUST Bank Market average We are making efforts to hold seminars, such as the “Life Planning We propose products with low dividend frequency for clients’ long-term Seminar on Lifestyle and Money” and the “Inheritance Strategies asset formation needs. As a result, the ratio of dividend distribution to Seminar,” as opportunities to offer clients useful, specialized knowlthe balance of investment trusts is lower than the market average. edge in an easy to understand manner. * Dividend distribution refers to dividends distributed by publicly offered investment trusts for which SuMi TRUST Bank is the sales company. The market average is calculated based on statistics published by The Investment Trusts Association, Japan. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 79 Client-Oriented Initiatives Group-wide Development of Asset Management Improvement of Value of Investee Companies and Asset Administration Business Ratio of Market Capitalization of Companies where Engagement is Group Assets under Custody Implemented Compared to TOPIX Base Market Capitalization 100 (%) 150 (Trillions of Yen) (Billions of Dollars) 500.0 80 120 400.0 60 90 300.0 40 60 200.0 20 30 100.0 0 0 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, March 31, 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Domestic (left) Overseas (right) We are enhancing our engagement activities (“purposeful dialogue” Due to the maintenance and improvement of the solidity and swiftness of with investee companies, conducted to encourage improvement of our asset administration services, as well as the increasing sophistication of corporate value and the sustainable growth of the investee company), our social infrastructure, including administration and systems, Group assets both in terms of quality and quantity. under custody is on an upward trend, both domestically and overseas. Improving Investment Returns for Clients Spread of Clients with Investment Trust Gains/losses, Including Realized Profit and Loss 50 (%) 43 41 40 37 37 33 30 30 20 15 16 16 10 5 4 4 3 3 3 0 0 0 0 0 0 2 2 2 0 < (50%) (50%) to < (30%) (30%) to < (10%) (10%) to < 0% 0% to < +10% +10% to < +30% +30% to < +50% +50% < March 31, 2018 September 30, 2018 March 31, 2019 While investment gains/losses fluctuate depending on market trends and other factors, we make every effort to improve returns and realized profits/ losses for our clients. To this end, when proposing investment products to our clients, we emphasize the importance of carefully following up on their intentions in light of major life events and changes in the market environment. In this way, we strive to maintain an ongoing dialogue with our clients. 3. Initiatives Related to Fiduciary Duties (FD) (1) Practicing Fiduciary Duties The aim of the SuMi TRUST Group to be the “best partner” further strengthen our initiatives by revising the Policies whenfor clients is based on our client-oriented spirit. The Group has ever necessary. hitherto endeavored to be completely client-oriented given We believe that the practice of fiduciary duties depends on that a fiduciary spirit is essentially ingrained into our DNA. To “significant expertise” that our clients can rely on, “consulting this end, since we formulated and released our Policies regardpractice” that offers clients optimal options according to their ing the Fiduciary Duties of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group individual needs, and “stringent conflict of interest manage(the “Policies”) in September 2016, we have continued to ment.” The SuMi TRUST Group has put in place an extensive 80 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Client-Oriented Initiatives organizational structure from the management level to the Indicators (KPIs) aimed at becoming our clients’ “Best Partner,” working level, and strives constantly to enhance its initiatives in order to communicate the results of these initiatives in a in this area. simple manner. These indicators are revised each fiscal year, and Overview The SuMi TRUST Group makes public indicators that allow include the common KPIs, which are common indicators compaconfirmation of the status of initiatives and Key Performance rable across investment trust distributors. Promoting/Supervising Structure of the Group Organization Initiatives SuMi TRUST Board of Conflicts of Interest • Supervise conflict of interest management Holdings Directors Committee for the Group, monitor FD progress Conflicts of Interest Executive Management • Discuss important cases Vision Committee Enhancement Committee • Guide the improvement of relevant departments Fiduciary Duties Planning • Promote FD within the organization SuMi TRUST and Promotion Dept. Department Bank in charge Compliance Dept. • Enhance conflict of interest management ESG Initiatives Fiduciary Duties • Consult with external experts, Group-wide Group companies Discussion Panel implement within the company (2) Conflict of Interest Management With the approval of the Board of Directors, the Group Furthermore, we have established a system in which the announced the Management Policy Concerning Conflicts of Compliance Department, which is the department that conInterest (Outline), in order to protect the interests of our clients trols conflict of interest management independently of sales Business Strategy from undue harm caused by provision of various services by divisions, regularly verifies the effectiveness of conflict of interGroup companies and their related parties. The Group identifies est management across the Group. The results are regularly and classifies transactions that have possible conflicts of interest reported to the Board of Directors, etc., and improvement and in advance and manages such transactions appropriately. direction are carried out continuously, as needed. Conflict of Interest Management Framework* SuMi TRUST Holdings Conflicts of Interest Management Foundation Committee Members Inquiries Board of Directors Conflicts of Interest Committee Chairperson: Hideki Kanda Answers External Director, SuMi TRUST Bank Reporting, etc. Directions, etc. Professor, Preliminary discussions Conflicts of Interest Management Law School at Gakushuin University Executive Committee Emeritus Professor, Enhancement Committee University of Tokyo Reporting, etc. Directions, etc. Client-oriented Member: Takeshi Suzuki operations Fiduciary Duties Planning External Director, Compliance Dept. promotion SuMi TRUST Holdings Corporate Information (Conflicts of interest management control department) and Promotion Dept. Member: Akiko Hosokawa Reporting Directions Partner, Baker & McKenzie Member: Yutaka Nishida Director, Senior Managing Executive Officer SuMi TRUST Bank Other subsidiaries, etc. (Representative Executive Officer) SuMi TRUST Holdings * For the specific role of the Conflicts of Interest Committee, please refer to page 31. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 81 Client-Oriented Initiatives In addition, the Group has established the Conflicts of Interest The Group established and started activities of the Committee in an effort to enhance the effectiveness of the Stewardship Services (SS) Working Group in the Conflicts of Group’s conflict of interest management framework. The majority Interest Committee in fiscal year 2018, following the integration on the committee consists of external members. It serves as an of the investment management function of SuMi TRUST Bank advisory body to the Board of Directors and receives verificainto Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management. The aim is to tion of the appropriateness of the Group’s conflict of interest strengthen information coordination and oversight functions on management. The summary of agendas of the committee has the Group-level SS activities. continuously been made available for public review. Conflict of Interest Management System for Stewardship Activities Supervision Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings FD Advisory Stewardship Activities Committee Advisory Committee (1) Independence from (third-party committee) (third-party committee) Board of Directors distributors Middle offices (2) Independence from • Conflict of interest management for actual asset management corporate divisions Conflicts of Interest Committee (orders, research, etc.) (supervision of FD permeation/adherence) (3) Conflict of interest • Monitoring of conflict of interest management related to exermanagement for cise of voting rights investment operations FD Discussion Panel (at each Group company) Stewardship Development Department (engagements/exercise of voting rights) Asset management departments (investment decisions) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Trustees (pensions, individually operated Entrustment Entrustment (pensions, individually designated money trusts, etc.) Supervision as trustee operated designated money trusts, etc.) Re-entrustment Discretionary investment trust managers Discretionary investment Supervision as re-entrustor 4. Initiatives for Management of Client Protection, Etc. (1) Basic Initiative Policy The Group regards client protection as one of its most impordepartments for client protection management and supervisory tant management issues. SuMi TRUST Holdings has estabdepartments according to functions. The control departments lished a basic policy in its Client Protection Management Rule oversee client protection management as a whole, through the designed to enhance the Group’s client protection and conpreparation of internal company rules and regular reporting to venience, to enable the Group companies to develop approthe Board of Directors and others. Supervisory departments priate client protection management systems in accordance develop frameworks for each function, and ensure appropriwith the characteristics of their own operations. Based on the ateness and sufficiency of each function through guidance for basic policy, each Group company has established the control related departments, and training expansion, and improvement. 82 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Client-Oriented Initiatives Client Protection Management Framework Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings Overview Supervisory Board of Directors Internal Audit Department Body Risk Committee Conflicts of Interest Committee Executive Committee Executive Business Risk Management Conflicts of Interest Management Head of Compliance Body Committee Enhancement Committee Compliance Department Major Subsidiaries (Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank) Major Subsidiaries (Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management) Vision Supervisory/ Board of Directors Board of Directors Executive Compliance Committee Body Executive Committee Executive Committee Conflicts of Interest Management Internal Audit Department Internal Audit Department Other Group Companies Enhancement Committee Head of Compliance Head of Compliance Compliance Department Compliance Department ESG Initiatives Control Departments Compliance IT & Business Process Customer Satisfaction Marketing and Risk Management Compliance Department Planning Department Promotion Department Planning Department Department Department Ensuring Ensuring Client Client Clients Receive Managing Outsourcing Client Support Clients Receive Outsourcing Managing Client Conflicts of Information Information Conflicts of Support Adequate Management Management Adequate Management Interest Management Management Interest Management Explanations Explanations (2) Ensuring Clients Receive Adequate Explanations Business Strategy When providing financial products and services, the SuMi Fiduciary Duties of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group. TRUST Group provides appropriate and sufficient explanaIn particular, we monitor whether appropriate explanations tions and easy-to-understand information so that our clients are provided to our clients to ensure their understanding in understand and are assured about the products and services. transactions involving financial products that may pose risk, Specifically, we have created a client protection management including investment trusts and life insurance. We revise our framework, such as thoroughly enforcing the suitability rule,* cresolicitation rules, as necessary, to ensure that solicitation and ating a client explanation manual that stipulates appropriate prosales activities for financial products are conducted appropriManagement Foundation vision of information to clients, etc. and expanding and improving ately from the perspective of the clients. training, based on the solicitation policy regarding provision of * Rules that prohibit inappropriate solicitation in view of clients’ knowledge, experience, financial position, and purpose of transactions. financial products and services and the Policies regarding the (3) Client Information Management The Group has established the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group Protection Regulation (GDPR), which took effect in fiscal year Privacy Policy to securely protect the personal information of its 2018, we published “Fair Processing Notice” and appropriately clients for establishing a framework for appropriately managprocess personal data in compliance with the GDPR. Corporate Information ing client information. When using client information jointly The SuMi TRUST Group requires all employees to submit a within the Group, each company complies with laws on personal written affirmation of their duty of confidentiality, so that they information protection, guidelines on personal information clearly recognize the duty they have to keep important inforprotection in the financial industry, and other related laws and mation, including personal data they come across while workregulations, so as to ensure the appropriate use of such inforing, confidential. mation. Furthermore, in accordance with the EU General Data Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 83 Digitalization Strategy 1. Progressing with a Total Solution Model The Group has a wide range of business domains, and develare unique to a financial group specialized in trust banking, and ops highly specialized businesses targeting a broad client base. go beyond our business domains. Our digitalization strategy Each business domain holds “Deep Data”: a variety of data accuserves as the foundation for building a unique model for addmulated by leveraging the highly specialized know-how unique ing value, as a financial group specialized in trust banking. デジタル技術の活用によるトータルソリューションモデルの進化 to a financial group specialized in trust banking. Deep Data accuEvolution of total solutions through use of digital technologies ＤＥＥＰＤＡＴＡ mulates data such as client attributes, assets, transactions, and Deep Data Digital technologies トータルソリTotalューショ ン solutions events, as well as external data such as economic conditions, repRetail TS デジタル技術 企業向け For corporations resenting information that is both quantitatively and qualitatively Wholesale TS 従業員向け Real estate 投資家向け For employees unique to a financial group specialized in trust banking. Global markets For investors We analyze this information and convert it into a form that proFiduciary Asset management vides high added value for clients, and utilize the optimal digital HR/Accounting 信託銀行の多様な事業領域、 情報の複合、連鎖化による • 「信託ならでは」のプラットフォーム technologies to determine the ideal timing to make proposals. 広範な事業基盤、 Accumulate 高度な専 information based 情報価値向上 Increasing the value of • 「信託らし • Platform い」情報価値を活用し unique た to a trust bank 門性に基づく情報の蓄積 事業横断トータルソリューション on the diverse business domains, information by • Cross-business total solutions Our goal is to use digital technologies to deliver experiences broad business foundation, and combining and linking it using information value unique high degree of specialization of to a trust bank that exceed client expectations and to offer total solutions that the trust bank group 2. Pursuing Experiences Exceeding Client Expectations and Innovation Using Technology In 2015, we launched FinTech project teams, and in November Client 2017, we created Digital Transformation Departments at SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank. The activities of these Consulting Database teams and departments have included verification experiments Client-oriented consulting Data on various transactions, marketing in line with including structured investment aimed at using technologies such as blockchain and AI, as well client’s transaction needs trusts, insurance, and real estate as joint research with external partners. Predictive (1) Consulting with regard to the 100-year life using AI model Analysis We are working to offer a higher level of consulting based on data analysis through automatic predictive analysis using (2) Using digital technologies to offer a higher level of consulting AI. Given the advent of the age of 100-year life, we will make In addition to the above, we will continue to perform verificamore accurate, client-oriented proposals, such as consulting tion experiments aimed at improving client experiences, includthat reflects changes in transaction needs according to client ing using AI in the asset management field and AI specialized for life stages. text analysis to offer consulting that meets hidden client needs. 3. Combining Consulting and Use of Digital Technologies —Transforming Branches from Places to Carry Out Procedures to Spaces for Consultation— SuMi TRUST Bank is pursuing optimization across branches, consulting unique to a trust bank, transformed from a “place to including consolidation and review of functions in terminal carry out procedures” to a “space for consultation” through the branches and suburban branches, and expanding hours of introduction of new devices that reduce the burden of filling out operation on holidays, weekends and after hours, through the paperwork for clients and booths where consultations can be use of digital technologies and reform of operational processes. carried out with clients, even several generations of family memThe Bank opened the Consulting Plaza Chofu in September bers, in a relaxed atmosphere. 2018 to test its new trust type next generation branch. Through such efforts, we will transform our traditional branch Consulting Plaza Chofu was set up as a branch specialized in offices into trust type next generation branches unique to a trust 84 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Digitalization Strategy bank, where clients from different generations gather. particularly when it comes to the client contact. Through an In promoting its digitalization strategy, including the aboveoptimal combination of consulting and use of digital technolomentioned measures, the Group will place great value on gies (combining online and offline), we aim to deliver experiOverview its contact with clients. While actively using digital technoloences that exceed client expectations. gies, we will not simply aim for mechanization and efficiency, 4. Initiatives to Improve Productivity—Promotion of BPR Activities Using Digital Technologies— SuMi TRUST Bank has achieved savings of approximately that they would be performed by humans. 100,000 person-hours of labor in one year since the full-scale These BPR activities have a wide range of applications, from introduction of Robotic Process Automation (RPA) to automate banking operations such as mortgage loan-related tasks, to real operations that were previously performed by humans. estate and other trust operations. We aim to further enhance cliVision We are improving both operational efficiency and quality by ent services through BPR by improving group-wide productivity replacing standard back-office tasks, mainly at the head office, and shifting personnel from the head office to branch offices. with RPA. At the same time, we are promoting digitalization of back-office tasks and a shift to paperless operations by introData collection ducing the AI-Optical Character Reader (AI-OCR) in data entry Further ESG Initiatives and other operations that were previously done on paper. Data entry enhancing In addition to automating back-office tasks and shifting to client service Aggregation/ paperless operations with the introduction of RPA and AI-OCR, check we are also working on Business Process Re-engineering (BPR), etc. RPA and which uses digital technologies to redesign operational proAI-OCR as a substitute cesses that had previously been optimized on the assumption 5. Initiatives at SBI Sumishin Net Bank, Ltd. Business Strategy Since its founding in September 2007, SBI Sumishin Net October 2019. The company will steadily expand the scope Bank, Ltd. (“SBI Sumishin Net Bank”), a Group company, has of applications for AI screening services to include transaction worked to achieve “the most user-friendly internet banking, lending that provides loans based on the settlement data, and offering attractive products and services 24 hours a day, 365 credit card loans, etc. days a year.” Going forward, SBI Sumishin Net Bank will actively (2) Initiatives for the Cashless Market Management Foundation use AI and other leading-edge technologies to develop prodAs of April 1, 2019, SBI Sumishin Net Bank acquired NetMove ucts and services that help improve client convenience. Corporation (“NetMove”), which provides settlement terminals (1) Providing AI Screening Services and systems for credit cards and QR codes and develops secuHitachi, Ltd. (“Hitachi”) and SBI Sumishin Net Bank have rity software for financial institutions. This is the first example established Dayta Consulting, a joint venture that provides AI in Japan of a bank acquiring and making a subsidiary of a screening services by bringing together Hitachi’s high-perforFinTech-related company. SBI Sumishin Net Bank will continue mance AI and SBI Sumishin Net Bank’s credit know-how. to provide new services by combining its banking services with As its first initiative, Dayta Consulting plans to begin offering the functions of NetMove, including use in lending based on Corporate Information AI screening services for mortgage loans at multiple financial payment history data in addition to capturing the demands of institutions, including regional financial institutions, starting in the cashless market, where continued expansion is expected. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 85 Human Resources Strategy The SuMi TRUST Group is engaged in initiatives to enhance its human capital—one of the sources of value creation—and increase the total added value provided to our clients. Specifically, we aim to raise the level of our pool of human resources that can devise comprehensive solutions using the two wheels of ”bolstering human resources” and “maintaining workplace environments,” based on the principle of diversity & inclusion, and in accordance with our Basic Policy for Personnel Affairs Management. Improvement of Corporate Value Basic Policy for Personnel Affairs Management Highly Capable Human Capital The SuMi TRUST Group provides a workplace in which individuals’ diversity and creativity are fully Bolster Human Resources Maintaining Workplace Environments utilized as value-added to the organization and “Human Resources Development Policy (TRUST)” “Declaration on Work Style Reform” they can have dreams and pride and feel motiTraining and Optimize work styles Off-JT vation when working. It also forms a group of Human resource assignment personnel capable of providing comprehensive and OJT solutions by making full use of their advanced exA culture that Enhancing Fair evaluations fosters motivation Health pertise and comprehensive capabilities and helps leadership and treatment management and job satisfaction them to make successful achievements. Obtain and Form a Diverse Pool of Human Resources Diversity & Inclusion Basic Policy for Personnel Affairs Management Status of the Group of Personnel that Provides Comprehensive Solutions Number of financial consultants Fellows (“SEI-KAIIN”) of the Institute Number of registered (number of female consultants shown in parentheses) of Actuaries of Japan real estate transaction agents March 31, 2018: March 31, 2019: March 31, 2018: March 31, 2019: March 31, 2018: March 31, 2019: 249 (9) 264 (9) 43 44 5,518 5,638 Bolster Human Resources Status of positions of female employees Number of hours of training held Number of applicants for voluntary training (March 31, 2019) FY2017: FY2018: FY2017: FY2018: Executives: Level of general Level of section manager: manager: 6,033 hours 5,145 hours 886 1,105 2 21 261 Maintaining Workplace Environments Supporting work-life balance Number of users Number of leave days used Childcare leave: Nursing care Male employees takof the internal job posting system leave: ing childcare leave: FY2017: FY2018: FY2017: FY2018: 14.3 days 14.9 days 368 114 132 (March 31, 2019) (cumulative total for FY2018) (cumulative total for FY2018) 445 494 (All figures are actual results of SuMi TRUST Bank) 86 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Human Resources Strategy 1. Diversity & Inclusion The SuMi TRUST Group holds the concept of Diversity & Number of Female Employees in Management Positions at SuMi TRUST Bank Overview Inclusion, in the sense of “utilizing the diversity and creativity of its employees in management,” as its management prinMarch 31, March 31, March 31, 2017 2018 2019 ciples (“Mission”). We also hold fully utilizing individuals’ diver0 0 sity and creativity as value added to the organization as our Director 1 (0%) (0%) Basic Policy for Personnel Affairs Management. The business 2 2 model of a trust bank group is to offer added value to clients Executive officers 0 (4.3%) (4.2%) by leveraging the diversity of the organization. While we have Level of 16 21 14 always believed in respecting diversity as an organization, we general manager (2.6%) (3.3%) consider it vital to reaffirm the SuMi TRUST Group’s strengths Level of 245 261 232 section manager (11.9%) (13.2%) and to enhance the organization’s diversity. Vision Level of 1,108 1,141 SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank have each 1,069 assistant manager (32.7%) (34.1%) established a Diversity & Inclusion Office (“D&I Office”) with* Numbers in parentheses are ratio of women in the Human Resources Department. SuMi TRUST Bank’s * As of March 31, 2019, there is one female external director at SuMi TRUST Holdings. D&I Office is comprised of dedicated staff members from the * As of June 30, 2019, there are two female external directors at SuMi TRUST Bank. Human Resources Department and members of business supervision departments. In addition to promoting diversified work ESG Initiatives styles for individual employees, the D&I Office implements measures according to the situation of each business that will lead to enhancement of corporate value. Total Women Men Number of employees (SuMi TRUST Bank) Enhanced training curriculum for female Held voluntary seminars for employees in relevant employees businesses open to all, regardless of sex or age March 31, 2019 13,469 7,513 5,956 Number of new graduates hired (SuMi TRUST Bank) (2) Initiatives to Support Work-life Balance Business Strategy FY2019 396 243 153 SuMi TRUST Bank has made it possible for employees, whose jobs do not normally involve relocation, to change their work (1) Initiatives to Promote Active Participation by Women location if their spouse is transferred. In addition, both male SuMi TRUST Bank has set a business owner action plan target and female employees can take leave to accompany a spouse of “placing 300 female employees in managerial positions at (whether an employee of the company or of another company) the level of section manager or higher” by March 31, 2020, and who is transferred overseas. Both systems are being used and is providing growth opportunities through various training prothese initiatives are helping ensure that career continuity is not grams and wide-ranging assignments with a view to promoting interrupted by life events. Management Foundation women to management. Number of users of system SuMi TRUST Bank provides carefully designed training both before and at the time of promotion to assistant manager level, System for taking leave to Change of work location in accompany spouse transferred as well as before promotion to section manager, to coincide Japan as of March 31, 2019 overseas, as of March 31, 2019 with turning points in career development, in order to give female employees opportunities to think proactively about 102 12 career development and to build networks. SuMi TRUST Bank also holds seminars by outside instructors Executives are also actively engaged in activities related for employees on childcare leave who will soon return to work, Corporate Information to nurturing female employees. SuMi TRUST Bank provides a and organizes “Seminar on Balancing Work with Nursing Care” range of growth opportunities for female employees, including on nursing care issues jointly with the employees’ union. The seminars for women in addition to voluntary seminars open to Bank implements initiatives that take into account employees everyone, regardless of sex or age. whose work is restricted by nursing care, such as publishing Branch offices promote voluntary interaction with female a handbook on support for balancing work with nursing care, employees from other companies, and carry out activities holding seminars that employees can participate online, and that broaden women’s perspective and let them think about providing telephone consultation meetings. their careers. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 87 Human Resources Strategy (3) Promoting Active Participation by Diverse Human Resources • Promoting Active Participation by Global Employees • Promoting Active Participation by Disabled Persons SuMi TRUST Bank offers training every year to national staff The Group aims to be a place where employees can work with working at its overseas branches and overseas subsidiaries to motivation and display their talents to the fullest as members deepen their understanding of the Group and its operations of the workplace, whether or not they are disabled. At SuMi and to strengthen networks among participants and with line TRUST Bank, employees with disabilities work alongside their of business. In order to promote smooth communication with colleagues at branch offices where they have contact with clients or perform back-office tasks at head office. The Bank also makes employees of other nationalities, the Bank also organizes a efforts to interview employees after they start work to respond to Japanese Language School that offers courses to help with concerns or requests that arise after starting work, and uses the learning Japanese and holds intercultural communications trainpoints brought up in the interviews to create an easier working ing for supervisors of foreign national employees. In order to environment from physical and mental perspectives. encourage active participation and promotion to management Disabled person Branch offices and departments of staff hired at overseas bases, the Bank organizes transfers to employment ratio with employees with disabilities bases in different countries or long-term dispatches to Japan. (as of March 31, 2019) (as of March 31, 2019) 2.21% 103 branch offices and departments (SuMi TRUST Bank) External Evaluation Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. se m i March, 2019 February, 2019 January, 2019 Selected as Semi-Nadeshiko Brand by Selected by METI and Nippon Kenko Kaigi as Selected by Bloomberg for inclusion Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry “Certified Health and Productivity Management in 2019 Bloomberg Gender-Equality (METI) and Tokyo Stock Exchange (TSE) Organization (White 500)” for second consecutive year Index (GEI) Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank, Limited March, 2019 February, 2019 October, 2018 Selected by METI among Obtained “Platinum Received Gold rating in PRIDE winners of New Diversity Kurumin” certification from INDEX, operated by “work with Management Selection Ministry of Health, Labour Pride” (wwP) 100 project and Welfare Membership Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Asset Management Thirty Percent Coalition member 30% Club UK, 30% Club Japan Investor Group member 88 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Human Resources Strategy 2. Bolstering Human Resource (2) Enhancing Off-JT* such as Training Overview The SuMi TRUST Group has established the SuMiTRUST Human Active Resources Participation by University, which offers group training with the objective of Development Human Resources improving employees’ operational skills and management No.1 No.1 abilities, and many opportunities in its self-development programs to encourage employees to continue improving their skills. The Company’s President is the president of SuMiTRUST University, while the executive in charge of Human Resources The SuMi TRUST Group Human Resources Development Policy Development and an outside expert serve as the university’s vice presidents. The university is a group-wide program The SuMi TRUST Group will maintain its workplace environment and bolster its human resources based on a development spirit that also receives advice regarding its management from Vision consisting of “TRUST,” for the growth and career development of Hitotsubashi University graduate school. In fiscal year 2018, we the employees who will create our future. also worked to broaden our perspective and cultivate digital Talent……………Talent (individuality) can blossom knowledge through co-creation with other business categoRespect…………Respect each individual ries, such as manufacturers and universities, in order to bolster human resources. Uniqueness………Develop true professionals * Off-the-job training: Uses workshops, training, and other methods to teach knowledge Support…………Make mutual teaching and support our motto and other skills that cannot be learned through OJT. ESG Initiatives Try…………………Praise small, daily challenges (3) Enhancing Leadership Based on the “fiduciary spirit of TRUST,” the SuMi TRUST Group SuMi TRUST Bank offers a program to develop next-generaims to contribute to our clients and the continuous development of society through the growth of our employees, thereby maxiation executive candidates in cooperation with Hitotsubashi mizing the creation of shared value and becoming the corporate University’s Graduate Programs. Candidates receive instruction group that is chosen by society. on the values, general liberal arts knowledge, and MBA elements they need for management, and through sessions and courses, they complete the program by presenting a proposal Business Strategy Having set the goal of being the “No. 1 financial group for human resource development,” the Group established its to senior executives. The Bank also provides a leadership develHuman Resources Development Policy (TRUST) in April 2018. opment program for female employees to step up to manageStarting in fiscal year 2019, we will also strive to be the “No. ment through various rank-based training. After the employees 1 financial group for human resource participation,” where complete their training, operations are conducted such as diverse human resources can play active roles based on this providing them with opportunities to practice what they have Human Resources Development Policy. learned during training in a variety of environments, primarily through promotion and job rotation. Management Foundation (1) Skill-raising Human Resource Assignment and OJT* The SuMi TRUST Group views OJT as the foundation for (4) Fair Evaluations and Treatment human resource development. We also focus on assigning The personnel evaluation system at SuMi TRUST Bank is a employees to roles that awaken their passion for growth and participatory model, in which employees communicate closely allow them to display their abilities to the maximum extent. with their supervisors on a daily basis to set specific tasks In fiscal year 2018, SuMi TRUST Bank introduced a program and review them. The evaluation process looks not only at that enables younger employees to experience multiple work issues related to performance of duties, but formulates and domains within a fixed period. We are also advancing initiaoffers feedback on the individual’s future career development. Additionally, as a means of obtaining a multifaceted view of Corporate Information tives such as a trust internship program aimed at developing human resources who possess a “high degree of expert knowlour personnel, we have introduced an anonymous survey for edge in trust operations” and a “deep understanding of the subordinates and others to rate the day-to-day management fiduciary spirit.” actions of line managers in the branch management ranks (gen* OJT: On-the-Job Training. OJT is a process whereby workplace supervisors and senior eral managers, deputy general managers, section managers, employees teach subordinates the knowledge, skills, and duties required of them etc.). Further, we also promote management action reform and via their daily tasks. encourage the cultivation of a climate of bi-directional dialogue. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 89 Human Resources Strategy 3. Upholding Positive Workplace Environments a “Certified Health and Productivity Management Organization Declaration on Work Style Reform (White 500)” for two consecutive years. With regard to physical The SuMi TRUST Group hereby declares it a top commitment to health, we provide health examinations every year and make offer a workplace where the diversity and creativity of its employreexaminations mandatory. The Human Resources Department ees are more fully utilized to add value to the organization and and others provide individualized follow-up to ensure that everywhere employees can have pride and be highly motivated in fulone who requires treatment at a healthcare institution receives it. filling their missions. The Group as a whole will work towards the following goals. With regard to mental health, we provide care by line management and carry out stress checks once a year. Group results are 1. Achieving diverse work styles and work-life balance provided to the employees’ union, and we discuss “improvement 2.  Supporting health improvement through measures in workplace environments” and strive toward such improvement. such as boosting health awareness and appropriately managing work hours Specific initiatives • Establish and adhere to rules for taking intervals between 3. Providing opportunities for all employees to grow work shifts while participating actively with motivation • Thoroughly implement attendance management and prevent Through the enthusiastic work of each individual employee, we overwork for all Group employees will continue to be a corporate group that contributes to the benefit of clients and is useful to society. • Prohibit smoking in all buildings (3) A Culture that Fosters Motivation and Job Satisfaction With regard to “maintaining workplace environments,” we We work to build a climate that supports challenges and set up the “Work Style Reform Headquarters” headed by the learning and activates bi-directional dialogue toward “providpresidents of SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank, and ing opportunities for all employees to grow while participating established the “Declaration on Work Style Reform” as a top actively with motivation.” The SuMi TRUST Group has always commitment. The efforts undertaken based on this declaration encouraged activities that create opportunities for learning, such were recognized by various organizations during fiscal year 2018 as circles formed by groups both in-house and outside, and has (please see page 88). regularly held lectures by outside instructors. SuMi TRUST Bank encourages employees to independently and voluntarily shape (1) Optimizing Work Styles their own careers through changes in job position or through an With the aim of “achieving diverse work styles and work-life internal job-posting system. Since fiscal year 2018, we have probalance,” SuMi TRUST Holdings actively establishes a workmoted activities for employees to shape their own futures, which place environment where employees can work while feeling solicit ideas from employees for the creation of new businesses at ease and still maintain a good balance between work and and services. We received a total of 213 ideas from 468 employtheir personal lives. In addition to enhancing its various systems ees group-wide in fiscal year 2018, which has helped improve related to childbirth and childcare, including encouraging male employee motivation. In order to spread and maintain this culemployees to take childcare leave (in fiscal year 2018, 73.3% ture, it is essential to have good bi-directional dialogue between of eligible male employees took childcare leave), SuMi TRUST executives and employees. SuMi TRUST Bank held 26 consultaBank is introducing a new leave system in fiscal year 2019 to tion meetings and informal meetings between union and manhelp employees balance cancer treatment and work. agement in fiscal year 2018. The Bank also uses occasions when During this fiscal year, back-office work at branches will conemployees gather, such as rank-based training, as opportunities tinue to decrease as a result of measures such as enhancing for discussion and questions about management policies, leaderthe functions of in-house systems, and we will cut resources ship, and other topics by the president and other executives. required at head office by 10% by conducting another review of head office operations. Human resources who have more time available due to the reduction of back-office work will be reassigned to sales or strategic areas and we will expand client contact by optimizing functions across branches. (2) Health Management The SuMi TRUST Group’s active initiatives to support health promotion, aimed at promoting the physical and mental health of all Group employees, have been recognized with certification as Seminar by executives 90 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Human Resources Strategy 4. Human Rights (1) Human Rights Management engages in the formulation and implementation of various trainOverview • Basic Philosophy ing programs and education activities concerning human rights The SuMi TRUST Group’s human rights management is based issues at all Group companies, branches and departments (for on the “Guiding Principles for Business and Human Rights,” details on human rights due diligence, see page 147 of the which was adopted by the United Nations Human Rights 2018/2019 ESG Report). Council in June 2011. We have established the Human Rights In fiscal year 2018, training to raise awareness of human rights Policy along with the Basic Policy on the Social Responsibility of was held in 267 departments, and, including lectures during 24 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group (Sustainability Policy) to respect rank-based training sessions, a total of approximately 413 hours the human rights of all stakeholders. was spent on training attended by 24,099 people. (Human Rights Policy: https://www.smth.jp/en/csr/management/ human_rights_policy/index.html) (2) Protecting Various Human Rights Vision • Initiatives to Address Dowa and Foreign Residents Issues • Human Rights Management System Based on the Guiding The SuMi TRUST Group regards tackling discrimination Principles for Business and Human Rights against the Dowa caste as a particularly important theme in the The SuMi TRUST Group works to improve the quality of its promotion of human rights education, and has worked to comhuman rights management in a PDCA cycle, in order to foster a pletely eliminate prejudiced or discriminatory views against the corporate culture and workplace environment that respects the Dowa caste. With regard to foreign residents issues, we make all basic human rights of all stakeholders, by respecting individual employees aware of giving consideration to the human rights of ESG Initiatives human rights and diverse values, while eliminating discriminaforeign residents, including the handling of personal authentication. The SuMi TRUST Group has not had any cases of infringetion documents and respecting privacy. ment of human rights in the past three years. • Prevention of Sexual Harassment and Power Harassment Commitment Establishment of the Human Rights Policy. Actions such as sexual harassment and power harassment Once a year, the Human Rights Due are prohibited at the SuMi TRUST Group. In the event harassDiligence Self-check List*2 is distributed Implementation of ment does occur, advice is sought and complaints are registo all branches, departments, and affilihuman rights due ates both at home and abroad as a tool tered via the Harassment Prevention Committee representative diligence*1 to check the status of respect for human Business Strategy in each branch and department, or directly by the Personnel rights at each unit. Consultation Desk (LGBT Consultation Desk) within the Human The Personnel Consultation Desk in the Resources Department. Stringent corrective measures or punAccess to redress Human Resources Department serves as a contact point. ishment are implemented against the perpetrators. The Personnel Consultation Desk (LGBT Consultation Desk) *1 H uman rights due diligence refers to a series of initiatives to identify actual or potential impacts on human rights, resulting from the activities of the Group or related outside parresponds to various consultations related to human rights and, ties, to develop measures for the prevention or mitigation of such impacts, and to continuin cases where a negative impact on human rights is evident, ously verify and disclose the effectiveness of such measures. cooperates with the related departments to promptly take meaManagement Foundation *2 A check list serves to verify the progress in each department concerned with the Human Rights Management System, such as the status of implementation of human rights due dilisures as needed. In fiscal year 2018, the Personnel Consultation gence, compliance with the Human Rights Policy, and occurrence of human rights violations. Desk received 76 consultations, of which 35 were situations involving concerns about human rights violations, including • Human Rights Due Diligence Liaison Committee harassment. Five of these situations remain unresolved, and we The Human Rights Due Diligence Liaison Committee, chaired are working with the related departments to settle these cases. by the head of the Sustainability Management Office of the Corporate Planning Department, was established as a joint orga• Initiatives to Prevent Discrimination Against LGBT People nization by SuMi TRUST Holdings and SuMi TRUST Bank. The We strive to ensure thorough prevention of discrimination Liaison Committee investigates the status in addressing human against sexual minorities such as LGBT in hiring or performing Corporate Information rights at all Group companies, including overseas entities, identitheir work. Our Personnel Consultation Desk (LGBT Consultation fies issues and risks that need to be addressed, and discusses and Desk) addresses this issue as an ally (supporter). implements measures for improvement. Based on discussions by the liaison committee, the Corporate Planning Department • Investments and Loans Related to Cluster Bombs formulates objectives and plans for the development and reinThe SuMi TRUST Group refuses to provide loans to foreign forcement of the framework of initiatives, and the Human Rights or domestic companies that produce cluster bombs, which are Education Committee chaired by the Head of Human Resources recognized as a weapon raising strong humanitarian concerns. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 91 Communication with Shareholders and Investors 1. Basic Philosophy SuMi TRUST Holdings aims for highly transparent corporate Specifically, we endeavor to give our shareholders and invesmanagement by striving for timely and appropriate disclosure of tors a deeper understanding of SuMi TRUST Holdings’ perforcorporate information, as well as through proactive IR activities mance, business conditions, business strategies, etc., by holding and constructive dialogue with shareholders and investors in information meetings and other events in addition to disclosing Japan and overseas. corporate information in a timely, fair, and accurate manner. 2. Activities Carried Out (1) Activities for Individual Investors described the features and strengths of the Group’s digitalizaWe strive to provide information that will allow individual tion strategy and real estate business, as well as our strategic shareholders and investors to better understand the Group direction. In addition, Mr. Shinichi Saito, an external director and through measures such as organizing information meetings, chairperson of the Audit Committee, gave a presentation on setting up a dedicated website for individual investors, and our governance. distributing a newsletter for shareholders (“The Trust Newsletter – Business Report”). (3) Received Japan Investor Relations Association “IR At an information meeting held in March 2019, we had a diaSpecial Award” logue on management issues surrounding the banking industry, At the 2018 IR Awards selected by the Japan Investor Relations including specific initiatives, with Mr. Takashi Mitachi of the Association in November 2018, SuMi TRUST Holdings received Boston Consulting Group as our guest. the “IR Special Award” for the second time, following its first award in fiscal year 2010. The award recognizes our unique IR practices, which include “consistently improving IR practices,” “taking on a leadership role in IR activities in the industry,” and “being highly regarded for promoting IR to individual investors.” For details, please see our website (Japanese only). https://www.smth.jp/investors/individual_meeting/index.html IR Activities Carried Out in FY2018 Investor meetings on (2) Activities for Institutional Investors financial results for analysts 2 times Investor meetings on financial results aimed mainly at analysts and institutional investors and institutional investors are held twice a year, for the full-year Overseas IR events 9 times and interim results. We also conduct briefings on our manageOne-on-one meetings with Number of companies: 391 ment strategy and financial position, etc. by participating in institutional investors in (including 199 overseas investors) conferences organized by securities companies and by holdJapan and overseas ing one-on-one investor meetings in Japan and overseas. At Information meetings for Number of participants: 858 SuMi TRUST IR Day, held in December 2018, frontline leaders individual investors 3. General Meeting of Shareholders In addition to promptly sending out the convocation notice voting rights. Furthermore, we post an English translation of for the General Meeting of Shareholders held in June of each the convocation notice on our website at the same time as the year, we post the notice on stock exchange websites and our Japanese version, before it is sent out, in an effort to increase own website one week before it is sent out. We are also strivthe convenience of overseas investors. ing to improve the voting environment by making it possible to Notices of resolutions and voting results are posted on exercise voting rights online or by cell phone (including smartour website immediately after the conclusion of the General phones), and by participating in a platform for the exercise of Meeting of Shareholders. 92 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Initiatives to Facilitate Financing • Dealing with Facilitation of Financing such as loans, deposits, foreign exchange, and derivatives to Japanese client companies who are expanding overseas. In The SuMi TRUST Group considers the facilitation of financing to addition to developing our own offices, we are making efforts to small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) and individuals seeking address the growing need for financial services denominated in mortgage loans as one of its most important social missions. Overview local currencies through partnerships with leading banks in Asian SuMi TRUST Bank took steps to further enhance its financial intercountries. In Indonesia through “DBSI – SuMi TRUST Japanese mediary function and established a basic policy on the facilitation of Business Services” established within PT Bank DBS Indonesia, a financing. This was to ensure prompt and appropriate responses to local subsidiary of DBS Bank Ltd. which is a major bank based requests from SMEs and mortgage loan clients for various consultain Singapore, and in Vietnam through Bank for Investment and tions, restructuring of loan repayment conditions, etc. Development of Vietnam (hereinafter “BIDV”) which SuMi TRUST The bank facilitates financing operations through a system at Bank has a partnership with and a leasing joint venture company branch offices to provide prompt and appropriate responses to with BIDV (BIDV-SuMi TRUST Leasing Company, Ltd.), we are clients’ consultations about, or requests for, the restructuring of loan enhancing our financial services geared toward Japanese comparepayment conditions and other matters and a system at the head nies expanding into each country. office to fully grasp the branch office support activities. The bank 2) Initiatives related to support for business succession also responds to clients’ requests for consultation and complaints Private Banking Department of SuMi TRUST Bank provides Vision through a dedicated telephone number as well as at branch offices. detailed proposals and prompt information to meet the diverse The Act concerning Temporary Measures to Facilitate Financing asset inheritance and business succession needs of both its corfor SMEs, etc. expired on March 31, 2013. Even so, the SuMi TRUST porate and individual clients. Tailor-made services for the needs Group continues to provide appropriate and proactive financial of company-owner and high-net-worth clients are provided in intermediary services to facilitate the business activities of SMEs collaboration with an affiliate company, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust and to provide mortgage loan clients with financial security. Also, Wealth Partners. when there are consultations about, or requests for, the restructurFinancial consultants have been assigned to branches nationing of loan repayment conditions, etc. from clients who have been wide as immediate counseling service counter so that compadirectly or indirectly affected by natural disasters such as Great East ny-owner clients may consult on any inheritance or business Japan Earthquake, The 2016 Kumamoto Earthquake, 2018 Osaka ESG Initiatives succession concerns or issues they may have. Our financial conEarthquake or 2018 Hokkaido Eastern Iburi earthquake, the SuMi sultants draw on the expertise they have accumulated through TRUST Group endeavors to respond in a flexible and appropriate a rich, wide-ranging set of experiences to consult with clients on manner, taking into account each client’s circumstances. matters concerning inheritance, asset inheritance and business In addition, SuMi TRUST Bank has a system under which it respects succession as well as asset management and administration. and abides by the “Guidelines for Management Guarantee,” and Furthermore, we cooperate with our tax accountant corporate discloses the utilization status of the guidelines on our website. The partner to hold seminars for business owners on the inheritance bank has reorganized its system for receiving inquiries related to the and business succession tax system and business succession “Guidelines on Arrangement for Victims of Natural Disaster,” which measures that make use of trusts. These events serve as opporwas adopted in April 2016, and appropriately responds to client’s tunities to make SuMi TRUST Bank’s consulting function more requests for consultation. broadly known among people who have never had dealings with Business Strategy a trust bank. • Status of Initiatives to Improve SME Business Operations Moreover, in August 2018, for the first time at a specialized and to Revitalize Regions trust bank, the Bank was nationally recognized as a Support (1) Policy on Management Support Measures for SMEs agency for business innovation, providing specialized support, SuMi TRUST Bank assists SMEs with efforts to improve and revisuch as support on tax matters, finance and financial affairs, for talize their business operations by considering their conditions and small and medium-sized enterprises. providing business consultations, management guidance and sup3) Initiatives related to “Densai” (electronically recorded monport for formulating business reconstruction strategies, and other etary claims) support services. In order to facilitate fundraising for SMEs, SuMi TRUST Bank Management Foundation (2) Framework of Management Support for SMEs has offered “Densai Services” since February 2012. The service In order to carry out management support for SMEs, SuMi TRUST is based on the Zengin Electronic Monetary Claims Recording Bank has established “Financing Facilitation Promotion Offices” in Network, in which financial institutions nationwide are members. the Wholesale Business Planning Department and in the Personal We also provide “Densai lump-sum factoring services.” Loan Business Promotion Department, to prepare a framework to (3) Status of Management Support Initiatives for SMEs and of deal appropriately and satisfactorily with various consultations and Regional Revitalization Initiatives requests from clients. SuMi TRUST Bank has branches throughout the country. In terms of specific measures related to management support Although it is not engaged in initiatives for the revitalization of spefor SMEs, branch offices and the head office are engaged in efforts cific regions, it carries out initiatives focused on support to improve such as support for formulating business reconstruction plans taithe business operations of clients at each branch according to their lored to individual circumstances, and assistance aimed at making individual circumstances and business dealings. Corporate Information progress with business reconstruction plans, taking into account the industry conditions and the business dealings of individual SMEs. Examples of Specific Initiatives Furthermore, SuMi TRUST Bank prepares to support clients in over• Introduced prospective buyers of idle real estate (buildings seas expansion and business succession as well as in electronically for rent and other properties) of clients and brokered the recorded monetary claims. sale of such assets. Contributed to reducing interest-bearing 1) Initiatives related to support for overseas expansion debt of the clients. SuMi TRUST Bank has the five-branch one-subsidiary sys• Carried out sales mediation services (real estate surveys) for clitem that includes New York, London, Singapore, Hong Kong, ents to other clients, and contributed to increasing their sales. Shanghai and Thailand. These branches offer financial services Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 93 Corporate Information Financial Review Terms with an asterisk are explained in “Glossary” on page 95. In the consolidated financial results for fiscal year 2018, net business profit before credit costs increased by ¥11.6 billion year on year to ¥282.2 billion. The rise was mainly due to higher net fees and commissions and related profits from the stock transfer agency services business as well as asset management subsidiaries, on top of an increase in net interest income from the international business divisions of SuMi TRUST Bank. In the meantime, net income attributable to owners of the parent grew by ¥19.9 billion year on year to ¥173.8 billion. Both net business profit before credit costs and net income attributable to owners of the parent achieved constant progress in line with the published earnings forecast. Overview of the Financial Results in FY2018 <Consolidated> SuMi TRUST Holdings (Consolidated) Billions of Yen (Unless specified otherwise) FY2018 (A) FY2017 (B) Change (A)–(B) Rate of change Net Business Profit before Credit Costs* 282.2 270.5 11.6 4.3% Ordinary Profit 256.4 232.6 23.7 10.2% Net Income Attributable to Owners of the Parent 173.8 153.9 19.9 12.9% Total Credit Costs* (2.9) 2.9 (5.9) — Return on Equity* 7.95% 7.40% 0.55% — Net Income per Common Shares (EPS) (Yen) 458.91 403.92 54.99 13.6% Net Assets per Common Shares (BPS) (Yen) 7,008.67 6,897.36 111.31 1.6% * Return on shareholders’ equity = [Net income attributable to owners of the parent / (FY-start total shareholders’ equity + FY-end shareholders’ equity) / 2] × 100 <Non-consolidated> SuMi TRUST Bank (Non-consolidated) Billions of Yen (Unless specified otherwise) FY2018 (A) FY2017 (B) Change (A)–(B) Rate of change Net Business Profit before Credit Costs* 231.4 189.7 41.7 22.0% Net Interest Income and Related Profit* 172.7 176.5 (3.8) (2.2%) Net Fees and Commissions and Related Profit* 186.3 190.2 (3.9) (2.1%) Net Trading Profit 27.9 10.4 17.5 168.0% Net Other Operating Profit 80.3 49.5 30.7 62.1% General and Administrative Expenses (235.8) (237.0) 1.2 (0.5%) Net Non-recurring Profit, etc. (22.3) (16.7) (5.6) (33.4%) Ordinary Profit 209.0 172.9 36.1 20.9% Extraordinary Profit (4.2) (8.3) 4.0 (48.5%) Net Income 148.6 117.9 30.6 26.0% Total Credit Costs* 1.9 7.0 (5.0) — (Note) Amounts less than ¥100 million are rounded down. <Dividends> FY2018 (A) FY2017 (B) Change (A)–(B) Dividend per Share on Common Share (Yen) 140.00 130.00 10.00 94 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Financial Review 業績ハイライト Status of Profit and Loss • Net Business Profit before Credit Costs* • Net Interest Income and Related Profit* Overview 400.0 (Billions of Yen) 300.0 (Billions of Yen) 246.8 300.0 216.7 270.5 282.2 208.2 200.0 232.3 231.4 176.5 172.7 169.6 200.0 189.7 150.5 100.0 100.0 0 0 Vision 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) Non-consolidated Consolidated Non-consolidated Consolidated Net business profit before credit costs after implementing realizaNet interest income and related profit in the domestic business divition of U.S. treasury related unrealized loss rose by ¥11.6 billion year on sions remained nearly flat year on year. They increased effectively in the year to ¥282.2 billion, due to increases in net fees and commissions and international business divisions including profit attributable to deployrelated profits from the stock transfer agency services business as well ment of foreign currency surplus funds, on top of an improvement in as asset management subsidiaries, on top of an increase in net interest loan-deposit income, thereby securing an effective increase in net interESG Initiatives income from the international business divisions of SuMi TRUST Bank. est income on the whole. • Net Fees and Commissions and Related Profit* • Net Income Attributable to Owners of the Parent 500.0 (Billions of Yen) 200.0 (Billions of Yen) 173.8 408.3 405.4 413.2 400.0 153.9 148.6 150.0 300.0 121.4 117.9 100.0 Business Strategy 200.0 196.9 190.2 186.3 77.6 50.0 100.0 0 0 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) Non-consolidated Consolidated Non-consolidated Consolidated Management Foundation Decreases were registered in revenue related to investment manageNet income attributable to owners of the parent increased by ¥19.9 ment consulting services as well as revenue related to corporate credit billion year on year to ¥173.8 billion, after adjustment to alleviate the business. Even so, consistent increases were registered in real estate brofuture financial burden through impairment of goodwill at subsidiaries, kerage fees and revenue from asset management and administration etc. The rise was thanks mainly to higher net business profit before credit (including those from subsidiaries). The result was a rise in net fees and costs, demonstrating steady progress toward fiscal year 2019, the final commissions and related profit by ¥7.8 billion year on year to ¥413.2 billion. year of the midterm management plan. Glossary Net Business Profit before Credit Costs Substantial profit of a bank’s core businesses, calculated by eliminating the effects of non-recurring factors, such as total credit costs Corporate Information and net gains on stock from ordinary profit. Total Credit Costs Costs incurred in posting allowances for losses on loans and writing off loans. Net Interest Income and Related Profit Net revenues after subtracting interest paid on deposits, etc., from revenues on loans and securities investment. Net Fees and Commissions and Related Profit Net profit of the sales fees of investment trusts, real estate brokerage fees, and trust fees for assets under management, etc. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 95 Financial Review Terms with an asterisk are explained in “Glossary” on page 97. Net Business Profit before Credit Costs by Business Segment • Retail Total Solution Services Business • Wholesale Financial Services* 40.0 (Billions of Yen) 150.0 (Billions of Yen) 33.6 123.4 30.0 30.9 116.6 27.0 100.0 104.0 89.1 95.3 20.0 78.6 15.7 15.3 50.0 10.0 11.1 0 0 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) Non-consolidated Consolidated Non-consolidated Consolidated Sales fees of investment trust/insurance fell due to uncertainty in the Net business profit before credit costs increased by ¥6.1 billion year on market environment. However, the decrease was outweighed by the year to ¥95.3 billion on a non-consolidated basis. It grew by ¥6.7 billion year combined effect of a fall in deposit funding cost and rise in mortgage on year to ¥123.4 billion on a consolidated basis, thanks to the improveloan-related revenue. As a result, net business profit before credit costs ment in cash management due to an improvement in margins achieved grew by ¥4.2 billion year on year to ¥15.3 billion on a non-consolidated through cutting foreign currency funding costs, as well as reducing low-profbasis. It increased by ¥3.9 billion year on year to ¥30.9 billion on a conitability assets including primarily those denominated in foreign currencies. solidated basis. *Wholesale Total Solution Services Business and Wholesale Asset Management Business • Fiduciary Services Business (including asset management) • Stock Transfer Agency Services Business 80.0 (Billions of Yen) 20.0 (Billions of Yen) 17.7 18.4 16.2 17.1 16.7 17.4 63.0 60.0 59.1 15.0 50.0 40.0 10.0 32.5 35.9 33.2 20.0 5.0 0 0 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) Non-consolidated Consolidated Non-consolidated Consolidated In our corporate pension business, we steadily increased the balance of Net business profit before credit costs rose by ¥1.0 billion year corporate pension funds, by timely capturing the diverse needs of individon year to ¥17.7 billion on a non-consolidated basis. It increased by uals as well as financial institutions at both asset management and asset ¥0.9 billion year on year to ¥18.4 billion on a consolidated basis, due administration levels, on top of a constant increase in the number of DC to a rise in recurring fees and commissions received as a result of an plan members.* As a result, consolidated net business profit before credit increase in the number of shareholders under administration, as well as costs increased by ¥3.8 billion year on year to ¥63.0 billion. higher various consulting fees. *Number of subscribers in SuMi TRUST Bank-mandated DC pension plans • Real Estate Business • Global Markets Business 40.0 (Billions of Yen) 40.0 (Billions of Yen) 39.3 30.0 30.3 30.0 29.3 29.8 30.1 23.1 23.1 23.1 20.0 20.0 10.0 10.0 0 0 (10.0) (4.7) 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) 2016 2017 2018 (Fiscal Year) Non-consolidated Consolidated Non-consolidated Net business profit before credit costs remained flat year on year at Net business profit before credit costs shrank ¥9.0 billion year on ¥23.1 billion on a non-consolidated basis. It increased by ¥0.3 billion year to ¥30.3 billion, due to the posting of approximately ¥12.0 billion year on year to ¥30.1 billion on a consolidated basis, due to a constant loss on realization of U.S. treasury related unrealized loss at the yearinflow of small and medium-scale business, acquisitions of some largeend, offsetting the solid performance of client services such as marketscale business in the brokerage for corporate clients, and a solid inflow ing operations and market-making operations. of revenue from the brokerage for individual clients. 96 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Financial Review Financial Status • Loans and Deposits (Non-consolidated) • Problem Assets Based on the Financial Reconstruction Act* (Non-consolidated) Overview 40 (Trillions of Yen) 150.0 (Billions of Yen) (%) 3.0 37.0 32.9 34.4 30 28.2 28.2 29.4 100.0 2.0 84.2 20 71.2 56.7 50.0 1.0 10 0.2 0.2 0.3 0 0 0 Vision March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 March 31, 2017 March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Loans Deposits, Trust Principal Problem Assets Based on the Financial Reconstruction Act (Left) Ratio to Total Loan Balance (Right) Loans and bills discounted increased by ¥1.1 trillion from the end of the The total balance of problem assets based on the Financial previous fiscal year to ¥29.4 trillion, due to rises in both mortgage loans Reconstruction Act grew by ¥27.5 billion from the end of the previous and loans to corporations. Deposits, etc.,* increased by ¥2.5 trillion from fiscal year to ¥84.2 billion, due to an increase in doubtful loans, wherethe end of the previous fiscal year to ¥37.0 trillion, as a fall in time deposits by its ratio to total loan balance increased by 0.1 percentage point to was more than offset by higher liquid deposits and trust principal. ESG Initiatives 0.3%, remaining contained at a sufficiently low level. As for the ratio of *Deposits, etc., include the principal guaranteed trust account (loan trusts and jointly operproblem assets covered by collateral and the allowance for loan losses, ated money trusts), but exclude negotiable certificates of deposit. the ratio was 86% for doubtful loans and 79% for substandard loans, both of which are deemed sufficiently high. • Capital Adequacy Ratio, etc.* (Consolidated) Glossary 20 (%) Problem Assets Based on the Financial Reconstruction Act Assets for which disclosure is required by the Financial 16.31 16.77 Reconstruction Act, and which are classified as follows. These are generally used in referring to “non-performing loans.” Business Strategy 15 13.74 14.18 12.18 Minimum Bankrupt and Practically Bankrupt 11.33 Capital Assets to debtors who are legally bankrupt (due to bankruptcy, Minimum Requirements 10 Capital corporate reorganization or rehabilitation proceedings, etc.), or Minimum 11.03 Capital Requirements virtually bankrupt. Requirements 9.03 5 7.53 Doubtful Assets to debtors who are not legally bankrupt, but whose financial conditions and business results have deteriorated, with 0 a high likelihood that the lender will not be able to collect the principal or receive interest in accordance with the contract. Management Foundation Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Total Capital Ratio Tier 1 Capital Ratio Ratio Substandard March 31, 2018 March 31, 2019 Assets more than three months past due and assets whose terms have been modified to support debtors through such means as The Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio increased by 0.85 percentinterest reductions or exemptions. age points from the end of the previous fiscal year to 12.18%. The rise was due to an increase in Common Equity Tier 1 capital resulting from Capital Adequacy Ratio, etc. Basel III defines the composition of capital in three steps: Common the accumulation of net income attributable to owners of the parent, Equity Tier 1 capital, Tier 1 capital and total capital. The ratios along with a decrease in risk-weighted assets. Total capital ratio also obtained by dividing them by risk-weighted assets refer to Common rose by 0.46 percentage points from the end of the previous fiscal year Equity Tier 1 ratio, Tier 1 ratio and total capital ratio, respectively. to 16.77%. As seen, the Common Equity Tier 1 capital ratio as well as the total capital ratio remain well above the corresponding regulatorily Common Equity Tier 1 Capital Common Equity Tier 1 capital is composed of core capital, consisting Corporate Information required level of 7.53% and 11.03%, respectively. primarily of the capital stock, capital surplus and retained earnings. Basel III: Tier 1 Capital Basel III is a new capital regulatory standard that was announced by the Basel Tier 1 capital is composed of Common Equity Tier 1 plus Committee on Banking Supervision in December 2010. Basel III, intended to enhance the soundness of internationally active banks, has been adopted in Additional Tier 1 capital, which includes preferred shares, etc. Japan as of the end of March 2013 in a phased manner. Basel III newly defines “Common Equity Tier 1,” which is comprised of capital components that can Total Capital be used to cover unexpected losses and do not need to be repaid, such as Total capital is the total amount of capital, composed of Tier 1 common equity and retained earnings, and requires that the ratio of those capital and Tier 2 capital, which includes debt capital such as capital components to risk-weighted assets, such as investments and loans, subordinated debt and subordinated loans. (“Common Equity Tier 1 ratio”) must be kept higher than a prescribed level. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 97 Corporate Information (as of March 31, 2019) Registered Trade Name: Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. Headquarters Location: 1-4-1 Marunouchi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8233, Japan Date of Establishment: February 1, 2002 (Change of trade name: April 1, 2011) Main Business: With trust banking at its core, Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc., will focus on the management of business operations, as the holding company of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group, and sets the following (1) (8) as its key functions: (1) Supervising management strategies (including the allocation of management resources) (2) Supervising financial management (3) Supervising human resource management (4) Controlling budget and expenses (5) Supervising IT management (6) Supervising risk management (7) Supervising compliance management (8) Managing internal auditing Capital: 261,608,725,000 Yen Stock Exchange Listings: Tokyo, Nagoya Stock Exchanges Tokyo (1st Section), Nagoya (1st Section) Securities Code: 8309 Rating Information (as of June 30, 2019) Long-term Outlook Short-term Financial JCR AAStable — — Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings R&I A Stable — — S&P A Positive A-1 — Moody’s A1 Stable P-1 — Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Bank Fitch AStable F1 a-* JCR AAStable — — R&I A+ Stable a-1 — * Viability Rating Website Please go to our website for specifics on our Group. About The Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group IR Library Sustainability https://www.smth.jp/en/about_us/index.html https://www.smth.jp/en/ir/index.html in The Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group https://www.smth.jp/en/csr/index.html Contact: IR Department Telephone: +81 (3) 3286-8354 Facsimile: +81 (3) 3286-4654 e-mail: ir@smth.jp URL: https://www.smth.jp/en/ir/index.html 98 Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report Overview Vision ESG Initiatives Business Strategy Management Foundation Symbol Mark The symbol mark features “Future Bloom” representing the vision of the Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Group, which is “to generate new value through the combination of significant expertise and comprehensive capabilities, and to help the future of our clients and society bloom.” Corporate Color Corporate Information The corporate color is “Future Blue,” which represents the integration of the sense of value that the symbol mark implies, and evokes the closeness and the future. Sumitomo Mitsui Trust Holdings, Inc. 2019 Integrated Report 99 This integrated report was printed in Japan on FSC paper with vegetable oil ink.
