Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018-2019 Communication on Progress Vega Sea A/S Introduction Vega Sea 2019 CSR report As one of Europe’s large our commitment Vega has This is our COP report and salmon processing comimplemented the Global we sincerely hope you will panies Vega plays a central Compact principles for Huenjoy learning about our role in bringing seafood to man Rights, Labor Rights & progress and future amthe global markets. As Working Conditions, Antibitions. millions of consumers enjoy corruption & Environment Vega’s products, we wish to as part of our daily opetake a front seat and help ration. In 2018-2019 we introduced set the direction of the many new initiatives within salmon processing industry. all areas covered by the CSR This implies that Vega must We wish to be measured by report. Overall, we are take social and environour actions and help set the satisfied with the results, mental responsibility to salmon processing industry but we are also aware that fulfill our ambition. direction improvements can be made in areas where we did not Vega’s point of view is that meet our own expectations. our social and environIn addition, Vega is also Both our successes and mental ambitions should be committed to communicate challenges will be covered measured by our actions. To our progress and CSR throughout this report. emphasize this, we joined activities on a yearly basis as the UN Global Compact part of our Communication initiative in 2016. As part of of Progress (COP) report. About Vega Vega Sea was established in 5. We strive to provide the 2010 as a merger between highest grade of quality two Danish companies. and food safety for all our Vega’s main activity is proproducts cessing fresh and smoked Our effort is led by groups salmon products. The comappointed to specific crosspany has grown from a small functional areas. Danish producer to an international player with an • Energy optimization annual turnover of €140 • Health & Safety million from sales to more • Product Quality than 30 different countries in • Sourcing & Packaging Europe, North America and Asia. These groups consist of employees from all parts of our Vega employs 235 people organization and each group across our Head Quarter in have a responsible manager Denmark and our Production appointed to ensure direct Facility in Germany. access to the management Our CSR effort is centered team. around five core values that The executive management all our employees know and have the overall responact upon in our daily opesibility for leading and ancration. horing Vegas Corporate So1. We support and respect cial Responsibility efforts in the protection of the interthe organization. In daily national bill of human operation work with specific rights actions is done by our area 2. We strive to minimize our work groups. environmental & climate Each group is responsible for impact and reduce our setting their own targets global foot-print reflecting Vegas overall am3. We do not accept corrupbitions towards our core tion in any form values. 4. We respect labor rights and support healthy working conditions Working Environment We are 235 employees at environment for our Vega, working together to employees. Consequently, obtain our common goals. Vega has chosen to take a Our employees are our proactive approach and greatest asset as their avoid the accident before it creativity, commitment and happens by taking prevenambitions drive our positive tive actions and educating development and help us to employees in topics related reach our goal which is to to safety. bring the highest grade of Our goal for 2018/19 was to quality food to the end increase education, imconsumer. prove equipment safety and It is important to have a safe minimize hidden dangers in and welcoming work our production space. Some environ-ment to support of our major initiatives our positive development. included: In Vega we focus on pre• Education of employees vention of work-related in production equipment accidents and sickness along usage with initiatives to create a • Improve safety of passsocial environment that ageways supports employee satisfaction and daily moti• Introduced safety as a vation. measure when renewing contracts for production Working in food processing equipment Going forward our goal is to is a job associated with • Installed an alarm system introduce work and higher risk than other jobs. to highlight hidden danpedestrian zones in our Because of this it is of the gers behind closed gates production space while also utmost importance for Vega continuing the initiatives to uphold a safe working started in 2018/19. Number of Accidents with Accidents minimum 1 day off absence 2016/17 9 Accidents From our actions Vega has managed to reduce the overall number of hours lost due to occupational accidents in 2018/19 compared Number of to 2017/18. However, Accidents the number of reported accidents have increased. An explan2017/18 9 52 ation behind the inNumber of crease in the number days absent of reported accidents is per accident the efforts made by Vega’s Health & Safety team to report all accidents assisting us to mitigate risks in the Number of future. Accidents 2018/19 17 18 Number of days absent per accident “The number of hours lost per accident have decreased by 65% due to efforts by our Health & Safety team” Diversity At Vega, we believe that a gender, sexual preferences, and Vega have reached our diverse workforce creates ethnicity and disabilities. ambition to increase the value. We work to support share of female managers A challenge is that food prodiversity by creating set in 2017/18. duction is a sector previstructures which do not ously dominated by male To support diversity and limit employees based on workers due to the physical equality Vega started the gender, nationality or aspect of the job. Therefollowing initiatives: religious beliefs, as we fore, there is a risk of female believe diversity and the • Onsite English language applicants being rejected in principle of equal opporeducation for employees the recruitment process. tunity to be the most to strengthen communiThis has led to an unequal relevant topics within cation gender balance in our human rights. Decisions • Create a culture that production area due to a made in the hiring process is support teamwork, fairrecruitment pool primarily based on an assessment of ness and empowers the being dominated by men. the merits and qualifindividual to reach their To change this situation ications of the individual full potential Vega have made efforts to based on the principle of identify work areas in pro• Strengthen our HR orgequal opportunities for all. anization to ensure divduction with lower physical It is our goal to create an requirements and educate ersity in recruitment and environment of parity our internal recruiters to to educate management among employees rewardecrease gender balance with the right tools to ding involvement and cominequality. lead a diverse workforce mitment without discrimiThe gender balance for nating based on age, office workers is more equal Female Female Female Managers Office Employees Production Employees 17% 59% 41% “The overall gender diversity is satisfactory with 44% female employees – we do acknowledge the uneven gender distribution in management and have created a policy that requires 25% of all applicants interviewed to be of the least represented gender” Anti-Corruption Vega adheres to fulfill all laws and regulations Canada and Chile. These are all countries in our countries of operation. This is rated highly by Transparency Internationals. fundamental for Vega’s ambition to be a To support our stand against corruption all our responsible company. Our CSR policy clearly operations undergo an overall risk assessment states our view on corruption. related to corruption. Based on this risk “We maintain a high level of integrity and assessment we will act generally against accountability in all our external relationships, corruption by establishing internal procedures and we do not participate in corruption or supporting the anti-corruption commitment bribery. We do not offer, promise or give any and ensure that relevant employees are kind of bribes to improperly influence public properly informed. officials, judges or business associates. In addition, all employees who represent Vega We will also refrain from receiving or are instructed in good business etiquette and accepting any bribes ourselves. in standards defining correct behavior in any interaction with external relations. Our agents, intermediaries or other persons acting on our behalf are subject to the same obligation to not participate in corruption or Status bribery.” We have not received any administrative or As stated, Vega does not find any form of judicial sanctions for failure to comply with corruption acceptable. It is not part of our anti-corruption laws. No claims or request for business practice and we have clear monetary sanction for corruption and no legal expectations of our employees to neither use corruption cases against any of our sites have nor accept any form of corruption in their line been reported. We intend to continue with of business. our anti-corruption effort to ensure that our Vega’s products are sold globally but most of risk assessment tools, policies and processes the raw material is sourced from Norway, are updated continuously to reflect the world while minor volumes are sourced from around us. Environment Vega is a large player in a efficient in our usage by Actions very competitive market utilizing as much of the raw One of our main actions dridriven by commodity volamaterial as possible to ving our effort was to intility. An essential part of reduce waste, while limiting ovate and reduce the our success is therefore to our use of packaging thickness of carton packbe as resource efficient in materials and utilities by aging and printed foil used our production processes as adopting new technologies in production of our goods. possible to be competitive and methods. and sustainable. Vega use Going forward Vega will In 2017/18 Vega set an array three main input for continue this process of of ambitious goals to drive production of our salmon packaging innovation while our sustainable efforts and products, each constituting we also closely monitor the the main goals consist of: a risk of starring the new packaging solutions environment through ex• A reduction in fish waste introduced to the market cess resource use and (sold for animal food) focusing on a higher degree packing: • A reduction in packaging of recyclability. material use per item • Raw material We are also focusing on • Reduction in use of gas, • Packaging materials optimizing the way we electricity and water • Utilities prepare our goods for Going forward our goal is to transportation. Our goal is Since Vega operates in the continue our work within to decrease the amount of food processing industry it is these areas using the cardboard used in order to a risk that the energy principles of the lean philohelp our partners reduce needed for processing sophy. their car-bon footprint. unnecessarily strains the climate Because of this risk, Vega strive to be innovative and “We continue our hard work to innovate our packaging solutions with the goal of reducing resources used for production of consumer goods” Our effort measured by numbers 22% lower production volume compared to 2017/18 Decrease in packaging consumption not at the same level as production volume due to change in consumer trends towards smaller packaging sizes 8.106 km Plastic Foil used in production (-11% Y-o-Y) 2.657.500 Cardboard Boxed for transportation (-6% Y-o-Y) 22.835.797 Product Plates used for goods (-8% Y-o-Y) Energy consumption increase is due to construction work of new facilities. Once the capacity is fully utilized, overall energy consumption per kg produced is expected to decrease 4.497.118 kWh. Natural Gas (+2% Y-o-Y) 156.206 kWh. Electricity (+2% Y-o-Y) 141.537 m³. Waste Water (-22% Y-o-Y) 4.621.283 tons of Fish Waste used for animal food (-29% Y-o-Y) Food Safety At Vega food safety is a Department, Vega has set pects of food safety, legality major concern. We take up an internal lab located at of products, hygiene, food every action possible to our production site to allow defense, food fraud, quality ensure that the products for efficient testing, such management and HACCP our customers buy fulfill our that we can act immediately with a score of 99,1 out of strict requirements. Our if required. 100. approach is not just limited To support our work with These international certito our own production food safety and quality ficates all focus on quality, facilities, as we also take several policies have been responsible sourcing, tracemeasures to help educate created including a ability and food safety are and improve all parts of the minimum number of hours audited by 3rd parties on a supply chain from farmer to required for daily cleaning continues basis. retailer. and the standpoint: “the We have also implemented It is important for us to Quality Department always a set of KPIs tracking our comply with the society’s has the final decision” in any performance on metrices high expectations towards context related to food related to Quality and Food food safety and quality. To safety and product quality. safety, and these are meet these expectations, reported internally as well Vega has invested reas to Vega’s board members sources in creating a top tier Certification on a monthly basis, along Quality Department with Vega holds a list of with and outline of any the purpose of testing every certifications including ASC, planned changes that will be product batch that enters Global G.A.P, MSC, EU Orgimplemented to further and leaves our factory. To anic, OU Kosher, and an IFS strengthen our effort. assist our Quality certification covering all as00
