BEYOND HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 STEEL ABOUT THIS REPORT Reporting Outline Since the beginning of 2016, Hyundai Steel has been publishing “Beyond Steel,” the integrated report, each year to disclose our management and sustainability performance to stakeholders. The 2019 Integrated Report is published in the form of a magazine to ensure readability and easy comprehension. More specifically, we categorized our topics into three sections: Issue Book, which covers Hyundai Steel’s new values; Company Overview, which provides information on our company; and Fact Book, which discloses our financial/ non-financial performance. Reporting Principles This report follows the GRI Standards guidelines based on IIRC's IR framework in accordance with the Core option of Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) standards and refers to the Integrated Reporting (IR) Framework of the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC). Specific details can be found on the GRI Index page. Reporting Scope and Boundaries The report covers period from January 1st to December 31st, 2018. The report includes key information that may impact stakeholder’s decision making. The report mainly includes information on Hyundai Steel’s headquarters domestic worksites, and partial data on overseas worksites is provided. Report Assurance To ensure its reliability, this report has been verified by the global verification agency DNV GL. The results can be found on pages 101-102. Reported by CSR Team, Management Support Division, Hyundai Steel 12 Heolleung-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul Ta ke a l e a p beyond steel To make the future safer and stronger, we are constantly thinking about innovative products We will show our children the preciousness of nature on which we stand. We, always think from the perspective of the customer delivering differentiated services and perfect quality. We will not grow alone, but with our neighbors hand in hand. Hyundai Steel will create sustainable value and make a new leap forward for a better future. beyond 00 6 006 CEO Message steel Hyundai Steel Integrated Report 2019 00 8 IS S UE B OOK 008 We Innovate 014 We Preserve CSR Team, Management Support Division, 020 We Think Hyundai Steel 026 We Share 12, Heolleung-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul 02-3464-6114 steel@hyundaisteel.com 03 2 C OMPAN Y OVERVIEW 034 Corporate Philosophy 036 Hyundai Steel around World 038 Products & Application 042 Business Model 04 4 FAC T B OOK Economic Performance 048 Research & Development 052 Supply Chain Management 055 Risk Management 057 Customer-Centered Management 060 Ethical Management 062 Corporate Governance 065 Tax Strategy Environmental Performance 068 Integrated Environmental Management 070 Responding to Climate Change 073 Air Quality Management 074 Water Quality Management 075 Recycling By-products Social Performance 078 Human Resource Management 084 Occupational Health and Safety 088 Social Contribution 09 4 094 Financial Statement 10 0 100 Non-financial Statement 004 008 014 020 026 048 068 078 005 CEO MESSAGE Hyundai Steel will prepare the foundation to take a leap for the future. 006 HYUNDAI STEEL Dear stakeholders, Integrated Report 2019 In 2018, Hyundai Steel pursued a new change through the management slogan “Change Based on Fundamentals and Sharing Growth with Stakeholders.” We created an environment in which all of our stakeholders, including customers and suppliers, can grow together. I would like to express my sincere gratitude to our stakeholders for their steadfast support and to our employees for their commitment in every part of the business. Overall, forecasts for the global economy this year are similar to last year. A number of risk factors lie ahead, however, such as the U.S.-China trade war, rising U.S. interest rates and economic crises in emerging economies. The Korean economy is likely to experience a slowdown. We can expect difficulty and economic stagnation, which could include a slowdown in facility and construction investment and a slump in the employment market. Despite these internal and external difficulties, Hyundai Steel is determined to overcome these challenges and prepare for a new leap forward. Accordingly, in 2019, we plan to focus on reinforcing our business capabilities with practical change and implementing the following strategic directions to achieve our goals. First, we will establish a midto long-term strategy implementation system. Hyundai Steel will complete the establishment of midto long-term strategies for each business division in line with the company’s vision and establish an integrated management system for practical implementation, management and evaluation. Based on these efforts, we aim to secure the foundation for sustainability in the rapidly changing environment both at home and abroad. Second, we will reinforce our global business foundation. Hyundai Steel plans to strengthen the marketing capability of our overseas business sites, establish a rapid customer response system and develop high value-added steel technology with the aim of expanding our global sales of automotive steel sheets. Also, we will enhance our global competitiveness through the launch of our “H-Solution” brand as a customized automotive solution. Third, we will strengthen our culture of trust and communication. At Hyundai Steel, we are constantly developing our existing corporate culture of trust and communication based on stable labor-management relations. We strive to build a corporate culture in which all parts of the organization and employees take initiatives in their work instead of simply carrying out directed tasks. This confidence will help us build an environment of mutual trust and communication. Finally, we will put sustainability management into practice. Hyundai Steel will continue to conduct thorough environmental and safety compliance in our day-today management in recognition of safety as our highest priority value. We will also devote every effort to establish a sustainable community in close cooperation with our stakeholders, including suppliers and local communities. Our achievements so far are not a guarantee of success in the future, but through practical change, Hyundai Steel will strive to establish a foundation for future growth. I sincerely hope you, our valued stakeholders, will continue to give us your unwavering support. CEO & President of Hyundai Steel An, Tong il 007 ISSUE BOOK WE INNOVATE 008 We Innovate for the People HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 009 ISSUE BOOK WE INNOVATE FOR THE PEOPLE Technology for the People Due to increasing number of natural and social disasters, there is a growing awareness of the importance of safety. The industrial ecosystem is also changing with ever-stricter government regulations, the development of new technologies and the creation of new demand. In response, Hyundai Steel has developed safe, innovative, and human-centered technologies to lead the way to a safer, stronger future. Advanced high-strength steel1)(AHSS) used in Genesis G80 51.5% 16% 100K 2) Sales of H CORE Developed TWB hot earthquake-resistant steel stamping steel increased by to ensure (compared to 2017) crashworthiness 1) Tensile strength of 60K or higher 2) Tensile strength in which material of 1mm2 can bear weight of 1kg 010 HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 011 011 For safety and strength of vehicles, Hyundai Steel ISSUE BOOK performs machine learning-based research activities in order to develop next generation ultra high strength steel while developing automotive steel sheets with high formability and strength. 012 GENESIS G80, Hyundai Motor Company HYUNDAI STEEL For safe and strong vehicles Integrated Report 2019 High-Strength, High-Formability Steel | Next-Generation Ultra High-Strength Steel To improve crashworthiness, we are leading the development of high-strength, high-formability automotive steel sheets. As for existing Dual Phase (DP) steel sheets, greater strength results in less formability and it hinders the application of such ultra high-strength steel sheets to automotive body parts. We are conducting R&D activities for 60-100K DH(Dual Phase High Formability) steel sheets to improve formability compared to existing steel sheets. By doing so, we aim to make ultra high-strength steel sheets more applicable to automotive body parts and contribute to improving crashworthiness. We have also developed 100K TWB hot stamping steel, which is a combination of TWB (Tailor Welded Blank, double strength/thickness welding) for regular cold rolled sheets and hot stamping materials, and used it in vehicle collision up) GENESIS G80, Hyundai Motor Company tests. By 2020, new vehicles will have center pillars down) Ultra High-Strength Steel using 100K TWB hot stamping steel, which will help make vehicles lighter and improve safety of users. Furthermore, we are continuously engaged in machine-learning based research to develop next generation ultra high-strength steel. H CORE Supports Safety of Korea Launch and Sales Expansion of H CORE Brand In November 2017, Hyundai Steel has launched Korea’s first earthquake-resistant steel brand H CORE. Frequent earthquakes have raised public interest in residential safety, and standards have been enhanced for earthquake-resistant designs. With the H CORE brand, we demonstrated the importance of earthquake-resistant steel to residential safety. Interests and sales of earthquakeresistant steel increased by 16% in 2018 compared to the previous year in response to rapidly increasing demand. H CORE Brand Commercial 013 ISSUE BOOK WE PRESERVE 014 We Preserve for the Next Generation HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 015 ISSUE BOOK WE PRESERVE FOR THE NEXT GENERATION Eco-Friendly, Innovative Technology for the Future Environmental management is becoming ever more important to respond to climate change, fine dust pollution and creation of new resources from by-products. Cooperating with Hyundai Motor Group, we are leading the way to future hydrogen economy and doing our utmost to preserve the environment for future generations by promoting renewable, eco-friendly steelworks that create value. Hydrogen Hydrogen fuel production capacity 3,000 cell metal bipolar plates Over 16,000 cars tons per year For production capacity (until 2020) High valueadded construction materials by recycling 3 Types Developed HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 017 017 Hyundai Steel is leading the establishment of ISSUE BOOK hydrogen gas infrastructure for the future. We currently operate hydrogen factory with annual production capacity of over 3,000 tons, and enlarging investment to enhance metal bipolar plates, one of the core parts of fuel cells. 018 Hydrogen Gas Factory, Dangjin Integrated Steelworks HYUNDAI STEEL Preparing for the Future Hydrogen Economy Integrated Report 2019 Hydrogen Gas Infrastructure | Hydrogen Fuel Cell Metal Bipolar Plates Stricter regulations on automotive exhaust gas and greenhouse gas are raising worldwide interest in hydrogen electric vehicles without CO2 emissions. Hyundai Motor Group has joined a governmentled plan to stimulate and grow hydrogen economy, announcing a roadmap to year 2030, which aims at producing 500,000 hydrogen vehicles per year. Since 2016, Hyundai Steel has been using by-product gas to secure hydrogen production capacity of 3,000 tons per year. In April 2019, we started mass production of metal bipolar plates, the core material of hydrogen vehicle fuel cell systems. Continuing expansion of our facilities, we will establish a production annual capacity of 16,000 hydrogen electric cars by 2020. up) NEXO (Hydrogen Vehicle), Hyundai Motor Company down) Hydrogen Gas Factory, Dangjin Integrated Steelworks Transplanting Eco-Friendliness into Steelworks by Recycling Resources High-Value-Added Construction Materials by Recycling | Establishment of ESS by recycling EV Batteries Hyundai Steel has developed a range of high valueadded construction materials by utilizing slag from Blast Furnace. Three types of slag cement products (crude steel, regular and low-heat) developed jointly by Hyundai Steel and Hyundai Engineering help reduce hydration heat and improve long-term strength. They are widely used cement alternatives. In addition, FerroPhalt, an eco-friendly road pavement material utilizing slag, drastically reduces the cost of road maintenance as it is at least 40% more durable than existing products. In cooperation with Hyundai Motor Group, we have also taken lead in realizing a resource-circulating business system, using EV waste batteries to establish ESS(Energy Storage System) facilities with capacity of 1MWh. These innovative examples of resource recycling will enable us to build more eco-friendly sites. up) FerroPhalt, Eco-Friendly Road Pavement Material down) ESS by recycling EV batteries 019 ISSUE BOOK WE THINK 020 We Think for Global Customer HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 021 ISSUE BOOK WE THINK FOR THE GLOBAL CUSTOMERS Providing Customized Solutions and Strengthening Global Network Hyundai Steel aims to provide customers with new value through differentiated services. To improve product performance, production costs and quality, we launched H-Solution, a specialized automotive brand with a wide range of services including automotive materials, forming, welding, anti-corrosion and modularization. To increase sales of global automotive steel sheets, we are consistently investing on reinforcing customer networks and expanding overseas subsidiaries. Customized H-Solution Specialized brand launching Global Automotive Steel Service Centers Steel Grades 14 SSC 282 Types in operation developed (until 2020) HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 023 023 Hyundai Steel has launched H-Solution, a brand specialized in automobiles, providing new ISSUE BOOK value to customers through differentiated services. Also, from the experienced gained by participating in principle development of vehicle, we are able to make use of our outstanding R&D capabilities and high-quality product portfolio to become a leader in the global automotive steel sheet market. 024 Hyundai Steel Slovakia s.r.o HYUNDAI STEEL H-Solution: A Specialized Solution for Customers Integrated Report 2019 Launch of Automotive-Specialized Brand Hyundai Steel wants to provide new value to customers through differentiated services. Thus, we have launched the H-Solution technology brand which can provide customized technology services to fulfill consumer needs throughout the process, from the basic properties of materials to the development, production and inspection of parts. These services include the provision of not only basic material properties but the entire process of parts development, production and inspection. We have partnered up with our clients through Early Vendor Involvement (EVI) based on our expertise in vehicle, testing and evaluation. This cooperation enables us to provide manufacturing solutions for vehicles that are safe and lightweighted. We have developed a vehicle body with an independent design concept by applying new materials and methods, which confirmed that these technologies are applicable at the complete-vehicle stage, the outcome was displayed at Auto Shanghai April 2019. By doing this, Hyundai Steel will up) H-Solution, Automotive-Specialized Brand continue to solidify our role as customer's business partner down) H-Solution Launching, Auto Shanghai 2019 and enhance the value of our products. A Future Leader of Global Automotive Steel Sheets Expansion of Global Automotive Steel Sheets Sales | Operation of SSC | Reinforcement of Customer Network Hyundai Steel has continuously expanded overseas sales of automotive steel sheets through high competence, active participation in vehicle development and portfolio of products focused on ultra high-strength steel. By 2020, we aim to increase our global sales of automotive steel sheets (excluding affiliate companies) to 1.2 million tons by attracting new customers and continuing to develop automotive steel technologies. In addition, we operate Steel Service Centers (SSC) in nine countries overseas to provide customized services locally. In March 2019, Hyundai Steel Anantapur Private, Ltd. began normal operations as our 14th steel service center. We also hold an annual Global Customer Convention to strengthen our customer network. In 2018, we invited 67 employees of customer companies from 26 countries, giving tours to Dangjin Integrated Steelworks and the KIA Motors Hwaseong factory which helped us to promote our products and up) Hyundai Steel Anantapur Private Limited provided opportunities for better communication between down) Global Customer Convention participating companies. 025 ISSUE BOOK WE SHARE 026 We Share for the Society HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 027 ISSUE BOOK WE SHARE FOR THE SOCIETY Creating New Social Value and Serving as a Global Companion The scope of corporate social responsibility is expanding to include the leveraging of core capability to address social issues and participating proactively in the development of local communities. Along with these changes, Hyundai Steel is taking lead in creating new social values and providing opportunities for future generations of students, artist, social enterprises and social ventures. We are also actively engaged in worldwide development of local communities, contribution of social change and improvement of quality of life for all people. Project for recycling coffee grounds Supporting 5 social enterprises 60 local coffee shops participating Project for Public Steel Art Supporting overseas projects Supporting 4 new artists Dispatching 170 volunteers 100 local children participating 120 to India, 30 to the Philippines and 20 to China HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 029 029 Hyundai Steel operates the H-Steel ISSUE BOOK Atelier Project for Public Steel Arts, which provides a new cultural art space for local residents and gives new artists opportunities create their own work. 030 H-Steel Atelier Project for Public Steel Art HYUNDAI STEEL Creating New Social Value Integrated Report 2019 H-Steel Atelier Project for Public Steel Art Hyundai Steel operates the H-Steel Atelier Project for Public Steel Art In 2018, we held a contest for ironworkbased public artworks under the theme “Design a Forest of Steel.” We donated four selected artworks and one piece of artwork made by 100 children in Dangjin Samseonsan Arboretum . Through these activities, we hope to vitalize local culture development and give new artists the opportunity to create their own work. Project for recycling coffee grounds Hyundai Steel runs a project for making resources from coffee grounds as a way to find useful solutions rather than wasting it. The project addresses the problem of how to reclaim and incinerate the 103,000 tons of coffee that are wasted in domestic every year. We worked with several groups to address the issue and in 2018, we came up with a three-year plan to collect and transfer coffee grounds, develop recycled products and create resources up) H-Steel Atelier Project for Public Steel Art from daily waste. In 2018, 60 coffee shops in Incheon down) Project for recycling coffee grounds joined the project and carried out pilot operations for collecting coffee grounds. We also hold an idea contest for developing recycled products and business models, and support provided to the five winning social enterprises and ventures. * Coffee grounds: Coffee residue left behind the coffee Global Companion for a Better Future Happy Safe Village in India | Sports CSR in China | Self-Reliance Support Model in the Philippines Hyundai Steel oversees several social projects to fulfill its social responsibility as a global steel company and promotes sustainable development of local communities. In India, we run the “Happy Safe Village” with Hyundai Motor Group to create a safe village and school environment by installing solar street lights, CCTVs and appropriate technologies. In the Philippines, we run a project to support the self-reliance of young people through job training centers, education courses and financial support. In China, we operate a “Sports CSR” project by utilizing the talents of the Hyundai Steel Red Angels Women’s Football Club. We also support local communities in China through girls’ football programs up) Happy Safe Village in India and infrastructure improvements. down) Self-Reliance Support Model in the Philippines 031 Co mpa n y Overvi ew 032 HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 COMPANY OVERVIEW 034 Corporate Philosophy 036 Hyundai Steel around World 038 Product & Application 042 Business Model 033 Hyundai Motor Group's Corporate Philosophy COMPANY OVERVIEW Management Achieving the dream of humankind Philosophy by creating a new future through Keywords ingenious thinking and ceaseless exploration. Realization of Unlimited Sense Respect for Possibilities of Responsibility Mankind Vision Leading the new era of steel As an eco-friendly and resource-circulating company, Hyundai Steel provides advanced products and services based on cooperative relationships. We are achieving the highest levels of competitiveness to lead the world into a new era of steel. Core Values We promote a customerWe refuse to be complacent, We create synergy through driven corporate culture embrace every opportunity a sense of “togetherness” by providing impeccable for greater challenge, and that is fostered by mutual service centered on are confident in achieving our communication and cooperation creating value for our goals with unwavering passion within the company and with our customers. and ingenious thinking. business partners. We respect the diversity of We believe the future of our cultures and customs, aspire organization lies in the hearts and to be the world’s best at what capabilities of individual members. we do, and strive to become We will help them develop their a respected corporate citizen potential by creating a corporate worldwide. culture that respects talent. 034 Vision 2025 HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 Future Engineering the Future Beyond Steel Vision Business Application Engineering Strategy Management Open System Infrastructure IT Smart Platform Strategy Engineering “Steel” emphasizes the core business and the identity and future of the Future Beyond Steel Hyundai Steel. “Beyond” signifies an expansion into new products, services and businesses beyond the expectations of customers and competitors. “Engineering” means our determination to create value in ways beyond simple production. Application Engineering We leverage our unique technological strengths to provide value in terms of application. We design and supply products and materials of the highest quality to help our customers raise their competitiveness. Open System A system that connects employees and all other elements to promote continued growth, with an open attitude towards internal and external changes. Smart Platform A system that organically connects all information in all processes, from our materials to our customers. 035 035 Hyundai Steel around World COMPANY OVERVIEW Over the past half century, Hyundai Steel has broadened the possibilities of steel and played a pivotal role in the industrialization of Korea. Our steel products help our customers succeed, thanks to a world class portfolio achieved through an operation that ranges from electric Arc Furnaces to Blast Furnace. With customer-centered thinking and continuous R&D, we are making a concerted effort to realize the infinite potential of steel and our role as a global steelmaker. Sales Operating Profit KRW 20.78 trillion KRW 1.26 trillion Overseas Network Employees 14 countries 11,552 persons 9 10 11 12 Domestic works Steel Service Center (SSC) Other subsidiaries 036 DOMESTIC NETWORK HYUNDAI STEEL 1 Head Office 3 Pohang Works 5 Suncheon Works 7 Ulsan Works Integrated Report 2019 2 Incheon Works 4 Dangjin Integrated Steelworks 6 Suncheon Forging Works 8 Yesan Works * Sales offices (Seoul, Busan, Ulsan, Daegu, Gwangju) OVERSEAS NETWORK Hyundai Steel USA, Inc. (HSSA) Hyundai Steel Investment (China) Co., Ltd. (HSCN) America Asia 9 17 10 Hyundai Steel America, Inc. (HSAL) 18 Hyundai Steel Beijing Process Co., Ltd. (HSBJ) 11 Hyundai Steel Mexico S de R.L. de C.V. (HSMX) 19 Hyundai Steel Chongqing Co., Ltd. (HSCQ) 12 Hyundai Steel Industry and Trade Brazil LLC. (HSBR) 20 Hyundai Steel Tianjin Process Co., Ltd. (HSTJ) 21 Hyundai Steel Suzhou Process Co., Ltd. (HSSZ) Hyundai Steel Czech s.r.o. (HSCZ) Europe 13 22 Hyundai Steel Jiangsu Process Co., Ltd. (HSJS) 14 Hyundai Steel Slovakia s.r.o (HSSK) 23 Qingdao Hyundai Machinery Co., Ltd. (HSMC) 15 Hyundai Steel TR Automotive Steel Parts Co., Ltd. (HSTR) 24 Hyundai Steel India Private, Ltd. (HSCH) 16 Hyundai Steel Rus LLC. (HSRU) 25 Hyundai Steel Pipe India Private, Ltd. (HSPI) 26 Hyundai Steel Anantapur Private, Ltd. (HSAN) * Branches (Frankfurt, Tokyo, New Delhi, Dubai, Singapore, Hanoi) 16 13 14 18 15 19 17 20 23 22 21 26 24 25 1 2 4 8 3 7 6 5 037 Products & Application COMPANY OVERVIEW Hyundai Steel provides high tech-high quality products to different industries based on continuous R&D and advanced technology. AUTOMOBILE Cold Rolled Coil Cold rolled coils are mostly used in automotive steel sheets for the exterior and interior of the car body. They are produced by rolling hotrolls at room temperature, Hyundai Steel's cold rolled coils have even thickness, smooth surface and high level of corrosion resistance and workability. Automotive Parts Automotive parts are used at major collision points, inner door panels and chassis. Processes such as Hot Stamping and Tailor-Welded Blanks (TWB) are applied to create automotive parts with precise shapes and dimensions. Special Steel Special steel is used in core automotive parts such as crank shafts, con rods and other types of gears. Mainly used in power transmission parts such as the engine and power train, special steel requires high strength and high durability. 038 ENERGY HYUNDAI STEEL Pipe Steel pipes are used in the energy sector for drilling, Integrated Report 2019 mining and transporting energy resources. A high level of technology is required because the pipes must be able to withstand high pressure, and rapid changes in temperature and corrosion. Plate In the energy industry, steel plates are used to make pressure containers for refining and storing oil and gas. Depending on the type of oil or gas to be processed, pressure containers must be able to withstand low and high temperatures and corrosion, and have a high level of weldability. CONSTRUCTION H-Section H-sections are mostly used in the structures of large buildings or in civil engineering construction. With high weldability and shock-resistance, relatively less amount of steel material and shorter construction period are required for use with H-sections. Reinforcing Bar Reinforcing bars are mostly used in construction and civil engineering projects. Ultra high-strength reinforcing bars reduce the amount of material needed and increase constructability, while screw-type reinforcing bars shorten construction periods by eliminating the need to make screw threads. Earthquake-resistant reinforcing bars are optimized for shock absorbance to make a structure safer. Plate Construction plates are mainly used in large-scale steel structures such as bridges, plants, large buildings and offshore structures. When the usage of H-sections presents problems in terms of size or standards, Build-up Beams are employed using the plate welding. 039 HOME APPLIANCES COMPANY OVERVIEW Cold Rolled Coil Cold rolled coils for home appliances are used in various products, including TVs, refrigerators and the outer panels of washing machines. Cold-rolled coils come in a range of designs thanks to a high level of workability of our product. They are also highly corrosion-resistant and have a high level of conductivity. Stainless Steel Stainless steel is widely used in home appliances such as dishwashers and washing machines. Stainless steel does not easily rust and is thousands of times more resistant to corrosion and heat than other steel products. SHIPBUILDING Plate In shipbuilding, plates are mainly used for internal walls, external walls, upper decks and hatch covers of bulk carriers, container carriers and LNG carriers. Plates now have high strength and low-temperature toughness following recent improvements in lightweight vessels and growing customer demand. Section Sections are used for shipbuilding plate stiffeners or deckhouses and are required to have high strength and high levels of shock absorption. Forged Steel Products Forged steel products are mainly supplied to shipbuilding engine manufacturers to be used in manufacturing crank shafts for the engines of large-scale vessels. They must have the highest levels of quality and processing technology. This is because forged steel products change form significantly during processing and must not have any defects or segregation. 040 HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 OTHERS Railway Rails Railway rails are used for high-speed trains, regular trains and magnetic levitation trains. Compared to other types of shaped steel, railway rails have a higher level of strength and abrasion resistance. Track Shoe Assembly As the lower structure of an excavator, the Track Shoe Assembly is a high-strength, high-precision product operated on a slope. It stays stable under loads on the sand and gravel found at construction sites. Roll Rolls are installed in the press and are used to press the high temperature semi-finished products such as slabs or billets. Rolls serve a key role in maintaining a level and secure surface thanks to a high level of abrasion, heat resistance and durability. Sheet Pile Sheet piles are used to resist water and oil pressure at construction sites near rivers and streams. Sheet piles come in different forms such as key and straight types, and they require superior flood control to ensure that connecting parts are secure. 041 Business Model COMPANY OVERVIEW Financial Capital Productive Capital Human Capital The company operates on the basis We continue to strengthen We continue to invest in recruiting of funds raised by shareholders, production capacity by and nurturing talented people as creditors, etc. It enhances completing new business a key factor in strengthening our shareholder value through establishment and investing in corporate competitiveness. shareholder return policy. facilities. Integrated Steelworks Processing Raw materials (iron ore, coal) Blast Furnace Casting Rolling Electric Arc Furnace Processing Raw materials (scrap) Electric Arc Furnace Casting Rolling Sales Production Employees KRW 20.78 trillion 23.76 million tons 11,552 persons 042 HYUNDAI STEEL Intellectual Capital Environmental Capital Social Capital Integrated Report 2019 Through continuous R&D We manage the environmental While establishing cooperative investment in customer products, impact by investing in facilities for relationships with various we secure technological effective utilization of resources stakeholders, the company carries INPUT competitiveness. and developing eco friendly out social contribution activities process technologies. based on its social contribution vision. Hot rolled coil Cold rolled coil VALUE CHAIN Plate Steel pipe Automotive parts Section Reinforcing bar Hot rolled coil Special steel OUTPUT R&D cost By-product recycling rate Social contribution investment KRW 119.1 billion 97.5% KRW 13 billion 043 Fac t Book 044 HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 FACT BOOK Economic Performance 048 Research & Development 052 Supply Chain Management 055 Risk Management 057 Customer-Centered Management 060 Ethical Management 062 Corporate Governance 065 Tax Strategy Environmental Performance 068 Integrated Environmental Management 070 Responding to Climate Change 073 Air Quality Management 074 Water Quality Management 075 Recycling By-Products Social Performance 078 Human Resource Management 084 Occupational Health and Safety 088 Social Contribution 045 Production 23.76 MILLION TONS Compared to 2017 (23.29 million tons) Increase of 2% Sales KRW 20.8 TRILLION Compared to 2017 (KRW 19.1 trillion) Increase of 8.4% (based on K-IFRS) Economi c Global premium product sales INCREASE OF 6 % 2018 (8.91 million tons) compared to 2017 (8.41 million tons) 046 Support for expanding sales channels 64 SUPPLIERS R&D costs Participated in Hyundai KRW 119.1 Steel Tech Show BILLION H CORE sales Based on the consolidated INCREASE OF 16 statement for 2018 % Compared to 2017 (KRW 777.7 billion) 2018 (KRW 907.9 billion) Performance 048 R&D 052 Supply Chain Management 055 Risk Management 057 Customer-Centered Management 060 Ethics Management 062 Corporate Governance 065 Tax Strategy Distribution of economic value KRW 13.9 TRILLION Increased by 9.4% compared to 2017 Support for Win-Win growth (KRW 12.7 trillion) with suppliers KRW 77 BILLION Amount of direct and indirect support (Win-Win Growth Fund, Investment finance business) 047 Research & Development FACT BOOK BUSINESS CONTEXT Amid continuous oversupply in the steel market, global steelmakers are focusing ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE on developing new high-performance products to expand the market. They are also reinforcing their differentiated positions in the market by developing new products and production technologies to meet the needs of key customers in the automotive, construction and shipbuilding industries. In this environment, it is increasingly necessary to establish infrastructure for future innovation by using the latest material technology in combination with new IT technologies. Furthermore, another key element is to seek sustainable growth is developing eco-friendly technologies. OUR APPROACH Hyundai Steel proactively deals with changes in customer needs and demands. We focus our capabilities on developing customized steel grades, processes, and new highperformance technologies. We have also established an intelligent production system throughout the entire processes from R&D to production. We further aim to develop highefficiency, high-quality process technology and internalize future innovation technology. In addition, we are continuously investing in eco-friendly technologies and an extensive range of R&D to deal with strengthening regulation and growing social interest in the environment. Development of Customized Establishment of Intellectual Development of Eco-Friendly Steel Grades and Processes Production Systems Technologies Develop new highInternalize high-efficiency, Reinforce our response performance products high-quality process to environmental risks by respond to future global technology and innovative developing eco-friendly market growth technologies technologies FUTURE ACTION Our goal is to strengthen our R&D capabilities to improve the competitiveness of our products. To reach out into the global market, we will develop and supply customized products in a timely manner. Furthermore, to make sure our customers are satisfied, we will also reinforce technical support systems for each customer region and improve responsiveness of our EVI (Early Vendor Involvement). As the Fourth Industrial Revolution takes hold in the steel industry, we will strive to lead the changes ahead of us by harnessing big data and machine-learning technology. This will also help us pioneer the development of eco-friendly technology by establishing an intelligent production system. PERFORMANCE Development of Automotive Steel Grades to Expand Global Market With development of Hyundai Steel has reviewed steel grade standards for the world’s top 20 automakers integrated steel grades, and established a strategy for integrated steel grade development. We aim to complete 90% of the various development of the strategy by 2020 and have capability of respond to over 90% of the automotive steel grade standards. In addition to the development of mass-produced steel global automotive standards grades, we are working to develop upgraded steel grades for the global market and firmly 048 HYUNDAI STEEL establish our company as a specialized automotive materials company. There are strict Integrated Report 2019 requirements for being eligible to sell automotive steel sheets to global automakers. The evaluation standards are stringent not only in terms of the purity of each steel grade, but several other properties important in manufacturing automobiles (weldability, paintability, formability, etc.). Hyundai Steel is proactive in anticipating in evaluation standards, and we prepare ourselves to cope with potential issues in the process of obtaining required certificates by adhering to even higher standards in the independent pre-evaluation before we provide certification samples to our customers. We will also improve our customized technical support for customers by setting up region-specific systems (One Stop Service*) to handle our growing global sales of automotive steel sheets. * One Stop Service: Operating an overseas technical support organization, web certification management system and operating customized contents. Development of EH40-TMCP with High Heat Input Welding for Vessel Hull Structures When using high heat input welding, the steel used in regular vessel hull structures can be reduced in strength and toughness by growth and softening in the refined structure of the heat-affected zone*. In particular, in the high-strength/high-toughness plates used in container carriers (steel of 50mm or more in thickness), lower levels of strength and/ or toughness caused by high heat input welding produce defects in the vessel. This is why welding with high heat inputs requires using separate steel. We developed our EH40TMCP steel with high heat input welding by optimizing property design and the TMCP rolling process. The reﬁned structure of the heat-affected zone is controlled, and strength and toughness are maintained even when using high heat input. Currently, EH40-TMCP is customized with set speciﬁcations created through our R&D system in cooperation with our customers. We are working to establish a mass production system and increase sales. We are also continuing to develop complex performance steels, including those with high heat welding properties and even brittle fracture toughness. * High Heat Input Welding: A method to shorten welding time by increasing the heat input rate for a specific welding part. It is mainly used in large vessel shipbuilding. EVI Research Activities for Optimizing Body Structures 049 FACT BOOK Advanced Development of CFRP Parts As a plastic composite material reinforced with carbon textile, CFRP (Carbon Fiber ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Reinforced Plastics) is relatively lightweight but has twice strength than other plastics. Hyundai Steel completed construction of its CFRP research center in December 2017 with the aim of adapting to the rapidly changing environment and trends in automotive materials. We completed the advanced development of our Carbon Fiber ExposedPattern CFRP Roof using the HP-RTM (High Pressure Resin Transfer Molding) method. In addition, we use CFRP mold design technology and WCM (Wet Compression Molding) for automation. We will continue to develop advanced CFRP parts for the inside and independent of automobiles. CF RP Development of Extremely Low Temperature Materials for LNG Tanks Due to increased demands and sales volume for natural gas, there has been an increase in projects to build LNG terminals. Playing a leading role in steel materials featured enhanced safety including earthquake-resistant steels, we have developed Korea’s first reinforcing bar which can be used in the extremely low temperatures on the exterior of LNG tanks. It prevents brittle fractures even in rapidly falling temperatures. We have completed localization of development for the market’s maximum strength (YS ≥500MPa) and maximum applicable standards (D ≤ 32mm), and we expect an increase in orders for LNG terminals worldwide, likely of 50,000 tons. In addition, we aim to expand our base for LNG as a clean energy source by reducing LNG tank construction costs and construction time. We will strive to lead in the market for high-functional construction steel to improve structural safety at home and abroad. Cold insulation Existing material Low temperature LNG (-40˚C) Cold insulation material Development of -165˚C Cryogenic material New product Extremely low LNG Inner part Outer part temperature (-165˚C) Smart Production Processes Using AI and Big Data Hyundai Steel is working to build intelligent systems throughout the entire processes, with a focus on maximizing synergies. We are working to build a big data platform, reflecting characteristics of the materials industry and a production system to create the optimal conditions for each process. In iron-making process, we are now applying our accumulated experience as part of big data. With the deep learning based process, we are building an integrated guidance system to create the optimal conditions. In steel-making process, we have developed a simulator based on thermodynamics analysis for quality assessment and process improvement. In rolling process, we are working to develop integrated predictive control technology and establish a basis for process automation by building the foundation for big data. 050 HYUNDAI STEEL Machine Learning-Based Research on Steel Grade Development Methods Integrated Report 2019 and Next-Generation Ultra High-Strength Steel Starting from late in 2017, a next generation automotive steel sheet is being developed by applying component design calculated from AI algorithm developed by our Advanced Research team from efforts for the past three years. Our technology is similar to AlphaGo, the boardgame-playing computer that can search the tens of millions of games in its Achievement through Machine Learning memory to find the optimal solution for every situation. Our technology references some 1.5 billion cases to identify the optimal steel proportions that humans could not find Strength and Workability because of time and cost. This has led to positive results, allowing us to minimize any IMPROVED BY rise in production cost, improving strength and workability by 40%, reducing R&D costs by half and cutting the period for product testing by 50%. In addition, we have applied our 40% algorithms to the system for identifying defective sheets, raising accuracy to 99%. This has Product Test Period helped minimize the time and cost of securing samples and analyzing material properties, REDUCED BY and improving the quality pass rate by diagnosing defects in advance. 50% 2Pass RO (Reverse Osmosis Water Treatment) Process water used at the Dangjin Integrated Steelworks is treated by the company’s plumbing facility (reverse osmosis) with industrial water from Asan Lake. This provides a process water of 140,000 tons a day. Rising pollution levels, however, along with climate change and urbanization, has caused constant deterioration of the quality of water. This has made it difficult to ensure stable water quality for our process water. To overcome this, we have improved our process technology and set up a 2Pass RO (reverse osmosis) process system, which uses existing RO blocks to re-treat 30% of the purified water produced. Thanks to this effort, we are able to secure process water of sufficient quality even when water quality deteriorates during drought. This was done by using a predictive process that applies to the system autonomously based on the concentration of chlorine in the source water. Development of Technology to Remove Chlorine from Process Water As quality of source water used in process water became degraded, the concentration of chlorine rises, which has the biggest impact on water quality. To deal with this risk, our research institute is working on CDICapacitive Deionization, a new water treatment technology that improves production efficiency for process water and the reuse of coolant. In 2018, lab testing was done to evaluate its applicability to Hyundai Steel. Based on the test results, we plan to manufacture a small-scale pilot testing device and carry out technology development in 2019. For efficient technology development, we are also looking into joint research with a CDI electrode manufacturer and an EPC (Engineering, Procurement, Construction) company. Sintering Exhaust Gas Cleaning Facility Due to emerging risk of fine dust (PM10, PM2.5), management of nitrogen gas(NOx) and sulfur oxides(SOx), substances from PM2.5 and directly have impact on human body, has become critical. In addition, government regulations are more stringent than before. Against this backdrop, we have gradually improved our prevention facilities (desulfurization for sodium bicarbonate and denitrification for selective catalytic reduction) to efficiently reduce NOx and SOx in exhaust gas from the sintering process. After 2022, when all facilities are completed, total emissions are expected to be reduced by up to 50%. 051 Supply Chain Management FACT BOOK Sustainability Management Process BUSINESS CONTEXT It is increasingly important for companies and their suppliers to communicate closely, ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Supply Chain especially in the area of corporate social responsibility and its expanding role. Continuing Sustainability human rights issues, such as child labor in supply chains, highlight the growing Management Process importance of managing risk, including potential harm to a company’s image. To prevent such issues, there is a need to broaden management coordination with suppliers and establish a safe and ethical supply ecosystem. It is also crucial to engage in win-win Develop ESG evaluating growth by supporting suppliers and protecting the environment and public resources near Criteria major business sites. • Labor/Human rights • Environment/Management • Ethics/Compliance • Safety/Health OUR APPROACH Hyundai Steel aims to establish integrated supply chain risk management for all suppliers. To do this, we are managing a range of risks, including issues related to individual and ESG evaluation employee rights such as environment, safety, ethics and etc. We are also doing more to make • ‌Period: Once a year (independent evaluation) supply chain more sustainable by building sound partnerships. These include win-win growth • Target: 1st tier suppliers programs and support for our suppliers. Sustainability Management Processes for the Supply Chain Review results For integrated supply chain risk management, Hyundai Steel conducts evaluations on an of the evaluation annual basis to ensure the sustainability of our suppliers in terms of labor/human rights, • Select high-risk suppliers • ‌Determine the direction for risk environmental management, ethics compliance and health and safety. When it comes to response suppliers in construction, we manage their risk using safety evaluations as well. Based on these evaluations, suppliers with low safety evaluations are managed as high-risk, and those that fail to meet the standards are prohibited from participating in the bidding process. Monitoring • ‌On-site visits to high-risk suppliers Policies for Win-Win Growth • ‌Safety evaluation for suppliers Hyundai Steel is continuously developing favorable partnerships with suppliers through three basic policies: fair trade compliance, win-win cooperation and efficient management systems. To achieve these goals, we promote cooperative growth in a variety of ways such Establish and implement as financial support, technical support and management support. This support has been improvement plans effective in all sectors where supplier relationships are needed. Since 2011, we have had • Establish ‌ plans for improving sustainability a fair trade agreement with the Fair Trade Commission, under which evaluations of our • Monitor ‌ improvement results performance are made public. Policies for Win-Win Growth Fair trade and ethical Four major issues of the Fair Trade Commission, procurement ethics regulations and the Fair Trade management fair trade compliance program Compliance Transparent procurement processes, E-Procurement System, payment conditions for Fair procurement policy supplying goods Win-Win Growth Fund, win-win payment system, network loans, consulting and facility Financial support support for energy conservation Win-Win Cooperation Technical support / Joint R&D, joint patent applications, coordinating performance policies, non-exclusive Improvement Technology protection licenses, bailment of technical data Technical Fair, technical seminars on improving technology security, support for suppliers Management support expanding into domestic and overseas markets, support for education and training, employment and recruitment support, consignment system, welfare and benefits support Efficient Management Establishment and Procurement cooperation committee and sub-committees, New Year’s celebration by the System operation of CEO and suppliers, management visits to supplier sites, meeting with relevant divisions, management systems pledge of ethics management, dispute mediation committee 052 HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 FUTURE ACTION Going forward, Hyundai Steel plans to conduct sustainability assessments to establish a sustainable supply chain management system. We will also find and introduce win-win growth programs to give our suppliers practical help. To do this, we will communicate periodically with our suppliers to identify their needs, strengthen our support for them and pursue win-win growth. PERFORMANCE ESG Evaluation of Supply Chains Since 2018, we have conducted sustainability evaluations of our major suppliers, in first year evaluating 100 suppliers. For the bottom 5%, we conducted on-site inspections, and all of them received corrective action plans. By 2020, we plan to carry out sustainability evaluations of about 300 major suppliers and expand the evaluation targets to all major suppliers. Communication Channels for Suppliers Hyundai Steel engages in a range of communication activities as part of our win-win growth model. For instance, we hold our New Year's meetings and regular workshops. At the start of each year, we meet with our suppliers. In 2018, the meeting was attended by total of 210 suppliers, which made a firm commitment to achieve win-win growth by implementing better safety management practices. We also held 55 meetings of the Integrated Procurement Office Subcommittee for 282 suppliers to introduce procurement 55 TIMES Supplier communication policy and product operation methods. Through our clients’ communication pages, we programs received 15 complaints and proposals in 2018 related to improving our systems and work processes, all of which were acted on. Satisfaction Survey for Suppliers We carry out a satisfaction survey of Hyundai Steel suppliers, working to identify and fix problems in our business together. The survey includes suppliers with transactions of KRW 100 million or more. In 2018, it was conducted on 1,479 suppliers. The satisfaction survey covers a range of categories, including contract processes, procurement personnel, procurement systems and the creation of a supplier-oriented environment and culture. 1,479 SUPPLIERS Based on the survey results, we identified areas for improvement and are working to Target for supplier improve supplier satisfaction. satisfaction survey Hyundai Steel Tech Show Since 2016, Hyundai Steel has organized the Hyundai Steel Tech Show, which introduces supplier technologies and gives them an opportunity to expand their sales channels. In 2018, a total of 64 domestic and overseas companies were selected through a comprehensive review and given the opportunity to participate. The Tech Show displayed several new technologies in five key areas, including localization, quality and productivity, environment, safety and energy. About 4,000 engineers attended and discussed ways to apply the technologies on site. We also held several other events such as one-on-one 64 COMPANIES customized purchase consultations, steel industry networking events and a tour of Dangjin Domestic and overseas Integrated Steelworks, making the show a venue for practical business exchanges. companies attended 053 FACT BOOK ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE 2018 Hyundai Steel Technology Fair Activities for Win-Win Growth To help suppliers ensure sustainable growth, we operate several different win-win growth initiatives, including financial support, technical support and management support. We launched the Win-Win Growth Fund in 2011 to help suppliers procure management funds. 40 In 2018, we formed a fund of KRW 40 billion to support suppliers. We also assigned nonKRW exclusive licenses to allow suppliers to utilize our patented technologies free of charge, BILLION which contributes to these suppliers’ new product development, and expands their sales Win-Win Growth Fund and distribution channels. When it comes to HR development, we support the operation of an online recruitment center for suppliers to secure human resources and provide free job education and training so that talented employees of our suppliers can improve their job skills and competencies. Performance Sharing System Hyundai Steel supports suppliers that propose ways to localize part development and improve product performance to help such projects succeed, and hawse have concluded a long-term supply contract as a success incentive. Through this, we hope to improve productivity and reduce costs while suppliers can expand into new distribution channels and increase their sales. In 2018, we identified 18 development tasks for 16 suppliers and provided performance benefits of approximately KRW 3.2 billion. Energy Saving Consulting and Facility Support Project Hyundai Steel provides suppliers with energy saving consulting and facility support. Selected companies get environmental management training and consulting on energy savings for relevant facilities. In 2018, four suppliers were selected as project targets and were provided with solar panels, high-efficiency air compressors and LED lights. 054 Risk Management HYUNDAI STEEL Risk Management System Integrated Report 2019 Hyundai Steel verifies any potential management risks and proactively deals with risks through a systematic risk management process. We identify specific management indicators by analyzing and selecting core risk elements and work to minimize any impact these risks might have by preparing measures and monitoring them on a regular basis. As more indicators and materials are identified, they are continuously updated based on internal and external market conditions. We also define and manage the risks in each sector through risk governance. Risk Management Process Step 1 Step 2 Step 3 Establish Risk Monitor and Identify Key Risks Management System Respond to Risks •Risk pooling •Risk profiling •Monitoring •Risk priority assessment •System review •Response planning and •Identify key risks •Management planning response activities •Feedback on response Risk Governance Top management meeting Board of Directors Risk meeting body Business, strategy, Financial risk restriction risk Operational risk Exchange rate Material Safety/Health/Environment Interest rate Utility Quality management Demand industry Investment market conditions Legal compliance/Fair trade Tax Competitors Win-win cooperation Credit Policy and regulations Information security Trade Corporate reputation Risk Selection and Response We analyze risk candidates by considering midand long-term changes in the internal, external and management environments. We identify and select key risks as top priorities through objective evaluations, including impact analysis, vulnerability determination and expert group surveys. For indicator-type risks, we evaluate four levels of risk (interest, attention, warning and critical) based on the monitoring of relevant leading and lagging indicators. Those deemed high-level risks are dealt with immediately. For scenariotype risks, we prepare a specific scenario for each crisis and deal with the relevant risks by predicting the impact of the potential crisis and organizing a sector-specific risk management group. For disaster-type risks, we establish a response manual and prevent damage by conducting regular drills in preparation for earthquakes, which are difficult to predict in advance but have recently occurred. We also review our indicators to reflect changes in the management environment and demand market issues to calculate and manage any potential risks and then track and manage indicators for safety, security and trade. 055 FACT BOOK Key Risks Hyundai Steel regularly monitors key risks to determine their impact on the overall ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE business, and we have established effective countermeasures to respond to issues and apply them to regular business activities. Type Risk Potential impact on the business Response measures Non-conforming Concerns over reduced local sales competitiveness due to excessive •Establish prompt response measures in the event of an increase of steel imports imports of non-conforming products non-conforming import products Price of raw An increase in raw material prices leads directly •Establish a prompt response strategy by monitoring the variation in materials to an increase in manufacturing costs the price of raw materials •Prevent work instability and reduced quality competitiveness Quality Negative impact on consumer reliability and economic losses due to a resulting from human and material accidents competitiveness rise in sub-quality products and customer claims •Unify quality-related work processes by establishing quality control towers within the company Secure factors vital to business operations by achieving a set level of •Prevent deterioration of capital flow by increasing cash-generating Financial stability fiscal stability capabilities during a recession Information Leaks of key technical and marketing information can reduce •Prevent risks caused by non-compliance by enforcing internal Indicator the company's competitiveness, resulting in system errors from security regulations on the leaking of major confidential data, or the security malicious code, and can have a negative impact on production. propagation of malicious code, etc. type •Operate a safety control tower to establish a safety management Safety Serious incidents at worksites hurt the company’s image and have a system management negative impact on production •Spread a culture of safety management •Unify safety-related work processes across the company Steel market Leads to a reduction in demand and the price of steel materials; •Analyze the balance of industrial demand and supply, the profitability caused directly by lower market demand downturn of steel firms and the status of competitor restructuring ※ Automotive / Construction / Shipbuilding / Energy An increase in fuel prices leads directly to an increase in •Monitor trends in international fuel prices and variations in national Utility expenses manufacturing costs power policies Difficult to enter the market when trade restrictions are strengthened •Monitor trade volume in major steel-importing countries and the Trade regulations in major import countries status of their protection measures Labor-management Production impacted by labor conflict resulting in strikes or work •Find ways to reduce risk by establishing an advanced labor culture relations stoppages Scenario Business Continuity Management activities impacted by shutdown of operations and •Establish a response system in case of crisis to stabilize operations Management (BCM) blockage of sales channels during domestic and international crises such as production / sales / procurement type Disaster Production impacted by suspension of work, damage to production •Build a response system for uncontrollable disasters and Natural disasters facilities. catastrophes type Potential Risks Hyundai Steel reviews long-term productivity risks stemming from technological innovation and fine dust risk, and takes steps to prevent and alleviate them. Fine Dust Risk Domestic and international regulations are being tightened and the company's financial and non-financial risks are expected to increase if it is not prepared in advance. Legal regulations and standards at home and abroad are expected to be strengthened gradually by announcing comprehensive measures for fine dust management and establishing cooperative plans between Korea and China in Korea, and Hyundai Steel has invested 460 billion won by 2020 to reduce emissions by improving its air pollution prevention facilities. Productivity risk resulting from smart manufacturing innovation Productivity is the most important issue for the continuous growth of the company. Recently, there have been ways to increase the productivity dramatically by combining new technologies such as Big Data and AI. Falling a step behind such smart manufacturing technology innovations and performing only the existing productivity improvement activities could be a huge risk of competitiveness in the market. Hyundai Steel recognizes these risks and provides a change in the way we work through special lectures on smart manufacturing technology innovation. In addition, we are carrying out an intelligent production system construction project using AI and Big Data with the goal of building a smart factory by 2025. 056 Customer-Centered Management HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 BUSINESS CONTEXT Establishing trust with customers is one of the most crucial elements of corporate management. It is now more important to expand communication channels to ensure customer satisfaction. As an element of corporate competitiveness, it is recognized as essential to meeting more diverse and specific customer needs by utilizing such communication channels. OUR APPROACH Hyundai Steel aims to provide the best solutions by promptly dealing with rapidly changing customer needs. To do this, we are running several customer satisfaction programs and strengthening sales competitiveness by expanding sales of our global premium products. We are also making continuous investments in our high-quality products and reinforcing our brand marketing to lay the foundation for future growth. Customer satisfaction Stronger sales Future growth programs competitiveness through change EMOTIONAL support HIGHER competitiveness THROUGH the changes Expand VOC channels Application Engineering Invest continuously in quality Form a bond of respect Expand sales of global Respond to environmental through communication with premium products change by advancing new customers technologies Develop customized products Reinforce emotional marketing and networks Grow the H CORE earthquakeOperate relationship Provide differentiated services resistance brand strengthening programs Application engineering Gradually expand of Reinforce customer support Strategic cooperation with diversified brands → customers Lead the safety steel market FUTURE ACTION Hyundai Steel aims to reinforce customer communication programs and global network to increase global sales. Through various channels, we also identify customer needs and develop customized products to enhance customer satisfaction. PERFORMANCE Operation of Customer Portal System Hyundai Steel operates a customer portal system to help customers conveniently check and process information related to their purchases. In the portal system, customers can check the status of their purchases at every stage – from ordering and delivery to handling claims and submitting grievances. We also provide a mobile portal system enabling customers to conveniently handle related tasks even when they are on the road or on a business trip. 057 FACT BOOK Customer Satisfaction Survey Hyundai Steel conducts customer satisfaction surveys for major customers on an annual ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE basis. These include a quantitative evaluation covering a wide range of areas from the decision to purchase to product usage, including technology development, production, order processing, logistics services and claims handling. We also interview major customers and report the results of the survey’s qualitative sections. Global Customer Convention and International Exhibition Hyundai Steel holds an annual Global Customer Convention to strengthen global cooperation. In 2018, we invited 67 employees from customer companies in 26 countries and promoted our technology through a tour of Dangjin Integrated Steelworks and KIA Motors. We also participated in the Offshore Technology Conference (OTC 2018) in Houston, Texas, where we introduced major products for offshore structures such as 26 high-performing plates, API steels for energy and H-Sections. Also, in April 2019, We participated in the 2019 Shanghai Motor Show and launched the brand 'H-Solution', and COUNTRIES has participated in various international exhibitions to promote our technological progress. Invited customer companies 2019 Shanghai Motor Show Exhibition Increasing Worldwide Sales of Premium Products By developing customized products and expanding our global network, Hyundai Steel is Sales of global / Unit: proactively creating new demand for high-value-added products such as automotive steel premium products 1,000 Tons sheets and earthquake-resistant reinforcing bars. This led to an increase in our worldwide 9,183 sales of premium products from 8,411,000 tons in 2017 to 8,913,000 tons in 2018, a rise of 8,913 6.0%. Sales are expected to increase to 9,183,000 tons in 2019 with the aim of continuous growth. We hope to increase sales of these premium products by using our product 8,411 competitiveness and active marketing in ways such as preparing for the future market accelerating the development of new steel grades and establishing global supply chain management. 2017 2018 2019(Expectation) 058 HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 H CORE Brand Marketing H CORE, Strengthening Earthquake-Resistant Steel Brand Marketing In November 2017, Hyundai Steel launched H CORE, Korea’s first earthquake-resistant steel brand. Through an aggressive marketing campaign, we have enhanced the brand’s value and achieved greater awareness among end consumers that “earthquake readiness means Hyundai Steel’s earthquake-resistant steel.” For selecting a brand name, we held a contest that was open to the public to generate greater interest. After the brand was launched, we rolled out an integrated marketing campaign that included TV, outdoor advertisements and PPL to raise awareness of the H CORE brand. We will continue to increase the brand value of H CORE by expanding the brand’s points of contact as we strive to lead the Korean safety steel market. Awareness of Steel Brands Preference for Steel Brands Positive Neutral Negative 28.4% 23.2% 4% 35.6% 25.2% 37% 9.2% Steel A Steel B 58.4% 66.6% 8.2% 59% 6% Steel A Steel B * Online survey of 500 men/women ages 20 to 54(Macromill Embrain, December 2017) Year-Based Performance / Unit: Ton, KRW million 2016 2017 2018 Quantity Sales Quantity Sales Quantity Sales 1,072,380 681,436 1,130,437 777,789 1,148,264 907,984 059 Ethics Management FACT BOOK BUSINESS CONTEXT It is increasingly important to fulfill corporate economic and legal responsibilities to our ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE stakeholders, including customers, shareholders, suppliers and local communities. This makes it all the more necessary to internalize ethical corporate management, build a culture of fair trade and institute a regular monitoring system. OUR APPROACH Since 2000, Hyundai Steel has followed the Ethics Charter and Code of Ethics. We have also carried out a number of projects to firmly entrench a culture of ethics management, such as the production and distribution of the Ethics Management Guidebook for all employees. In November 2002, we adopted the Compliance Program (CP) to establish a system for fair trade. We have built our fair trade culture by providing sectorand themebased training, carrying out CP inspections, instituting an employee fair trade pledge and implementing our win-win growth agreement with the Fair Trade Commission. Raising awareness Organizational Follow-up among employees management measures Pledge-signing Regular monitoring Penalties Distribution of promotion • Cyber Audit Office Relevant measures booklets • Preventive inspections Regular training • System improvement • Follow-up training FUTURE ACTION We will raise our employees awareness of ethics management by adding new training and improving fair trade compliance. We will also manage more systematically manage compliance monitoring to taking follow-up measures so that our culture of ethics and fair trade can take root. PERFORMANCE Spreading the Culture of Ethics Management The Hyundai Steel Ethics Charter and Code of Ethics is posted on our website in Korean, English and Chinese to spread our ethics culture at home and abroad. In 2016, when Korea instituted the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act, our employees pledged to comply with ethics laws and regulations to improve compliance and awareness, while the company distributed relevant guidelines. In 2019, we added sections on information protection and anti-trust/anti-competition as required by more stringent international standards and amended the Code of Ethics. Cyber Audit Office The Hyundai Steel Cyber Audit Office was set up to make our business transparent and reliable. It collects information on all types of employee misconduct, including any improper demands or corruption that occur via the Internet, phone, fax or printed documents. 060 HYUNDAI STEEL Ethics Training for Employees Integrated Report 2019 We provide online and offline ethics training for our employees, covering areas including ethics management, fair trade and the prevention of sexual harassment. In 2018, we No. of Trainees for Ethics offered ethics training twice to a total of 160 new employees. Experienced employees Management also receive training on ethics management. With the implementation and amendment of the Improper Solicitation and Graft Act, we have continuously offered training to 100% subsidiaries and all employees. (A total of 23 training sessions for ethical management of new employees in the first half and the second half of 2019, experienced employees and promotion employees) Compliance with Anti-Corruption Law Ethics education for all employees Since 2014, Hyundai Steel has operated the Compliance with Anti-Corruption Law Program to encourage employees to comply with anti-corruption policies of laws such as the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA). In this regard, anti-corruption compliance training was offered to the employees of 16 overseas departments twice a year. We have invited a lawyer from a local law firm and held an anti-corruption training session for overseas staff and heads of corporations. / Unit: Persons Spreading the Culture of Fair Trade No. of Trainees for In March 2018, Hyundai Steel expanded the CP Committee to every related departments Fair Trade Compliance to strengthen our fair trade compliance. The CP Committee is composed of team leaders 2016 468 and deputy senior leaders in major departments such as sales/procurement teams who 2017 612 are given training on major amendments to the Fair Trade Act and Fair Transactions in 2018 895 Subcontracting Act. The CP Committee conducts independent inspections and rectifies any potential violations in the work processes of each department. It informs team / Unit: Department members of major issues and serves a pivotal role in improving company-wide awareness of fair trade. In July 2018, we held a general shareholders’ meeting, appointed the current Departments Inspected for Director of Strategy Planning Department as a new CP manager and reported operating Fair Trade Compliance results to the Board of Directors. 2016 39 Improving Subcontractor Payment System 2017 60 Since July 2018, we made system improvements to ensure that subcontractors are paid 2018 50 by the legal deadline without exception. This improvement was conducted to prevent legal violations and to promote win-win growth by preventing payment delays caused by human error. This enables us to prioritize liquidity for small subcontractors, which results in smoother business environment and helps build trade relations based on mutual trust. Internal Sanctions for Violations of Fair Trade In April 2019, we reinforced our internal sanctions against employees who violate fair trade laws. We promote employee compliance with fair trade by imposing more stringent sanctions on those who direct or carry out any violation, including unnecessary contact with competitors, meetings, collection of information or data recording. 061 Corporate Governance FACT BOOK Criteria for independence Board of Directors of independent directors As the top decision-making body in management, the Board of Directors (BOD) works to ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Independent directors are directors enhance corporate value and achieve continuous growth. The board is composed of nine who are not members of the Company's members, including four executive directors and five independent directors. To reinforce executive directors and are not in any of the following subparagraphs: any of the the board’s independence, the percentage of independent directors is set at 50% or higher. following: The three committees, meanwhile, bring expertise to decision-making and enhance lose one's position if applicable operational efficiency; they are the Audit Committee, Transparent Management Committee • ‌Directors, executives and employees of the Company's executive branch, or and Independent Director Candidate Nomination Committee. All the board committees in the last two years; are run by a majority of independent directors. In particular, the Audit Committee and Directors, auditors, executive officers or employees who are soon engaged in Transparent Management Committee are composed of independent directors who serve to the Company's executive directorship. exchange opinions in a free and objective manner and reinforce supervision. • ‌The principal, spouse, and immediate Independent Independent family of the largest shareholder; Director director’s Transparent Candidate verification to Chairman of Audit • ‌directors, auditors, executive officers Name Career Management Nomination independence/ BoD Committee Committee* Committee diversity and employees of a corporation, if the largest shareholder is a corporation; Tong-Il An President of Hyundai Steel (CEO) ● ○ Executive Director Senior Vice Chairman of Hyundai Motor • ‌Spouse and direct line of directors, Eui-Sun Chung Company auditors and executive officers; nonVice President of Hyundai Steel delivery Jong-Seong Park (Chairman of Dangjin Integrated Steelworks) Senior Managing Director of Hyundai Steel Kang-Hyeon Seo • ‌Directors, auditors, executive officers (Director of Finance Division) and employees of the company's Professor of Sungkyunkwan University Law Ho-Yul Chung School (Economic Law) ● ○ ● Verified parent company or subsidiary; Independent Director Senior Researcher at Korea Institute of Gyeong-Tae Hong Science and Technology (Metals) ○ ● ○ Verified • ‌Directors, auditors, and directors of Representative Tax Accountant at Samick Tax important interested entities, such as Eui-Man Park ○ ○ Verified Accounting Firm (Taxation) the company's trade relations; Professor of Architecture at Chung-Ang Executives and employees Eun-Taek Lee University (Architecture) ○ Verified Professor at the Business School of Korea • ‌Directors, auditors, executive officers Sang-Yong Kim University (Business Administration) ○ ○ Verified and employees of other companies where the Company's directors, ●: Committee Chairman, ○: Committee Member (as of March 31, 2019) executive officers and employees are directors and executive officers; Transparency and Professionalism in Director Appointment Directors are appointed at the general shareholders’ meeting in accordance with the Commercial Act and Articles of Association. Independent directors are recommended Standards for by the Independent Director Candidate Nomination Committee after their qualifications independent director diversity and capabilities are comprehensively evaluated, and they are appointed at the general • In selecting the appropriate candidate shareholders’ meeting. In particular, independent directors are appointed from among for the appointment of the Board of Directors, an objective standard shall experts in each sector of society to enhance professionalism in today’s management be used; environment, which requires the board to continuously make strategic decisions. The And after fully considering the benefits of diversity of the Board of Directors, executive directors, meanwhile, are managers in charge of supervising each management selection of beams sector. This process is intended to leverage the different perspectives and the objectivity • Appropriate scope of skills, experience, knowledge and personality when of the directors in their areas of expertise to inform the basic principles of the business reviewing the composition of the Board of Directors; and the execution of work. The chairman of the BOD is appointed at a temporary board including but not limited to those meeting after the annual general shareholders’ meeting. In March 2019, President Tong-Il described above to maintain balance with the top; An was appointed as the new chairman. Consider the benefits of all aspects of non-limited diversity • Balance of skills, experience, knowledge Independence and Diversity of Independent Directors and independence of the Board of To appoint independent directors fairly and transparently, independent directors are Directors as part of its performance assessment appointed at the general shareholders’ meeting after candidates are recommended by the Independent Director Candidate Nomination Committee. The candidate’s qualifications as an executive are examined as part of the thorough review required by the Commercial Act, ensuring that any person given responsibilities that might result in damaging the corporate value or the rights and interests of shareholders should not be appointed. This 062 HYUNDAI STEEL prevents administrative or legal sanctions that could be imposed for legal violations. We Integrated Report 2019 also reflect not only the criteria for independence required by the Commercial Act but also requirements such as expertise and social reputation. We certify the independent directors’ qualifications, including their independence from the company and legal criteria, and submit them to the Korea Exchange for appointment. The BOD organizational process is designed to reflect a range of perspectives in management, including gender, place of birth, professions and industrial experience. It ensures professionalism and diversity of the board by selecting independent directors and experts from each sector of society. Operation of the BOD In accordance with the Articles of Association, board meetings are classified as either regular or non-scheduled. The Articles stipulate that the board is to meet on a quarterly basis and hold non-scheduled meetings if necessary. In 2018, a total of ten board meetings were held, including four regular meetings and six non-scheduled ones. The BOD deliberated a total of 20 agenda issues, including a business plan and budget for 2018, the issuance of corporate bonds, signed off on management performance and approved transactions with specially related employees. The board checked performance not only in terms of financial management but also in non-financial terms by reporting the status of the internal accounting management system, the fair trade compliance program and the activities of compliance officers. In addition, the board meeting is convened by the chairman and each director is notified in writing or orally at least a day prior to the meeting. Directors unable to attend can join with video conference call. In reviewing agenda issues, relevant employees or external employees can attend to listen to descriptions or opinions on the agenda. The individual attendance of independent directors and approvals/rejections are made public in the regular report. Audit Committee As a body to review and determine vital issues regarding the inspection of company accounts and projects, the Audit Committee consists of four independent directors and supervises the job execution of management so that directors and management members can make reasonable judgments. In 2018, a total of five meetings were held in which members evaluated issues such as the operation of the internal accounting management system and the reporting of management performance. Transparent Management Committee (Former Ethics Committee) The Transparent Management Committee is composed of five independent directors. It was formed to build an ethical corporate culture and achieve transparency in terms of internal transactions and ethics management and to review the protection of shareholders’ rights and interests. In 2018, a total of five meetings were held in which members reviewed agenda issues such as social contribution activities, the fair trade compliance program, the activities of compliance officers and approval for large-scale internal transactions. One of the members is appointed as a manager for the protection of shareholders’ rights and interests, which is one way the committee aims to make management more shareholderfriendly. This is also achieved by boosting communication with domestic and overseas shareholders and continuously seeking policies to improve the protection of shareholders’ rights and interests. In October 2018, all independent directors received training on the theme of understanding the stewardship code and corporate behavior. Independent Director Candidate Nomination Committee The Independent Director Candidate Nomination Committee aims to achieve a sound and transparent process for recommending independent director candidates. In accordance with relevant laws, the Articles of Association and BOD regulations, the committee is made up of two independent directors and one executive director as a check on internal authority. In addition, the committee uses a fair and transparent procedure to recommend employees who suit the interests of the company and its shareholders and verifies that the candidates are qualified according to the relevant laws. In 2018, the committee met once, reappointing and newly appointing three independent directors. In 2019, the committee will reappoint and newly appoint two independent directors. 063 FACT BOOK BOD Remuneration In accordance with Article 388 of the Commercial Act and the Articles of Association, Hyundai Steel decides the maximum remuneration for directors by a resolution at the ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE general shareholders’ meeting. They are compensated fairly and transparently based on remuneration regulations. At the 54th general shareholders’ meeting, the remuneration limit was set at KRW 10 billion. In 2018, a total of KRW 3.21 billion was paid. In 2019, the 55th general shareholders’ meeting decided in view of a difficult business environment to reduce the remuneration limit for directors by 20%, setting it at KRW 8 billion. Future Direction for Corporate Governance 1. Reinforcement of Shareholders’ Rights and Interests Protection In 2019, Hyundai Steel plans to announce the annual general shareholders’ meeting one week in advance of the two-week notice period stipulated by law. We will also disclose the agenda issues in advance to provide shareholders with a sufficient amount of time to review the issues. In addition, we will strive to establish fair and shareholder-friendly corporate governance by communicating with institutional investors about voting rights and proactively collecting requests from shareholders and the market. In these ways, we will actively review midand long-term policies, such as expanding dividend payments, to improve shareholder returns. 2. Enhancement of Sub-Committee Members' Roles and Expertise Because of the structure of the Board of Directors, the authority and roles of each sub-committee member are crucial. The company aims to proactively support committee members to cultivate their expertise. In October 2018, we brought in independent experts to train the members on the amendment to the Act on External Audit of Stock Companies and the introduction of the stewardship code. In particular, we will continue to offer internal and external education and information to the members of the increasingly important Audit Committee and the Transparent Management Committee to protect the rights and interests of shareholders. 3. Establishment of Advanced Governance Structure With the approval of the Board of Directors in April 2019, the Regulations of the Board of Directors and Sub-Committee were amended to lay the institutional foundation for the establishment of transparent and professional governance structure. This includes provisions for strengthening the role of the Audit Committee as a result of the increasingly stringent audit environment, including the establishment of a reliable governance structure for shareholders, employees and customers. In particular, the revised External Audit Act specified the internal accounting department's installation obligation, and the committee's compliance with the procedures for requesting independence of non-insulated areas. In addition, by enacting and publicizing the Corporate Governance Charter, we express our commitment to building sound governance structures and meet our stakeholders' right to know by providing transparent governance information to shareholders, customers, and others. IR Activities We give management performance presentations on a quarterly, semi-annual and annual basis for analysts, institutional investors, credit rating agencies and the media. Executives at the level of chief director in each division, including the Chief Financial Officer (CFO), attend the presentation and actively communicate with each other in the session as they present the company’s performance and major management issues and open a Q&A session. To open more contact points with domestic and overseas investors, we provide various programs and commutation channels as below: QUARTERLY QUARTERLY NON-SCHEDULED Management performance Non-Deal Roadshow Company visits, conference calls, presentation (NDR) attendance of major conferences, (quarterly, semi-annual and annual) etc. 064 Tax Strategy HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 BUSINESS CONTEXT The globalization of business means companies must comply with the tax-related laws of each country and the OECD transfer guidelines for international trade. One emerging issue is tax avoidance by multinational companies, which is why society is calling on companies to pay their taxes faithfully. This issue is recognized as a grave risk not only to corporate reputation but also from a financial perspective. OUR APPROACH Hyundai Steel establishes and operates tax strategies, policies and documented standards and procedures for risk management to ensure accurate tax payments and reports. With these activities, we fully implement the corporate duty of tax payments at home and abroad. Domestic Tax • ‌Employees in charge of taxation fulfill the duty to report and pay taxes in accordance with relevant laws, and they work based on the principle of transparent relations with the tax authorities. • ‌When tax laws change, or other laws, rules and precedents are amended or enacted, we monitor any areas that could apply to the company and review potential risks in advance. • ‌The company’s tax information is disclosed through external notification in a transparent way. The financial statement and the footnotes of the audit report contain information on corporate tax calculation standards, deferred tax assets, liabilities, composition and rate of corporate tax. Transparency and objectivity are ensured by an external audit. International Tax • ‌The company fully complies with its legal duty to report and pay taxes in every country where it does business at and fulfills its duty as a taxpayer in close cooperation with the tax authorities of each country. • ‌The company does not conduct income transfers between countries and it does not evade taxes by exploiting tax law differences, loopholes in the international tax system or tax havens. The company ensures that taxable income is legally distributed based on its value in each country where the company does business at. • ‌The company appoints external experts to deal with regulations such as the duty to prepare and submit BEPS-related reports in each country, and it implements BEPS risk analysis and documentation projects in overseas offices. FUTURE ACTION Hyundai Steel stipulates the chain of responsibility for tax payment in the company regulations, and it will continue to fulfill its tax obligations and minimize tax-related risk elements from a long-term perspective. 065 Environmental investment KRW 170.7 BILLION Increased by 90% compared to 2017 (KRW 89.7 billion) Rate of by-product recycling 97.5% En vi ronmental Reduction of Air pollutants 40% Agreement to reduce air pollutants compared to 2016 066 Recycling EV waste batteries ESS 1MWH Facility established (January 2019) Performance 068 Integrated Environmental Management 070 Responding to Climate Change 073 Air Quality Management 074 Water Quality Management 075 Recycling By-Products Environmental evaluation for the entire product process LCA DB ESTABLISHED 067 Integrated Environmental Management FACT BOOK BUSINESS CONTEXT Government policies and regulations on environmental management are being ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE strengthened. The government is strengthening regulations through related laws and regulations, such as the Law on Integrated Management of Environmental Pollution Facilities in 2017 and the Implementation of the Fundamental Circulation Law on Resources in 2018. Corporate environmental risk management is a core element of management activities, and we need systematic monitoring and response. OUR APPROACH Integrated Environmental Management Process Hyundai Steel is promoting company-wide environmental management by establishing an integrated environmental management process. We have established environmental management strategies and detailed guidelines for each division and systematically manage environmental performance by each site. In addition, we are strengthening our environmental management for overseas business sites as we expand our global business. Proactive response to environmental risks through systematic environmental management processes Integrated environmental management Responding to Air quality Climate Change management Water quality Recycling management by-products Management Policy for Environment and Energy •Responding to government measures/ regulations •Procurement: Green purchases of fuel, raw materials, facilities and •Collecting information on Analyzing Efficient input energy environmental and energy issues management of energy and •Production: Optimizing the input of •Predicting and evaluating impact activity risks resources process utility and preventing GHG factors and establishing response emissions strategies •Operating and monitoring pollutant •Realization of social responsibility measurement/prevention facilities Fulfilling corporate through environmental win-win Minimizing partnership and CSR activities •Preventing the spread of pollutants emissions ethical and social •Developing projects for utilizing and •Enhancing and adding high-value to and pollution responsibilities offsetting alternative resources/ recycling of by-products/waste energy 068 HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 FUTURE ACTION By continuing our efforts in environment and energy management, Hyundai Steel will expand eco-friendly management by adding eco-friendly facilities, enhancing resource efficiency and establishing policies for preventing environmental pollution. PERFORMANCE Responding to Environmental Regulations To comply with environment-related laws and regulations, we are organizing a companywide environmental management group, including the CEO, and designating managers in charge of each sector. We also continuously taking action to deal more proactively with stronger environmental regulations by monitoring regulations and developing and applying new eco-friendly technology. When any environment-related issue occurs, we have systems in place to analyze the issue and discuss a response through the Transparent Management Committee of the BOD. Integrated Environment Management System To deal proactively with the Act on the Integrated Control of Pollutant-Discharging Facilities, which took effect in 2017, Hyundai Steel analyzes the impact of pollutant discharge on all business sites. We review the level of allowed discharge at each business site and examine the applicability of optimal available methods and integrated license applications. Framework Act on Resource Circulation We continuously conduct independent R&D activities to reduce waste and increase recycling. To utilize simply reclaimed or incinerated, recycling business waste. We work with the recycling industry and other sectors and work proactively under the Framework Act on Resource Circulation. Relief System for Environmental Pollution Damage In accordance with the Act on Liability for Environmental Damage and Relief, we are required to subscribe to environmental liability insurance for seven target businesses and provide a sufficient amount of compensation in event of any environmental pollution damage or accident. We are also strengthening company-wide supervision to prevent environmental accidents. 069 Responding to Climate Change FACT BOOK BUSINESS CONTEXT With the second phase of the GHG emissions trading scheme underway, it is increasingly ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE necessary to deal with the large energy demands of the steel industry, and to respond climate change. Hyundai Steel makes every effort to adopt new facilities and improve its processes to reduce energy consumption and GHG emissions. OUR APPROACH RISK RESPONSE STRATEGY • Reduction ‌ in GHG emission resulting • ‌Establishment of a mid and long-term from 2nd plan period of emission roadmap for reducing GHG emission Responding trading system • Review ‌ on ways to reduce energy to • Increase ‌ in industrial electricity bill and on introducing new technology Climate • Limit ‌ in energy reduction through • Establishment ‌ of a mid and long Change facilities adjustment term roadmap for energy reduction FUTURE ACTION Hyundai Steel is committed to engaging in the international community’s efforts to respond climate change by working to reduce GHG emissions across the entire business. To this end, we are also building our energy management system and managing and operating a responsible organization. PERFORMANCE Response to the GHG Emission Trading Scheme Hyundai Steel have expanded the existing GHG emission TF and hold a monthly companywide meeting on environment energy inspection. The meeting is attended by relevant departments such as policy/planning, production management and research/development, and its activities are shared with management. The entire company is responding by establishing a midand long-term roadmap to reduce GHG emissions, which reviews ways to reduce GHG intensity, identifies internal and external reduction projects and participates in overseas CDM projects. Company-Wide Energy Meeting We hold a company-wide energy meeting on monthly basis to improve energy use and supply efficiency. The department shares current status of technology development, energy policy and trends, and each production department establishes a target suitable for each business site and takes relevant steps. The Energy Planning Team, meanwhile, provides a companywide diagnosis. Through monthly performance evaluations, we identify best practices for energy reduction and review their applicability to other business sites. Establishment of LCA DB Hyundai Steel has been working to establish a company-wide system, starting LCA (Life Cycle Assessment) evaluation with the integrated steelworks processing sector in 2017, the electric Arc Furnace sector (Incheon) in 2018 and stage-by-stage in 2019. In particular, we are moving to acquire domestic and overseas Environment Product Declaration (EPD) certificates and to make our environmental information transparent. 070 HYUNDAI STEEL ESS Project to Manage Electricity Efficiently Integrated Report 2019 The policy direction of the third energy basic plan aims to provide customized demand management and promote reasonable consumption by improving the energy pricing and taxation systems. Hyundai Steel has introduced ESS facilities in Incheon and Pohang to respond proactively to the energy policy. With the introduction of these facilities, we save surplus electricity in the light-load period and use it at peak load to alleviate the risk of insufficient capacity. Their facilities also help with efficient electricity management and reducing cost reduction. 100MWH Installed 100MWh ESS at Incheon and Pohang Works Establish Eco-Friendly ESS by Recycling EV Waste Batteries As the number of EVs rises globally, the Electricity Facility Team of Hyundai Steel carries out demonstration projects to establish ESS facilities based on waste batteries. As of January 2019, we have established and operated 1MWh ESS facilities at Dangjin Integrated Steelworks by using waste batteries from the Hyundai IONIQ Electric and the KIA SOUL EV. In this way, we aim to establish a resource-circulating business system ranging from the development to the collection of batteries and installation of ESS. PROCESS AND EFFECTS SUPPLY WASTE OPERATE BATTERIES ESS Hyundai Motor Company / Kia Motors Hyundai Steel Material Reducing disposal costs Reducing purchase cost of ESS batteries, of waste batteries, Reuse & Recycle Controlling power peaks related to electricity vehicles R&D and reducing power costs ESS facilities based on recycling EV waste batteries 071 FACT BOOK ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE Hydrogen Gas Factory, Dangjin Integrated Steelworks Expansion of Hydrogen Production Infrastructure With tightening international regulations on automotive exhaust and GHG emissions, there is a great deal of focus on hydrogen vehicles, which do not emit CO2. The government has announced the Hydrogen Economy Vitalization Roadmap and plans to create an economical and stable hydrogen production and supply system. Since 2016, we, Hyundai Steel has been operating a hydrogen plant with an annual capacity of 3,000 tons by utilizing Cokes Oven Gas(COG) in the steel-making process. In order to expand the supply of hydrogen electric vehicles, we also plan to build a supply base for hydrogen fuel by attracting packaged hydrogen charging stations. Through this process, Hyundai Steel aims to secure lowcost hydrogen supply technology and contribute to reducing fine dust and greenhouse gas emissions. Improving Efficiency of Three Major Heating Facilities The steelworks facilities with the highest rates of CO2 emissions and energy consumption are the heating furnace, the hot blast stove and the coke oven. We are making the following efforts to reduce these levels. Hot blast Coke Heating REDUCED BY stove oven furnace 90,000 TONS • ‌Establishing a system to • ‌Identifying improvement • ‌Identifying measures to Expected to reduce KRW 2.6 automatically control hot points by diagnosing improve overall performance billion/year for by-product gas blast stove inputs • ‌Developing measurement and making investment plan fuel and 90,000 tons of CO2/ year by improving the efficiency technology to improve fuel of heating facilities input control 072 Air Quality Management HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 BUSINESS CONTEXT The issue of fine dust pollution has raised public interest in responding to climate change. Relevant systems and laws have been enacted or amended, including the Integrated Control of Pollutant-Discharging Facilities in 2017 and the Special Act on Fine Dust Reduction and Management of Fine Dust in 2019. There are also stiffer penalties and regulations. OUR APPROACH RISK RESPONSE STRATEGY • ‌Reduction of Air Pollutants in • Facility ‌ investment for accordance with the Government's implementation of reduction Comprehensive Plan for Fine Dust agreement Air quality • ‌Enforcement of the Integrated • Approved ‌ timely acquisition through management Environmental Authorization System contract of specialized company (in 2017) FUTURE ACTION We will keep 30% level of air pollution emission concentration such as dust, sulfur oxide and nitrogen oxide compared to legal emission standards. PERFORMANCE Environmental Monitoring System We actively respond to environmental regulations through the operation of an environmental monitoring system. We collect real-time data by installing a chimneymeasuring device and operate an integrated system and unmanned image pattern analysis system to respond quickly to environmental accidents and actively cope with regulatory responses. In addition, transparent environment management is implemented through the establishment of air quality network and 24-hour operation and disclosure of environment situation room. Agreement and Implementation on the Reduction of Air Pollutants' Emissions The Dangjin Integrated Steelworks voluntarily entered into an agreement with the local government in Dangjin, Chungcheongnam-do to reduce air pollution and improve air quality. Based on the agreement, about KRW 460 billion is set to be invested in efforts to improve the air quality by improving the efficiency of air pollution protection facilities, replacing old protection facilities around the steelworks. The Dangjin facility also aims to reduce air pollution to the level of 40% of 2016 emissions by 2020. KRW 460 BILLION Emergency Fine Dust Reduction in Chungcheongnam-do Agreement with Provincial Prior to the special law on fine dust in February 2019, we conducted active reduction Government / Dangjin City to activities in order to reduce fine dust voluntarily by adjusting the operation time of the reduce air-pollutant emissions by 40% from current levels factory's emission facilities, replacing consumables to improve the efficiency of the air by 2020 pollution prevention facilities, operating spray vehicles in neighboring countries(including province) to prevent scattering of the airborne dust, and encouraging executives and employees to use the second part of the vehicle system. Management of specific atmospheric hazards Dangjin Steelworks complies with the legal cycle (2 times a month) and monitors for 13 items that may occur the management of certain air pollutants that may directly or indirectly harm the human body other than ordinary air pollutants such as dust, SOx(Sulphur oxide) and NOx(Nitrogen oxide). n addition, certain air pollutants are managed at 4.0% of the emission acceptance criteria. 073 Water Quality Management FACT BOOK BUSINESS CONTEXT There is a growing need for risk management due to water shortages around the world. ENVIRONMENTAL PERFORMANCE With the enforcement of the Chemicals Control Act, the standard for managing handling facilities has become more stringent. To address these issues, there is a need to consider more active risk management methods such as reusing waste water. OUR APPROACH RISK RESPONSE STRATEGY •Risk of change in the water •Diagnoses to optimize the operation environment such as deterioration of of environmental facilities Water quality water quality in the dry season management •Stricter regulations on the management of hazardous chemicals FUTURE ACTION In addition to our company-wide efforts to manage water quality in the supply chain, we have also joined the international community in conducting environmental management. For this target, we are building an environment and energy-based management system, and with the responsible sectors of management, we are pursuing systematic water quality improvements. PERFORMANCE Diagnosis of Hazardous Chemicals The Chemical Control Act, enforced on 1 January 2015, strengthened management standards for handling, facilities, Since 2014, Hyundai Steel has installed a hazardous substances leakage detection system and responded to the change proactively. We have also reinforced our internal management standards and achieved stability in the management sector with the installation of CCTV at the work site. To deal with stricter standards for facilities to take effect in 2020, we had a chemical-specialized company perform a precise diagnosis of the hazardous chemicals at all of our facilities in 2018. Based on the result, we laid out steps for improvement. In 2019, we aim to establish and operate safe steelworks without hazardous chemicals by improving our facilities based on the diagnosis. Facilities for Non-point Pollution Source Reduction Hyundai Steel operates non-point pollution source treatment facilities, including devicetype facilities, to manage non-point source pollution caused by rain. Following the 8 개소 expansion of the Dangjin Steel Industrial Complex, we intend to prevent the contamination of the surrounding area by changing the drainage plan for the industrial complex and 8 SITES adding eight device-type facilities by 2020. In 2018, we remodeled such a facility at the port Added device-type non(No. 7 berth), convert to use it for in active carbon-filtering. This will prevent safety-related point pollution source accidents in an enclosed area and enable non-point pollution sources to be reduced reduction facilities to more efficiently. We are also working to address complaints by engaging in continuous prevent contamination in the surrounding sea area communication with local residents. * ‌Non-point pollution Source: sources of emissions from unspecified locations, such as cities, roads, farmland, mountain areas, construction sites, etc. 074 Recycling By-Products HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 BUSINESS CONTEXT Regulations have become more stringent under systems and laws such as the Framework Act on Resource Circulation. Accordingly, it is imperative to respond to government policies, review technologies to recycle by-products in the midand long-term periods and take more systemic and efficient measures. OUR APPROACH RISK RESPONSE STRATEGY •Government intends to establish •Review technologies to create stable Recycling a nationwide resource-circulating resources and form a committee to by-products society (enforcement of the Framework ensure efficient responses Act on Resource Circulation, amendment of the Wastes Control Act) FUTURE ACTION We operate a committee composed of staff members in charge of research and development strategy, planning, production, business support and procurement who work together strategically to identify major focal points in our current issues, short-term plans and long-term strategic areas. PERFORMANCE Total Inspection for By-Products and Use-Based Grouping We have conducted total inspection and analysis of all steelworks to maximize by-product recycling and improve high added-value. Based on the results, we created categories in terms of by-product value and move to use them for recycling and technology to improve value and create resources. Minimization of Final Disposal and Diversification of Demand We aim to minimize reclamation or incineration (final disposal) in accordance with the Framework Act on Resource Circulation. By converting existing incinerated waste oil into recycling, we have reduced incineration by more than 1,000 tons a year, thus lowering the cost by KRW 100 million and more. We also recycle slag as an aggregate for cement. This provides flexibility amid changing demand for aggregate, which hinges on the construction economy. We also find ways to use sludge by-product as a raw material for cement. Midand Long-Term Roadmap 2018 2019 2021 Development (Step 1) Leap (Step 2) Catch-up (Step 3) Integrated by-products Increase in by-products High value-added management system recycling rate technology (Total inspection, organization (Direct input, (Recovery of valuable resources, of consultative body) blending strategy) newly inserted raw materials) 075 Total training hours for employees Employees 424,469 11,552 HOURS PERSONS As of 2018 As the end of 2018 Soci al Employee voluntary work 80,374 HOURS 96.9% of general employees participated in voluntary work 076 New recruitment 688 PERSONS Increased by 67.8% compared to 2017 078 Human Resources Management 084 Occupational Health and Safety 088 Social Contribution Performance Century Safety Culture Center 53,000 PERSONS Social Contribution Participated in safety culture Employee experience education Participation Fund KRW 4.06 MILLION Employees using parental leave 46% of employees participated (2018) +55% 51 employees in 2018 compared to 33 employees in 2017 077 Human Resources Management FACT BOOK BUSINESS CONTEXT SOCIAL PERFORMANCE There is a growing social consensus about the need to improve the working environment, as well as the importance of professionalism. With working hours being reduced, a key factor in the success of a business is cultivating employees’ core capabilities and creating a working environment that they can commit. OUR APPROACH Hyundai Steel has a family-friendly culture that provides a range of benefits and responds to employee grievances to create a positive working environment. We also provide education programs tailored to individual capabilities to cultivate globally competitive and passionate human resources. Through these efforts, we commit ourselves to enhancing employee work satisfaction and thereby bring the company better results. Challenger Creator Specialist Collaborator Not complacent Responds to Strives for Builds about the changes with excellence, strong and Ideal employee present, but an enthusiastic using expertise collaborative looks for and creative and knowledge relationships challenges for mindset in his or her with the future sector co-workers To cultivate the best human resources HRD Mission with upright personalities and capabilities Establish learning Cultivate innovationCultivate the world's Direction of HR ecosystem to oriented leaders to highest level of job cultivation support self-help create new values professionals growth Hyundai Steel’s Human Rights Management Policy ❶ Respect human rights of employees and ensure their dignity as human beings. ❷ Promote an active prevention approach to prevent human right violations by stakeholders. ❸ Consider human rights factors in all business stages, including product development, production, sales and service provision. ❹ Identify the risk of human rights risks of all communities in which we operate and take the lead in realizing people’s rights and respecting their values. 078 HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 FUTURE ACTION To enhance employee satisfaction, Hyundai Steel will continue to improve the working environment and provide employees with benefits that are practical. We will also systematize our education and training systems and promote qualitative improvements in the training programs. This will help us respond proactively to changes in the management environment, and it will enhance our business performance. PERFORMANCE Workforce As of December 31, 2018, Hyundai Steel has a total of 11,552 employees with an average length of service of 11 years and 10 months. The company employs 272 people with disabilities and 346 Korean veterans, and it has 245 female employees, which account for 7.3% of the workers in the managing position. Category 2016 2017 2018 Total employees* No. of employees 11,221 11,186 11,552 By gender Male 10,934 10,873 11,187 Female 287 313 365 By group General 3,119 3,197 3,355 Technical 7,763 7,652 7,815 Others 339 337 382 By employment type Regular 11,045 10,997 11,274 Contract 176 189 278 Minority People with disabilities 304 283 272 Foreigner 4 8 6 Veteran 333 327 346 By age 30 or younger 2,185 1,986 2,176 31~40 4,334 4,478 4,613 41~50 2,655 2,700 2,728 51~54 951 926 937 Performance 55 or older 1,318 1,121 1,098 evaluation process No. of recruitments 283 410 688 Turnover rate 4.1 4.5 5.0 *Locally recruited employees excluded (913 in Asia, 214 in America, 220 in Europe) Target setting Talent Recruitment Believing that talented human resources are the main source of corporate competitiveness, we invest actively to recruit people with high potential. We hire through non-scheduled Performance recruitments of new/experienced employees, recruitment-linked internships and mid check overseas recruitments. Our recruitment process is fair. It includes document screening, aptitude and personality tests, interviews and a physical examination. We give priority, in accordance with the law, to socially disadvantaged people, including veterans. Determination of evaluation level Fair Evaluation and Compensation Hyundai Steel evaluates individual competence based on the needs of the company and also evaluates achievement based on goal management. Evaluations can lead to benefits Feedback such as promotion, training or new assignments based on individual results. In 2018, we conducted performance evaluations for all employees. 079 FACT BOOK Grievance procedures for Employee As we work to build a sound corporate culture, Hyundai Steel listens to the grievances SOCIAL PERFORMANCE of employees and handles them reasonably in accordance with individual human rights. Grievance handling includes the submission and processing of complaints, disciplinary actions and reassignment. Action is swift once a grievance is registered. We received four cases from two sites in 2016 and no cases in either 2017 or 2018. Reasonable and appropriate measures were taken for each case. Organizational System for Researchers R&D has become more important as risks intensify in terms of the business environment, technological change and competition in advanced products. Accordingly, Hyundai Steel has adopted and implemented an organizational system for researchers to improve the hierarchical culture and motivate research personnel. First, we reduced the levels of hierarchy to allow all researchers the flexibility to develop innovative ideas and create a framework for horizontal and creative organizational culture. We also motivate employees with fair and reasonable rewards based on individual performance evaluations and ultimately help them grow as capable R&D personnel. This helps secure the company’s competitiveness in R&D by presenting a clear vision for employees' career. Individual Development Plan (IDP) Hyundai Steel has initiated the individual development plan (IDP) as a way to support employees’ self-led learning and systematic development of their talents. The IDP is a training system in which employees set and carry out an education plan for themselves based on their individual job. They also lay out a growth plan to fulfill the desire to grow and learn. We have minimized the mandatory training courses of the past and connected the system to individual capabilities to enable everyone to take part in a regular education course from two to four times a year. The system is designed to help employees fulfill their IDPs by comparing their IDP goals to their results at the end of the year. Their progress factors into the team leader’s KPI of cultivating junior staff. Based on the IDP system, we will continue to develop and provide training support for individual growth. Such job-based learning and the development of individual career paths will strengthen our organizational business competitiveness and help prepare our employees for the future. Human Rights Education & Training for Prospective Retirees By providing human rights education to all employees, Hyundai Steel strives to create a healthy organizational culture that respects diversity and can work together. From top management to field employees, all executives and employees have completed courses on improving awareness of the disabled and preventing sexual harassment through various operation methods (e-learning, collective education, dissemination HUMAN education) for each business site. RIGHTS In addition, we support education about new life adaptation after retirement and designing EDUCATION a second life for those who are expected to retire. Education to prevent sexual n 2018, we provided education on the management of change in retirement age (emotional, harassment and improve relationship, finance) and career path design to 202 employees. awareness of people with disabilities Course completed by all employees 080 HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 Education for employees of Hyundai Steel Slovakia s.r.o Expatriate Cultivation System Hyundai Steel has provided an expatriate cultivation system for employees deployed to our 18 overseas subsidiaries and 6 branch offices. To help them adapt quickly to the local site and secure our competitiveness in the global market, we provide intensive language training, cross-cultural education, and spouse guidance programs to support family adaptation. We also provide on-the-job training for departments related to overseas subsidiaries to help employees cultivate a management mindset and improve their understanding of the company’s products. In addition, as an overseas expatriate, we conducted global communication training and leadership training to form a smooth partnership with local recruitment staff. We will continue to utilize the system to impart any knowledge or skills needed in roles overseas. Development and Utilization of Steeltube We have developed Steeltube video content for the capitalization of steel process and product technology, and the implementation of learning infrastructure for ideals. Steeltube that consists of 4 sections (basic steel knowledge, steel-making process, product manufacturing process and product usage) and 36 videos is a content that can learn basic knowledge of the steel industry systematically from the raw materials such as ironstone, coal, and additives to the organic flow between the production facilities and Steeltube each process produced by each product. Latest Learning Trend 'Micro Learning' has been applied to make it suitable for everyday learning and it is designed to allow employees to freely access and learn. 9,572 TIMES Accumulated viewing time of Steeltube 081 FACT BOOK Work Smart Campaign Hyundai Steel is carrying out a Work Smart campaign to build a smart and vibrant corporate SOCIAL PERFORMANCE culture and improve the company’s work processes and thus its competitiveness. We are promoting a culture of smart reporting and approval through the use of an e-approval system. We hope to create a lively and creative work environment through things like improving the way meetings are run and allowing freedom in work attire. We also have a campaign called “Change Up Together,” which presents concrete guidelines for changing the corporate culture and sharing the best practices of everyone’s jobs. Make Changes Together change up together Vision and core values Leadership and Work Smart communication • E-approval and HR system reporting smart together • Program • Efficient document smart individuals and organization organization growing together (Leadership, Cooperation) drafting Work Smart Campaign Pride, creativity/ Atmosphere, innovation welfare and work and life benefits balance Office environment, passion active amenities • On-time leaving the passionate active working • Improvements in office campaign. mind condition work attire, Flexible lunch hour Organizational Culture We want our employees to enjoy a better balance of work and after work life, which will help create a positive working environment. The company operates a number of familyfriendly programs, such as family charity groups, a children’s language camp and a vacation system for better work-life balance (Leader’s Insight, Refresh Vacation, etc.). We also diagnose issues with the organizational culture through surveys identifying risks, causes, and potential improvements. We ensure flexible vacation time, which FAMILY-FRIENDLY allows employees to recharge whenever they need to, and we actively support their selfCERTIFIED development, health, education and leisure activities to create an organizational culture in COMPANY which employees can grow together with the company. (Since 2014) Retirement Pension/Welfare and Benefit System Hyundai Steel has established a retirement pension system to ensure the stable payment of retirement benefits. The company’s retirement pension deposit is KRW 598.5 billion (as of the end of December 2018). Severance pay is given in accordance with the Defined Benefit (DB) retirement pension at the time of retirement. For the well-being of our employees, we also operate various welfare benefit programs such as funding to support the purchase a home at a low interest rate, discounts when purchasing a Hyundai/KIA vehicle and support for vacation condominiums/resorts and medical expenses. 082 HYUNDAI STEEL Human Rights and Support for Diversity Integrated Report 2019 Hyundai Steel prohibits any discrimination based on individual differences, including gender, race, religion, and country of origin in all areas including recruitment to performance evaluation. By implementing several human rights policies, we encourage employees to utilize their own skills and characteristics to concentrate on their work with passion. We also officially support the standards of international bodies and groups related to labor and human rights, including the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. From 2019, we have carried out overseas human rights evaluations to check whether the international regulations above are observed at all overseas subsidiaries. We have also set up processes to take corrective measures if something falls short of the standards. Labor Rights at Overseas Worksites Hyundai Steel’s overseas worksites hire a number of local employees of different nationalities. For this reason, we ensure that these worksites comply with the labor laws of each country. We prevent unfair labor practices that interfere with their jobs and work continuously to improve areas that are unsatisfactory. We also hold a monthly video conference for overseas worksites to identify major issues such as local labor risks, examine legal risks caused by changes in labor-related laws and take appropriate measures. In 2018, we supported the establishment of an overall HR system for a newly launched corporation in India, which stabilized the company’s business and enhanced the satisfaction of local employees. To prevent labor-management conflicts caused by misunderstandings of local culture and laws, we take steps such as educational training for overseas staff, meetings with employees, regular management presentations and a grievance handling system to ensure smooth communication with local workers. Labor-Management Communication Hyundai Steel has local recruiters of various nationalities from overseas. Accordingly, we strictly comply with the labor laws of each country, and we continuously check to ensure that unfair labor practices that violate employee rights do not occur, and are improving efforts to provide the optimal working environment. In addition, we monitor key issues such as local labor risks through monthly video conferencing for overseas business sites. We are also trying to identify and respond to legal risks due to changes in local labor laws. In 2018, we helped establish a personnel system for newly established corporations in India, thereby stabilizing corporate operations and improving the satisfaction of local employees. In order to prevent conflicts between labor and management that may arise due to local culture or incomprehension, we are conducting communication with local recruiters through training programs for employees, employee meetings, regular management briefings, and grievance handling systems. Labor-Management Councils At each worksite, we operate a Labor-Management Council consisting of an equal number from both sides who meet at least once every quarter to discuss issues such as employee grievances, benefits and work conditions. The Labor-Management Council discusses ways to improve productivity, distribute gains, enhance working environment and improve safety controls. We have also built a foundation for labor-management trust through consultation with the labor union and members of the company to discuss improving employee health, training, and volunteer activities, as well as supporting in-company club activities and fulfilling our obligations as a social enterprise. 083 Occupational Health and Safety FACT BOOK BUSINESS CONTEXT SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Industrial accidents are a potential factor that can have a severe impact on business. Intense media coverage of accidents has made society more concerned with industrial safety. Accordingly, the government has also strengthened regulations, including an amendment to the Occupational Safety and Health Act. OUR APPROACH Hyundai Steel has established and enacted a safety vision and safety management policies to improve safety and prevent accidents. Under the vision of “Realizing Steelworks for a Safe Century,” our target is “Zero Severe Accidents or Injuries.” The main areas in which these policies are applied are Infrastructure, Systems, Mind and Materials. Realizing Steelworks for a Safe Century Zero Severe Accidents and Injuries On-site practice 2019 Safety Open safety ensured 2018 Participation and Basic safety engagement Infra Verifying safety with 2017 Value creation on-site participation System Settlement of a preventive Identifying and safety system improving risk processes Mind Mutual consideration Spreading a practice-based for safety system Material Evaluation of Infra On-site autonomous safety material risks Safety with autonomy and responsibility System Behavior-based safety reinforcement Establishing a material safety system Mind Spreading awareness of safety in the community Health and Safety Policies ❶ Give top priority to health and safety in all business sectors and establish an effective health and safety management system. ❷ Set detailed targets for health and safety in connection with policies and lay out plans for their achievement. ❸ Reinforce the health and safety capabilities of employees by providing health and safety education and training. ❹ Comply with laws related to health and safety and requirements for the health and safety management system. ❺ Evaluate effectiveness with company-wide engagement and make continuous improvements. ❻ Comply with safety management obligations for all personnel in the workplace 084 HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 FUTURE ACTION To establish a mature safety culture, Hyundai Steel will set up various safety environmental policies and a robust safety management system. We will disseminate a culture of safety and also company-wide safety capabilities and prevent severe industrial accidents by various safety activities. PERFORMANCE Company-Wide Integrated Safety Management System Hyundai Steel supervises and manages the safety of all worksites, including overseas subsidiaries, with the Health and Safety Center as a control tower. We identify the entire company’s safety status, holding a safety management and communication meetings for all worksites, and give safety diagnoses and evaluations. We also establish companywide safety regulations and core safety rules, which results in a practical safety culture in compliance with regulations. Integrated Chemical Substance Management System Hyundai Steel maintains a hazardous substance map for the entire company to strengthen the safety management of chemical substances. We store and use chemical substances safely by verifying the level of risk, and we conduct reliability evaluations by utilizing safety Material Safety Data Sheet (MSDS). We display the MSDS for the chemical substances handled at each worksite to allow workers to find the information they need. In addition, we provide safety education on chemical substances and inspect facilities that store and use the chemical substances to prevent severe industrial accidents. Chemical Safety Management 085 FACT BOOK Safety Management in Confined Spaces Hyundai Steel conducts a confined-space management program to prevent suffocation SOCIAL PERFORMANCE and gas poisoning accidents in confined areas. We have assigned three hazard levels to each confined space and have established specific operating procedures for each level. For work performed in an enclosed space, we thoroughly check our compliance with safety regulations by measuring hazardous gas, ensuring exhaust ventilation, implementing the Isolation Locking System (ILS), controlling access to the area and checking whether proper personal protective equipment (PPE). Isolation Locking System (ILS) The ILS system has been implemented at all Hyundai Steel worksites to prevent accidents caused in the course of maintenance work by lack of space, suffocation and electric shock. The ILS refers to the system that blocks and isolates the energy sources that can injure on-site workers. At each worksite, we standardize the ILS and establish and operate the ILS MAP to inform workers of the locking position and related procedures. Concept of ILS Block energy sources & Control entry into dangerous areas & Prevent arbitrary manipulation of dangerous areas Procedure Equipment lock/Label posted Make an ILS plan Make a work plan (operation, maintenance, (Set a locking position) supervision) Unlock/Label removed Check the transfer of (operation, maintenance, workers after the work Work supervisor) is completed Safety Assessment of All Domestic and Overseas Worksites Hyundai Steel conduct safety assessment to spread the safety management system and safety culture to all worksites, including overseas subsidiaries. The safety assessment check for compliance with relevant legislation in terms of safety, health, firefighting and gas and share improvement measures for on-site risk factors. Since 2016, safety assessment have been carried out domestically at the Dangjin Integrated Steelworks, Incheon Works, Pohang Works, Suncheon Works, Ulsan Works and Suncheon Forging Works. Overseas they have been done at subsidiaries in China, Europe and India. Labor-Management Joint Safety Inspection Hyundai Steel conducts joint labor-management safety inspections by organizing monthly on-site inspection groups with a representative of the labor union to identify and improve potential risk factors. For any risk factors found in this process, we set out improvement measures based on on-site opinions. Improvements and their effectiveness are monitored jointly by the labor union and management. For high-risk tasks such as working at highheights or in confined space, we organize a regular group and conduct detailed inspections. 086 HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 Major repair progress and inspection Maintenance Inspection and Safety Management Evaluation Maintenance work requires the performance of high-risk tasks, which raises the likelihood of accidents. Accordingly, Hyundai Steel strives to improve the safety of maintenance workers by evaluating safety management. The evaluation checks the adequacy of safety measures taken for maintenance work through assessments of 20 items, including regulatory compliance, and delivers feedback to the department responsible. In particular, we strive to improve safety management for workers by giving them instructions and advice in the course of evaluations and by disseminating best practices. Raising Employee Safety Awareness Hyundai Steel operates several programs to improve safety awareness company-wide. 53,000 We share direct and indirect experiences related to accidents by holding company-wide PEOPLE safety events such as Safety UCC and Safety Green Bell. Our Safety Cultural Center has 11 Participated in an educational program at experience halls and 93 types of experience devices in it. We conduct education programs the Safety Cultural Center on safety theories and experiences and offer safety education to 53,000 persons a year. (2018) Safety Challenge! experience Safety Green education Bell Basic safety Safety UCC education Safety awareness education 087 Social Contribution FACT BOOK BUSINESS CONTEXT SOCIAL PERFORMANCE Corporate social responsibility is not merely the creation of economic benefit; it is the utilization of a company’s core capabilities to help solve social issues and proactively engage in the development of the local community. Companies contribute to society in a range of ways, which have the positive effect of enhancing their corporate image, securing talented human resources and increasing the satisfaction level of employees. Corporate social responsibility is as an opportunity to create a new organization through a combination of business and social values. OUR APPROACH Hyundai Steel carries out its vision through midand long-term strategies for social contribution by considering our business capabilities and the needs of society. Under the vision of Hyundai steel always with you, the company is continuously and sincerely performs social contribution activities based on three key core values: circulation, communication and change. Social contribution vision hyundai steel always with you Core value circulation stakeholder engagement social innovation values Contributing to the creation of business and Expanding stakeholder participation through Pursuing changes and basic problem resolution social value by utilizing the resources and internal and external communication for social issues capabilities of the overall value chain • ‌Contributing to resource circulation and • ‌Expanding stakeholder engagement • Contributing ‌ to the resolution of social issues reducing environmental impact • ‌Improving internal and external awareness • Building ‌ a self-supporting base • ‌Contributing to society through business • ‌House Repair Energy Efficiency Project • ‌Happy Yes University Student Volunteer Group • Happy ‌ Safe Village in India • H-Steel ‌ Atelier (Public Steel Art Project) • ‌Employees Volunteer Group • Self-Reliance ‌ Support Model in the Philippines • Project ‌ for recycling coffee grounds • ‌Pul-ppuli 1.0 • Sports ‌ CSR in China SDGs 088 HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 FUTURE ACTION Based on active communication with stakeholders, all of Hyundai Steel's social contribution projects will be carried out simultaneously through midand long-term social contribution strategies and three key values. By actively participating in the UN SDGs initiative, we also want to contribute to achieving the UN and the international community's goals for sustainable development. PERFORMANCE House Repair Energy Efficiency Project House Repair Energy Efficiency Project helps low-income households by improving energy efficiency in their homes to achieve three social objectives simultaneously: reducing energy costs, reducing CO 2 emissions and creating jobs in self-sufficient enterprises and social enterprises. The project aims to renovate a total of 1,000 homes from 2011 to 2020 with the construction of 847 energy-efficient houses and 6 welfare centers by 6.25 TONS 2018. All business expenses are driven by voluntary employee participation funds. In 2018, Annual CO2 reduction per welfare center (2018) 77 households in the area where the business site is located were constructed for energy efficiency Support for solar power facilities was provided to 4 welfare centers, which helped reduce energy costs and CO2 emissions. Table 1 As of 2018 Environment Welfare Employment Category CO2 reduction Energy cost reduction Job creation Housing 0.8tons per household KRW 112,000 per household 23 social enterprises and selfProject (77 households) on average ↓ on average ↓ supporting enterprises; 374 effects Welfare centers 6.25tons per center KRW 1.582 million per center contributors in total 1.58 (4 centers) on average ↓ on average ↓ KRW Business Value Social Value MILLION Strengthening loyalty to the company through matching Environment (CO2 reduction), Welfare (energy cost reduction), grants for employee participation Employment (creation of social jobs and employment) Annual average amount of energy costs reduced per •‌Social contribution employee participation fund: 4.06 billion welfare center (2018) won (46% participation) •‌Contribution to reduction of greenhouse gases See Table 1. •‌Improvement local community corporate image: 93% (benefit positive response rate) House Repair Energy Efficiency Project of energy efficiency project 089 FACT BOOK H-Steel Atelier (Public Steel Art Project) Hyundai Steel operates the H-Steel Atelier(Public Steel Art Project), through SOCIAL PERFORMANCE which we are leading the creation of a new cultural art space for local community. In 2018, we held a contest for steel-based public arts at the at the Samseonsan Arboretum in Dangjin under the theme “Design a Forest of Steel.” We installed and donated four of the selected works and one piece by the Hopeful Observatory created by children of Dangjin. With this, we have contributed to local culture and art and provided new artists an opportunity to create their own work. Business Value Social Value As of 2018 fostering new artists and giving them an opportunity to create Participation of local residents and employees and display their work, Creating a new cultural art space in Creation of a corporate image of contribution to the arts the local community • ‌Participation of local residents and employees in online • fostering ‌ new artists: Supported 4 artists and produce assessment: 2,059 people works of art • ‌Media released: 88 times • Number ‌ of visitors at the Samseonsan Arboretum in • ‌The number of views and sharing in social media: 5,527 times Dangjin: 124,972 people (as of 2018) Project for Recycling Coffee Grounds Hyundai Steel runs a project in which resources are made from coffee grounds. To address the social issue of 100,300 tons of coffee grounds discarded and not recycled every year, we formed partnerships with the Korea Green Foundation, the Korea Productivity Center and local cafes for three years from 2018 and engaged in activities such as collecting and transferring coffee grounds, developing recycling products and making resources from daily waste. In 2018, 60 cafes in Incheon participated in the project and carried out pilot operations for collecting and transferring coffee grounds. We also held an idea contest for developing recycling products and business models and received a total of 108 ideas. Five social enterprises and social ventures were selected and receive support. Business Value Social Value As of 2018 Finding ideas for social innovation, supporting the foster of Developed a model for collecting and making resources from social enterprises and social ventures coffee grounds; participation of local cafes • ‌Coffee grounds recycling idea contest: 108 ideas received • Participation ‌ by local cafes: 60 cafes in Incheon • ‌Support for fostering social enterprises and social ventures: • Developed ‌ a recycling business model from coffee grounds: 5 cases(2 businesses, 2 ideas, 1 for manufacturing a product) – Collection and transfer – Development of recycled products and creation of demand H-USR H-USR is a volunteer program jointly planned and implemented by Hyundai Steel’s labor union and management to fulfill the social responsibilities of the labor union and interact with local residents. H-USR is at the forefront with volunteer 203 PEOPLE Accumulated Participation programs such as Safety Santa, which installs fire-prevention devices for disadvantaged households and provides cultural activities for multicultural children. In 2018, 12 projects in H-USR of Labor Union Officials were carried out with the participation of 203 labor union executives. Business Value Social Value As of 2018 Labor union participates address local issues, enhancing our Installing household safety devices corporate image in terms of communication with labor for seniors living alone and preventing fires • Installing ‌ safety devices: 90 households • ‌H-USR activity: 12 times • Amount ‌ of fire damage prevented: KRW 7.546 million • ‌Attendance of labor union executives: 203 people ※Based on the number of fire cases per 10,000 people and • ‌Media released: 105 times average amount of fire damage 090 HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 H-USR Activity Happy Yes University Student Volunteer Group Hyundai Steel operates the Happy Yes University Student Volunteer Group to help university students care for their neighbors and share love and support. In 2018, 100 university students developed DIY yellow carts for elderly people who collect waste paper. They produced and delivered 70 of the carts, which are 30kg lighter than general carts and include safety devices. Business Value Social Value As of 2018 Cultivating future human resources, Developing and supplying safe and lightweight carts for Creating a corporate image to address social issues elderly people collecting waste paper • ‌Participation of university student volunteer group: 100 • Lightweight ‌ carts for collecting waste paper and improving university students safety: 30kg lighter than general carts, Installed safety • ‌Improving the brand image of the company for participants devices (brakes) • ‌Media released: 63 times • Donated ‌ 70 carts to elderly who collect waste paper Employee Volunteer Group 97% Participation of executives Hyundai Steel actively runs volunteer groups based in local communities, with and regular employees in voluntary work volunteer groups from each division performing volunteer activities. In 2018, 20 division volunteer groups carried out volunteer activities to utilize the skills, talents and energies of their division. In addition, 24 volunteer groups actively planned and ran volunteer programs based on the demand of community. Business Value Social Value As of 2018 Employees participate addressing local community issues Supporting disadvantaged people in the local community 20.4 HOURS Building a positive corporate image in the local community • ‌Total hours of employee voluntary work: 80,374 hours • ‌Participation of executives and general employees in • ‌Beneficiary households in the local community: 2,200 households Hours of voluntary work voluntary work: 97% • ‌Beneficiary welfare centers in the local community: 72 centers by each executive • ‌Media released: 547 times and regular employee 091 FACT BOOK Pul-ppuli 1.0 Hyundai Steel has launched a three-year social contribution project called “PulSOCIAL PERFORMANCE ppuli 1.0” to share with local communities in practical ways. Accordingly, a worksite-specific project is being carried out at four worksites for a three–year period from 2018. We hold a cultural sharing event with the participation of disadvantaged local residents in Dangjin. Lectures and cultural performances are given for local residents in Pohang and 2,450 Suncheon, and forests are created in Incheon to preserve the local environment. PEOPLE Business Value Social Value As of 2018 Local residents participating Developing a model for addressing local community issues in Pul-ppuli 1.0 Participation of local residents and meeting their needs Promoting a positive corporate image to the local community • ‌Identifying needs of local communities and conducting • Launch ‌ of new programs for local needs: 4 regions cooperative projects: Local government – Local NGOs/NPOs • Participation ‌ of local residents: 2,450 people – Local residents – Company suppliers ※ 250 in Incheon, 1,000 in Pohang, 200 in Suncheon, • ‌Media released: 40 times 1,000 in Dangjin Happy Safe Village Project in India Hyundai Steel carry out the 'Happy Safe Village Project' to create a safe local and school environment for two villages in Chennai, India. As a three-year project started in 2018, the first year we installed Solar Street Lights and CCTVs to ensure that children and women can walk independent safely at night. We also built toilets in the village and school. In addition, the Happy Move Global Youth Voluntary Group of Hyundai Motor Group dispatches 60 volunteers twice a year to support the project. Business Value Social Value As of 2018 Supporting the cultivation of future human resources and the Ensuring safety for women and children at night and development of appropriate technology, Enhancing our preventing crime in local communities corporate image by joining efforts to address local issues • ‌Participation in the volunteer work of university students • Installation ‌ of CCTV and development of appropriate technology : 20 CCTVs (regions vulnerable to major crimes) : 60 students, 9 products • Installation ‌ of solar street lights • ‌Increase employee and family satisfaction through the : 101 lights (distance of 12km) creation of a local safety environment • Number ‌ of beneficiaries: 10,050 people (2,517 households) • ‌Media released: 339 times Happy Safe Village Project in India 092 HYUNDAI STEEL Self-Reliance Support Model in the Philippines Integrated Report 2019 Hyundai Steel supported the construction of a job training center and built a self-reliance model for young people in the Northern Samar area of the Philippines from 2017 to 2020. By developing an education curriculum for job training, fostering educators and generating income, we contributed to the development of the local communities. In 2018, 30 volunteer employees were dispatched to improve village and school facilities. Business Value Social Value As of 2018 30 PEOPLE Dispatched employees global Building and repairing local vocational training centers / volunteer group in 2018 Enhancing satisfaction and loyalty to the company by Support for employment and entrepreneurship by providing participation of employees vocational training and education for youth • Participation ‌ of employee volunteer group: 30 people • Construction ‌ and repair of job training center: 2 centers • Contribution ‌ to the expansion of business network • ‌Number of beneficiaries: 1,132 people (young people aged 15-30) • Media ‌ released: 83 times Sports CSR in China Hyundai Steel conducted the first sports CSR project for women's soccer team training guidance utilizing the Red Angels Women's Soccer Team's capabilities. Since 2016, we have provided continuous support for training guidance, friendly matches and infrastructure improvement through a 3-year agreement with China's Jungkyung Daepyeong Middle School. In 2018, we invited a Chinese girls’ football club to Korea and gave them the opportunity to watch a women’s football match and arranged a match between Korea and China. This helped the Chinese girls’ football club make remarkable progress in their league, and two of their players were scouted by an Italian football team. Business Value Social Value As of 2018 Enhancing the effect of marketing and promotion for Red Training for girls’ football and fostering talented players Angels Football Club and Hyundai Motor Group • Participation of local students in education: 25% • Participation of Red Angels in volunteer work: 60 people ※ Participation of 270 out of 1,050 students in total (2018) • Media released: 79 times in Korea, 32 times in China • Scouted by Italian girls’ football club: 2 players Sports CSR project in China 093 Fi n an c ial Statement 094 Consolidated Statements 54th (As of December 31, 2018) HYUNDAI STEEL 53rd (As of December 31, 2017) of Financial Position 52nd (As of December 31, 2016) Integrated Report 2019 (Unit: KRW) 54th 53rd 52nd Assets Total current assets 8,769,002,687,562 7,863,495,599,728 6,794,973,724,870 Cash and cash equivalents 762,113,418,369 770,652,011,333 737,221,941,998 Short-term financial instruments 157,215,008,632 154,621,317,388 168,948,368,210 Trade and other receivables 2,672,237,219,109 2,713,559,966,704 2,371,015,053,950 Income tax refund receivables 5,045,761,600 3,515,223,434 5,375,277,677 Inventories 4,919,469,612,665 4,098,232,860,567 3,407,724,268,132 Current derivative financial assets 577,465,960 436,401,295 2,293,590,840 Other current financial assets 133,415,515,071 13,116,232,686 12,524,302,685 Other current assets 118,928,686,156 109,361,586,321 89,870,921,378 Total non-current assets 24,535,914,735,043 25,510,329,264,624 25,745,858,391,889 Non-current trade and other receivables 945,673,966 1,638,192,105 1,158,057,701 Available-for-sale financial assets 1,546,191,277,535 1,554,528,785,625 Other comprehensive income – Fair value financial asset 1,188,674,309,350 Net gains Fair value financial asset 824,937,458 Investment in associates 125,538,192,051 116,843,578,270 116,200,718,756 Investment property 409,561,133,314 382,054,303,270 377,616,895,363 Property, plant and equipment 20,784,606,078,643 21,339,292,880,563 21,645,220,541,999 Intangible assets 1,653,424,161,036 1,748,080,079,860 1,793,114,184,759 Non-current derivative financial assets 5,912,576,894 6,597,298,777 5,079,504,160 Other non-current financial assets 307,109,372,958 317,521,399,692 206,506,412,675 Deferred tax assets 28,633,258,316 20,012,942,030 15,416,055,041 Other non-current assets 30,685,041,057 32,097,312,522 31,017,235,810 Total assets 33,304,917,422,605 33,373,824,864,352 32,540,832,116,759 Liabilities Total current liabilities 6,702,510,183,900 6,707,217,618,490 6,813,114,744,937 Trade and other payables 3,345,900,688,590 3,268,524,695,163 2,853,552,359,281 Short-term borrowings 986,187,228,856 886,343,897,484 1,105,519,933,343 Current portion of bonds 1,129,823,635,762 989,720,094,957 1,229,574,853,669 Current portion of long-term borrowings 935,845,982,508 1,193,433,588,955 1,380,403,113,648 Income taxes payable 116,335,885,065 190,851,627,039 125,783,258,670 Current derivative financial liabilities 4,720,165,948 7,337,409,798 53,778,063 Other non-current financial liabilities 589,445,909 434,800,062 399,928,829 Other current liabilities 183,107,151,262 170,571,505,032 117,827,519,434 Total non-current liabilities 9,579,273,263,513 9,631,084,237,854 9,242,928,334,501 Bonds 4,153,838,123,349 4,030,008,091,735 4,070,640,241,437 Long-term borrowings 4,080,149,251,969 4,449,665,486,251 4,285,664,696,687 Non-current derivative financial liabilities 83,755,076,163 118,060,100,463 58,509,696,562 Other non-current financial liabilities 950,604,663 884,735,884 865,506,000 Defined benefit liabilities 142,291,287,870 99,848,090,455 43,646,291,389 Deferred tax liabilities 685,469,461,602 834,434,612,071 712,672,050,908 Other non-current liabilities 432,819,457,897 98,183,120,995 70,929,851,518 Total liabilities 16,281,783,447,413 16,338,301,856,344 16,056,043,079,438 Equity Equity attributable to owners of the parent company 16,696,013,584,818 16,715,540,550,277 16,176,243,481,194 Share capital 667,228,925,000 667,228,925,000 667,228,925,000 Share premium 3,914,481,193,065 3,914,481,193,065 3,914,352,871,253 Retained earnings 11,560,630,208,201 11,277,740,474,420 10,654,319,048,459 Accumulated Other comprehensive income 682,779,591,018 985,196,290,258 1,069,448,968,948 Treasury stock (129,106,332,466) (129,106,332,466) (129,106,332,466) Non-controlling interests 327,120,390,374 319,982,457,731 308,545,556,127 Total equity 17,023,133,975,192 17,035,523,008,008 16,484,789,037,321 Total liabilities and equity 33,304,917,422,605 33,373,824,864,352 32,540,832,116,759 095 Consolidated Statements 54th (January 1 – December 31, 2018) FINANCIAL STATEMENT 53rd (January 1 – December 31, 2017) of Comprehensive Income 52nd (January 1 – December 31, 2016) (Unit: KRW) 54th 53rd 52nd Sales 20,780,381,550,301 19,165,963,848,372 16,691,511,903,578 Cost of sales 18,708,282,382,698 16,733,488,117,481 14,230,770,140,074 Gross profit 2,072,099,167,603 2,432,475,730,891 2,460,741,763,504 Selling, general and administrative expenses 1,046,009,792,959 1,064,925,311,172 1,015,376,423,349 Operating income 1,026,089,374,644 1,367,550,419,719 1,445,365,340,155 Financial income and loss (301,719,261,970) (212,715,417,725) (296,660,642,264) Financial income 147,179,555,239 281,845,964,309 173,529,171,303 Financial expenses (448,898,817,209) (494,561,382,034) (470,189,813,567) Share of profit of associates (loss) 17,786,817,792 9,531,359,514 10,016,558,035 Other income and loss (172,346,629,881) (83,081,725,764) 15,241,242,076 Other income 192,576,369,021 191,263,541,039 229,426,923,130 Other expenses (364,922,998,902) (274,345,266,803) (214,185,681,054) Net profit before taxes (loss) 569,810,300,585 1,081,284,635,744 1,173,962,498,002 Income tax expense 161,850,865,383 353,744,492,691 (306,834,677,914) Profit for the year (loss) 407,959,435,202 727,540,143,053 867,127,820,088 Other comprehensive income (loss) (320,280,374,049) (78,855,460,166) 61,130,379,315 Items that are or may be reclassified to profit or loss Gain (loss) on valuation of (53,282,744,858) 78,112,403,529 available-for-sale financial assets. Share of associates' other changes to net assets (268,459,688) Gain (loss) on valuation of derivative instruments (6,544,247,225) 30,615,918,452 (42,343,702,850) Gain (loss) on overseas operation translation (12,413,000,754) (61,911,574,085) (7,250,314,867) Gain (loss) on overseas operation translation Re-measurement of net defined benefit liabilities (42,056,013,742) 5,722,940,325 32,880,453,191 Other comprehensive income (259,267,112,328) – Fair value financial asset gain (loss) Total comprehensive income (loss) for the year 87,679,061,153 648,684,682,887 928,258,199,403 Profit (loss) attributable to: Owners of the parent company 398,674,377,985 716,090,435,214 850,155,156,572 Non-controlling interests 9,285,057,217 11,449,707,839 16,972,663,516 Total comprehensive income (loss) attributable to: Owners of the parent company 79,637,025,060 637,621,731,021 911,254,646,571 Non-controlling interests 8,042,036,093 11,062,951,866 17,003,552,832 Earnings (losses) per share Basic earnings (losses) per share (unit: KRW) 3,037 5,455 6,492 096 Consolidated Statements 54th (January 1 – December 31, 2018) 53rd (January 1 – December 31, 2017) of Changes in Equity 52nd (January 1 – December 31, 2016) (Unit: KRW) Capital Accumulated other Capital Capital surplus Profit surplus comprehensive income Treasury stock Non-controlling interest Total capital January 1, 2016 (beginning capital) 667,228,925,000 3,921,954,413,634 9,869,353,504,923 1,040,931,727,413 (183,011,255,494) 291,542,003,295 15,607,999,318,771 Restated with the initial application of K-IFRS 1109 (after-tax) Restated with the initial application of K-IFRS 1115 (after-tax) Restated amount 667,228,925,000 3,921,954,413,634 9,869,353,504,923 1,040,931,727,413 (183,011,255,494) 291,542,003,295 15,607,999,318,771 Net profit 850,155,156,572 16,972,663,516 867,127,820,088 Gain (loss) on valuation of 77,778,119,910 334,283,619 78,112,403,529 available-for-sale financial assets. Other comprehensive income – Fair value financial asset gain (loss) Total comprehensive Share of associates' other changes in net assets (109,615,129) (158,844,559) (268,459,688) income Gain (loss) on valuation of derivative instruments (42,343,702,850) (42,343,702,850) Gain (loss) on overseas operation translation (6,807,560,396) (442,754,471) (7,250,314,867) Re-measurement of net defined benefit liabilities 32,582,248,464 298,204,727 32,880,453,191 Year end dividend (97,771,861,500) (97,771,861,500) Transaction with Sale of treasury stock (7,601,542,381) 53,904,923,028 46,303,380,647 shareholders Additional acquisition of investment stocks in subsidiaries December 31, 2016 (capital at the end of the year) 667,228,925,000 3,914,352,871,253 10,654,319,048,459 1,069,448,968,948 (129,106,332,466) 308,545,556,127 16,484,789,037,321 January 1, 2017 (capital at the beginning of the year) 667,228,925,000 3,914,352,871,253 10,654,319,048,459 1,069,448,968,948 (129,106,332,466) 308,545,556,127 16,484,789,037,321 Restated with the initial application of K-IFRS 1109 (after-tax) Restated with the initial application of K-IFRS 1115 (after-tax) Restated amount 667,228,925,000 3,914,352,871,253 10,654,319,048,459 1,069,448,968,948 (129,106,332,466) 308,545,556,127 16,484,789,037,321 Net profit 716,090,435,214 11,449,707,839 727,540,143,053 Gain (loss) on valuation of (53,289,840,904) 7,096,046 (53,282,744,858) available-for-sale financial assets. Other comprehensive income – Fair value financial asset gain (loss) Total comprehensive Share of associates' other changes in net assets income Gain (loss) on valuation of derivative instruments 30,615,918,452 30,615,918,452 Gain (loss) on overseas operation translation (61,578,756,238) (332,817,847) (61,911,574,085) Re-measurement of net defined benefit liabilities 5,783,974,497 (61,034,172) 5,722,940,325 Year end dividend (98,452,983,750) (904,103,450) (99,357,087,200) Transaction with Sale of treasury stock shareholders Additional acquisition of 128,321,812 1,278,053,188 1,406,375,000 investment stocks in subsidiaries December 31, 2017 (capital at the end of the year) 667,228,925,000 3,914,481,193,065 11,277,740,474,420 985,196,290,258 (129,106,332,466) 319,982,457,731 17,035,523,008,008 January 1, 2018 (capital at the beginning of the year) 667,228,925,000 3,914,481,193,065 11,277,740,474,420 985,196,290,258 (129,106,332,466) 319,982,457,731 17,035,523,008,008 Restated with the initial application of K-IFRS 1109 (after-tax) 24,452,300,056 (24,452,300,056) Restated with the initial application of K-IFRS 1115 (after-tax) (711,006,769) (711,006,769) Restated amount 667,228,925,000 3,914,481,193,065 11,301,481,767,707 960,743,990,202 (129,106,332,466) 319,982,457,731 17,034,812,001,239 Net profit 398,674,377,985 9,285,057,217 407,959,435,202 Gain (loss) on valuation of available-for-sale financial assets. Other comprehensive income – Fair value financial asset gain (loss) (258,985,779,028) (281,333,300) (259,267,112,328) Total comprehensive Share of associates' other changes in net assets income Gain (loss) on valuation of derivative instruments (6,544,247,225) (6,544,247,225) Gain (loss) on overseas operation translation (12,434,372,931) 21,372,177 (12,413,000,754) Re-measurement of net defined benefit liabilities (41,072,953,741) (983,060,001) (42,056,013,742) Year end dividend (98,452,983,750) (904,103,450) (99,357,087,200) Transaction with Sale of treasury stock shareholders Additional acquisition of investment stocks in subsidiaries December 31, 2018 (capital at the end of the year) 667,228,925,000 3,914,481,193,065 11,560,630,208,201 682,779,591,018 (129,106,332,466) 327,120,390,374 17,023,133,975,192 097 Consolidated Statements of 54th (January 1 – December 31, 2018) FINANCIAL STATEMENT 53rd (January 1 – December 31, 2017) Cash Flows 52nd (January 1 – December 31, 2016) (Unit: KRW) 54th 53rd 52nd Cash flows from operating activities 1,575,279,409,992 1,719,768,998,738 2,916,568,140,314 Cash generated from operations 2,132,052,392,981 2,240,696,693,160 3,455,050,670,695 Profit for the year 407,959,435,202 727,540,143,053 867,127,820,088 Addition of expenses and others not involving cash outflows 2,702,785,770,461 2,526,424,041,935 2,232,727,682,034 Deduction of income and others not involving cash inflows (161,298,483,755) (236,222,925,506) (135,072,610,077) Changes in assets and liabilities (817,394,328,927) (777,044,566,322) 490,267,778,650 Decrease (increase) in trade and other receivables 22,817,471,295 (405,402,113,652) (143,569,698,871) Decrease (increase) in inventories (831,548,174,936) (771,670,906,268) (118,752,421,368) Decrease (increase) in other current financial assets 4,708,648,371 17,107,878,273 (577,636,722) Decrease (increase) in other current assets (4,523,823,798) (22,746,969,428) (1,524,190,234) Decrease (increase) in other non-current financial assets (131,036,299,106) (124,924,124,267) (46,549,896,040) Decrease (increase) in other non-current assets 713,966,343 (2,548,967,607) (5,998,050,846) Decrease (increase) in trade and other payables 197,983,169,889 470,441,527,048 921,594,549,825 Decrease (increase) in other current liabilities (3,678,960,714) 53,832,249,927 (11,391,021,220) Decrease (increase) in other non-current financial liabilities 100,000,000 (86,000,000) (64,457,151) Decrease (increase) in other non-current liabilities 31,386,894,635 26,146,630,531 4,875,815,718 Increase and decrease in derivative financial assets and liabilities (1,854,502,418) 6,362,376,921 (898,982,989) Payment of severance benefits (81,119,370,063) (63,768,175,954) (55,958,978,952) Decrease (increase) in planned assets (21,300,720,084) 40,204,130,153 (50,917,252,500) Transference between affiliates (amount of transfer) (42,628,341) 7,898,001 Interest received 30,148,877,601 9,344,090,605 10,139,878,858 Dividends received 36,233,807,850 36,579,493,050 36,582,291,300 Interest paid (344,393,904,904) (337,863,716,302) (360,803,247,369) Income taxes paid (278,761,763,536) (228,987,561,775) (224,401,453,170) Cash flows from investing activities (1,164,791,709,774) (1,234,242,659,493) (1,975,836,583,133) Cash inflows from investing activities 563,265,325,388 560,707,123,038 714,510,389,415 Decrease in short-term financial instruments 513,671,857,664 539,278,388,569 689,199,360,578 Decrease in long-term financial instruments 2,000,000 1,000,000 Disposal of available-for-sale financial assets 5,449,049,054 1,291,396,334 Disposal amortized cost financial assets 3,723,247,641 Disposal of investment stocks in subsidiaries 120,944,457 Disposal of investment stocks associates 206,250,000 Disposal of property, plant and equipment 9,189,990,440 299,950,000 Disposal of tangible assets 44,277,884,502 6,059,877,540 18,837,721,267 Disposal of intangible assets 1,156,750,000 728,817,435 4,554,766,779 Received government subsidies 433,585,581 Cash outflows from investing activities (1,728,057,035,162) (1,794,949,782,531) (2,690,346,972,548) Increase in short-term financial instruments (519,974,561,653) (525,625,913,582) (668,511,108,338) Acquisition of available-for-sale financial assets (899,634,663) (895,365,000) Acquisition of amortized cost financial assets (3,820,180,000) Acquisition of investment stocks associates (297,000,000) Acquisition of other comprehensive income – fair value financial assets (319,972,137) Acquisition of tangible assets (1,197,973,221,886) (1,201,063,205,485) (1,975,678,163,197) Acquisition of intangible assets (5,150,783,326) (62,361,028,801) (44,965,336,013) Increase in other non-current financial assets (818,316,160) (5,000,000,000) Cash flows from financing activities (418,531,652,707) (450,344,393,987) (1,016,927,996,226) Cash inflows from financial activities 19,729,191,465,433 18,129,968,244,546 10,252,742,860,965 Proceeds from short-term borrowings 17,219,810,186,514 15,447,963,124,884 7,779,049,609,999 Proceeds from bonds 1,205,665,080,000 1,035,736,960,000 916,263,130,000 Proceeds from long-term borrowings 1,303,716,198,919 1,646,268,159,662 1,557,430,120,966 Cash outflows from financial activities (20,147,723,118,140) (18,580,312,638,533) (11,269,670,857,191) Repayment of short-term borrowings (17,102,722,182,424) (15,668,727,247,657) (8,474,167,472,579) Repayment of the current portion of debentures (960,244,660,000) (1,230,000,000,000) (1,401,160,000,000) Repayment of the current portion of long-term borrowings (1,220,878,924,840) (1,375,062,239,286) (939,109,903,274) Redemption of debentures (200,000,000,000) Repayment of long-term borrowings (764,520,263,676) (207,166,064,390) (157,461,619,838) Payment of dividends (99,357,087,200) (99,357,087,200) (97,771,861,500) Effect of exchange rate changes on cash and cash equivalents (1,232,102,398) (1,751,875,923) (6,874,996,637) Change in the consolidated scope 737,461,923 Increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (8,538,592,964) 33,430,069,335 (83,071,435,682) Cash and cash equivalents at the beginning of the year 770,652,011,333 737,221,941,998 820,293,377,680 Cash and cash equivalents at the end of the year 762,113,418,369 770,652,011,333 737,221,941,998 098 Independent Audit Report HYUNDAI STEEL Opinion March 14, 2019 Integrated Report 2019 We have audited the accompanying consolidated financial statements of KB Financial Group Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as the Group ), which comprise the consolidated statements of financial position as at December 31, 2018 and 2017, and the consolidated statements of comprehensive income, consolidated statements of changes in equity and consolidated statements of cash flows for the years then ended, and notes to the consolidated financial statements, including a summary of significant accounting policies. In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of the Group as at December 31, 2018 and 2017, and its consolidated financial performance and its consolidated cash flows for the years then ended in accordance with International Financial Reporting Standards as adopted by the Republic of Korea (Korean IFRS). Responsibilities of Management and Those Charged with Governance for the Consolidated Financial Statements Management is responsible for the preparation and fair presentation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with Korean IFRS, and for such internal control as management determines is necessary to enable the preparation of consolidated financial statements that are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error. In preparing the consolidated financial statements, management is responsible for assessing the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern, disclosing, as applicable, matters related to going concern and using the going concern basis of accounting unless management either intends to liquidate the Group or to cease operations. Those charged with governance are responsible for overseeing the Group’s financial reporting process. Auditor’s Responsibilities for the Audit of the Consolidated Financial Statements Our objectives are to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements as a whole are free from material misstatement, whether due to fraud or error, and to issue an auditor’s report that includes our opinion. Reasonable assurance is a high level of assurance, but is not a guarantee that an audit conducted in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing will always detect a material misstatement when it exists. Misstatements can arise from fraud or error and are considered material if, individually or in the aggregate, they could reasonably be expected to influence the economic decisions of users taken on the basis of these consolidated financial statements. As part of an audit in accordance with Korean Standards on Auditing, we exercise professional judgment and maintain professional skepticism throughout the audit. We also: • Identify and assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to fraud or error, design and perform audit procedures responsive to those risks, and obtain audit evidence that is sufficient and appropriate to provide a basis for our opinion. The risk of not detecting a material misstatement resulting from fraud is higher than for one resulting from error, as fraud may involve collusion, forgery, intentional omissions, misrepresentations, or the override of internal control. • Obtain an understanding of internal control relevant to the audit in order to design audit procedures that are appropriate in the circumstances, but not for the purpose of expressing an opinion on the effectiveness of the entity's internal control. • Evaluate the appropriateness of accounting policies used and the reasonableness of accounting estimates and related disclosures made by management. • Conclude on the appropriateness of management’s use of the going concern basis of accounting and, based on the audit evidence obtained, whether a material uncertainty exists related to events or conditions that may cast significant doubt on the Group’s ability to continue as a going concern. If we conclude that a material uncertainty exists, we are required to draw attention in our auditor’s report to the related disclosures in the consolidated financial statements or, if such disclosures are inadequate, to modify our opinion. Our conclusions are based on the audit evidence obtained up to the date of our auditor’s report. However, future events or conditions may cause the Group to cease to continue as a going concern. • Evaluate the overall presentation, structure and content of the consolidated financial statements, including the disclosures, and whether the consolidated financial statements represent the underlying transactions and events in a manner that achieves fair presentation. We communicate with those charged with governance regarding, among other matters, the planned scope and timing of the audit and significant audit findings, including any significant deficiencies in internal control that we identify during our audit. We also provide those charged with governance with a statement that we have complied with relevant ethical requirements regarding independence, and to communicate with them all relationships and other matters that may reasonably be thought to bear on our independence, and where applicable, related safeguards. From the matters communicated with those charged with governance, we determine those matters that were of most significance in the audit of the consolidated financial statements of the current period and are therefore the key audit matters. We describe these matters in our auditor’s report unless law or regulation precludes public disclosure about the matter or when, in extremely rare circumstances, we determine that a matter should not be communicated in our report because the adverse consequences of doing so would reasonably be expected to outweigh the public interest benefits of such communication. 27th Floor, Gangnam Finance Center, 152, Samjong KPMG CEO Teheran-ro, Gangnam-gu, Seoul, Korea Kim, Kyo Tae This report is effective as of the auditors’ report date (March 14, 2019). Certain subsequent events or circumstances that could significantly affect the accompanying financial statements may have occurred between the auditors’ report date and the time the auditors’ report is read. This may result in modifications to the auditors’ report. 099 No n -Financi al State ment 100 Independent Assurance Statement HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 Introduction HYUNDAI STEEL COMPANY (“HYUNDAI STEEL”) commissioned DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. (“DNV GL”), part of DNV GL Group, to undertake independent assurance of HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 (the “Report”). The directors of HYUNDAI STEEL have sole responsibility for the preparation of the Report. The responsibility of DNV GL in performing the assurance work is to the management of HYUNDAI STEEL in accordance with the terms of reference. DNV GL’s assurance engagements are based on the assumption that the data and information provided by the client to us as part of our review have been provided in good faith. Scope and Basis of assurance Based on non-financial data and sustainability performance data in 2018 generated from HYUNDAI STEEL’s Headquarters and domestic facilities, we have assessed the adherence to ‘Reporting Principles for defining report content’ and ‘Reporting Principles for defining report quality’ set forth in GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards 2016. As for the sustainability performance of overseas business sites, the information with regards to GHG emissions, employee status, sales values by region from the overseas business sites is included in the scope of assurance. We have reviewed that the Topic-specific disclosures of GRI Standards which are identified in the materiality determination process; No. Material Topic GRI No. Material Topic GRI 1 Achievement of Stable management Performance 201-1 6 R&D and Expansion of Infrastructure 203-1 2 Enhancement of Health and Safety in Worksites 403-1, 403-3 7 Response to Climate Change and Air Pollution Management 302-1, 305-1 3 Governance Soundness Non-GRI 8 Customer Relationship Management 417-2 4 Employee Capacity Development 404-1 9 Strengthen Service Accountability 416-2, 418-1 5 Strengthen Ethical Management and Anti-corruption Activities 205-3 DNV GL’s assurance methodology, VeriSustainTM2 which is based on our professional experience, international assurance best practice including International Standard on Assurance Engagements 3000 (ISAE 3000) is applied for the assurance engagement with the limited level of assurance. The assurance was carried out from May and till June 2019. The site visit was made to HYUNDAI STEEL’s Headquarters in Seoul, Korea. We undertook the following activities as part of the assurance process: • c hallenged the sustainability-related statements and claims made in the Report and assessed the robustness of the underlying data management system, information flow and controls; • interviewed representatives from the various departments; • c onducted document reviews, data sampling and interrogation of supporting databases and associated reporting system as they relate to selected content and performance data; • reviewed the materiality assessment report. Limitation The engagement excludes the sustainability management, performance and reporting practices of HYUNDAI STEEL’s subsidiaries, associated companies, suppliers, contractors and any third-parties mentioned in the Report. DNV GL did not interview external stakeholders as part of this Assurance Engagement. Economic performance based on the financial data is cross-checked with internal documents, the audited consolidated financial statements and the announcement disclosed at the website of Korea Financial Supervisory Service (http://dart.fss.or.kr) as well as HYUNDAI STEEL’s website (www.hyundai-steel.comhttp://www.mobis.co.kr)/). These documents, financial statements and the announcements are not included in this Assurance Engagement. Limited depth of evidence gathering including inquiry and analytical procedures and limited sampling at lower levels in the organization were applied. The baseline data for Environmental and Social performance are not verified, while the aggregated data at the corporate level are used for the verification. DNV GL expressly disclaims any liability or co-responsibility for any decision a person or an entity may make based on this Assurance Statement. Conclusion On the basis of the work undertaken, nothing comes to our attention to suggest that the Report does not properly address the adherence to the Principles for defining report content in GRI Standards. Further opinions with regards to the adherence to the Principles are made below; 101 Independent Assurance Statement NON-FINANCIALSTATEMENT Stakeholder Inclusiveness HYUNDAI STEEL has identified internal and external stakeholder groups such as Customer Companies, Employees, Suppliers, Shareholders / Investors, Local Community and NGOs / Government / Media. In addition, HYUNDAI STEEL conducts stakeholder engagement activities through various stakeholder communication channels and strives to reflect the results in its management activities. Each stakeholder department, channel of communication and major issues is described in the Report. In particular, HYUNDAI STEEL develops community participation frameworks and operates community participation promotion procedures. Through these activities, HYUNDAI STEEL is making efforts to increase the transparency of information disclosure and the opportunity to participate in the community. Sustainability Context HYUNDAI STEEL is fulfilling its social responsibilities as a global steel company and is carrying out various global social contribution projects in order to promote the sustainable development of the local community. The Report addresses the major social contribution achievements of HYUNDAI STEEL in 2018 and reports on its major achievements in connection with United Nations' Sustainable Development Goals (UN SDGs). Materiality HYUNDAI STEEL conducted the materiality assessment to prepare the Report. 44 various issues are derived by analyzing the topics covered in various global initiatives and standards, benchmarking in the same industry, media research, and internal and externa data review. The issue pools are evaluated by the internal and external stakeholders' interest, expert evaluation, and internal review. Finally, 9 material topics were prioritized and HYUNDAI STEEL has mapped the material topics out with the disclosures as defined in GRI Standards. The assurance team has reviewed the materiality assessment process and confirmed relevant material topics prioritized from the process are addressed in the Report. In addition, the Report helps readers understand HYUNDAI STEEL's sustainability management by reporting key stakeholder impacts and impact characteristics (costs, revenues, and risks) that are linked to material topics. Completeness HYUNDAI STEEL provides stakeholders with a background on material topics in sustainability management, information on HYUNDAI STEEL's approach strategy, future plans and achievements in 2018 during the reporting period. The reporting boundary is set to include sustainability activities and achievement from all business sites in Korea such as Headquarters and factories over which HYUNDAI STEEL has business control. The assurance team confirmed that the material topics selected through the materiality assessment are not missed in terms of the special and temporal reporting boundaries. Balance, Comparability, Accuracy, Timeliness, Clarity and Reliability The assurance team has sampled data and tested accuracy and reliability. The assurance team interviewed the data owners and reviewed the data gathering process with the supporting documents and records. The depth of data verification is limited to the aggregated data level. Based on the test, the intentional error or misstatement is not noted from the data and information disclosed in the Report. Data owners were able to demonstrate the origin and interpretation of the data in a reliable manner. The data was identifiable and traceable. In addition, the Report provides the last three years performance on material topics, which helps stakeholders understand the changes over years in organizational performance. HYUNDAI STEEL issues the Report yearly to provides stakeholders with material sustainability information timely. Competence and Independence DNV GL applies its own management standards and compliance policies for quality control, in accordance with ISO/ IEC 17021:2011 Conformity Assessment Requirements for bodies providing audit and certification of management systems, and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control, including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory requirements. We have complied with the DNV GL Code of Conduct2 during the assurance engagement and maintain independence where required by relevant ethical requirements. This engagement work was carried out by an independent team of sustainability assurance professionals. DNV GL was not involved in the preparation of statements or data included in the Report except for this Assurance Statement. DNV GL maintains complete impartiality toward stakeholders interviewed during the assurance process. DNV GL have no other contract with HYUNDAI STEEL and did not provide any services to HYUNDAI STEEL in 2019 that could compromise the independence or impartiality of our work. June 2019 Country Representative Jang Sup Lee Seoul, Korea DNV GL Business Assurance Korea, Ltd. 102 GHG Assurance Statement HYUNDAI STEEL This Assurance Statement has been prepared for Hyundai Steel Company. Integrated Report 2019 Terms of Engagement Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. (LRQA) was commissioned by Hyundai Steel Company. to provide independent assurance on its Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Inventory Report for the calendar year 2018(the report) against GHG Target Management Scheme for quantification and reporting of GHG emissions in Korea using Specification with guidance for verification of greenhouse gas assertions. The report relates to direct GHG emissions and energy indirect GHG emissions. Management Responsibility LRQA’s responsibility is only to Hyundai Steel Company. LRQA disclaims any liability or responsibility to others as explained in the end footnote. The management of Hyundai Steel Company. is responsible for preparing the report and for maintaining effective internal controls over all the data and information within the report. Ultimately, the report has been approved by, and remains the responsibility of Hyundai Steel Company. LRQA’s Approach LRQA’s assurance engagement has been carried out in accordance with our verification procedure using GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea: Specification with guidance for verification of greenhouse gas assertions to reasonable level of assurance. The following tasks were undertaken as part of the evidence gathering process for this assurance engagement: •Visiting sites and auditing management system to control the data and records regarding GHG emissions and energy uses •Interviewing the relevant employees responsible for managing and maintaining data and associated records •Reviewing the historical data and information back to source for the calendar year 218. Level of Assurance & Materiality The opinion expressed in this Assurance Statement has been formed on the basis of a reasonable level of assurance, and at the materiality of the professional judgement of the verifier and at the materiality level of 2%. LRQA’s Opinion Based on LRQA’s approach, we believe that the report is prepared in accordance with GHG Target Management Scheme for quantification and reporting of GHG emissions in Korea and the GHG emissions data in the Table 1 is materially correct. Dated: 27 March 2019 SANG-KEUN YOO On behalf of Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Ltd. 17th Floor, Singsong Building, 67 Yeouinaru-ro, Yeongdeungpo-gu, Seoul, 07327, Korea LRQA Reference: SEO 6046432 103 GHG Assurance Statement NON-FINANCIALSTATEMENT Table1. GHG emissions reported in the Report [Unit: 100 million KRW, %] Scope(as defined within GHG Target Management Scheme in Korea) 2018 Direct GHG Emission 16,704,217 Energy Indirect GHG Emissions 5,810,077 Total GHG Emissions 22,514,294 ※ Data is presented in tonnes of CO2 equivalent. Lloyd's Register Group Limited, its affiliates and subsidiaries, including Lloyd’s Register Quality Assurance Limited (LRQA), and their respective officers, employees or agents are, individually and collectively, referred to in this clause as 'Lloyd's Register'. Lloyd's Register assumes no responsibility and shall not be liable to any person for any loss, damage or expense caused by reliance on the information or advice in this document or howsoever provided, unless that person has signed a contract with the relevant Lloyd's Register entity for the provision of this information or advice and in that case any responsibility or liability is exclusively on the terms and conditions set out in that contract. The Korean version of this Assurance Statement is the only valid version. Lloyd’s Register Group Limited assumes no responsibility for versions translated into other languages. This Assurance Statement is only valid when published with the report to which it refers. It may only be reproduced in its entirety. Copyright © Lloyd's Register Quality Assurance Limited, 2019. A member of the Lloyd’s Register Group. 104 Sustainable Management Policy HYUNDAI STEEL Human Rights Report Integrated Report 2019 As a sustainable company that will grow for over 100 years, Hyundai Steel is striving to realize the value of respect for human rights throughout its management activities in order to realize social responsibility and to communicate and grow with its various stakeholders. Hyundai Steel complies with standards and regulations of international organizations related to labor and human rights such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (Ruggie Framework) and the International Labour Organization Convention. In addition, we ensure that all stakeholders in Hyundai Steel comply with the above mentioned international human rights and labor regulations. Hyundai Steel supports the UN Global Compact and has established its organization, operational structure, monitoring, measures, and internal and external reporting processes in accordance with the Ten Principles and Good Business: Implementing the UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. To this end, we have established the following human rights management policies and operational guidelines. We will become a global corporate citizen based on communication and trust with stakeholders through continuous implementation efforts. Hyundai Steel’s human rights management policy ❶ Respect human rights of employees and ensure their dignity as human beings. ❷ Promote an active prevention approach to prevent human rights violations by stakeholders. ❸ Consider human rights factors in all business stages, such as product development, production, sales and service provision. ❹ Identify the human rights risks of all communities in which we operate businesses, and take the lead in realizing human rights respect values. Operating instruction Try to avoid mentally or physically inhumane treatment to realize human Comply with local regulations on working hours including regular, Humane Compliance with dignity and values. In cases of inhumane treatment, take strict measures overtime and holiday work. Continuously monitor amendments to laws treatment working hours according to the relevant regulations. and regulations to prevent any violations. Promote sound organizational development through smooth and continuous Respect the free will of workers to work. Prevent all forms of forced labor Guarantee of Elimination of communication between labor and management. Ensure freedom of due to abuse, intimidation, detention, trafficking, and slavery. Comply with freedom of Forced Labor association in accordance with local labor relations laws and prevent any the Labor Standards Act in relation to labor contracts. association unfair treatment based on trade union membership and activities. Respect the diversity of all employees, and prevent any kinds of discrimination Protect the personal information of stakeholders including customers in Prohibition and unreasonable treatment in the personnel process such as employment, Privacy accordance with local laws and regulations. Do not use personal information of employee wages or promotion, due to nationality, race, age, gender identity, educational Protection without the consent of the parties, or use it for purposes other than those discrimination background, disability, religion, political orientation and social status. disclosed when it was given. Comply with regulations on child labor, provide appropriate procedures Participation Identify potential impacts on communities near worksites, listen to Elimination and support for child workers in accordance with laws and regulations, and in community community feedback to prevent problems and strive for continuous of Child Labor continuously check compliance with laws and regulations. activities communication. Management Process of Human Rights Risks Declaration of human Identification of Human rights policy and Identification of human Rights Improvement establishment and rights risks and issues of Periodic monitoring and establishment of implementation of human employees and suppliers improvement activities rights management Update of Human Rights Protection Policy We conduct human rights assessments every year for our worksites and suppliers to prevent human rights risks as defined in the Hyundai Steel’s human rights management policy and operating instruction. We conduct surveys containing human rights items for worksites to evaluate whether they comply with the human rights management policy and operating instruction. Suppliers implement CSR self-assessment including human rights. And they conduct on-site inspections for their worksites where any major risk is identified. When risks related to human rights are identified, we identify and resolve the related issues to protect human rights throughout our business. * Latest update: 2019. 1 105 NON-FINANCIALSTATEMENT Results of Human Rights Evaluation for Overseas Offices Process of Human Rights Evaluation Design evaluation indicators Conduct human Identify the current Complete a Results Analysis and (evaluate the current status rights evaluations for external status checklist Supplementary Action of human rights) overseas offices Identify the current Development Design a survey Self-evaluation and diagnosis Establishing improvement external status new evaluation indicators •Establish a plan to survey for human rights plans and reporting •Analyze industrial •Design indicator-specific •Make a survey based on •Establish a diagnosis plan the results of actions by sites megatrends score system evaluation indicators •Conduct diagnosis •Analyze global CSR initiatives (score portion and •Complete a checklist for each •Analyze results and visit a •Examine changes in laws and percentage) worksite pilot site regulations Comprehensive Results of Human Rights Evaluation Based on our internal and external environmental analysis and human rights related global initiative analysis, we designed the Hyundai Steel Human Rights Assessment Index and evaluated human rights risks at our overseas sites through self-evaluation with checklists. As a result of the evaluation of 16 overseas business sites, we figured out some improvements of three corporations such as management of local human rights issues, stakeholder definition and communication. We will monitor the improvement activities based on the received improvement plans from corporations. Human rights average score *Average score calculated on a scale of 100 points per detail Improvement Issues of by detailed sector* **Overall average score of 16 sites: 96.48 Human-rights risk. * 3 sites 97.3 99.6 100.0 100.0 96.7 99.0 93.9 95.3 100 69.8 • Protecting property rights and intellectual property rights of local residents • Humanitarian treatment of workers • P rotection for pregnant women and the disabled 0 • H uman rights issues management for Employment Child Humanitarian Ensuring Freedom of Protecting Forced Privacy Stakeholder foreign workers and partner companies discrimination labor treatment industrial association human rights of labor engagement safety local residents • Regional human rights issue management Biodiversity Hyundai Steel considers protecting biodiversity to ensure sustainable development and recognizes its impact on the environment and biodiversity. We make efforts to understand the need for biodiversity protection in our decision-making and to take all necessary steps to minimize our operational impacts on the environment. To this end, Hyundai Steel will: ① Prevent, minimize and mitigate risk of biodiversity across our business and check, evaluate and monitor status and value of biodiversity before a new project begins. ② Comply with regional, local and national legal requirements.in its worksites where land management and biodiversity protection and a relevant international agreement (World Heritage areas, IUCN Category I-IV protected areas) are applied. ③ Designate protection areas for endangered animal, plant habitats and ecosystem, and support regional, national and global conservation initiatives. Strive to provide information and awareness to its employees and other stakeholders in order to raise their knowledge and understanding of biodiversity conservation issues. ④ Endeavor to achieve NNL (No Net Loss) of biodiversity during all work and in important habitats. * Latest update: 2019. 3 In order to continuously manage biodiversity, Hyundai Steel will measure the progress of this policy and periodically review its performance. 106 HYUNDAI STEEL Environmental Guidelines Integrated Report 2019 Hyundai Steel has established environmental guidelines based on its environmental management guidelines and internal guidelines to protect the environment, as well as employees, suppliers, customers, and the community, based on its people-centered management philosophy and its technology to enhance the value of the earth. In order to minimize the environmental impact of the business operation, we are promoting the following activities and expanding the scope of our activities to our supply chain and business partners. ① Production and Environment Management We manage process procedures such as goal management, education and training, document and record management, internal audit, and standards for each part (integrated environment management, atmospheric environment management, waste management, etc.). ② Selection and continuous evaluation of suppliers / contractors / service providers Hyundai Steel minimizes environmental impact by reflecting environmental management level evaluation items when selecting external companies. In addition, we distribute partner guidelines to suppliers other than our resident partners and regularly conduct supply chain sustainability evaluations for major suppliers every year, thereby reducing environmental risks throughout the supply chain. ③ Development of products and services We are aware of the crisis and opportunities that various environmental issues related to climate change have on the business of Hyundai Steel and are pursuing R & D that minimizes the environmental impact of product and service development. ④ Logistics Hyundai Steel manages the environmental pollution that may occur during transportation through guidelines. ⑤ Waste Management Hyundai Steel operates and manages waste management standards from the generation stage to final disposal of waste. Management standards cover scope, terminology, responsibilities and authority, waste collection and storage facilities, waste generation, collection, storage and disposal, inspection, contracting and monitoring. ⑥ Production and maintenance Hyundai Steel is providing environmental guidelines to minimize environmental pollution caused by operation and maintenance of production facilities. We provide production and maintenance manuals according to the characteristics of each production facility, and provide guidelines to minimize the environmental impact caused by operation. ⑦ New projects Hyundai Steel utilizes the project environment management plan and environmental impact assessment, which reflect detailed environmental management methods, before the start of a new project, for environmental management of new project sites. ⑧ Preliminary due diligence at merger and acquisition Hyundai Steel identifies and responds to environmental risks through proactive inspections before the merger and acquisition. We are introducing and managing the evaluation of major environmental media, and the evaluation results are reflected and managed as an important factor in merger and acquisition. * Latest update: 2019. 4 Donation and Sponsorship Policy All donations and sponsorship provided by the company must be compatible with our business activities and operate in an ethical manner. Companies that are experiencing legal or financial conflicts or are affiliated with a particular political party or organization are not eligible for donations and sponsorship. In this regard, the following donation and sponsorship policies are established and operated. 1. Scope This policy applies to all employees and third parties of companies in all countries or regions and should be communicated to them at the appropriate time from the beginning of the business relationship. 2. Operation plan 2.1 Corporate charitable donations are only possible if: •Comply with applicable law •Not for improper business benefits •It is done through a properly established charity, and the donation should be clearly for charitable purposes. 2.2 Sponsorship may not be provided without authorization to the rightful acquirer. 2.3 No employee may provide monetary payments or other contributions to political parties, political entrants or candidates under the conditions of employment. 2.4 Donations or sponsorships shall not be made or provided in connection with auctions, tenders, contract renewals or future business relationships. The Company also does not make charitable donations or sponsorship contracts as a means to obtain favorable conditions from the organization or its affiliates / related parties. 3. Obligations 3.1 Make sure that donations and sponsors meet ethical policies such as anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies. 3.2 All donations and sponsorship shall be reported and approved by the acquirer. Records of all donations and sponsorship should be retained for future audits. 3.3 In the event of a violation of the above policy, the employee will be subject to disciplinary action and may be dismissed as a serious offense. 3.4 All employees are responsible for reading, understanding and complying with the policy. No action should be taken to violate or violate this policy. 3.5 This policy is managed in conjunction with the company's anti-bribery and anti-corruption policies, donations, invitations and hospitality policies, interest conflict policies, procurement policies and codes of ethics. 4. Governance The Board has a duty to ensure that this policy complies with our legal and ethical obligations and that all employees under our control are in compliance. * Latest update: 2019. 5 107 NON-FINANCIALSTATEMENT Hyundai Steel Framework for Local Community Engagement Part 1. Background of Establishment of Framework and Purpose 1. Definition of Local Communication Engagement Local community engagement aims to ensure that the company understands and addresses problems in local communities. In particular, it aims to encourage engagement with local communities in several decisionmaking processes and to utilize ideas from the local community to make better-informed decisions. Local community engagement includes the following activities: •Providing and sharing information on major issues with local communities •Measures to deal with local community issues •Diverse communication methods Local community engagement as a guideline for decision-making means collecting opinions and information from local communities to achieve sustainability in management decision-making. 2. Purpose of Local Community Engagement and Framework Development The key purposes of local community engagement are as follows: •To strengthen decision-making in connection with stakeholders •To support a local community committee on communication •To improve relationships with local communities and various stakeholders •To encourage the participation of local communities in dealing with major issues in projects The framework for local community engagement aims to achieve the targets through the following means: •Procedures for listening to and identifying the opinions of local communities and reflecting them in the decision-making process •Taking a consistent approach to local community engagement •Understanding from employees regarding business decisions that impact local communities •Communication between local community stakeholders and the decision-makers (management) Part 2. Principles of Local Community Engagement The six main principles of local community engagement are prior engagement, transparent information disclosure, selection and execution of proper engagement methods, inclusivity of information and period of local community engagement, as explained below. A pledge to provide local communities or key stakeholders with information at the early stages of project development Prior engagement and to enable local communities to influence decision-making and strategy planning Transparent Communication with local communities in which relevant information and data are provided to ensure transparency information disclosure and effective consultation Providing opportunities to all people for consultation on relevant issues in addition to the entire local community and Inclusive engagement key stakeholders Selection and execution of Communication with local communities in which relevant information and data are provided to ensure transparency proper engagement methods and effective consultation Inclusivity of Efforts by the company to consider all kinds of information before making a decision that can impact a local community Information and to provide honest feedback Period of local The period during which a local community, its residents or their way of life could be impacted community engagement 108 HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 Part 3. Local Community Engagement Framework The framework for local community engagement is organized and operated according to the following process: Providing information Providing objective information to help local communities understand the issues, measures or solutions proposed Collecting opinions Procedures to collect opinions from local communities regarding decisions made by the company Engagement activities Engaging with local communities to identify its members’ opinions on major issues directly Including cooperation with the local community in each aspect of decision-making, such as the development of Cooperation alternatives and the identification of preferred solutions Authorization Giving local communities authority to make decisions directly in the final decision-making process Process of Local Community Engagement Identify local Decide on a purpose for local Determine the community Determine an community’s needs community engagement members to be engaged engagement method Confirm the measures Collect and analyze Disclose information Engage with subject to local the opinions of and reflect opinions in the the local community community engagement the local community decision-making process Part 4. Communication Channels for Major Stakeholders Major Definition Department in charge Communication channel Major issue Communication stakeholders cycle The basis for the creation Department meetings, technology •Enhancing customer satisfaction Customer of economic Marketing Division seminars, customer satisfaction surveys, •Expanding customer communication any time companies and corporate value customer portal site, websites, newsletters •Protecting information •Encouraging communication among employees Key members Intranet, GWP, Smart Board, education and departments Employees Business Management Division any time for sustainable growth programs, labor-management cooperation •Work-life balance •Strengthening employee capabilities Partner cooperation Business Management Division Win-win growth agreements, meetings, •Operating fair supply chain management process quarterly, Suppliers for win-win growth Procurement Division procurement system, technology exchange •Establishing a win-win growth culture any time based on stability Major domestic and overseas works meetings, websites, newsletters •Advancing activities to support win-win growth Shareholders General shareholders’ meetings, Providing financial capital performance presentations, NDR and •Securing new growth engines quarterly, and as a source of Finance Division conferences, 1:1 meetings, visits to •Improving corporate value any time investors corporate management worksites, public announcement materials Major social contribution activities, •Performing continuous social contribution activities quarterly, before Local communities Business Management Division Local global activities for regional development, •Supporting socially disadvantaged and vulnerable and after social and their members interacting Dangjin Integrated Steelworks communities holding meetings of local community people contribution thorough business operations and other major works committees twice a year •Engaging in communication with stakeholders activities •Responding to and participating in government NGOs, government Proposals for Strategy Planning Department Visit worksites and policy any time and media the company’s direction Major domestic and overseas works issue press releases •Making transparent business announcements •Creating jobs * Case 1. Compensation is carried out through legal compliance and community consultation while creating and developing industrial parks Case 2. Identify the neighborhood needs of the Indian company and conduct a project to build a safety infrastructure through community consultation (Solar energy street lamps and CCTVs for safe passage of women and children at night / 2018) * Latest update: 2019 3. 109 Materiality Test NON-FINANCIALSTATEMENT Materiality Test Process Hyundai Steel’s materiality test is based on the reporting principles of the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards: stakeholder inclusiveness, sustainability context, materiality and completeness. It assessed the stakeholder interest and business impact in 44 issues related to the characteristics of the steel industry and our business status. The result of this assessment well-reflected the nature of the steel industry, as the industrial issues of the Sustainability Accounting Standards Boards (SASB) and sustainability indices of the World Steel Association (WSA) were reviewed during the pooling and evaluating of the issues. Through the comments from stakeholders and experts that were part of the review, we were able to understand the impact that each issue has. The materiality test was conducted in April 2019, and a total of nine material topics were identified . 44 material issues were identified through media research and benchmarking, international Step 1. Issue Pool Identification standards analysis, and internal and external resources. A materiality test was conducted with consideration of internal and external stakeholders’ Step 2. Materiality Test interests, expert evaluation, and internal review based on sustainability management issues. Specific issues were selected to be reported in each of the material aspects according to Step 3. Material Topic Selection the GRI Standards, in line with the reporting topic based on stakeholders’ material topics identified through the materiality test. Content and data were provided, with consideration of the stakeholders’ areas that are significantly affected by each report aspect, for planning and creation of the report. Material Topics in Integrated Report No. Material Topics in 2019 Report 1) Impact on stakeholders Shareholders / Customers Employees Suppliers Investor Local Communities Government 1 Achieve stable management performance ● ● 2 Strengthen workplace health and safety ● ● ● 3 Governance soundness ● ● ● 4 Employee capacity development ● ● 5 Strengthen ethical management and anti-corruption activities ● ● ● ● 6 R&D and expansion of infrastructure ● ● ● 7 Response to climate change and air pollution management ● ● ● ● 8 Customer Relationship Management ● ● 9 Strengthen service accountability ● ● ● 1) Selected 9 material topics out of 44 issues considering sustainability management 110 HYUNDAI STEEL Business’s Influence Integrated Report 2019 4.0 1 11 6 2 25 9 3 3.5 33 12 19 5 7 15 4 3.0 24 22 41 18 20 38 27 14 2.5 39 32 23 8 30 21 42 17 10 26 31 13 40 28 16 2.0 37 35 34 1.5 29 36 44 1.0 43 0.5 0.00 0.50 1.00 1.50 2.00 2.50 3.00 3.50 4.00 4.50 core issue reported issue potential issue Stakeholders' interest Characteristic of influence2) Core aspect3) Report Topic Cost Revenue Risk ● Indirect Economic Impacts Economic Performance ● Occupational Health and Safety Social Performance ● Governance Economic Performance ● Training and Education Social Performance ● Ethics and Integrity, Anti-corruption Economic Performance ● Indirect Economic Impacts Economic Performance ● Energy, Emissions Environmental Performance ● Marketing and Labeling Economic Performance ● Customer Health and Safety, Customer Privacy Economic Performance 2) Classified the potential impacts of issues into Cost, Revenue, Risk 3) Based on GRI Standards Topic 111 Long-term Targets by Sector NON-FINANCIALSTATEMENT Classification Mid to Long-term KPI Unit Performance Mid to Goal Long-term Deadline 2016 2017 2018 Goal ESG evaluation ratio of suppliers % 30.4 35 2023 Average scores of ESG evaluation Score 75.75 80 2023 for suppliers ESG evaluation education of procurement manager % 5 50 2023 Economic / Ratio of Human Rights Assessment Development of % 100 2023 Social at Overseas Sites * evaluation index Development of Prediction Model of Torpedo Temperature (welding), Construction of an Intelligent Development of Static Mixture Model (steelmaking), Completion 2023 Production System Development of crack detection model (molding), Development of heat treatment width shrinkage model (cold rolling) Total Recordable Injury Frequency 0.8 0.97 0.78 0 2025 Rate(TRIFR) Reduction Dust ton 663 610 717 654 Air Pollutants Emission SOx ton 12,695 10,900 11,546 8,582 By 2020 Environmental Reduction (40%↓against 2016) NOx ton 10,474 10,642 11,362 6,370 Water consumption to 1,000m3/ton 2.72 2.55 2.54 2.45 By 2020 production Amount *Implementation of Human Rights Assessment at Overseas Sites (2019. 4) Economic Performance Key financial indicators / Unit: KRW 100 million, % R&D Investment Cost / Unit: KRW 100 million, %) Classification 2016 2017 2018 Classification 2016 2017 2018 Sales 166,915 191,660 207,804 R&D cost 1,238 1,491 1,191 Operating income 14,454 13,675 10,261 R&D cost ratio to sales 0.7 0.8 0.6 Operating income rate 8.7 7.1 4.9 Net income 8,671 7,275 4,080 Discrimination of Suppliers / Unit: Number of companies, Status of Win-win Growth Support / Unit: KRW 100 million, % KRW 100 million Credit Rating 2016 2017 2018 Classification Note 2016 2017 2018 Total number of suppliers 2,485 2,607 2,449 Direct support Management funding 117.22 240.76 220.82 Number of critical suppliers 314 357 336 Indirect support Network loan 27.7 77.39 147.14 Total purchase amount of suppliers 84,667 109,010 123,042 Mixed Support Win-win growth fund operation 375 375 400 Purchase amount of critical suppliers 44,325 59,733 72,106 Special Support Investment contributions 2 2.63 2 Total 521.92 695.78 769.96 * Cash settlement ratio for SMEs suppliers: 100% of cash and 60 days issuance 112 HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 Board of Directors / Unit: case, % Board of Directors Remuneration / Unit: KRW million, persons, times Classification 2016 2017 2018 Classification 2016 2017 2018 No. of regular board meetings 4 4 4 No. of executive directors 4 4 4 No. of temporary board meetings 6 6 6 Total amount of paid to executive directors 2,559 2,040 2,895 Total No. of board meetings 10 10 10 No. Independent directors 5 5 5 The agenda discussed 27 27 29 Total amount of paid to independent directors 368 263 315 Attendance rate of external directors 94 94 93 Highest remuneration 1,259 978 1,352 Employee compensation average 87 85 84 Multiple 14.5 11.5 16.1 * Excluding retirement pay Customer Satisfaction / Unit: score Anti-corruption and competition practices / Unit: KRW 100 million, case Classification 2016 2017 2018 Classification 2016 2017 2018 Satisfactions score 74.6 74.3 74.7 Anti-competition fine 0 0 256 Anti-corruption and bribery cases 0 0 0 * Retrospective application to the point of payment of fine Economic Performance Distribution (2018) / Unit: Economic Performance Distribution by Year / Unit: KRW KRW 100 million 100 million Credit Rating Amount Remark Classification 2016 2017 2018 Shareholders and investors 4,428 Payment of dividends and interests Distribution amount 102,706 127,301 139,280 The government 1,742 Taxes and dues Local communities 130 Investment of social contribution Suppliers 123,263 Grant of purchase cost and Win-Win growth Directors and employees 9,716 Total remuneration Total 139,280 Payments for Associations (2018) / Unit: KRW 100 million Payments for Associations by Year / Unit: KRW 100 million Credit Rating Purpose 2018 Classification 2016 2017 2018 Korea Iron & Promotion of enhancing the global competitiveness and Payment amount 25.7 34.7 34.5 13.5 Steel Association sustainable development in steel industry Promotion of global steel industry / Collecting analysis data WSA 4.8 of global steel industry Dangjin Chamber Registration of members according to Chambers of of Commerce and 2.0 Commerce and Industry Act Industry Korea Employers Establishment of and support for Labor-management 1.2 Federation cooperation system Suncheon Chamber Registration of members according to Chambers of of Commerce 1.0 Commerce and Industry Act and Industry 113 Environmental Performance NON-FINANCIALSTATEMENT Emission of Air Pollutants / Unit: kg Intensity of GHG and Energy1) / Unit: kg/ton Classification 2016 2017 2018 Classification 2016 2017 2018 Dust 662,862 609,842 716,971 Dust 0.03 0.03 0.03 SOx 12,695,421 10,899,531 11,546,245 SOx 0.57 0.49 0.52 NOx 10,473,630 10,642,139 11,362,462 NOx 0.47 0.48 0.51 1) Emissions of air pollutants / steel production / Unit: m3/ton Emission Concentration of Dioxin / Unit: ng-TEQ/m3 Intensity of Water consumption and Wastewater treatment Worksite 2016 2017 2018 Classification 2016 2017 2018 Blast Furnace in Dangjin 0.13 0.02 0.01 Water consumption per production amount 2.72 2.55 2.54 Electric Arc Furnace in Dangjin 0.01 0.03 0.01 Wastewater treatment amount per production amount 1.32 1.25 1.30 Incheon 0.08 0.08 0.05 Pohang 0.04 0.02 0.01 Suncheon forging 0.003 0.001 0.00 Water Consumption Volume / Unit: 1,000m3 Concentration of Water Pollutant Emissions / Unit: mg/L Classification 2016 2017 2018 Classification Worksite 2016 2017 2018 Total 60,887 59,312 60,367 Chemical Oxygen Demand(COD) 2.3 2.5 3.6 Water Industrial water 49,760 55,205 55,711 Electric Arc Furnace in Dangjin 1.2 1.5 2.0 Consumption Waterworks 4,278 4,107 4,656 Suspended Incheon 12.0 2.6 8.0 Volume Solids Other2) 4,278 0 0 (SS) Pohang 1.6 1.7 2.1 Suncheon 2.8 0.6 4.8 2) Based on the consumption volume of recycling water in Gajwa Wastewater Treatment Plant of Incheon Factory Ulsan 9.1 9.1 9.6 Blast Furnace in Dangjin 11.5 16.6 9.8 Electric Arc Furnace in Dangjin 5.5 5.8 5.6 Chemical Oxygen Incheon 70.0 25.4 17.0 Demand Pohang 5.4 8.4 6.5 (COD) Suncheon 10.6 7.7 13.2 Ulsan 25.2 25.2 51.0 Wastewater / Unit: 1,000 m3 Environmental Investment / Unit: KRW 100 million Classification 2016 2017 2018 Classification 2016 2017 2018 Total 29,501 29,052 30,781 Environmental operation cost 3,281 3,884 3,037 Water recycling volume 8,002 8,973 8,337 Environmental investment cost 622 897 1,808 Discharge volume 21,499 20,079 22,444 Environmental benefit3) 1,302 1,784 2,123 3) Includes cost savings, profit, and tax benefits 114 HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 Emissions of GHG4) / Unit: 1,000 tCO2 Energy Consumption / Unit: MWh Classification 2016 2017 2018 Classification Worksite 2016 2017 2018 Total 21,275 21,504 22,514 Total 14,070,417 14,599,063 15,163,333 Emissions Scope 1 15,622 15,737 16,704 Energy Fuel8) 2,700,313 2,883,542 3,287,500 of GHG4) Scope 2 5,653 5,767 5,810 Consumption Electricity 11,166,250 11,542,083 11,706,354 Steam 203,854 173,438 169,479 4) Emissions can be adjusted by the government conformity assessment 8) Retroactive application by changing energy usage calculation method 5) Including CO2, CH4, N2O, HFCs, PFCs, or SF6 as defined in Article 2 (9) of the Framework Act on Low Carbon Green Growth on Green Growth ※ Retrospective application of changes in emissions due to changes in the calculation method of GHG emissions during certification of government conformity assessment ※ Calculated according to the Guidance on Reporting and Certification of Emissions from the GHG Emissions Trading Scheme (excluding biological emissions) Emission Concentrations of Air Pollutants16) Violations of environmental regulations / Unit: tCO2 /ton, MWh/ton / Unit: case, KRW 100 million Classification 2016 2017 2018 Classification 2016 2017 2018 GHG Intensity 0.95 0.92 0.95 Number of violations of environmental regulations 0 1 0 Energy Intensity 0.6287 0.6288 0.6381 Fine 0 0.6 0 Liability related to the environment 0 0 0 6) Based on the business report Generation of By-Products / Unit: 1,000 tons Status of Recycling / Unit: 1,000 tons, % Classification 2016 2017 2018 Classification 2016 2017 2018 Total 10,394 10,605 10,663 Recycling amount 10,303 10,456 10,399 Slag 6,596 6,801 7,013 Recycling rate 99.1 98.6 97.5 Dust 488 504 479 Refractory 153 153 161 Sludge 649 670 661 Others 2,508 2,479 2,335 Specific air pollutant emission concentration 7) / Unit: ppm Classification Specific air pollutant Average Pb Ni CH2Cl2 C6H6 F As Hg HCN HCl Cd Cr C6H6O HCHO Emission Standards 1 1 50 10 3 2 2 3 3 0.5 0.5 3 10 6.85 Average concentration 0.00 0.09 0.12 0.00 0.01 0.00 0.00 0.45 0.33 0.00 0.04 0.27 0.00 0.10 Ratio 0.06% 8.51% 0.25% 0.00% 0.42% 0.00% 0.01% 14.99% 10.87% 0.12% 7.18% 9.03% 0.04% 3.96% 7) Dangjin Integrated Steelworks (2018) 115 Social Performance NON-FINANCIALSTATEMENT Talent Development / Unit: Hours/ KRW Million Retirement Pension / Unit: KRW Million, Persons Classification 2017 2018 Classification 2016 2017 2018 Total training hours 431,822 424,469 Deposit 599,401 594,930 598,585 Total training investment 7,959 6,558 Pension holders 10,879 11,022 11,439 Total Training Hours 416,222 405,064 Male Number of Employees 10,800 11,187 Average training hours 38.5 36.2 Total Training Hours 15,600 19,405 Female Number of Employees 256 365 Average training hours 60.9 53.2 Parental leave / Unit : Persons Union participation rate / Unit: % Classification 2016 2017 2018 Classification 2016 2017 2018 Parental leave 20 33 51 Domestic 70 70 70 Parental leave returns 20 21 51 Overseas2) 3 3 Worked for 12 months or longer upon return 8 10 14 2) Mexican corporation joined the union in 2017 Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate Results of employee engagement survey Classification 2016 2017 2018 Classification Responses Rate of actively engaged employees Frequency Rate Employee 0.80 0.97 0.78 Result 2,796 (general, researcher 86%) 58% (TRIFR)1) Contractors 1.60 1.26 1.87 1) TRIFR (Total Recordable Injury Frequency Rate): An indicator of the frequency of occurrence of industrial accidents, the number of disasters per million working hours (Calculation formula: number of industrial accidents counted by Ministry of Employment and Labor (MOEL) / working hours × 100 million hours) Social Contribution Performance / Unit: KRW Million, % Start-up Support Program (2018) / Unit: KRW Million Classification 2016 2017 2018 Classification No. of Supported Company Support amount Social contribution investment 14,492 11,529 12,994 Project for recycling coffee grounds 5 100 Service input costs* 2,878 2,591 2,652 New Technology and Hydrogen-related Technology Venture Fund 11 320 Management overhead 18 15 2 Employee participation fund 451 428 406 Participation rate(%) 98 98 97 Participation hours 86,222 77,613 80,374 * Service hours × Employee average hourly wage 116 GRI Index HYUNDAI STEEL Universal Standards(GRI 100) Integrated Report 2019 Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note 102-1 Name of the organization 6-7 102-2 Activities, brands, products, and services 38-39, 42-43 102-3 Location of headquarters 36-37 102-4 Location of operations 36-37 102-5 Ownership and legal form Annual Report 102-6 Markets served 36-43 Organizational Profile 102-7 Scale of the organization 36, 112-113 102-8 Information on employees and other workers 79 102-9 Supply chain 52-54 102-10 Significant changes to the organization and its supply chain No significant change 102-11 Precautionary Principle or approach 55-56 102-12 External initiatives 120 102-13 Membership of associations 113 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker 6-7 Strategy 102-15 Key impacts, risks, and opportunities 55-56 102-16 Values, principles, standards, and norms of behavior 34-35 Ethics and Integrity 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics 80 102-18 Governance structure 62-64 102-19 Delegating authority 62-64 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental, and social topics 62-64 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental, and social topics 62-64 102-22 Composition of the highest governance body and its committees 62-63 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body 62-63 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body 62-63 102-25 Conflicts of interest 62-63 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values, and strategy 62-64 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body 62-64 Governance 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance 64 102-29 Identifying and managing economic, environmental, and social impacts 62-64 102-30 Effectiveness of risk management processes 55-56 102-31 Review of economic, environmental, and social topics 55-56 102-33 Communicating critical concerns 55-56 102-34 Nature and total number of critical concerns 110-111 102-35 Remuneration policies 64 102-36 Process for determining remuneration 64 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration 64 102-38 Annual total compensation ratio 112 102-40 List of stakeholder groups 109 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 116 Stakeholder Engagement 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders 108-109 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement 108-111 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised 108-109 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual Report 102-46 Defining report content and topic Boundaries 1, 110-111 102-47 List of material topics 110-111 102-48 Restatements of information On each page 102-49 Changes in reporting No significant change 102-50 Reporting period 1 Reporting Practice 102-51 Date of most recent report 1 102-52 Reporting cycle 1 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report 121 102-54 Claims of reporting in accordance with the GRI Standards 1 102-55 GRI content index 117-119 102-56 External assurance 101-104 103-1 Explanation of the material topic and its Boundary 48*, 52, 57*, 60*, Management Approach 103-2 The management approach and its components 65, 68, 70*, 73*-75, 103-3 Evaluation of the management approach 78*, 84*, 88 * Key issues based on the results of the materiality evaluation 117 GRI Index NON-FINANCIALSTATEMENT Topic-specific Standards Economic Performance(GRI 200) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed 112-113 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change 70-72 Economic Performance 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans 82, 116 201-4 Financial assistance received from government Annual Report Procurement Practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Annual Report 205-1 Operations assessed for risks related to corruption 55-56 Anti-corruption 205-2 Communication and training about anti-corruption policies and procedures 55-56 205-3 Confirmed incidents of corruption and actions taken No case Anti-competitive Behavior 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 113 Environmental Performance(GRI 300) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note 301-1 Materials used by weight or volume Annual Report Materials 301-2 Recycled input materials used 115 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization 115 302-3 Energy intensity 115 Energy 302-4 Reduction of energy consumption 72 302-5 Reductions in energy requirements of products and services 72 303-3 Water withdrawal 114 Water 303-4 Water discharge 114 303-5 Water consumption 114 Operational sites owned, leased, managed in, or adjacent to, protected areas 304-1 106 and areas of high biodiversity value independent protected areas 304-2 Significant impacts of activities, products, and services on biodiversity 106 Biodiversity 304-3 Habitats protected or restored 106 IUCN Red List species and national conservation list species with habitats 304-4 106 in areas affected by operations 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions 115 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions 115 Emissions 305-4 GHG emissions intensity 115 305-5 Reduction of GHG emissions 70-71 305-7 Nitrogen oxides (NOx), sulfur oxides (SOx), and other significant air emissions 114 306-1 Water discharge by quality and destination 114 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method 114 Effluents and Waste 306-3 Significant spills No case 306-5 Water bodies affected by water discharges and/or runoff 114 Environmental Compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations 115 Supplier Environmental 308-1 New suppliers that were screened using environmental criteria 52-54 Assessment 308-2 Negative environmental impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 52-54 118 HYUNDAI STEEL Integrated Report 2019 Social Performance(GRI 400) Classification Disclosure Indicators Page Note 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover 79 Benefits provided to full-time employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time Supporting funds for Employment 401-2 82 purchasing and employees leasing house 401-3 Parental leave 116 No regulations, Labor/Management 402-1 Minimum notice periods regarding operational changes but notify Relations the union 403-1 Occupational health and safety management system 84-87 Occupational 403-2 Hazard identification, risk assessment, and incident investigation 84-87 Health and Safety 403-3 Occupational health services 84-87 403-4 Worker participation, consultation, and communication on occupational health and safety 84-87 404-1 Average hours of training per year per employee 116 Training and Education 404-2 Programs for upgrading employee skills and transition assistance programs 80-81 404-3 Percentage of employees receiving regular performance and career development reviews 80-81 Diversity and Equal 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 62-63 Opportunity 405-2 Ratio of basic salary and remuneration of women to men Annual Report Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken No case Freedom of Association and Operations and suppliers in which the right to freedom of association and collective 407-1 82-83 Collective Bargaining bargaining may be at risk Child Labor 408-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of child labor 82-83 Forced or Compulsory Labor 409-1 Operations and suppliers at significant risk for incidents of forced or compulsory labor 82-83 100%, training Security Practices 410-1 Security personnel trained in human rights policies or procedures 82-83 by suppliers 412-1 Operations that have been subject to human rights reviews or impact assessments 105-106 100%, Sexual Human Rights Assessment 412-2 Employee training on human rights policies or procedures 105-106 harassment prevention training Significant investment agreements and contracts that include human rights clauses 412-3 105-106 or that underwent human rights screening Operations with local community engagement, impact assessments, Local Communities 413-1 88-93 and development programs 414-1 New suppliers that were screened using social criteria 105-106 Supplier Social Assessment 414-2 Negative social impacts in the supply chain and actions taken 105-106 Incidents of non-compliance concerning the health and safety impacts of products and Customer Health and Safety 416-2 No case services 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labeling 38-41 Marketing and Labeling 417-2 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and labeling No case 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications No case Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy Customer Privacy 418-1 No case and losses of customer data 119 UNGC & UN SDGs NON-FINANCIALSTATEMENT UNGC Hyundai Steel joined UN Global Compact and complies with the Ten Principles in four areas of human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. The activities related to each principle can be found in the report. In addition, Hyundai Steel complies with Universal Declaration of Human Rights and UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (Ruggie Framework) and strives to prevent violations of human rights during its business processes. Areas Principle Page 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 105-106 Human Rights 2. Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. 105-106 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 105-106 4. The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 105-106 Labour 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and 105-106 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 105-106 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 68-69 Environment 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 68-69 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 68-69 Anti-Corruption 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 60-61 UN SDGs Hyundai Steel feels empathy on SDGs (Sustainable Development Goals) and relevant activities in each goal are carried out as shown below. We are planning to raise the power of execution by establishing strategic proceeding assignments and expanding the joint objectives in the future. SDGs indicator Relevant Activities Page Happy Safe Village in India, Goal 1 End poverty in all its forms everywhere 92-93 Self-Reliance Support Model in the Philippines Goal 3 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages Occupational Safety and Health 84-87 Ensure inclusive and equitable quality education and promote lifelong learning Goal 4 HR Development 78-81 opportunities for all Goal 5 Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls Family-Friendly Management 82-83 Goal 6 Ensure availability and sustainable management of water and sanitation for all Management of Water Environment 74 Goal 7 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all Climate Change Response 70-71 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, Recruitment, Respect for Human Rights and Promotion of Goal 8 78-83 full and productive employment and decent work for all Diversity, Trust-Based Labor-Management Communication Goal 10 Reduce inequality within and among countries Happy Yes University Student Volunteer Group, H-USR 90-91 Goal 11 Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable House Repair – Energy Efficiency Project 89 Goal 12 Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns Recycling By-Products 75 Goal 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts Climate Change Response 70-71 Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, Goal 16 provide access to justice for all and build effective, accountable and inclusive Ethics Management 60-61 institutions at all levels 120 COVER STORY Based on a solid fundamentals like iron, Hyundai Steel expressed its image of making a leap toward the future. We will continue to develop with our customers, communities and next generation through differentiated services and new value creation. 12 Heolleung-ro, Seocho-gu, Seoul CSR Team, Management Support Division, Hyundai Steel https://www.hyundai-steel.com This report uses FSC® certified paper and soy ink in consideration of the environment.
