Sustainability Report 2019 INDEX Sustainability Report 2019 CEO Message ESG Data / Reference Material P.2 P.89 MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability Governance P.4 P.107 ・Our Sustainability Approach ・Outline of the Group ・ESG Integration ・Corporate Governance ・Targets and Results ・Compliance ・Communication with Stakeholders ・ERM and Risk Management ・Information Management ・Transaction Responsibilities ・Information Disclosure ・Disclosure of Information and Investor Relations (IR) Our Sustainability Priorities ・The Medium-Term Management Plan P.25 ・Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation ・Climate-related Financial Disclosure ・Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural Capital ・Implementing Activities and Dialog that Respect Third-Party Assurance Human Rights P.153 Third-party Opinion Our Value Creation Approach P.157 P.45 ・Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) ・Deal with New Risks Editorial Policy ・Create Mobility Society without Accidents P.159 ・Strive for Resilient Community Development ・Support “Good Health and Longevity” ・Work toward Realization of “Leaving No One Behind” ・Quality that Earns the Trust of Society ・Promotion of Diversity & Inclusion ・Encourage Employees to Learn and Think by Themselves, Take on Challenges and Continue to Grow ・Work Style Reform and Health and Productivity Management 001 HOME / Sustainability / CEO Message CEO Message The MS&AD Insurance Group pledges in its Corporate Philosophy (Mission) “to contribute to the development of a vibrant society and help secure a sound future for the planet, by enabling safety and peace of mind through the global insurance and ﬁnancial services business.” We promptly various risks seeming from social issues and provide information on these risks. Then, we prevent risks from occurring or minimize the impact of those risks and to reduce the economic burden when those risks materialize through a variety of products and services. That is our story of value creation. In our Vision 2021, our Medium-term Management Plan started in FY2018, we deﬁned our vision for 2030 as a “resilient and sustainable society,” and identiﬁed as some of the social issues the Group can help resolve to: diversiﬁed large-scale accidents and disasters, the global environment approaching its limits, mounting burden of nursing/medical care associated with an aging population, and declining in social vitality due to widening inequalities. By addressing these issues, we are using the SDGs as leading marks for adopting a broad range of approaches to creating shared value (CSV) with society and making our value creation story a reality. Among our endeavors are instituting measures to prepare against damage caused by typhoons, hurricanes, torrential rainfall and other natural disasters, supporting prompt restoration/recovery after such damage has occurred, providing countermeasures against cyber risks that have become more diversiﬁed as AI and IoT have developed, and collecting/disseminating information to build healthier lives in a superaging society. Vision 2021 outlines the Groupʼs vision to be achieved over the medium to long term: becoming a world-leading insurance/ﬁnancial services group and supporting that status by being resilient enough to rapidly adapt to environmental changes. In FY2019, Visionʼs second year, we will move further ahead in creating shared value with society in order to realize a resilient and sustainable society. In June 2019, we announced our “Perspective of Sustainability” as a manifestation of the Groupʼs ideals to be embedded into activities and the vision we were seeking to achieve. We have made it clear that we will give due consideration in all of the Groupʼs business activities to sustainability in terms that include environment, society, governance as we strive to bring about sustainable societies. In recent years, there has been a notable increase in the frequency and intensity of natural disasters due to climate change, fueling a sense of crisis worldwide. Should CO2 emissions continue to rise at their current pace, forecasts indicate that temperature rise will accelerate, and both extensive once-a-century ﬂoods and large-scale typhoons will become more frequent. As an insurer who is profoundly concerned with disasters, our social mission is to uncover such risks and then to prevent or mitigate them to boost the resilience of society as a whole. To pass on a healthy global environment to the next generation, we are undertaking eﬀorts to mitigate climate change as well as actively supporting eﬀorts to adapt to climate change through activities such as working with universities, local governments, and numerous other partners to jointly develop new technologies to prepare for unprecedented disasters. To ensure that we disclose information in line with the Final Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD), we have been making it a point to disclose consistent, comparable, and reliable climate-related information, as evidenced by our participation in an insurance pilot project run by the United Nations Environment Programme ‒ Financial Initiative (UNEP-FI). Furthermore, we believe that fostering a corporate climate respectful of human rights is an essential foundation for our eﬀorts. Since signing the UN Global Compact in June 2004 and indicating our support for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, we have pursued activities and dialogues that respect human rights in accordance with the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on Human Rights and in recognition of our 002 HOME / Sustainability / CEO Message responsibility for the impact of our business activities, including in our value chains, on human rights. Our Companyʼs eﬀorts are underpinned by the capabilities of each and every employee, and we consider the development of human assets an important element in realizing a resilient and sustainable society. As a part of those eﬀorts, we held our ﬁrst Sustainability Contest in August 2018 for Group companies from both inside and outside of Japan. This contest has heightened our employeesʼ understanding and awareness of the need for sustainability and has set in motion a virtuous cycle of creating new business models and laterally extending our eﬀorts. By accelerating our value creation story through using the SDGs as leading marks, the MS&AD Insurance Group will continue its CSV eﬀorts to create shared value with society and move steadily forward toward realizing a resilient and sustainable society by 2030. September 2019 President & CEO Yasuyoshi Karasawa 003 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability Our Sustainability Approach ESG Integration Targets and Results Communication with Stakeholders 004 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Our Sustainability Approach Our Sustainability Approach The MS&AD Insurance Group has set Mission, Vision, and Values in order to clarify how the Group should be. Furthermore, we have accelerated initiatives based on our sustainability approach to achieve our mission. Our Mission To contribute to the development of a vibrant society and help secure a sound future for the planet, by enabling safety and peace of mind through the global insurance and ﬁnancial services business Our Vision To create a world-leading insurance and ﬁnancial services group that consistently pursues sustainable growth and enhances corporate value Our Values Customer focus, integrity, teamwork, innovation, professionalism Perspective of Sustainability of the MS&AD Insurance Group The MS&AD Insurance Group will create shared value and aim toward a resilient and sustainable society through corporate activities that implement Story of Value Creation, in order to realize our Corporate Philosophy (Mission). We will consistently strive for supreme quality that lives up to the trust and expectations upon us, and together with our stakeholders, continue to contribute to the creation of society where anyone can pursue a stable life and take on dynamic business activities, while preserving the sustainability of the global environment and society. (Basic Policies on Corporate Governance, Chapter 2 Section 2) Strategic Approach for Sustainability The MS&AD Insurance Group*1 considers sustainable issues, such as environmental, social and corporate governance (ESG) factors associated with all of our business transactions, including the development of products and services, underwriting as well as investment. In the Group's Medium-term Management Plan Vision 2021 , we have accelerated major initiatives focusing on three areas which are climate change, natural capital and human rights in line with SDGs as our leading marks. We realize particularly climate change impacting on meteorological disasters and ecosystems as critical risk. As a signatory to Paris Pledges for Action, we commit to support development of technologies and measures*2 to mitigate climate change risk. We, an insurance and ﬁnancial services group oﬀering safety and peace of mind, see the value of dialogue with stakeholder that we strive to create shared value through deepening mutual understanding of the sustainability issues. *1 The MS&AD Insurance Group will continue to identify diverse issues in sustainability and take action together with initiatives including the followings. Paris Pledge for Action United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) United Nations Environment Programme ‒ Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) 〔Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI), Natural Capital Finance Alliance (NCFA)〕 Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) Final Report of Recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures(TCFD) 005 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Our Sustainability Approach Japan Climate Initiative (JCI) Principles for Finance Action towards a Sustainable Society (Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Century) Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) *2 Advancing renewable energy and next-generation vehicles, and risk management through the collaboration with industry, government and academia. *3 Strategies and plans for sustainability-related initiatives are discussed at the Board of Directors meetings and quarterly Committee Meetings. The Sustainability Committee comprises presidents, directors of Planning and Risk management of the Company and each Group's domestic insurance companies and outside directors of the Company, etc. The details of discussions are reported to the Board of Directors and the Management Committee. The MS&AD Insurance Group's Story of Value Creation and Business Model Based on the Perspective of Sustainability of the MS&AD Insurance Group, as an insurance and ﬁnancial services provider, we oﬀer coverage on various risks that include accidents and disasters. We also focus on solving social issues in order to reduce the rise of risks. We will create common value with society through corporate activities that include “Identifying risks and providing information on risks,” “preventing risks from occurring/minimizing the impact of those risks,” and “reducing the economic burden.” 006 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Our Sustainability Approach MS&AD's Story of Value Creation Our Value Creation Approach Image of Society in 2030: “Resilient and Sustainable Society” In 2018, the Groupʼs Sustainability Committee held discussions on seven priority issues (challenges for CSV) and the core initiatives targeting them, and developed the Medium-Term Sustainability Plan which was later incorporated into the Group Medium-Term Management Plan (Vision 2021). In Vision 2021, we have set the image of society in 2030 as a “resilient and sustainable society.” In order to be widely supported by stakeholders and to grow in a sustainable way, it is indispensable to continue creating shared value with society through corporate activities, also known as Creating Shared Value, CSV. We will aim to realize a “resilient and sustainable society” by focusing on the priority issues with using the UN Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as leading marks. 007 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Our Sustainability Approach Identifying Priority Issues Issue prioritization based on international guidelines, including ISO 26000 and SDGs, is of great importance for both stakeholders and MS&AD Groupʼs business. We identiﬁed material issues based on their priority. [STEP 1] Analysis of social issues In order to accurately grasp the issues that society needs to solve, we identiﬁed social issues based on inputs from our stakeholders (customers, shareholders, business partners, the environment, local society, international society, employees, and agencies), the international frameworks, and the goals of the frameworks. Diverse risks surrounding society Diversiﬁed/large-scale accidents and/or disasters Global environment approaches the limit (climate change, depletion of resources, etc.) Mounting burden of nursing/medical care due to aging population Economic slowdown by widening inequality [STEP 2] Identiﬁcation of priority issues With regard to the identiﬁed social issues and the Groupʼs corporate activities, we analyzed items based on where we can make a signiﬁcant contribution to social sustainability together with issues that have a major impact on the Groupʼs long-term growth in the areas of economy (E), society (S), and organizational governance (G). From this process, we extracted seven priority issues. These seven priority issues are recognized as our challenges for CSV (Creating Shared Value) in order to clarify our intention to address them as initiatives that create value for both society and the Group. Furthermore, the goals that we aim to achieve through solving these issues are aligned with SDGs. 008 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Our Sustainability Approach 009 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Our Sustainability Approach 010 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Our Sustainability Approach [STEP 3] Identifying Core Initiatives to underpin Priority Issues Based on the criteria of Creating Shared value, we deﬁne, ʻQuality that earns the trust of societyʼ and ʻManagement platforms that enable employees to play active rolesʼ as the core initiatives that support to solve the priority issues. 011 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Our Sustainability Approach [STEP 4] Reporting to the Management Team The identiﬁed core initiatives are reported to the management team as the Priority Sustainability Issues of the Medium-term Management Plan, Vision2021, and are disclosed to stakeholders through information sharing meetings and to employees through brieﬁng sessions. Targets and Results We have set Key Performance Indicators (KPI) targets to promote Sustainability initiatives. Key Performance Indicators (KPI) Our Sustainability Priorities For realizing a resilient and sustainable society, we have set three issues that have a major impact on both the society and the Company as priority issues. Our Sustainability Priorities ESG Integration The MS&AD Insurance Group has established its sustainability approach, which it upholds as a collection of strategies for ESG issues. In all of its corporate activities, including the development and provision of products and services and investments and loans, the Group takes sustainability into account, including factors such as environment, society, and corporate governance (ESG). ESG Integration 012 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Our Sustainability Approach Management Structure Strategies and plans for sustainability-related initiatives are discussed at the Board of Directors meetings and quarterly Committee Meetings. The Sustainability Committee comprises of members that include presidents, oﬃcers in charge of planning and risk management, outside directors of the Company and the Group's domestic insurance companies, and discusses considerations for sustainability issue in all business activities. The details of the Sustainability Committeeʼs discussions are reported to the Board of Directors and the Management Committee. Participation in the United Nations Global Compact* The MS&AD Insurance Group strives to carry out corporate activities with respect to the principles of the UN Global Compact. Furthermore, the Group is involved in the operation and activities of the Global Compact Network Japan, a local network of the UN Global Compact, by serving as an organizer of working sessions. * An initiative advocated by the former UN Secretary-General Koﬁ Annan in 1999. It requires global companies to comply with and practice 10 principles related to human rights, labor, environment, and anti-corruption. 013 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / ESG Integration ESG Integration The MS&AD Insurance Group always consider sustainability in terms of the environment, society, and governance (ESG) issues in all Group business activities, including the development of products and services, underwriting and investments. ESG-related impacts include infringements of human rights that threaten respect for basic human rights, deforestation due to illegal logging, and corruption and bribery that undermine economic growth and stability. Our companyʼs business activities could inﬂuence ESG factors, and our company itself could be inﬂuenced by ESG factors. While we respond to such ESG-related risks to ourselves, we have been discovering business opportunities in addressing ESG concerns, e.g. oﬀering automotive insurance with driving protection services to support safe driving, and thereby, reduce accidents, and using Big Data to present preventative measures against natural disaster. It is essential that we carefully assess ESG-related risks and opportunities, and reﬂect them in our business activities. We recognize the wide-ranging ESG risks such as legal risks, reputational risks, quality-related risks, business continuity risks, operational risks, transition risks, ﬁnancial risks, etc., and these could potentially have a major impact on our companyʼs business activities and our stakeholders. Accordingly, we carefully identify such ESG-related risks to control them across our entire business activities. We give an overview of these approaches in our “Perspective of Sustainability of the MS&AD Insurance Group” that describes our policies on addressing ESG concerns. Our Sustainability Approach Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Signatory to the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) and the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) The MS&AD Insurance Group has been seeking out what are the best practices for ﬁnancial institutions that take into account environmental and social sustainability, and it has been participating in the United Nations Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) to disseminate and promote these best practices. Our company has signed on to the Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI) and the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) published by UNEP FI, and we have been disclosing details on our initiatives and reporting on the progress made every year. We are also taking part in a PSI pilot project in which representatives from insurance companies meet to discuss the industryʼs approaches to the TCFD Final Recommendations and also working on disclosing information on climate change risks. In addition, in considering ESG, as an external standard and a source, our screening approach standard includes: UN Global Compact, UN Declaration of Human Rights, Guiding Principles for Corporate and Human Rights, International Labor Organization Standard, UN AntiCorruption It will be notiﬁed by the Convention and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. 014 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / ESG Integration Underwriting Process and Development of ESG-based Products and Services The MS&AD Insurance Group has underwriting criteria adapted for respective product and service as part of risk assessment process. In each process, certain ESG criteria are considered such as natural disaster risks, involvement with anti-social forces or ethical risks, based on the nature of the risk. Comprehensive process including system veriﬁcation are properly implemented. Underwriting decision including the Boardʼs approval are made based on these risk evaluations. In developing products and services, we examine the value to society and the value for our company generated by our products and services from various angles, and we strive to create value shared with society in providing these products and services. We have also developed a variety of sustainable products and services such as insurance or risk consulting services that support renewable energy projects, discounts to drivers who take a safe driving lecture aiming at reducing traﬃc accidents, and automotive insurance policies that allow the same-sex partner to be beneﬁciaries to support diversity. Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) 015 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / ESG Integration ESG-basd Investments and loans As a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), the MS&AD Insurance Group takes ESG issues into account for investment and loan transactions. Our company, as an asset owner, promotes ESG-thematic investment on the basis of proﬁtability. MSI and ADI declared their acceptance of Japanʼs Stewardship Code, and have since engaged in constructive dialogue about ESG with the companies in which they have invested. Operating Scheme sample ESG investment methodologies as by our company 016 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / ESG Integration Key Investments and Loans Invested in sustainable development bonds (private placement: $120 million, or approximately 13.5 billion yen) issued by the World Bank (International Bank for Reconstruction and Development). Investment in sustainable development bonds Investing in funds with close ties to environmental issues and, by investing in the Future Creation Fund established by the Sparx Group, helping accelerate innovation by supporting companies possessing technology that will drive growth toward the society of the future, including intelligent technologies, robotics and technologies Investment in Future Creation Fund useful in bringing about a hydrogen society. In addition, we are making stock investment decisions only after evaluating individual companiesʼ responsiveness to environmental and social issues. Investing in funds established by the Regional Economy Vitalization Corporation of Japan to quickly improve the management of companies that will occupy a core position within their communities and to foster key companies Investment in Regional Economy Vitalization that sustain their communities. By doing so, we are supporting the vitalization of regional economies. Corporation of Japan Encouraging the spread of renewable energy power generation by providing ﬁnancing for the construction of mega-solar and wind power plants. Financing for renewable energy power plants Supporting the growth and business vitalization of small and medium-sized enterprises by investing in Japanʼs ﬁrst fund designed to provide risk money primarily through loans (fund established by Topaz Capital, Inc.) Investment in loan origination funds for small and medium-sized enterprises Invested in Social Bonds issued in the Japanese market by the Japan International Cooperation Agency. Investment in social bonds Invested in Industrialize Africa themed bonds issued by the African Development Bank in November 2017 (private placement). Investment in African Development Bankʼs Industrialize Africa bond Invested in green bonds issued by Japanese companies in Japanese markets. Investment in green bonds Invested in ESG-based overseas real estate funds. Investment in ESG-based real estate funds ESG Risk Evaluation Process In managing assets, we have a process in which ESG factors are assessed when making investments and providing loans. Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance, for example, has integrated ESG risk assessments into their investment approach by performing ESG screenings on domestic shares, and increasing the sophistication of investment decision-making process when evaluating alternative investment funds. They also integrate ESG aspects in providing loans by inspecting their customers' ESG strategy and disclosures. In the context of stewardship activities, many dialogues have taken place with a focus on non-ﬁnancial factors including ESG concerns. Since FY2017, we have started to engage in more in-depth dialogues with the investees on ESG-related risks and shaping our approaches in line with the “Value Creation Guidance” issued by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. 017 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / ESG Integration Implementation of Japanʼs Stewardship Code From the perspective of fulﬁlling their social responsibility as institutional investors, MSI and ADI have announced their support for Japanʼs Stewardship Code, a code of behavior laid out for institutional investors. In line with the Code, we carry out a constructive dialogue with investee companies to encourage them to enhance their mediumand long-term value and sustainable growth, and, through the dialogue, we focus on understanding their management issues, their shareholder return policy, ESG, and other non-ﬁnancial information. From July, 2017 to June, 2018, MSI and ADI conducted constructive dialogues with a total of 481 ﬁrms. MSI Our Policies According to Japanʼs Stewardship Code ADI Our Policies According to Japanʼs Stewardship Code (Japanese only) External Assessment Investing methods that assess corporate sustainability from the standpoint of Environmental, Social and Corporate Governance (ESG) are spreading. The MS&AD Insurance Group utilizes the assessments provided by major ESG evaluation organizations to improve its eﬀorts. As of August 2019, the Company is a constituent of the following ESG indices: Dow Jones Sustainability Indices MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index (Japanese only) MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index (Japanese only) FTSE4Good Index Series FTSE Blossom Japan Index ECPI® Indices * THE INCLUSION OF The MS&AD Insurance Group IN ANY MSCI INDEXES, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HERIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF The MS&AD Insurance Group BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. 018 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Targets and Results Targets and Results Key Performance Indicators (KPI) to Promote Our Sustainability Initiatives FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Group Targets Covered Issues Indicators for FY2018 Companies Achievements Achievements Achievements and after Development of products and Main eﬀorts Main eﬀorts Main eﬀorts Domestic Group Creating shared value Continue the approaches services ﬁnd below ﬁnd below ﬁnd below Companies Customer satisfaction survey 94.8% 95.2% 97.1% the same level or higher Domestic Group about insurance contract compared to the previous Companies procedures*1 ﬁsal year Customer satisfaction survey 96.1% 96.3% 96.6% the same level or higher MSI,ADI,Mitsui about payment of insurance compared to the previous Direct General,MSI claim*1 ﬁsal year Aioi Life Quality that earns the trust of society CO2 emission reduction 3.6% ▲6.8%*2 ▲13.3% Reduce CO2 emissions by rate(Scope1 and Scope2 30% by 2020 and by 70% combined) Consolidated by 2050 versus base year (ﬁscal 2009) Total energy consumption 1,098,008GJ 1,017,853GJ 987,452GJ 13,005t 11,085t 10,545t Lower than the previous Domestic Group Paper consumption (▲4.9%) ﬁsal year Companies + Other Ratio of females in 7.1% 9.9% 12.4% 15.0% (FY2020) managerial positions Employee satisfaction 4.4points 4.4points 4.4points (questionnaire results), ”Pride, Job satisfaction” Employee satisfaction 4.2points 4.3points 4.3points Management platforms (questionnaire results), Domestic Group that enable employees ”Working Vigorously” the same level or higher Companies to play active roles compared to the previous Number of annual paid 15.7 16.0 15.6 ﬁsal year holidays taken Ratio of taking fully paid 44.8% 58.0% 63.9% paternity/secondary leave Number of employees 19,861 20,022 23,601 practicing social contribution activities 019 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Targets and Results (*1) For details of the questionnaire on customer satisfaction survey of each company, please visit their website. (*2) From FY2017 onwards, we report CO2 emissions associated with energy used by the tenants of MS&AD-owned buildings as Scope 3 emissions (Category 13). Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. (Japanese only) Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. (Japanese only) Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. (Japanese only) Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (Japanese only) Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (Japanese only) ＜Main Eﬀorts＞ Developing and improving our products as part of our initiatives for ʻcreating shared valueʼ Provided products that respond to new risks and demands arising from the changing environment, including cyber insurance for General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) compliance and a derivative product that Deal with new risks insures against pandemic inﬂuenza. Provided products for diversifying lifestyles, such as an on-demand insurance product for leisure and insurance products for sharing economy businesses. Launched GK/TOUGH Observe and Protect Automobile Insurance (Dashcam Type), enhanced functions of Suma-Ho (Smartphone) Driving Ability Diagnosis, and provided products/services that contribute to safe Create mobility society without accidents driving and prevention of accidents. Developed products for autonomous driving, such as a voluntary automobile insurance product for truck caravans where a driverless system is used for vehicles following the lead truck. Provided assistance for the revitalization of local industries and the improvement of local resident safety, including through collaboration with local governments on regional revitalization measures, development of BCPs, and provision of solutions to smalland medium-sized enterprises that are working towards achieving the SDGs. Strive for resilient community development Provided support to corporations to ensure business continuity and to people to return to normal life in the event of large-scale disasters by promptly responding to natural disasters and appropriately handling accidents through the implementation of eﬃcient damage appraisals by leveraging drones and cutting-edge communication technology and by enhancing a system used for receiving accident reports. Provided products and services that contribute to improving the health of citizens and supported health and productivity management of corporate through development and provision of insurance products that promote health in collaboration with the University of Tokyo Center of Innovation (COI)*. Support “good health and longevity” *Developed a health promotion insurance package consisting of health management app equipped with a health risk predictive model powered by AI and consultation services, etc. Provided products and services that meet the need for systematic asset-building through customerʼs own eﬀorts in the era of the 100-year life, including the launch of foreign-currency denominated Tontine Annuities. Climate change mitigation Contributed to the spread of renewable energy business through provision of products and services that support the business Contribute to climate change mitigation and Climate change adaptation adaptation Promoted disaster prevention awareness among customers and ensured adequate compensation scheme through a ﬂood and earthquake preparedness campaign Promoted disaster prevention and reduction awareness campaign on each Group company website Informed the public about natural capital, through activities such as by hosting a session with the theme of “Considering Green Resilience” at the National Conference for Promoting Disaster Risk Prevention 2018 Strive to improve sustainability of natural capital Held an international symposium on ESG investment and deforestation risk Held a symposium on corporates and biodiversity 020 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Targets and Results Worked to establish inclusive and decent for business procedures to socially vulnerable groups when reporting accident/making a claim. Such eﬀorts include encouraging elderly customers to register with the Relatives Notiﬁcation System and launching various support services* beneﬁcial to persons with hearing/speech impairments *Sign language interpretation service, claims procedures booklet that comes with audio guidance, sign language video guidance, and others Work toward realization of “leaving no one behind” Developed a foster parent insurance system as part of the comprehensive partnership agreement with Osaka Prefecture Promoted measures to support people with dementia and their families, through the development of a voluntary automotive insurance that covers compensation liability for victims of accidents caused by a driver in an impaired state Developed an accident relief insurance program that covers compensation liability for victims of accidents caused by a person with dementia in partnership with Kobe City Mid-term Target *For the target of reduction of CO2, The MS&AD Insurance Group holds target as below; Reduce CO2 emissions to 70% from the base year (ﬁscal 2009) in 2050, and reduce to 30% in 2020. *For the target of “Ratio of females in managerial positions”, at the end of ﬁscal 2020, we hold target as below; Group Domestic : Ratio of female managers up to 15% MSI : 480 female managers (four times compared to 120 in ﬁscal 2014) ADI : Ratio of deputy managers or higher occupied by women up to 30% MSI Aioi Life : The number of female managers to be increased 5 times as many as in 2014 and ratio of deputy managers or higher occupied by women up to 50% *For the target of “Ratio of taking fully paid paternity/secondary leave”, at the end of ﬁscal 2021, MSI holds each target as below; MSI : 80% ESG Data / Reference Material 021 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Communication with Stakeholders Communication with Stakeholders We believe it is important to understand what our stakeholders expect and want from the Group and utilize this understanding to improve the quality of products and services in order to always be an enterprise group that is needed by society. The MS&AD Insurance Group has various systems to facilitate communication with our stakeholders and is working on incorporating the voices of the stakeholders into the Groupʼs management strategies. It is our role to provide the best solutions to the uncertainties and risks in society based on public expectations for the insurance and ﬁnancial services. In order to provide safety and security to people and support dynamic business activities and a healthy and productive life, we listen to the voices of our stakeholders and utilize them for quality improvement. In addition, we disclose our processes for understanding the received feedback, their contents and the results of the improvement eﬀorts made towards them, and make all of the information available for public inspection on our website and others. 022 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Communication with Stakeholders The MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications was formulated with the aim of receiving a wide variety of feedback from customers, including inquiries, requests, and grievances, among others, to be utilized for quality improvement. To oﬀer products and services that satisfy customers as required by this basic policy, domestic Group insurance companies have formulated a “Customer-first Policy in the Business Operations” to help them extensively listen to the voices of customers and make continuous eﬀorts to improve the quality of our products and services, as well as our operations. Customers Furthermore, we endeavor to understand our stakeholdersʼ needs and expectations, and for this end, together with management level discussions, have constructed various schemes that help to improve the quality of the products and services we oﬀer. Quality that Earns the Trust of Society Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) We are conducting IR activities in accordance with our basic policy to win the trust of shareholders and investors, and to enable our Groupʼs corporate value to be fairly evaluated. The MS&AD Insurance Group proactively engages in highly transparent information disclosure and constructive dialogue with shareholders and investors in an eﬀort to achieve sustainable growth and increase corporate value. Speciﬁcally, through highly transparent information disclosure, the MS&AD Insurance Group seeks to reduce Shareholders information asymmetry with shareholders and investors. The feedback gained from the constructive dialogue with shareholders and investors is shared with management and the relevant departments to be utilized in the formulation of management strategies. Disclosure of Information and Investor Relations (IR) By maintaining eﬀective communication with agents, who are our business partners, and by thinking and acting together, the MS&AD Insurance Group aims to oﬀer quality service and optimal insurance products to our customers. In this way, we also encourage the Group companies and agents to grow together. We intend to further strengthen communication with agents by providing support to various initiatives aimed at bolstering the agent organizationsʼ growth and contributions to various local and social activities. Agents Furthermore, due to the growth of the agentsʼ businesses, dedicated full-time staﬀ members with expertise provide overall management support to agentsʼ, including in growth strategies, maintenance of systems, and staﬀ education through training and one-to-one meetings, thereby improving the agentsʼ management base and the quality of their products and services. Quality that Earns the Trust of Society We will conduct fair and equitable transactions with integrity and endeavor to achieve sustainable development as well as to fulﬁll our corporate social responsibilities. The MS&AD Insurance Group, in line with the ISO14001, explains its Group Environmental Basic Policy to business partners and asks for their cooperation. Furthermore, Business Partners The MS&AD Insurance Group supports its business partnersʼ initiatives towards the environment, including the acquisition of Eco Action 21 certiﬁcation, a simpliﬁed version of the environmental ISO certiﬁcation. Transaction Responsibilities ・Each year, the MS&AD Insurance Group carries out an employee engagement survey covering topics such as those to ascertain the degree of diﬀusion of the Group Mission, Vision, and Values; the degree of unity within the Group; and whether employees feel a strong sense of motivation. ・A “speak up” system encouraging whistleblowing has been put in place, creating an environment in which employees can frankly and proactively share their views on any problems they perceive and raise their concerns. Employees ・A message board was established on the intranet to collect the views and improvement proposals from employees in order to incorporate them into quality improvement. The opinions are reviewed at each headquarters division and the feedback is given based on the results. ・Through the exchange of opinions between management-level executives and employees, we continue to make eﬀorts to leverage employee feedback in business operations. 023 HOME / Sustainability / MS&AD Insurance Group and Sustainability / Communication with Stakeholders As a member of both the local and international communities, the MS&AD Insurance Group takes part in the initiatives listed below, among other initiatives, makes eﬀorts to understand the diversifying sustainability issues, and continues to take relevant actions. Paris Pledge for Action United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) United Nations Environmental Program Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) [Principles for Sustainable Insurance (PSI), Natural Capital Finance Alliance (NCFA)] Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Final Recommendation Japan Climate Initiative (JCI) Principles for Financial Action towards a Sustainable Society (Principles for Financial Action for the 21st Local Communities and International Society Century) Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) With regard to social contribution activities conducted through our main business, including our insurance business, employees engage in contribution activities for environmental conservation and local communities to support their sustainable development. Furthermore, through the MS&AD Unison Smile Club, a social contribution group created by the employees of the MS&AD Insurance Group, we conduct various social contribution activities in collaboration with non-proﬁt organizations. Our Sustainability Approach Work toward Realization of “Leaving No One Behind” We have developed the Group Environmental Basic Policy and are implementing various initiatives. The MS&AD Insurance Group will continue to contribute to the solution of environmental issues through various actions, such as signing the Paris Pledge for Action, and participation in a wide range of initiatives including the UN Global Compact, Principles of Sustainable Insurance, and Natural Capital Declaration. In addition, we analyzed what is the role of corporations in the 2030 Agenda for SDGs (Sustainable Developmental Environment Goals), and reﬂected them in our Medium-term Management Plan, “Vision 2021”. As a global insurance and ﬁnancial services provider, we will continue to work on promoting initiatives from a global standpoint to push for the sustainability of the global environment. Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaption Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural Capital 024 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities Our Sustainability Priorities Increasingly frequent and intense natural disasters caused by climate change are a risk shared by the entire planet, and non-life insurance companies, which are deeply involved in responding to such disasters, are concerned about a deterioration of the global insurance system due to an increase in claim payouts. The MS&AD Insurance Group endorses the Paris Agreement, aimed at resolving climate change issues and is ratiﬁed by countries around the world, and in December 2015 the Group signed on to the Paris Pledge for Action to declare its commitment toward this aim. Our lifestyles as well as economic activities dependent on natural resources, such as water and lumber, as well as on the resources provided by plant, animal and other ecosystems that will be considerably impacted by the degeneration of ecosystems and the depletion of natural resources. In July 2016, the Group signed the Natural Capital Declaration in support of its assertion that ﬁnancial institutions should incorporate the idea of “natural capital” into their ﬁnancial products and services going forward in the 21st century. We have been helping to improve the resilience of customers and the society by providing risk management and insurance products that guard against the risks of climate change and natural capital degradation, and engaging in eﬀorts to reduce our own greenhouse gas emissions. Additionally, we signed the UN Global Compact and voiced our support for the Universal Declaration of Human Rights in June 2004, and ever since have adopted approaches in line with the ILO Core Labor Standards and the OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises. In February 2017, we established the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on Human Rights to better fulﬁll the obligation that companies have to respect human rights. We recognize that we are liable for the observable and potential adverse impacts of our business activities, including those throughout our value chains, and we have been undertaking activities and engaged in dialogues that manifest our respect for human rights. The following three issues need to be resolved by realizing a resilient and sustainable society and, given their major impact on our Group and society as a whole, they have been designated as priority issues for our Group. Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural and Adaptation Capital Implementing Activities and Dialog that Respect Human Rights 025 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Aspirations With the adoption of the 2015 Paris Agreement, a framework agreement on climate change, governments around the world agreed to keep the increase in the global average temperature well-below 2ºC from pre-Industrial Revolution levels, and to work to limit this increase to 1.5ºC. To that end, the worldʼs greenhouse gas emissions must be peaked out as soon as possible and then reach a balance with greenhouse gas absorption (forests, etc.) in the second half of the 21st century. A transition to a decarbonized society, with substantial reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, should be made in adapting to climate change. As an insurer, the MS&AD Insurance Group is addressing the accumulation risks of cumulative damage due to natural disasters while promptly ascertaining social changes to advance the level of its own risk management. We are working to reduce the environmental burden accompanying our business activities with a target at 70% reduction by FY2050 using FY2009 as a benchmark year. Furthermore, we will continue to support sustainable development by providing insurance and consulting services designed to reduce damage and loss incurred in corporate and other activities due to abnormal weather stemming from climate change, and by developing products/services that help advance the transition to a decarbonized society. Climate-related Financial Disclosure To achieve a “Resilient and Sustainable Society”, the MS&AD Insurance Group is tackling climate changes mitigation and adaptation through Creating Shared Value (CSV initiative) . Because climate change may bring serious impact on society and industry and may constitute a major factor behind the ﬂuctuations in corporate performance, companies' disclosure regarding the impacts of climate change on their business activities is becoming more important than ever. Our Group endorses the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) and promotes the disclosure of ﬁnancial information. Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) 026 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Creating Shared Value Advanced climate change may bring unprecedented tremendous disaster by weather events with growth in frequency and magnitude. In addition to such large, intense disasters, slower changes in weather patterns will destabilize business activities and day-to-day living, causing both physical and economic harm. Weather disasters are an enormous risk confronting the entire planet, and insurers closely involved in responding to such disasters are concerned that more expensive insurance payment could lead to a degradation of the global insurance system. We must make eﬀorts to mitigate advancing climate change while also putting measures in place to prepare for rising risks. The Group will provide society with safety and security through adequate preparations, including reinsurance for damage from large-scale disasters. We will also support new businesses that promote climate change adaptation by providing suitable services to reduce or eliminate damage and loss inﬂicted on customers by weather disasters and that help bring about a decarbonized society. Identifying and providing Preventing risks from being realized Reducing the economic burden information on risks Reducing the impact of risks when risks materialize Risk analysis based on the impacts of climate change Proposals for risk management measures based on Provision of needed risk coverage (Analysis examples) survey/analysis ﬁndings (Coverage example) ・Risk assessments based on long-term ﬂooding (Proposal example) ・Coverage for the risk of lower sales due to the forecasts ・Examining countermeasures based on simulations suspension of business operations or the closure of ・Future business risks connected with the transition of business operations being suspended facilities, and for the risk of higher expenses incurred, for to a decarbonized society due to large-scale weather disasters example, due to restoration eﬀorts after system ・Risk of water depletion at business locations breakdowns engaged in businesses that use large volumes of water Oﬀering Solutions to Identify/Prevent Weather Disaster Risks Due to Climate Change Given the need to adapt to new risks arising from climate change, assessment/analysis of climate change risks have become essential. Our Group is stepping up its initiatives to assess/analyze climate change risks. 027 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation The MS&AD Insurance Group and MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting have teamed up with the University of Tokyo and the Shibaura Institute of Technology to undertake a Large-scale Assessment of Flood Risk Due to Climate Change (LaRC-Flood™) and published a Map of Forecasted Flood Frequency Change Due to Climate Change as part of this project. To clarify the relation between climate change and ﬂooding risk, we have also begun extensively and quantitatively evaluating the Provision of maps showing forecasts of changes to impacts of global warming on the probability of past ﬂoods occurring, with a focus on the major rivers in Asia. ﬂooding frequency due to climate change Advancing climate change could increase ﬂood risk globally in future, which would have a major impact on corporate management. As an insurer, the MS&AD Insurance Group will strive to respond to natural disasters and prevent/mitigate damage from these disasters. Climate change in particular has long been an issue of interest for the Group as a whole, and we have been pursuing an industry-government-academia collaboration to resolve social issues and bring about our vision of an ideal society. LaRC-Flood map (Japanese only) Risks that should be ascertained by companies are physical risks, such as ﬂooding and droughts, stemming from climate change and transition risks in the course of transition to a decarbonized society in line with Paris Agreement, including changes in the energy structure. We provide services that assess and analyze such risks, Climate change risk analysis service and support the disclosure in accordance with the TCFDʼs Final Recommendations. Climate change risk analysis service (Japanese only) Providing Coverage We are assisting economic revitalization and climate change mitigation and adaptation through appropriate preparations for damage/loss caused by weather disasters as well as innovations to bring about a decarbonized society by oﬀering insurance and consulting services in addition to developing and providing products that reduce environmental burden. We support dissemination of renewable energies through various types of insurance that comprehensively cover a variety of risks, including property damage, lost proﬁts and compensation liability, surrounding renewable energy companies (e.g. solar power, wind power, biomass power, and small and medium-sized hydropower companies), and risk management services such as risk assessment/consulting and providing information through handbooks Products that support renewable energy businesses and other means. Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) We sell weather derivatives to lessen the ﬁnancial losses due to unseasonable weather. We provide solutions by underwriting weather derivatives that cover decreased sales and increased expenses stemming from belowaverage (or above-average) rainfall levels, extreme heat, unusually cool summers, severe winters, warmer-thanWeather derivatives normal winters, or a lack of sunshine. InterRisk Sustainable Management Report (Japanese only) PDF We continue to participate in the Paciﬁc Catastrophe Risk Assessment and Financing Initiative, jointly established in 2013 by the Japanese government and the World Bank, as a company underwriting reinsurance for natural Paciﬁc Catastrophe Risk Assessment and Financing disaster risks. This system rapidly supplies relief funding to Paciﬁc Island nations with underdeveloped insurance Initiative markets (Samoa, Tonga, Marshall Islands, and Cook Islands) hit by natural disasters of a certain scale (cyclones, earthquakes, tsunamis). 028 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Eﬀorts to Reduce the Burden on the Environment We regard environmental issues as a priority issue for corporate management and are undertaking business activities that boost the sustainability of the global environment. Environmental Management Considering environmental issues as a priority issue for corporate management, we are actively pursuing environmental eﬀorts aimed at creating a decarbonized society in accordance with the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on the Environment. These eﬀorts are being carried out in line with the Code of Conduct set out in the Environmental Basic Policy which combines ISO14001 certiﬁcation, the international standard for environmental management systems, with the MS&AD OUR EARTH Project, the Groupʼs own management system. Basic Policy on the Environment ISO14001 Management System Registration Certiﬁcate PDF Reducing CO2 Emissions With our support for the Paris Agreement adopted in 2015, we have signed the Paris Pledge for Action that calls on its signatories to address climate change and global warming. In keeping with this pledge, we have formulated CO2 emission reduction targets for FY2020 and FY2050 for the Group as a whole. As an insurance/ﬁnance group doing business globally, we are mobilizing the entire Group to pro-actively reduce its CO2 emissions. Mid-term Target Decreasing Paper Use We substantially reduce the environmental burden through less paper use by computerizing insurance contract and payment procedures, etc., and making electronic policy certiﬁcates, terms, and conditions accessible on the Internet. Promoting the Use of FSC-Certiﬁed paper * Our Group has been making a switchover to FSC-Certiﬁed paper for pamphlets and other printed material since FY2010. Using paper made with lumber sourced from properly managed forests, we contribute to conserve biodiversity through forest protection. (*) Paper manufactured from lumber sourced from properly managed forests in the interest of sustainable forest use and environmental conservation 029 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Eﬀorts Across the Value Chain Our eﬀorts to reduce the environmental burden are also promoted in conjunction with key business partners. We are engaged in green purchasing, prioritizing eco­friendlyproducts in procuring the materials used in our operations, and our entire value chain is working to establish a sustainable society. We have provided a program to obtain certiﬁcation under the EcoAction 21 environmental management system advocated by the Ministry of the Environment to our agents and small and medium-sized corporate clients. Support for Certiﬁcation under EcoAction 21 We are promoting eco-friendly vehicle maintenance and inspections through Advance Club, an organization of maintenance facility agents. Eco-friendly vehicle maintenance and inspection uses maintenance technologies Eco-maintenance and Eco-inspection primarily to clean the engineʼs combustion chambers by special methods (engine cleaning) thereby reducing toxic gas emissions, improving fuel eﬃciency and helping to reduce CO2 emissions by reducing fuel use. We prepare and propose support tools to promote Eco-Safety Driving, an eco-friendly approach designed to reduce fuel costs and vehicle accidents. Eco-Safety Driving We are encouraging the use of paperless insurance policy certiﬁcates (excluding MSI Aioi Life Insurance) and Web policy. MSI and ADI also make a donation to environmental conservation eﬀorts each time customers choose eco-insurance policies, and Web policy clauses. Eco-insurance policies, Web policy clauses (MSA Life Insurance oﬀers Web policy only) MSI Green Power supporter, eco-insurance policies /Web policy (Japanese only) ADI paperless insurance policy certiﬁcates, and Web policy (Japanese only) MSI Aioi Life Insurance Web policy (Japanese only) Participation in the CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project) The CDP (formerly known as the Carbon Disclosure Project) is an independent nonproﬁt organization with the world's largest database for corporate measures against climate changes, and corporations and organizations across the world have disclosed their greenhouse gas emissions and measures against climate change through CDP. The MS&AD Insurance Group subscribes to CDP's approaches and continuously submits new data. 030 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation / Basic Policy on the Environment Basic Policy on the Environment The MS&AD Insurance Group has established the following Environmental Basic Policy. MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on the Environment Under its Group Mission Statement, “To contribute to the development of a vibrant society and help secure a sound future for the planet, by enabling safety and peace of mind through the global insurance and ﬁnancial services business” the MS&AD Insurance Group has made the environment a part of its corporate strategy. The Group has established the following Key Issues and is advancing eﬀorts in these areas in line with the Standards of Conduct listed below. The Group is committed to ongoing improvement through its environmental management system, and to abiding by environmentrelated laws and regulations, and the principles, and guidelines agreed to by all members of the MS&AD Insurance Group. 1. Key Issues （1）Mitigation of and adaptation to climate change （2）Sustainable use of resources （3）Reduction of environmental burden （4）Preservation of biodiversity 2. Standards of Conduct （1）Initiatives via our insurance and ﬁnancial services We will create insurance and ﬁnancial services that contribute to the Key Issues, and work to resolve social issues and thus enhance corporate value. （2）Initiatives as part of the business process Through an innovative reassessment of our business processes, we will work to enhance quality and improve business operations while making more eﬃcient use of resources and energy. （3）Environmental awareness and protection activities By raising environmental awareness among all of our executives and employees, our communities, and the next generation, we will work with stakeholders to promote environmental protection activities, gaining their trust, and building sympathy for these issues. Established April 1, 2010 Revised April 1, 2016 031 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation / Climate-related Financial Disclosure Climate-related Financial Disclosure Climate-related Financial Disclosure (vis-à-vis TCFD recommendations) The MS & AD Insurance Group is tackling climate changes mitigation and adaptation as one of the social issues to achieve a “Resilient and Sustainable Society”. In June 2017, The Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) released its Final Recommendations constituting a framework for companies and other organizations to voluntarily disclose climate-related information. MS&AD Holdings will disclose information on climate-related eﬀorts in line with these Recommendations. What is TCFD? (Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry) (Japanese only) Governance: Climate-related Internal Control Major issues related to climate are discussed and decided by the Board of Directors. The Board of Directors discusses and decides on major issues such as policies, strategies, and capital measures, including climate-related ones and initiatives, and oversees the execution of operations by directors and executive oﬃcers. The Group Management Committee deliberates on such as policies and strategies, including climate-related issues and initiatives, and monitors the execution of those operations by executive oﬃcers. Information on climate-related issues and the progress being made in climate-related initiatives is reported primarily to the Board of Directors and the Group Management Committee after discussions by the Sustainability Committee and the Risk Management Committee (respectively four times annually as a rule). Strategy: Climate-related Risks and Opportunities While maintaining ﬁnancial soundness and steady proﬁts, our Group will cover damages caused by typhoons, ﬂoods or other climate-related natural disasters, and provide consulting on disaster preparation globally. 032 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation / Climate-related Financial Disclosure ＜Climate-related risks＞ Typhoons and other natural disasters occasionally cause enormous damage, and it is possible that natural disasters will increase in both frequency and size globally as a consequence of climate change, leading to huge natural disasters that exceed previous forecasts. Our Group utilizes reinsurance and allocates catastrophe reserves in preparation for covering damage due to natural disasters, but ever-larger claim payments could pose a risk to our performance. We thus take into consideration the impact of climate change while controlling(*) the retained amount of natural catastrophe risk to secure we have the capital necessary to maintain our ﬁnancial soundness. To prepare against frequent natural disasters and to be able to pay out claims promptly to customers who have suﬀered losses, we have strengthened our claim submission system and have built up intra-Group cooperation in retention of loss adjusters and running of survey oﬃces. Our Group recognizes that climate change can have impacts such as the following, in addition to natural disasters: ・Changes in weather conditions such as low rainfall, drought, etc. ・Strict environmental regulations and technological innovations to mitigate the impacts of climate change ・Increases in environmental litigations We monitor the eﬀects on our Group's business by these risks other than natural disasters and utilize for business strategies. We are also engaged in dialogues with companies in our investment portfolio regarding the impacts of climate-related risks on business activities. (*) Controlling the retained amount of natural catastrophe risk We utilize statistical methods to quantitatively assess risk exposure by region and by type of disaster while taking the impacts of climate change into consideration. Based on these assessments, we strive to make reinsurance arrangements, issue catastrophe bonds, and allocate catastrophe reserves with appropriate underwriting. These steps are aimed at improving the entire Groupʼs ﬁnancial and reducing the risk of proﬁt soundress ﬂuctuations. More speciﬁcally, we are promoting initiatives such as the following. (1)Natural disaster risk management ・We have established net retention standards (guidelines) for each Group company pertaining to wind/ﬂood damage risk in Japan and in the US, setting the risk of covered events occurring one-in-200-years as a standard in order to control natural disaster risk retention. (2)Lower the natural catastrophe retention on a Group-wide basis・Lower the natural catastrophe retention including that for windstorm and ﬂoods in the United States Further enhance the proﬁtability of the reinsurance business (3)Reduce the risk of proﬁt ﬂuctuations ・By enhancing the respective existing reinsurance coverage of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance and Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance for domestic natural catastrophes and creating joint reinsurance treaty coverage shared by the two companies that covers annual aggregate losses, the Group reduces the losses on a once-in-10-years basis by around 20% year on year, decreasing the risk of proﬁt ﬂuctuation ＜Climate-related opportunities＞ We have been undertaking eﬀorts aimed at contributing to climate change mitigation/adaptation and creating shared value with society (CSV initiatives). In addition to providing insurances that cover climate-related damages and oﬀering risk assessment consulting, we are striving to provide insurance and other products/services that promote the widespread use of renewable energies and hydrogen technologies. To help customers prepare better for natural disasters, we are working to disseminate insurance coverages through preparation for ﬂoods and earthquake campaign aiming at making our customers better prepared and working to extend coverage. Furthermore, we are taking part in an industry-academia-government collaboration. For example, we have joined with university researchers in the LaRC-Flood® Project to study ﬂood risk impact assessment. We have also exchanged views with people from various societal backgrounds in a climate change symposium we held entitled “Considering the Next Step toward SDGs with a Focus on Climate Change”. The advanced research and discussions will bring greater sophistication to our Groupʼs risk management and will be utilized in developing products and services. 033 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation / Climate­related Financial Disclosure Our Sustainability Priorities: Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation Scenario analyses We are undertaking scenario analyses of the impacts of climate change on business as suggested in the TCFD Recommendations. We are participating in a pilot project led by the United Nations Environmental Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) to study TCFD disclosures by insurance companies, and developing scenario analysis methods for the insurance business. We have also begun calculating our own carbon footprint and carrying out scenario analyses of our asset management portfolio. In addition, we have developed stress scenarios that take climate change factors into account in stress tests of the impact of typhoons on the insurance industry. Risk Management (Risk Assessment and Management) Our company identiﬁes climate­related risk events in accordance with the MS&AD Insurance Group Risk Management Basic Policy and, assesses the degree of risk control at all Group companies via the ERM cycle and reports to the Risk Management Committee. We are increasing sophistication of risk management by incorporating climate change factors into stress tests. We have also initiated dialogues with companies in our investment portfolios to encourage them to disclose climate­related information. ERM and Risk Management Metrics and Targets ＜Indicators and targets＞ The Group has incorporated climate change mitigation/adaptation approaches into its key performance indicators (KPIs). The results of these approaches are being reﬂected in the performance­based compensation of our companyʼs internal directors. Our Sustainability Priorities: Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation and Adaptation ＜Reductions in CO2 emissions＞ In seeking to lower its CO2 emissions, our Group has set FY2009 as the baseline year for calculating emission reduction targets of 30% by 2020 and 70% by 2050. Mid­term Target ＜Impact of natural disasters on insurance underwriting income＞ Natural disasters and other factors can cause insurance underwriting proﬁt ﬂuctuation. Our Group discloses insurance underwriting proﬁts as well as the amounts of claims paid for natural catastrophes and ﬂuctuations of catastrophe reserves. MS&AD Integrated Report, p. 118 034 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural Capital Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural Capital Aspirations Our lifestyles and economic activities are made possible thanks to the bounties of nature (ecosystem services) which rely on a stock of natural capital. Resilient and Sustainable Society can only come about if its foundations are rooted in the global environment in through natural capital and stable weather systems and other factors. The sustainability of society as a whole including companies depends on business models that integrate the sustainability of natural capital. The MS&AD Insurance Group is working to ensure sustainable relationship between natural capital and business activities. Identify and inform on risks Prevent risks from occurring/minimize the impact Reduce the economic burden Assessing risks, including the depletion/degradation Proposals on risk management measures based on Provision of risk coverage of natural capital research/analysis ﬁndings (Coverage example) (Analysis examples) (Proposal example) ・Expenses incurred during recall when a ・Future risk of water depletion at business facilities ・Consultation on land use that considers local sustainability certiﬁcation of the used materials is that use large volumes of water ecosystems revoked and expenses needed for apology ・Assessment of the sustainability of supply chains which primarily depends on natural resources Solutions to Identify/Prevent Risks on Natural Capital Projects development business undertaken inside and outside Japan and business activities depended on supply chain have the potential to cause major losses to natural capital. It is thus important to analyze/assess the impact of business activities on natural capital and to take the steps necessary to establish a sustainable relationship between the two. Risk Assessment Service for Natural Capital We quantitatively assess the impact of project development business in Japan and overseas on natural capital. Focusing on business locations and project development in Japan and overseas, we support speciﬁc risk assessment that ascertains the value of the surrounding natural capital and determines where and what kind of impact natural capital is being impacted in the supply chains, and apply this information to its business decisions. We support eﬀorts to adopt “natural capital accounting” that highlights the connections between natural capital and the business as a whole. 035 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural Capital Provision of a Water Risk Assessment Service An increasing number of areas worldwide are experiencing depletion of their water resources due to climate change, population increases in developing countries, economic development and other factors. In some cases, this depletion has been serious enough to threaten companiesʼ operations. Companies now need to identify and disclose their own water risks. We oﬀer services for assessing the water risks (depletion, contamination, ﬂooding/droughts, etc.) business locations face inside and outside Japan. Environmental Supply Chain Consulting Establishing a sustainable raw material procurement network is a key business challenge in realizing sustainable business activities. We conduct environmental business risk analyses of raw material procurement tailored to speciﬁc industry sectors, and support approach prioritization and the formulation of supply chain management activities. Biodiversity-conscious Land Use Consulting A growing number of companies which see eﬀorts to conserve biodiversity as both risks and opportunities for their businesses have begun to take biodiversity into account in determining their businessesʼ land use. We oﬀer comprehensive support ranging from research/analysis to the formulation of development/activity plans for the use of oﬃces, apartment buildings, and other land with green spaces. Preserving Conserving Biodiversity through Partnerships and Industry-Academia Collaboration Our lifestyles and economic activities are made possible thanks to the bounties of nature (ecosystem services), underpinned by a biodiversity conserved natural capital. The sustainability of society as a whole including companies depends on business models that consider biodiversity. Our Group has made biodiversity conservation one of key issues in MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on the Environment and is pursuing measures accordingly. Natural Capital Declaration Signed In July 2016 our Group signed the Natural Capital Declaration, which calls on ﬁnancial institutions to incorporate the concept of “natural capital” into their ﬁnancial products and services, and we have been taking part in the Natural Capital Finance Alliance (NCFA). 036 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural Capital Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) and “The Story of Biodiversity Told by Companies” In regards to conservation of biodiversity and sustainable use of biological resources, MS&AD Holdings has been serving as the chair company of the Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB), which brings companies together for joint research projects on biodiversity, since JBIBʼs founding in April 2008. In February 2019, our company hosted the “The Story of Biology Told by Companies” symposium for the 12th time, creating an opportunity to provide information on corporate eﬀorts for biodiversity. Such eﬀorts have been highly praised, as evidenced by the mentions in the National Biodiversity Strategy of Japan 2012-2020, Guidelines for Private Sector Engagement in Biodiversity and elsewhere. Japan Business Initiative for Biodiversity (JBIB) oﬃcial website FY2018 “The Story of Biology Told by Companies” symposium (Japanese only) FY2019 “The Story of Biology Told by Companies” symposium JBIB logo 037 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural Capital Participation in Research on Ecosystem Disaster Prevention/Mitigation and Multifaceted Uses of Ecosystems MS&AD Holdings is participating in Research and Social Implementation of Ecosystem­based DisasterRisk Reduction (Eco­DRR) as Climate Change Adaptation in Shrinking Societies , a research project being conducted by Research Institute for Humanity and Nature, an inter­ university research institute corporation under the Ministry of Education, Culture, Sports, Science and Technology that is engaged in comprehensive research on the global environment. The project focuses on methods for utilizing the wide­ranging functions of ecosystems to prevent/mitigate disasters (Eco­DRR) and, with population decline being seen as an opportunity to revamp land use, research is being carried out to create local communities that can both enjoy the rich blessings of nature and prevent/mitigate disasters. Environmental Conservation Eﬀorts within the Group We are actively engaged in internal education to the Group employees as well as our own environmental conservation eﬀorts. Support for the Regeneration of Forests and Formation of Sustainable Local Communities (Indonesia) Over the past 14 years, starting in FY2005, we have been working with the Indonesian government to restore wildlife sanctuary forests and to regenerate tropical forests in the Special Region of Yogyakarta on Java Island. We have also been endeavoring to stimulate the local economy by, for instance, planting trees to revive degraded forests, and to form sustainable local communities, maintaining/managing protected forests and pursuing cooperative forestation eﬀorts with local residents by oﬀering them technical guidance on planting and cultivating trees. Indonesia Reforestation Project Guidance on agricultural techniques Educational program 038 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural Capital MS&AD Ramsar Supporters Group employees and their family members have been involved since FY2010 in the environmental conservation eﬀorts of wetlands, including those that have been registered under the Ramsar Convention. We also oﬀer visiting lectures to schools to communicate the rich biodiversity of wetlands to the students. Activities in Yatsu tidal ﬂat (Chiba Prefecture) Ramsar Supporters activities (Japanese only) Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Surugadai Green Spaces The Surugadai Building and the Surugadai New Annex are highly regarded for their green spaces that reﬂect our consideration for biodiversity. On the grounds, there is ECOM Surugadai , an open facility to the community, where activities such as communication of environmental information and workshops. Surugadai Building Green Space Environmental Eﬀorts in Employee Cafeterias Against the background of increasing ocean pollution and with the goals of reducing the use of plastic and educating employees on the issue of marine plastic waste, we abolished the use of plastic cups and straws in employee cafeterias in August 2018. In July 2019, we set up faucet­ connected water stands and began encouraging employees to use their own bottles. As of October 2019, we will also be serving sustainable seafood. 039 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Implementing Activities and Dialog that Respect Human Rights Implementing Activities and Dialog that Respect Human Rights Aspirations In June 2004, the MS&AD Insurance Group proclaimed its support for the United Nations Global Compact and is advancing its approaches for the respect of human rights as a company that supports the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, ILO Core Labor Standards, and OECD Guidelines for Multinational Enterprises through its participation in the United Nations Global Compact. In addition, the MS&AD Insurance Group formulated the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on Human Rights in February 2017 to further fulﬁll its responsibilities towards respecting human rights. The Policy applies not only to our Group but also to other stakeholders in the Groupʼs value chain, including suppliers related to the procurement of services and business partners such as agents. We are engaging with our stakeholders in order to prevent and mitigate any adverse impacts on human rights from businesses activities. Basic Policy on Human Rights The MS&AD Insurance Group stipulates respect for human rights in its MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on Human Rights. MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on Human Rights The MS&AD Insurance Group is committed to enhancing the enterprise value and contributing to the creation of a sustainable and resilient society through behavior that takes into account interaction with the environment and society in all business activities, with the aim of realizing Our Mission. We recognize our responsibility for the actual and potential adverse impact our business activities have on human rights, including the impact of value chain, and we have pursued activities and dialogues that respect human rights. This Basic Policy has been adopted to prepare for this. 1. Basic Approach (1) Compliance with laws, regulations and norms related to respect for human rights (i)The Group respects international norms on human rights such as the United Nations International Bill of Human Rights, the corporate code of conduct in the United Nations Global Compact, and the principles concerning fundamental rights set out in the International Labor Organization Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. (ii) In addition to complying with laws and regulations in countries and regions where we conduct business activities, we seek ways to respect the principles of internationally recognized human rights when these laws and regulations conﬂict with the principles, while considering the circumstances in such countries and regions. 040 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Implementing Activities and Dialog that Respect Human Rights (2) Non-discrimination We respect basic human rights in all business activities, and not discriminate based on race, nationality, gender, age, ethnic origin, descent (family origin), social status, creed, religion, physical characteristics, disability, sexual orientation, gender identity or pregnancy. (3) Corporate culture that respects human rights (i) With “achieving mutual growth by respecting one another's individuality and opinions, and by sharing knowledge and ideas” as one of Our Values, we will foster a corporate culture that respects human rights. (ii) We respect diverse values and engage in the creation of a friendly working environment with consideration for the mental and physical health and safety of every single employee. 2. Human Rights Due Diligence We will create a system for human rights due diligence in accordance with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights, and engage in dialogue, consultation and reporting. (1) Assessment and prevention We will identify and assess any actual and potential human rights risks, and take prioritized steps to prevent and mitigate them. (2) Remedy, remediation and dialogue If the Group causes adverse human rights impacts, we will perform appropriate remedy and remediation through appropriate procedures, and engage in the prevention of recurrence. Moreover, if it is found that we are involved in such impacts through the value chain, we will sincerely engage in dialogue. (3) Education and Training We will engage in a broad range of activities to raise awareness of human rights through every opportunity to ensure our oﬃcers and employees have a deeper understanding of global, country-speciﬁc or regional issues related to human rights and their involvement with our business activities and have respect for human rights. 3. Responsibilities as a Global Insurance and Financial Services Provider (1) Protection of privacy In light of the importance of personal information and in accordance with our Basic Policy for Management of Customer Information we will protect personal information to ensure that there is no adverse impact on human rights including privacy. (2) Reﬂection in business processes As a founding signatory to the UN Principles of Sustainable Insurance (PSI) and a signatory to the UN Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), we will consider environmental, social and governance (ESG) aspects in order to meet our responsibility to respect human rights in our insurance underwriting and investment decision-making processes. END Established, February 1, 2017 President & CEO 041 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Implementing Activities and Dialog that Respect Human Rights Statement on the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015 FY2018 Slavery and Human Traﬃcking Statement PDF FY2017 Slavery and Human Traﬃcking Statement PDF FY2016 Slavery and Human Traﬃcking Statement PDF FY2015 Slavery and Human Traﬃcking Statement PDF Human Rights Due Diligence and Remedial Measures The MS&AD Insurance Group has built a system for human rights due diligence in accordance with the United Nations Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights and is carrying out due diligence on a continuous basis. In accordance with the Basic Policy on Human Rights that was formulated in February 2017, we will carry out human rights due diligence in accordance to the steps in the following description As part of the human rights due diligence, we identiﬁed and assessed any actual and potential human rights risks according to the following process up to STEP 3. As a result of the analysis, we selected the following as priority issues: the infringement of privacy arising from the leakage of customers and employeesʼ personal information, and the physical and mental eﬀects of employeesʼ long working hours. We will periodically review the identiﬁcation and assessment of human rights risks and priority issues that reﬂect changes in society and the environment that surrounds the Group and its value chain. STEP1： Identify any actual and potential human rights risks arising from the Groupʼs value chain and stakeholders Assess and analyze such risks identiﬁed in terms of [1] severity* and [2] probability of occurrence (creation of a risk map) STEP2： *Severity is assessed based on the scale, scope, and diﬃculty of remediation of the estimated damage. STEP3： Determine signiﬁcant risks as priority issues through the review of the risk map STEP4： Study and implement necessary preventive and remedial measures as well as review their eﬀects 042 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Implementing Activities and Dialog that Respect Human Rights Human Rights Assessment and Remedial Measures In the human rights due diligence process, we conduct human rights risk assessment, periodically monitor the two priority issues, and implement mitigation measures. Each Group company establishes internal regulations on information management, introduces security measures, and provides education to employees and agents, according to the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Management of Customer Information. To verify the management systems, we regularly conduct inspections and audits of agents, outside vendors, and employees, and promptly implement remedial measures against any found problems. Personal information protection ＜Fiscal 2018 inspections and audits＞ Internal inspections were carried out at the Company and the Groupʼs domestic insurance companies. We inspected and audited around 53,000 agents and outside vendors, and provided instructions including to strengthen security to approximately 260 companies. Information Management The MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Management of Outside Vendors Regarding the health and safety of our employees, we are making a group-wide eﬀort to reform their way of working in addition to managing their work hours with a system. Furthermore, we have established a Speak Up System (whistleblowing system) and a counseling desk, and in ﬁscal 2018 after conducting employee surveys (responses: approximately 46,000 from Japanese oﬃces, 9,000 from overseas oﬃces), we worked to keep Health and productivity management employees well informed about the whistleblowing system and to create an environment where it is easy and accessible to use the consultation services. Work Style Reform and Health and Productivity Management The Speak Up System Since various problems such as low wages and a poor working environment for foreign technical interns and students have recently been arising in Japan and abroad, we conducted interviews with the relevant business divisions in the Group. Although we did not ﬁnd any problematic cases in the interviews, we will continue to follow up on this matter. Education about Human Rights The MS&AD Insurance Group is working on raising awareness of human rights to employees to foster a “corporate culture that respects human rights,” as stipulated in the Basic Policy on Human Rights. In the MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, the Sustainability Section of the Corporate Planning Department plays a central role in promoting eﬀorts to respect human rights inside and outside of Japan in collaboration with departments in charge of overseas compliance and departments in charge of human rights awareness in the operating companies. In the operating companies, the organizations directed by the executive oﬃcers responsible for human rights awareness or oﬃcers in higher positions play a central role to raise human rights awareness of employees. They Structure of Education about Human Rights promote a better understanding of human rights and corporate social responsibility as well as develop and embed a corporate culture of respecting human rights. ＜Major initiatives＞ Planning and formulating as well as implementing and managing workplace training programs for all employees Raising role awareness of employees involved in human rights education. Training on Human Rights ESG Data and Reference Material (Human Rights) 043 HOME / Sustainability / Our Sustainability Priorities / Implementing Activities and Dialog that Respect Human Rights Consultation Service Desk The MS&AD Insurance Group has established a system to receive reports on human rights violations and take appropriate remedial measures In order to prevent violations of laws and regulations, violations of internal regulations, and inappropriate conduct from being neglected, the MS&AD Insurance Group has in place a reporting and consultation system, the Speak Up System, through which employees can report any concerns so the company can promptly identify the facts and take necessary measures. With this system, the Group pushes ahead with compliance with ethics, laws, and regulations. ＜Main subjects of reports and consultation＞ Any matters related to non-compliance Reporting System from Employees (Speak Up Issues related to employeesʼ mental and physical health and other issues caused by sexual harassment, System) power harassment, or any other types of harassment Any matters related to working environment, such as work hours and overtime work We have made eﬀorts to enable informers and consulters to easily use the system by setting up an external contact point at an outside law ﬁrm. In addition, we protect the informers and consulters by ensuring the informers and consultersʼ privacy and protect their information. We also make sure the informers are not treated disadvantageously. Performance of the Speak Up System We have set up a dedicated harassment consulting desk to make sure that employees who feel victimized can consult staﬀ with peace of mind about sexual harassment, power harassment, and maternity harassment cases. Harassment Consulting Desk Based on a thorough but swift fact-ﬁnding investigation, the consulting desk makes corrections and carries out disciplinary actions when the need arises. The company is also making eﬀorts towards prevention by providing education such as workplace training programs for all employees, level-speciﬁc training programs, and e-learning. Promotion of a Sound Relationship with the Labor Union In the MS&AD Group, the Company and the labor union respect each other's position by complying with agreements in good faith and by engaging in eﬀorts to maintain and improve the company's democratic and healthy development, the employee's working conditions, and their position. Based on the agreement, negotiations and consultations are carried out in the context of wages, personnel systems and operations, work environment, and management plan. ・Labor union participation rate：93.9% (as of March, 2019 ) 044 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach Our Value Creation Approach Achieving the SDGs To bring about a resilient and sustainable society, we must acknowledge the social issues that stand in our way and take the initiative in resolving them. These social issues include various risks to the global environment, such as climate change and resource depletion, a decline in vitality due to widening disparities worldwide, new risks such as cyberattacks stemming from technological advances, and rising nursing/medical care expenses in aging societies. Resolving such social issues is also in keeping with the direction set out by the UN in 2015 in its Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The MS&AD Insurance Group will create shared value with society, and work to build a resilient and sustainable society. Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Creating Shared Value Deal with New Risks Create Mobility Society without Accidents Strive for Resilient Community Support “Good Health and Longevity” Development Contribute to Climate Change Mitigation Strive to Improve Sustainability of Natural and Adaptation※ Capital※ Work toward Realization of “Leaving No One Behind” （※）Our Sustainability Priorities 045 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach Initiatives Supporting CSV Quality that earns the trust of society Meeting the Trust of Society with High Implementing sincere, fair and just Quality business activities Implementing Activities and Dialog that Continuing Eﬀorts to Reduce the Burden Respect Human Rights※ on the Environment Implementing Investment Activities that Conforming to PRI (Principles for Responsible Investment) （※）Our Sustainability Priorities Management platforms that enable employees to play active roles Encourage Employees to Learn and Think Promotion of Diversity & Inclusion by Themselves, Take on Challenges and Continue to Grow Implementing Health and Productivity Highly Transparent and Eﬀective Management Corporate Governance 046 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach Sustainability Contest In pursuing Vision 2021, our Medium-term Management Plan, we held our Sustainability Contest 2018 in August 2018 for all Group companies both inside and outside Japan in order to help Group employees better understand the importance of pursuing SDGs and creating shared value (CSV), and to encourage the employees to incorporate these approaches into their day-to-day operations. Applications were received from more than 500 teams worldwide, after which one team was awarded the highest award and ﬁve other teams were presented awards for excellence. The grand prize was awarded to an initiative undertaken by MSI Hokkaido Branch ‒ Achievement of the SDGs through Visionary Meetings ‒ in which “Visionary Meeting” are held periodically to produce inventive ideas, with a conceptual switchover made from conventional product proposal methods to approaches based on resolving social issues. By utilizing interviews with local residents and customers, the Branch worked with relevant in-house organizations to develop necessary products and coverage. The Branchʼs eﬀorts to help resolve local issues by proposing innovative insurance coverage for the maintenance costs for hospitals operating at a loss and by providing cattle coverage to bring greater stability to ranch operations received considerable praise. This Sustainability Contest fosters a sustainability mindset among employees and raises their awareness of the need to connect day-to-day operations with CSV. Using the Sustainability Contest to share approaches to resolving social issues via the creation of new business models has started a virtuous cycle that extends these approaches laterally across the Group. We are planning to hold a second contest in November 2019 in the hopes of seeing increased CSV eﬀorts and greater permeation throughout the Group. Scenes from the Sustainability Contest Goods used to enhance understanding of SDGs The Sustainability Contest was ﬁrst introduced in “IDEAS FOR GOOD” (a magazine featuring new ideas designed to make society better; compiled by Harch Inc.). See here for details (Japanese only) 047 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) The MS & AD Insurance Group provides products and services to support the industries required to realize a sustainable society. We are promoting eﬀorts to create common values with society, including the discovery and prevention of risks. The main products and services aimed at further contributing to the resolution of social issues reached about 48% of income premium in the non-life insurance business in 2018. The 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are based on a recognition of the natural limits of the Earth. Social and economic issues are closely intertwined in the SDGs, and it is crucially important to work on these goals with an integrated approach. The MS&AD Insurance Group is contributing to the achievement of the SDGs by providing risk consulting services, insurance and other services for safety and security from a multifaceted perspective centered on sustainability. ＜Non-Life Insurance＞ Products for individuals ＜Non-Life Insurance＞ Products for business ＜Non-Life Insurance＞ Services for individuals ＜Non-Life Insurance＞ Services for business ＜Life insurance and Medical Insurance＞ ＜Financial Services and Other Businesses＞ Products and Services Outline (★)link is Japanese Major relevant SDGs only *Goal 17 is common to all the products/services. ＜Non-Life Insurance＞ 〇Products for individuals*1 Earthquake insurance Support the restructuring of the livelihood of earthquake victims and the early recovery of areas hit by earthquakes. One-day Promote the reduction of accidents caused by uninsured vehicles through Insurance/One-day the sales of automobile insurance for borrowed vehicles that is available Supporter from one day. One-day Leisure Leisure insurance providing only the required coverage only when needed Insurance to contribute to enriching customer life. TOUGH Connected Car insurance provided with a reasonable insurance premium calculated in automobile insurance consideration of the distance traveled and discounts based on safe driving scores by using the most advanced telematics technology. These new “safe driving incentives (discounts)” and “safe and secure services” have a synergy eﬀect of preventing traﬃc accidents. Applied for Toyota connected cars. 048 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Automobile insurance Have obtained Eco-Mark certiﬁcation through promotion of eco-insurance with eco-mark ★ certiﬁcates and web policy clauses, provision of information for safe driving, and initiatives to reduce environmental burdens such as encouraging the use of recycled automobile parts. GK Mimamoru Provide an automobile insurance with the concept of supporting (Safeguards) customers' safe driving and safeguarding their driving against an accident Automobile Insurance, by utilizing the latest telematics technology. In addition to a driving TOUGH Connected diagnosis by analyzing the driving data of the contracted car, a wide range Automobile Insurance of alert service on safe driving are provided. In the event of an accident, our operator will reach them to conﬁrm their safety and provide advice on the necessary procedures to take. Fire insurance Provided a ﬁre insurance including a rider for a landlord liability insurance products that respond in order to compensate for the cost of a damage caused by the lonely death to aging society of elderly people in rental housing. In addition, an incidental service (furniture movement and light bulb replacement service) that supports the elderly's daily life is provided by ﬁre insurance. Responding to the increasing risk associated with the increase in patients with dementia, riders covering liability for damage due to inoperability of trains without damage to property are provided. Agricultural insurance Provide agricultural insurance scheme Pradhan Mantri Fasal Bima Yojana (India) (PMFBY) , in order to contribute to income stability for the low income earning farmers, who have ﬁnanced purchases of fertilizers and farm equipment through loans, by compensating possible decreases of income caused by bad weather. Animal insurance for Compensation for the death of cows and so on which provides income cattle stability for the low income earning cattle breeders. breeders（India） 〇Products for business*1 Special contract on Discount on insurance premiums is applied to transportation companies the status of safety that took road safety management certiﬁcation seminar promoted by management (applied Ministry of Land, Infrastructure, Transport and Tourism, and take to transportation preventative measures to reduce traﬃc accident. companies) Comprehensive food & We provide compensation for major risks surrounding food and agribusiness agribusiness, in order to support the development of food and agribusiness. compensation plan ★ PDF 049 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Comprehensive Comprehensively cover risks faced by renewable energy producers. Coverage plan for Promote lower CO2 emissions (reducing environmental burdens) with Mega-solar Power alternative energy. Generation Comprehensive small Comprehensively cover risks faced by renewable energy producers. wind power generation Promote lower CO2 emissions (reducing environmental burdens) with compensation plan ★ alternative energy. PDF Comprehensive Comprehensively cover risks faced by renewable energy producers. oﬀshore wind power Promote lower CO2 emissions (reducing environmental burdens) with generation system alternative energy. compensation Comprehensive Comprehensively cover risks faced by renewable energy producers. biomass power Promote lower CO2 emissions (reducing environmental burdens) with generation alternative energy. compensation plan ★ PDF Comprehensive small Comprehensively cover risks faced by renewable energy producers. and medium hydro Promote lower CO2 emissions (reducing environmental burdens) with power generation alternative energy. compensation plan (P.2) ★ PDF Comprehensive Provide a package that comprises various types of insurance and risk medical institute consulting services for medical institutions. Contribute to the stable compensation plan ★ business development of medical institutions, thereby supporting the aging society. Comprehensive Comprehensively cover risks faced by welfare and nursing care business welfare/long-term operators. Contribute to the stable business development of welfare and care business nursing care business operators, thereby supporting the increasing demand operators for welfare and nursing care in an aging society. compensation plan Cyber protector, Cyber Comprehensively cover risks of cyberattacks. Contribute to stable security insurance management of companies, thereby supporting the development of society. Comprehensive Comprehensively cover risks related to demonstration experiment of demonstration autonomous driving vehicles. Facilitate the innovation of autonomous experiment of driving technology to support the realization of a safe, secure, and autonomous driving comfortable automobile society. compensation plan ★ PDF 050 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Comprehensive drone Comprehensively cover risks associated with the commercial use of drones. compensation plan ★ Contribute to the expansion of drone use in industries and public, such as PDF luggage distribution, damage surveys, agriculture, forestry and ﬁsheries, thereby supporting the development of society. Comprehensive global Comprehensively cover risks related to overseas business expansion for business small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs). Facilitate the smooth compensation plan ★ operation of business activities overseas to support the stabilization of SMEs' business operations overseas and the development of local communities. Compensation plan for As the sharing economy spreads, needs of companies for personal liability sharing economyinsurance valid only for the user and only for the period of use have been based business increasing. In response, we have developed a product with conditions for compensation that can be custom-designed depending on business activities, with the aim of contributing to the development of sharing economy-based business. Support menu for Provide insurance and various services such as in-house training inbound tourism (hospitality service) support and risk consulting, etc. for businesses (travel entrepreneurs ★ PDF agencies, hotels, etc.) that serving foreigners visiting Japan. Contributing to the community development by supporting the acceptance of foreigners visiting Japan. Comprehensive Cover risks related to clinical research of regenerative medicine. Contribute clinical research like to the development of medical technology, thereby supporting to extend regeneration medicine healthy life expectancy in the aging society. compensation plan ★ PDF ＜Services for individuals＞ Smartphone app: This app allows users to check the details of their insurance policy, contact Suma-Ho their agents, and to use their smartphoneʼs GPS functions to arrange tow(Smartphone truck services after accidents or breakdowns. Insurance) Smartphone app: This app helps users to remain safe and secure during large-scale natural Suma-Ho Disaster disaster. The smartphoneʼs GPS functions are used to determine the userʼs Navigator location and to display information regarding nearby evacuation shelters and other information on a map. Camera functions can even be used to ascertain directions in the dark including directions to the userʼs house, evacuation location, or other spots. Disaster prevention information for the userʼs current location is also sent out in real-time by push notiﬁcations. The app supports in English, Chinese (simpliﬁed and traditional characters), and Korean as well except for some functions. Smartphone app: Provide analysis of driving skill characteristics, drive recorder, eco drive Suma-Ho Driving diagnosis, audio warnings when drivers are approaching locations where Ability Diagnosis accidents frequently occur, wild weather forecast delivery, and other services. 051 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (Suma-Ho) “KokoKara For Customers their own health management, this app can be used through Diary” smartphone its features such as measurement of stress status, display of calorie app consumption calculated from the number of steps automatically taken, record of meals consumed, height, weight, sleep time and conﬁrmation of MSI their own medical information. MSI Aioi Life ★ Free “Support NAVI” Service providing a driving ability diagnosis system equipped with Dashcam smartphone app Type and an emergency accident reporting system. Free “Suma-Ho” This is a service that provides a voice alert when the driver is approaching a smartphone app with black spot for traﬃc accidents involving animals. The service was ﬁrst “Animal Alert” function launched in Okinawa Prefecture, where the Yanbaru kuina (Okinawa rail: an ★ PDF endangered bird) lives, and later rolled out to other regions in Japan. Smartphone A free app featuring a driving ability diagnosis system equipped with application by Mitsui Dashcam Type that records and checks driving data, a driving aptitude Direct General diagnosis system that analyzes and diagnoses driving tendencies, and Jutai-gaku Kentei (traﬃc congestion learning system), which helps understand the mechanism of traﬃc congestion, with the aim of preventing traﬃc accidents and reducing congestion. Eﬀorts to prevent and Provide accident maps created by analyzing and identifying locations reduce traﬃc where accidents frequently occur based on accident data held by the accidents by utilizing Company and data from external institutions. Accident Map ★ Free smartphone Support the safe use of bicycles by providing warnings about excessive application Sumaspeed, check lists for inspection and maintenance, etc. Ho , Safety cycle （providing diagnosis tool of safe bicycle driving）★ Eco insurance A system that enables policyholders to view their policy certiﬁcates and certiﬁcate/web policy policy clauses on the website of each company. Promote the reduction of clause environmental burdens through paperless operation. Electronic contract Complete the contracting procedure on the screen of a PC brought in by an method agent. Promote the reduction of environmental burdens through paperless operation. Family Eye This is a system in which one relative of a policyholder is registered as an (Notiﬁcation System emergency contact for insurance policies. It makes it possible to contact for Relatives) the registered relative and ensure more reliable delivery of important notiﬁcations for insurance policies to the registered relative in an MSI ★ emergency, such as when we cannot contact the policyholder, or to have ADI ★ the relative share contract information after a simple identiﬁcation MSI Aioi Life ★ procedure when inquiries are made. 052 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Dealing with car We use sign language interpretation services to deal with car accident accident claims using claims for customers with a hearing and/or speech impairment. The sign language customer and an operator communicate using sign language via interpretation services videophone, which is simultaneously voice translated and sent to our in★ house employee. Dealing with car To respond to consultations and inquiries regarding insurance from accident claims in 14 customers involved in accidents who have diﬃculties in communicating in diﬀerent languages Japanese, translators are available in 14 diﬀerent languages. MSI・ADI ★ PDF Mitsui Direct General ★ Web QQ Unit for Services that enable customers with hearing disabilities to utilize online customers with functions to request road services hearing disabilities ★ ＜Services for business＞ Suma Navi A telematics service that supports companies in their safe driving initiatives. Sasaeru Navi A telematics service for ﬂeet policyholders that supports corporate customers in their vehicle operation management and accident reduction initiatives. Four Safety ‒ Support By installing a smartphone app and plugging a designated terminal into the service to prevent automobileʼs cigarette lighter socket, smartphone operations (including distracted driving ★ telephone and apps) will be automatically controlled once a certain speed PDF (20kph) is exceeded. Sharp acceleration/deceleration and other driving data of individual employees can be checked by administrators via an exclusive website. Hence, this service can be used by companies to ensure safe driving practices. It also supports the creation of corporate value by helping to prevent distracted driving, a serious social issue. Sleep apnea syndrome This is a service for company employees that checks on snoring, an (SAS) predictive check indication of sleep apnea syndrome (SAS), which can be easily used by just ★ PDF activating the smartphone app when going to bed and placing the smartphone next to the pillow. Kokokara Diary An exclusive website provided to managers that features functions that smartphone app allow managers to view employeesʼ life log data and to send out health advice and other notices to the app, thereby supporting health and MSI productivity management at companies. The app also encourages MSI Aioi Life ★ communication between employees by hosting health events by utilizing a function ranking the employees by steps walked. 053 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Smartphone app: This app helps users to remain safe and secure during large-scale natural Disaster Navigator disasters. The smartphoneʼs GPS functions are used to determine the Smartphone Insurance userʼs current location and then to display information regarding nearby Navigator evacuation shelters and other information on a map. Camera functions can be used to ascertain directions in the dark, including direction to the userʼs house, an evacuation location or other spots. Disaster prevention information for the userʼs current location is also sent out in real-time by push notiﬁcations. The app supports in English, Chinese (simpliﬁed and traditional characters), and Korean as well except for some functions, and is utilized by local governments nationwide to keep residents informed. Navigational support We support safe navigation of domestic vessels using the dedicated services for domestic smartphone provided by Weathernews Inc., which alerts ships when they vessels ★ PDF navigate in dangerous waters and provides weather and oceanic forecasts and images of the area around the vessel. Weather information Email alerts are sent when rainfall, wind speed, or snowfall is forecasted to alert service exceed the standard values at a monitored location, or when lightening is observed at a location within the standard distance from the monitored location, to help prevent and mitigate damage from natural disasters. Supporting companies We provide small and medium-sized companies expanding their business in expanding overseas overseas with risk management services to support their overseas operations ★ operations. Repair service for Reduce recovery costs and ensure early recovery by enabling the repair of damaged equipment damaged devices and equipment, which previously had to be replaced with under the corporate new ones, with emergent corrosion inhibition measures and full-scale ﬁre insurance plan recovery work. (P.66) ★ PDF Abbreviation of claims Omit the submission of claim documents, etc. for car accidents that meet documents service certain conditions. Promote the reduction of environmental burdens through paperless operation. RisTech, a service that A service that uses big data and the latest analysis algorithms to visualize solves social and and optimize the risks companies have and help solve problems. Data corporate problems by scientists use various statistical data from the service provider in addition data analysis ★ PDF to data related to accident held by the company to provide risk analysis and reports, and develop risk models ＜Life insurance and Medical Insurance＞ &LIFE An insurance to prepare for a monthly pension not only for the event of New income emergency but also for the risk of becoming unable to work or being in guarantee insurance need for nursing care due to illness or injury.*2 wide ★ &LIFE In addition to oﬀer the coverage for hospitalization and surgery, we also New medical provide support for lifestyle-related diseases, cancer, female diseases, and insurance Ace premia nursing care. Customer can choose which coverage to combine based on ★ their needs.*2 054 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Whole life An insurance plan that provides against long-term care risks, such as care/dementia plan treatment for dementia. Under this plan, dementia care, which imposes a particularly signiﬁcant burden, is added to the conditions covered under the whole life care-speciﬁed policy for insured events in line with the long-term care insurance system of Japan. This plan aims to help people be better prepared for long-term care needs, which have become a serious social issue, in light of the aging society. “Fulﬁlling Tomorrow” Flat payment-type individual annuity insurance. Customers pay a ﬁxed existence protection amount of insurance premiums in Japanese yen every month, and then it is oriented-type converted into a foreign currency with a favorable interest rate, so that they individual annuity receive pensions based on the increased fund. insurance (with Customers can take advantage of the “dollar cost averaging” method to variable interest rate, reduce foreign exchange risk, and the “tontines” method, a system to level premium increase pension funds by suppressing death protection then transfer that payment) amount to the pension. Joy for Tomorrow 2” Lump sum individual annuity insurance which can be chosen from four currency option-type courses according to customer's funding needs: “Amount receivable existence protectionoriented course”, “Pre-pension beneﬁt/whole life death protection course”, oriented individual the industryʼs ﬁrst ﬁxed term annuity with whole life protection guarantee, annuity insurance “Fulﬁllment at maturity course”, and “Target course.” Cheering team for your Provide telephone consultation services on health/medical care, living, and perfect life ★ nursing care for policyholders and their relatives who live together. Supporting customers' lives with health and peace of mind through helping solve their problems and providing necessary information. Service to provide Information provision service using virtual reality images seen on information on smartphones. Customers can have simulated experiences with a sense of medical reality, such as visiting medical facilities that perform proton beam therapy, treatment/nursing how things are seen if they have cataracts, and what the daily life is like if care ★ PDF they have dementia (as if their own experience) and if a member of their family has dementia. Aiming to help customers live better, providing easyto-understand information on medical care and nursing care and supporting “know correctly.” Seiho Kantan Mode, By paperless (electronic) procedures called Seiho Kantan Mode, we have an electronic improved convenience and reduced environmental burdens by converting contracting process ★ various paper forms into electronic formats. PDF ＜Financial services and other businesses＞ 〇Financial products Weather derivatives A ﬁnancial derivative that covers damage caused by extreme weather. Actively deploying “Global Weather Derivative Sales” utilizing the global weather risk underwriting function of our US subsidiary “MSI Guaranteed Weather,” focusing on Japanese companies expanding their operations overseas. 055 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) CAT bond Service to support the issuance of CAT bond*3. In addition to reducing (catastrophe bond) the burden of cumbersome administrative procedures related to the issuance support issuance of CAT bonds, we provide our customers with advice on optimal service ★ PDF issuing conditions and help them to diversify catastrophic risk hedging instruments. 〇Support systems Paciﬁc Catastrophe Under this program, which was set up jointly by the Japanese government Risk Assessment and and the World Bank, MSI, as one of the risk underwriting insurance Financing Initiative companies provides reconstruction funds to the nations in the Paciﬁc (PCRAFI) Insurance Islands that are aﬄicted by natural disasters to promote the restructuring Facility of the livelihood of disaster victims and the early recovery of areas hit by disasters. Pandemic Emergency We participate in the Pandemic Emergency Financing Facility (PEF) Financing Facility established by the World Bank with the support of Japan and Germany, etc. (PEF) ★ PDF as one of the risk underwriting companies. The objectives of PEF include: to protect people in developing countries around the world from the threat of infections; and in case of an outbreak of serious infection, to promptly provide funds for the initial response in order to mitigate human and economic losses and promote early recovery from these losses. 〇Risk consulting services ESG risk management We provide comprehensive consulting services covering everything from ★ general ESG-related issues, such as enhancement of ESG strategies and eﬀorts, to speciﬁc ESG themes. Human rights risk Help our customers to manage human rights issues by supporting them in management support the formulation of human rights policies based on international standards, services ★ human rights impact assessment, organization of lectures and trainings on human rights risks, collection of information and support of surveys related to human rights risks, and other eﬀorts related to human rights risk management. Supporting Support the establishment of a system that ensures the resumption of establishment of operations within a target time frame in the event that business activities Business continuity are suspended due to a large earthquake, infectious disease, or other management system reasons, and the formulation of business continuity plans (BCPs). (BCMS) MS&AD InterRisk ★ 056 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Consulting services Supporting customers to strengthen the countermeasures based on against earthquake simulation and on-site survey etc., assessing the earthquake risks in and Tsunami risk ★ consideration of impacts of Tunami. Climate change risk Companies are now expected to identify risks and opportunities associated analysis services with climate change and to disclose relevant information. In response, we provide consulting services regarding analysis and information disclosure expected of companies on a global level on issues including physical risks, such as climate change-induced ﬂoods and droughts, and transition risks, associated with socioeconomic transitions toward a decarbonized economy in line with achieving the two-degree goal, such as energy structure transformation. Map of Forecasted This map was developed in corporation with Prof. Yukiko Hirabayashi of the Flood Frequency Shibaura Institute of Technology and Associate Professor Dai Yamazaki of Change Due to the Institute of Industrial Science at The University of Tokyo in response to Climate Change the need companies have to understand the impacts on them by potential ﬂood risks, one of the many types of climate change risks if climate change is actualized. The map shows the degree of change in the frequency of ﬂoods induced by global climate change. Consulting service for Support companies in developing their business continuity management water disaster (BCM) plans and their countermeasures for loss prevention and mitigation prevention ★ PDF through assessing risks focusing on river ﬂooding, inundation inside a levee, and high tides. Real-time loss As part of joint research with Aon Benﬁeld Japan Co., Ltd. and Yokohama prediction website National University, a system has been established to predict the number of cmap.dev ★ PDF buildings damaged and damage rate by each municipality due to typhoons, heavy rains, and earthquakes immediately after the disaster occurred. This online information service is free of charge for the purpose of being widely used for early assessment of the scale of damage and quick rescue and support activities Supporting system for Provide local governments with seminars regarding the research of loss victims of natural assessment needed for issuance of Disaster Victim Certiﬁcates. disasters to relief ★ Services for risk Various eﬀective programs and solutions to prevent and reduce accidents. management of automobile insurance ★ Seminar for Accident prevention and reduction seminar, conducted by a group company automobile certiﬁed by the Ministry of Land, Infrastructure and Transport and Tourism transportation as an implementing agency, targeting automobile transportation business management ★ operators. Risk consulting Assume possible material risks overseas, such as accidents and natural services abroad ★ disasters, and support measures against these risks. 057 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Products and services that contribute to achieving Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) Consulting services Service for quantitative assessment of impacts on natural capital (lost against environmental beneﬁts and recovery costs) and service for simple assessment of water risk risks such as water depletion, drought, ﬂood and decline in water quality (present/future). Supporting service for Support initiatives such as electricity and energy conservation, improving energy related comfort in the working environment, and reducing energy costs, in addition business ★ assess business risks for renewable energy stemmed from solar power, wind power and biomass etc. Environmental CSR Support the acquisition of accreditation for and improvement of management environmental management systems and the formulation of environmental consulting services CSR reports. Consulting services on Support companiesʼ eﬀorts to preserve biodiversity and assess biodiversity biodiversity risks in business activities. Water risk assessment Simple assessment of exposure to water risk such as water depletion, service drought, ﬂood and decline in water quality (present/future) on individual manufacture point (domestic/ overseas) bases. 〇Other businesses Nursing care homes Operate “You Life Yokohama” and” You Life Setagaya”. for the aged ★ In-home nursing care Operate in-home nursing care support business and home-visit nursing business ★ care business oﬃces at a total of three locations one in Yokohama and two in Nagoya. Visit nursing business Operate three day-service centers in Shinagawa, Mizuho, and Ibaraki. ★ (*1) Products in ＜Products for individuals＞and ＜Products for business＞ are categorized based on their main scope. (*2) Donations are made to the Authorized nonproﬁt organization̶Japan Committee Vaccines for the World's Children to provide funds for purchasing vaccines etc., with the amount depending on the number of new contracts acquired. (*3) A CAT bond is a mechanism through which the risk of a large-scale disaster such as earthquake or typhoon is transferred from one party to the capital markets. As long as no disaster exceeding a predetermined threshold occurs, investors (CAT bond purchasers) receive coupons periodically and have principal repaid at maturity. However, in the event that a disaster exceeding such threshold occurs, the principal to be repaid is reduced partially or entirely so that it is used to compensate customers for their losses. 058 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Deal with New Risks Deal with New Risks The risks facing society are becoming more diverse and more complex with every passing day. The World Economic Forumʼs Global Risk Report 2019 showed that, in line with last yearʼs results, environmental risks are included in the top ﬁve risks in terms of both likelihood and impact. Concerns about data fraud and cyber-attacks ranked higher for the third year in a row, with many other technical vulnerabilities also being regarded as signiﬁcant risks. Also in the survey results in relation to technology were concerns about the rising risks associated with fake news and identity theft as well as privacy infringements by corporations and governments. Changes in lifestyles may have heighted the risk of outbreaks of infectious diseases. There are also potential risks arising from accidents that occur while using new technologies and from biological threats due to artiﬁcial factors. Revolutionary technologies do lead to dramatic progress, but at the same time they require careful management and precaution. The MS&AD Insurance Group believes that forecasting, preventing, and suitably managing new risks is essential for stable livelihoods and dynamic business activities, and we will provide products/services that address these concerns as well as products/services that satisfy diversifying customer needs. Through examination and research in support of innovation, we will do our part in realizing a sustainable society and economic development. Providing Information and Conducting Research and Studies on Diverse Risks We oﬀer information, research, and studies that are eﬀective for identifying and assessing risks, including surveys on continuously evolving technologies and environment as well as research on the utilization of Big Data. ＜Principal Approaches＞ The magazine provides practical up-to-date reports and information on the risk management eﬀorts of various companies and organizations, and oﬀers preparation support for a variety of risks Provision of risk information/reports Implementing eﬀorts and support for the development and commercialization of advanced technologies through industrial-academic partnership agreements with universities engaged in cutting-edge surveys and research Joint research with universities useful to the next generation InterRisk ‒ Risk information/reports (Japanese only) Conclusion of an industry-academia partnership agreement between Tokyo Denki University and Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance (Japanese only) PDF Special joint research on MaaS by Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance and Kagawa University (Japanese only) PDF 059 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Deal with New Risks Providing solutions to risks With the progress of technological development, the impacts of climate change, aging population, and changes in the environment have diversiﬁed the risks we face. To prepare for new risks, risk assessment through reliable risk models and risk control based on the results is critical. Through consulting done by MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting, which is capable of advanced investigation and research functions as well as practical consulting, our Group provides risk preparation solutions. List of consulting services oﬀered by MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting Compliance, internal control Risk management D&O risks, legal risks, CS, and complaints Product safety, food safety Enterprise Risk Management (ERM) Data security, data privacy BCP, BCM (Business Continuity Management) Risks in welfare and medicine Measures against new strains of inﬂuenza Sustainability Natural Disaster Due diligence for real estate Fires, explosions Risk of theft Personnel and organizational risks Occupational health and safety Transportation risks Provision of Goods/Services that Meet Risks We oﬀer products/services to cope with the changing customer needs due to diversifying risks and changes in the social environments. ＜Principal Products/Services＞ ・Group companies unfalteringly collaborate in the area of cyber risks to oﬀer comprehensive services ・In collaboration with Verizon Japan (hereinafter, “Verizon”) and BitSight Technologies (hereinafter, “BitSight”), we launched a new service in February 2018 to provide companies with comprehensive assessments of their cyber-risks. Consulting services are also provided by MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting, Inc., which oﬀers companies with one-stop support for building systems to defend against multi-tier risks. Responses to cyber risks ・We have launched a service to provide intelligence information in collaboration with IntSights Cyber Intelligence, Inc. ・We supply products that are also compliant with the new personal information protection rules (“GDPR”) enacted by the European Union (EU) in May 2018. Business partnership with an innovation organization in Israel (Japanese only) PDF Cyber-intelligence information service begun in collaboration with IntSights Cyber Intelligence (Japanese only) 060 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Deal with New Risks In April 2018 we began oﬀering the 1-Day Leisure Insurance, a policy that cover 24-hour periods, targeted for customer who want On-demand “1-day Leisure Insurance” coverage in daily units and for obtaining coverage for leisure activities. To help sharing businesses steadily develop, we have been working with the Sharing Economy Association, Japan to oﬀer services to certiﬁed companies, products to vacation rental companies, and products/services to Coverage on sharing businesses individual members who work in the sharing economy. In August 2018, we became the ﬁrst insurance company in Japan to begin oﬀering solutions to joint-stock companies capitalized at one billion yen or more to reduce their risks during major outbreaks of new types of Derivative products to cope with new strains of inﬂuenza. inﬂuenza Global Digital Hubs Opened Our Group opened global digital hubs in Tokyo and Singapore to promote digitalization globally. The Tokyo hub was opened in April 2019 to encourage employees and agents to make greater use of digital technologies, while the Singapore hub was opened in February 2019 to support digital business approaches in various ASEAN countries. Establishment of Global Digital Hubs in Tokyo and Singapore PDF MS Digital Academy Established In July 2018, our Group joined with Toyo Universityʼs Faculty of Information Networking for Innovation and Design (INIAD) to open the MS Digital Academy, a specialized training program, in order to foster industry-ready digital business creators and data scientists. Utilizing both the hardware and software resources of INIAD, we are looking to create opportunities that enable employees to acquire proﬁcient skills in specialized knowledge and technologies. Collaboration with Toyo Universityʼs Faculty of Information Networking for Innovation and Design (INIAD) (Japanese only) PDF 061 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Create Mobility Society without Accidents Create Mobility Society without Accidents The 2018 ﬁgures for fatal traﬃc accidents in Japan showed more fatalities among people of 65 years of age or older than among people below 65 years, and that the elderly have accounted for an increasing number of traﬃc fatalities over the past 10 years. About half of the traﬃc fatalities are pedestrians or cyclists, a high percentage in comparison to major Western countries. There has also been an upward trend in recent years in traﬃc accidents attributable to the use of mobile phones or other devices while driving; 2,790 such accidents occurred in 2018, which is more than double the number ten years prior. The most common cause of these traﬃc accidents is human error. Mindless or inattentive driving, improper vehicle operation, and failure to conﬁrm safe operating conditions can all be prevented by eliminating inattention and complacency. Advances in automated driving technology are also key to safer driving. The MS&AD Insurance Group is working to reduce traﬃc accidents and to ensure that everyone has access to comfortable mobility by utilizing telematics technology, smartphones, and other devices, and by providing insurance products/services that support safe driving. Services, Studies and Research to Prevent Traﬃc Accidents Identifying and then avoiding the risks that lead to accidents is vital for preventing traﬃc accidents. We provide services that visualize elements connected to preventing traﬃc accidents and that support safe driving in an eﬀort to prevent traﬃc accidents. We are also engaged in joint research with a variety of institutions in anticipation of wider adaption of self-driving cars in future. ＜Principal approaches＞ We have launched “Observe and Protect Automobile Insurance (Dashcam Type)”, an insurance product that utilizes the latest in telematics technology in dedicated dashcams outﬁtted with proprietary communications functions to support safe driving by customers. These drive recorders oﬀer video recording functions, and we provide safe driving assistance alerts that call driversʼ attention to driving conditions as well as a guardian service that share information including driving tendencies with family members and others living apart from the driver. If the drive recorder detects a major collision, information about the accident site and other relevant information will be relayed to a dedicated Insurance for automobiles with onboard dashcams safety conﬁrmation desk, and an operator will contact the customer to oﬀer advice on initial responses to the accident. Number of Observe and Protect Automobile Insurance (Dashcam Type) policies tops 100,000! (Japanese only) PDF GK Mimamoru (MSI) (Japanese only) TOUGH (ADI) (Japanese only) 062 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Create Mobility Society without Accidents We provide a variety of services that utilize telematics technology, smartphone apps, and connected drive recorders for greater security and safety. *Please see the oﬃcial websites and news releases of the pertinent companies for further details. ・For corporate customers We provide services that use telematics technology (functions to ascertain information about the vehicleʼs location, functions to prevent distracted driving, safety driving consulting services, etc.) to help customers reduce accidents. Number of smartphone applications for Suma Navi tops 10,000 (MSI) (Japanese only) PDF Developed a smartphone app to prevent distracted driving (MSI) Providing applications that support safe driving (Japanese only) PDF Sales of Telematics Automobile Insurance strong (ADI) (Japanese only) PDF Created a new service for companies utilizing telematics technology ‒ Biz Safety (ADI) (Japanese only) PDF ・For individual customers We analyze data related to the customersʼ driving tendencies to assess their driving ability and competence, including functions capable of recording/checking videos of dangerous driving locations, and then provide information and functions useful for preventing accidents and encouraging safety driving . Suma-Ho (MSI) (Japanese only) Sapo NAVI (ADI) (Japanese only) Mitsui Direct General App (Mitsui Direct General) (Japanese only) We have concluded an industrial-academic collaboration agreement with Gunma University for research aimed at helping to bring about the next-generation of mobility society. Through pursuing technological development and veriﬁcation testing on self-driving cars, we are conducting joint research aimed at developing insurance products for self-driving cars and formulating clams R&D for next-generation automobile insurance handling methodologies pertinent to accidents involving self-driving cars. Next-Generation Mobility Accident/Service Research Laboratory located on the Gunma University site (Japanese only) PDF 063 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Create Mobility Society without Accidents Providing Insurance Products and related Services to Create a Comfortable Mobility Society without accidents With the growing number of cars employing autonomous driving technologies that is causing changes to our mobility society, we are utilizing telematics technology to gather and analyze customersʼ driving practices and then providing customers inside and outside Japan with insurance products that lead to safety driving and fewer accidents in addition to insurance products for reducing economic burden on customers, which meet a variety of other needs. ＜Principal Products/Services＞ This is the ﬁrst automobile insurance policy in Japan that reﬂects in its premiums the degree to which policyholders have engaged in safety driving each month as measured by driving data obtained through telematics technology. Holders of this policy have seen a lower accident frequency than customers using our Tough Automobile Insurance, highlighting the eﬀect the new policy has had on preventing traﬃc accidents. Telematics-based Automobile Insurance TOUGH Connected Automobile Insurance (Japanese only) Began the sales of Thailandʼs ﬁrst automobile insurance linked to driving distance (TOYOTA Care PAYD) (Japanese only) PDF First telematics automobile insurance launched in Europe by a Japanese non-life insurer (ADI) (Japanese only) PDF We have begun oﬀering automobile insurance allowing persons with no car of their own to obtain one-day policies when driving cars borrowed from acquaintances or others. One-day automobile insurance policies Number of 1-Day Insurance policies tops 5 million! (Japanese only) PDF 1-Day Insurance (MSI) (Japanese only) One-day Supporter (ADI) (Japanese only) Veriﬁcation testing of truck convoy operations on highways has been undertaken with the aim of making practical use of fully self-driving trucks in future. However, convoys operating with unmanned trailing vehicles pose certain unconventional risks for which we have developed a new automobile insurance. Automobile insurance for truck convoys operating with unmanned trailing vehicles Developed an automobile insurance for truck convoys operating with unmanned trailing vehicles (Japanese only) PDF In light of the rising amounts of compensation being sought in the wake of accidents as well as due to other social circumstances, we provide insurance that covers cyclistʼs liability for damages and injuries. Coverage for accidents while cycling Net de Hoken@Cycle, bicycle insurance for traﬃc injuries (MSI) (Japanese only) TOUGH Injury Insurance (ADI) (Japanese only) 064 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Create Mobility Society without Accidents [External Evaluation] “TOUGH Connected Automobile Insurance” won the 2018 Good Design Award (Japanese only) PDF The concept of preventing traﬃc accidents by providing “safety driving incentives (discounts)” and “security and safety services” was wellreceived by the judges and as a result we were given the 2018 Good Design 065 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Strive for Resilient Community Development Strive for Resilient Community Development Weather damage from heavy rains, ﬂooding, cyclones, and other disasters has intensiﬁed due to climate change, thus making it urgent that steps are taken to reduce the number of people killed or injured in these disasters and to lessen the economic losses. Forecasting the risks of potential disasters and preparing communities for their contingencies is of great signiﬁcance in ensuring the safety and security of peopleʼs livelihoods. The “resilient community development,” for which the MS&AD Insurance Group is aiming for, entails realizing sustainable residential spaces that are safe and able to recover from disasters. To that end, we are conducting studies and research on disaster prevention/mitigation, providing products/services that lessen disaster damage, and endeavoring to support rapid recovery from any disasters that do occur. Furthermore, revitalizing local communities is also important for creating communities capable of coping with disasters. Declining vitality among local communities is leading to a number of issues, among them a shortage of social services due to depopulation. Regional revitalization is a key governmental policy, and we will be working on revitalizing local communities and developing communities resilient to disasters by working with local governments and stakeholders by implementing industrial promotion measures tailored to the local requirements and supporting risk management that helps to create disaster-resilient communities. Preventing/Mitigating Disasters [National Conference for Promoting Disaster Risk Reduction 2018] We participated and conducted a session at the “National Conference for Promoting Disaster Risk Reduction 2018: Preparing for Large-Scale Disasters ‒ Strengthening Collaboration Networks in Communities” hosted by the Cabinet Oﬃce and other oﬃces. This conference enabled a broad range of people from families to experts to learn about disaster prevention. Our Group held sessions combining presentations and panel discussions on the concept of, and approaches to, “green resilience” which links the bounties of nature with disaster prevention/regional revitalization. The idea of making disaster prevention the linchpin to regional revitalization was a novel one and local government oﬃcials, university researchers, and other participants commented on its usefulness. [Weather Information Alert Service] In collaboration with Weather News Co., Ltd., the largest weather information company in Japan, we provide corporate ﬁre insurance (Property Master, Business Keeper), construction insurance (Construction All-in, Civil Engineering All-in), or transport insurance (Full Line, Support One) policyholders the following services for free: Customers can use an exclusive website to access at any time weather information/forecasts for up to ﬁve preset locations 066 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Strive for Resilient Community Development Customers can select locations that are to be monitored and alert e-mail messages are sent out to customer-stipulated e-mail addresses when, for instance, rainfall, wind speed or snowfall forecasts exceed pre-determined values or when lightning strikes have been observed within a pre-determined distance from monitored locations. [Preparing Against Flooding/Earthquakes] In response to rising interest among customers for ﬂooding/earthquake coverage against a backdrop of repeated disasters, we have been running a Flooding/Earthquake Preparation Proposal Campaign. The campaign calls on agents to explain ﬂooding and earthquake risks to customers with the aim of having their customers review the details of their existing coverage and prepare against said contingencies. We are also encouraging the use of Internet services to ensure a communication channel between customers and agents, and making proposals to help customers prepare during ordinary times, through means such as presenting hazard maps and urging customers to conﬁrm suitable evacuation routes. Flyer highlighting need for coverage Providing information on disaster prevention/mitigation [Useful Smartphone Applications for Disaster Strikes] We provide smartphone services for use during disasters and are endeavoring to help our users ensure their safety and security when largescale natural disasters strike. Smartphone Disaster Navigator (Japanese only) Launched “Earthquake! Where Are You Now?” an industry-ﬁrst service (Japanese only) PDF 067 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Strive for Resilient Community Development Assisting in Swift Post-disaster Recovery Against the backdrop of large-scale disasters occurring one after the other, our Group has rapidly conducted damage investigations, paid out insurance claims, and taken other steps to provide relief to disaster victims. We have also introduced a variety of new technologies to accelerate payments of insurance money. ＜Principal Approaches＞ In conducting damage surveys in areas inaccessible by road due to ﬂooding or landslides or of solar panels spread out over an extensive area, we analyze aerial images taken by drones to quickly grasp the degree of damage. Damage surveys utilizing drones (unmanned aerial vehicles) Full-scale damage surveys using drones started (Japanese only) PDF We use video chat and view-sharing systems to rapidly conﬁrm damage and pay out insurance money by transmitting real-time videos and still images to property loss assessors and technical adjusters (employees responsible for investigating property accidents) Real-time damage surveys using smartphones Introduced a nationwide view-sharing system to enable real-time damage surveys utilizing smartphones (Japanese only) PDF By introducing RPA (Robotic Process Automation) for registering accident claim information received via a dedicated website and automating the simple administrative tasks, we have developed a system that allows us to Operational automation by software robots assign more personnel to higher value-added operations such as customer service and damage surveys during large-scale disasters [Donations in Response to Disasters] We are soliciting donations to help out victims of disasters in Japan, to whom the Disaster Relief Act applies, as well as of large-scale disasters overseas. We also run a Disaster Relief Donation Matching Gift Program under which we supplement contributions made by Group company employees. ＜Group-wide Donations in Response to Disasters＞ Number of donation drives Contributors Total amount (including matched funds) FY2018 4 21,129 50,230,000 yen Disaster Relief Donation Matching Gift Program 068 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Strive for Resilient Community Development Revitalizing Regions by Finalizing Collaboration Agreements We are assisting in regional revitalization eﬀorts through agreements with partners that include prefectural, city, town, and village governments, local commercial/industry groups and ﬁnancial institutions. In total, the Group has concluded 453 of such agreements, in accordance with which the Group has been oﬀering consultations to assist in addressing various risks and promoting regional revitalization. We are also involved in the creation of shared value (CSV) with society by leveraging our strengths in cooperation with local stakeholders to resolve the social issues faced by the communities. ＜Principal Approaches＞ We support SDGs initiatives by local governments, commercial/industrial groups, regional ﬁnancial institutions, and small/medium-size companies Providing support menus for SDGs eﬀorts We hold seminars and other events to help companies formulate BCP that will allow them to quickly restore and continue their businesses even when natural disasters or unexpected accidents occur Providing business continuity plans (BCP) We are developing/providing injury insurance that oﬀers compensation for losses stemming from the death during transport of beef cattle after being fattened for 20 months or even more. A key business issue for beef cattle Developing/providing cattle coverage for beef cattle ranchers ranches We are developing/providing insurance designed speciﬁcally for Japanese sake manufacturers that oﬀers comprehensive coverage in a single insurance policy for risks inherent to the manufacturing/sale processes for Developing/proposing “Japanese Sake Japanese sake, which has been gaining in popularity overseas as a feature of Japanese culinary culture Manufacturer Insurance” We support eﬀorts to bring about regional inclusive communities whose members respect each otherʼs personality and individuality by using the know-how we have gained through organizing sports events for people with Contributing to the realization of “an inclusive disabilities, etc., and by collaborating with local governments nationwide (hosting universal manner seminars, society” for regional revitalization engaging in activities to support sports for people with disabilities) MSI: Contributions to regional revitalization (Japanese only) Regional revitalization by ADI (The local AD Club)（Japanese only） External Evaluation In FY2018, for the second consecutive year, we received the Ministerʼs Award presented for “distinctive eﬀorts” by ﬁnancial and other institutions assisting in regional revitalization. (Japanese only) PDF 069 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Support “Good Health and Longevity” Support “Good Health and Longevity” Japanʼs birthrate is declining, its society is aging, and its total population is declining. It has been forecasted that the countryʼs population will drop below 90 million by 2060, with the elderly population rate ‒ the percentage of the population aged 65 and older ‒ reaching nearly 40%. The rising elderly population necessitates an environment in which the elderly can live with a peace of mind. This living environment must give consideration to an urban structure that makes it easy to get about, supports access to information on health and preventive medical care, and is adapted to the decline of bodily functions that comes with age and nursing care. At the same time, the urban structures needs to facilitate the slowing of population decline by creating an environment in which pregnant women, children, and people with children can live safely and with peace of mind. The MS&AD Insurance Group will promote good health so that people can remain active throughout their entire lives, provide asset-building means to support a fulﬁlling “second life,” and help develop business activities that lay the foundation for a super-aging society and thereby support “good health and longevity.” Promoting Good Health and Preventing Illness We provide services that promote ﬁtness so that people can enjoy long and active lives, and we collaborate with universities to carry out studies/research on promoting good health. ＜Principal approaches＞ We have created the Kokokara Diary, a smartphone app that supports physical and mental ﬁtness. The app can measure stress, automatically calculate and display calories burned by measuring steps, record meals, height, weight, sleep time, and other data. It can Assisting in maintaining physical and mental ﬁtness also be used to check medical care information. The application can be utilized by customers to manage their health. We also provide an exclusive website for corporate customers that can be utilized for health and productivity management. MS&AD Holdings, MSI,ADI and MSI Aioi Life Insurance have commenced eﬀorts aimed at promoting good health nationwide in collaboration with the University of Tokyoʼs Center of Innovationʼs (COI) Self-Managing Healthy Promoting good health in collaboration with the Society locations. MSI and ADI are currently developing insurance products to support health and productivity University of Tokyoʼs Center Of Innovation management that combine consulting services with a health management app based on an AI-driven health risk forecasting model. To give customers a better understanding of the importance of health, medical care, and precautions, we have been holding variety of open seminars on health and medical care topics in addition to seminars as part of our Seminars to provide information on human life and joint project Cerebral Stroke Project with the Japan Stroke Association in locations nationwide. medical care We are partnering with local governments, chambers of commerce and industry nationwide, and the Japan Health Insurance Association to popularize and promote health and productivity management by holding seminars Promoting health and productivity management and presented by instructors from MS&AD InterRisk and by oﬀering consulting services that support corporate health oﬀering consulting services and productivity management. 070 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Support “Good Health and Longevity” Kokokara Diary developed to support physical and mental ﬁtness. (Japanese only) PDF Health & Productivity Management Support Products developed in collaboration with the University of Tokyoʼs COI (Japanese only) PDF Expanding business to support a super-aging society We are contributing to the development of businesses that support super-aging societies by making available a variety of solutions and support relating to nursing and medical care. ＜Principal Approaches＞ We provide a comprehensive compensation plan for various risks related to welfare/nursing care providers (risk of compensation liability, information leakage risk, property damage risk, etc.), which also covers consulting costs for Products for welfare/nursing care providers the prevention of accident reoccurrence. Furthermore, we provide another comprehensive insurance package that includes risk consulting options so that policyholders can receive the compensation that suits their needs. We provide Work and Nursing Care Dual Support Service to human resources departments. Work and Nursing Care Dual Support Service for companies We have developed and are providing My 100-Year Life Training which is designed to enhance the consulting skills of insurance agents in an age of super-longevity. The training curriculum helps insurance agents improve their “My 100-Year Life Training” for ﬁnancial institutions ability to put forth proposals that meet a variety of insurance needs by using original business games (card games) designed to give the agents a realistic sense of what might be required for an unexperienced 100-year life. We started providing our Future Nursing Care Management Head Oﬃce support service for nursing care providers. (Japanese only) PDF Developed My 100-Year Life Training (Japanese only) PDF 071 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Support “Good Health and Longevity” Providing Products and Services to Support “Good Health and Longevity” We provide means for asset-building and products/services tailored to customersʼ needs designed to help people live fulﬁlling second lives in safe societies with peace of mind. ＜Principal Products/Services＞ We provide individual deﬁned contribution (IDeCo) pensions through means that include ﬁnancial institutions and agents. (MS, AD) We provide products that support customersʼ self-help eﬀorts to build the assets needed for 100-year lifespans, including Self-help-style asset building tontine-like* pension insurance capable of satisfying the need for long-term living beneﬁts. (*) A type of insurance in which the indemnities paid for by deceased policyholders are reduced and the reductions are allocated to the pensions of still-living policyholders who receive more pension money the longer they live We provide a Lifelong Nursing Care/Dementia Plan, a product that addresses nursing care risk for the treatment of dementia (oﬃcial name: Lifelong Insurance (Reduced Cancellation Refund) with Non-Dividend/Lifelong Nursing Care Coverage Special Rider (No Cancellation Refund) (18) and Special Provisions on Lump-Sum Payments for Dementia). This plan oﬀers coverage for persons requiring nursing care for Coverage for nursing care and dementia dementia, a particularly expensive type of nursing care, and enables them to prepare more robustly and alleviate anxieties about nursing care. We oﬀer special landlord expense riders to ﬁre insurance policies to cover expenses incurred from dealing with the losses arising from solitary deaths of elderly residents in rental housing. We also provide incidental services (furniture moving, light-bulb replacement services) through ﬁre Provision of coverage tailored to an aging society insurance to support the elderly in their day-to-day lives. We are providing special riders that cover the liability for train delays not involving property damage to deal with the increasing risks arising from a growing number of dementia suﬀerers. Launched A Fulﬁlling Tomorrow Existence Security-Oriented Level Payment Individual Pension Insurance (Variable Rate-Type) (Japanese only) PDF Launched Joy for Tomorrow 2 Currency Selection-Type Existence Security-Oriented Individual Pension Insurance (Japanese only) PDF Lifelong coverage of dementia and nursing care risks oﬀering lump-sum payment + pension! Lifelong Nursing Care/Dementia Plan whole life insurance policy now available (Japanese only) PDF 072 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Work toward Realization of “Leaving No One Behind” Work toward Realization of “Leaving No One Behind” At the heart of the SDG-focused 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development lies the mission of ensuring that everyone can enjoy productive and satisfying lives toward the future while leaving no one behind as the society progresses. These are also essential elements for a resilient and sustainable society that is to be achieved by 2030 through realizing the MS&AD Insurance Groupʼs Mission of “contributing to the development of a vibrant society and helping secure a sound future for the planet, by enabling safety and peace of mind through the global insurance and ﬁnancial services business.” Our Group will partner with various sectors in taking on the challenges of making insurance/ﬁnancial services more widely available and utilizing insurance to resolve such issues as poverty, social disparities, and discrimination. Supporting Developing Countries We are transferring insurance technologies to expand the communities and the number of individuals able to obtain insurance and engaging in social contribution activities in those areas that cannot be covered by insurance products or services. ＜Principal Approaches＞ This package covers assistance schemes operated by Social Enterprize, EPIC Homes which is aimed at improving the living environment of indigenous people. By oﬀering compensation, we provide peace of mind to the local Oﬀering ﬁre insurance speciﬁcally for the housing indigenous people and support the participation of donors in the support scheme. of indigenous inhabitants in Malaysia Press release (MSIG Malaysia) We have set up small shops equipped with insurance kiosks in villages, towns, and small and medium-sized cities across the country, and are thus helping to expand access to insurance in regions where insurance had been previously diﬃcult to obtain. We have also contracted groups that are striving to create jobs in farming communities to issue insurance Greater access to insurance and job creation in policies. This contributes to the process of creating jobs for women in farming communities where few job India opportunities outside agriculture exist. Cholamandalam MS General Insurance oﬃcial website We have begun collaborating to oﬀer services linked to Doreming* in order to provide more people have not been able to access to insurance. (*) A work attendance management system that enables employees to receive their wages via electronic money on a per-diem basis, thereby stabilizing and improving the livelihoods of low-income people who do not have bank Provision of Doreming Insurance Sales Service accounts and are unable to utilize ﬁnancial services. The Japan Unisys Group, MSI, and Doreming Asia begin collaborative eﬀorts to provide Doreming Insurance Sales Service (Japanese only) PDF For each new policy sold among our &LIFE brand of insurance products, we make a donation to the Japan Committee Vaccines for the World's Children who use the donation to purchase vaccines. Donations to help supply vaccines to the worldʼs children Results of FY2018 sustainability eﬀorts (Japanese only) PDF 073 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Work toward Realization of “Leaving No One Behind” Eﬀorts in Support of “Leaving No One Behind” in Japan Through our business endeavors, we are aiming to ensure that no one is left behind, focusing on issues such as poverty, disparities, and discrimination in Japan. ＜Principal Approaches＞ In addition to utilizing personal computers and smartphones, we are instituting procedures that give due consideration to the needs of the elderly and people with disabilities by adopting eye-friendly and easily readable fonts Provision of easily comprehensible information (Universal Design Font, etc.) for use in pamphlets for our primary products together with easy-to-understand words, ﬁgures, and illustrations to convey information. We have supported eﬀorts to raise public awareness about Osakaʼs foster care system, which had the lowest foster placement rate in Japan. ＜Speciﬁc eﬀorts＞ Support for raising public awareness about foster Co-sponsorship of the Foster Care Forum (August 2017) hosted by Osaka Prefecture care systems Establishment of a new foster care insurance system (made-to-orderliability insurance) to strengthen the foster care support system Having been entrusted with the administration of the accident relief system linked to Kobeʼs dementia ordinances, we have developed Japanʼs ﬁrst comprehensive three-pronged coverage scheme for dementia: (1) accident relief Development of an accident relief system linked to (insurance), (2) system expansion (encouragement of early dementia testing), and (3) accident prevention (GPS dementia ordinances (dementia Kobe Model ) tracking services by security companies). We have teamed up with Toyohashi City, home to numerous foreign residents, to hold panel sessions on traﬃc safety education for the Brazilian community that makes up the cityʼs largest segment of foreign residents. We are Traﬃc safety training sessions for foreign residents preparing texts in Portuguese that explain Japanʼs traﬃc rules and expand on the need for sign up for insurance. in their native language As the only co-sponsor from the non-life insurance sector (as of April 2019), we are participating in the Bell Marks campaign which is designed to ensure that all children equitably receive education in productive environments. We have aﬃxed the Bell Marks to all of the Tough-series products. Aﬃxing of Bell Marks to insurance products Guide to Bell Marks-designated insurance products (Japanese only) We are encouraging employees and agents to attend training classes for dementia supporter so that they can acquire accurate knowledge about dementia and the know-how needed to support dementia suﬀerers and their family members. We also encourage them to go to participate in monitoring activities as dementia supporters in Fostering of Dementia Supporters their respective communities. In FY2018, the Group worked to encourage employees to attend the training classes for dementia supporters (approximately 8,000 employees have taken part in these classes as of the end of FY2018). External Evaluation Our automobile insurance claim forms have received User Universal Design certiﬁcation. (Japanese only) PDF We received the Gold Medal in the Japan Resilience Awards 2019 (Kobe Model). (Japanese only) PDF 074 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Work toward Realization of “Leaving No One Behind” Cultivating a Sustainability Mindset among Employees Employee participation in social contribution activities in their local communities not only advances the personal growth of the employees but also prompts them to learn more about social issues and consider the solutions needed to achieve a sustainable society. Social contribution activities carried out by corporate citizens extend the employeesʼ antennas into communities and societies, foster ability to image, and build networks with communities. We, as a company, are providing opportunities for employees to engage in a variety of local activities alongside community residents both inside and outside Japan. ＜Principal Approaches＞ Group companies are actively taking part in global environmental conservation/social contribution activities tailored to the needs of individual communities. Social contribution activities carried out nationwide This social action organization is operated by MS&AD Group employees who support its activities by making donations in 100-yen units from their monthly salaries. The club makes donations to NPOs and other organizations and undertakes employee volunteer MS&AD Unison Smile Club activities. MS&AD Unison Smile Club We are continuing our eﬀorts to provide aid to the victims of the Great East Japan Earthquake as exempliﬁed by our co-sponsorship of soccer classes featuring J-League players as well as sales events and running events to generate funds for reconstruction assistance. When ﬂoods or other disasters strike, employees obtain information Disaster volunteer activities on volunteer activities from their companies and disaster-hit areas, and then participate on their own in relief eﬀorts in the disaster-hit areas. 075 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Quality that Earns the Trust of Society Quality that Earns the Trust of Society Meeting the Trust of Society with High Quality The MS&AD Insurance Group believes it important to pay close attention to the expectations and needs of customers and other stakeholders and to put information derived from this in to good use in improving the quality of its products/services in order to continue being a corporate group needed by society. By putting in place a variety of schemes to solicit the views of stakeholders, we are continuing to improve our quality and operations through executive-level discussions to prove ourselves worthy of the publicʼs trust. For example, we provide easy-to-understand product explanations, use advanced technology to make procedures more convenient, adopt approaches that meet the needs of a diverse range of customers, including the elderly and people with disabilities, and work to improve the skills of employees. Quality Improvement through Communications with Stakeholders The Group has established the “MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications” and provided a scheme and opportunity to listen to the voice of customers and other stakeholders for quality improvement of products and services, as well as compliance, respect for human rights and environmental initiatives. Communication with Stakeholders Schemes for Receiving Feedback from Customers The MS&AD Insurance Group has formulated a Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications and is receiving a wide range of feedback from customers including through consultations, requests, and complaints. The received feedback is then used for quality improvements. In line with the aforementioned policy, Domestic Group insurance companies utilize the customersʼ views to improve their business processes so they can provide products and services that better satisfy customers. 076 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Quality that Earns the Trust of Society MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications We disclose the substance and results of the improvement activities on our website so that the customers can see the status of the improvements. A Customer-ﬁrst Policy in the Business Operations The ﬁve Group insurance companies in Japan have formulated and published customer-ﬁrst policy in the business operations based on the Financial Services Agencyʼs Principles for Customer-oriented Business Conduct. Because these policies align with the framework for consumer-oriented voluntary declarations called for by consumer-oriented management promotion organization comprising the Consumer Aﬀairs Agency and other members, we announced the voluntary declaration in May 2019. Please see individual companiesʼ oﬃcial websites for further information regarding these policies. Consumer-oriented voluntary declarations made by Group insurance companies in Japan (Japanese only) PDF ＜Customer-ﬁrst policy in the business operations＞ (Japanese only) Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Speciﬁc Initiatives in Customer-ﬁrst Business Operations Our Group is striving to manage its business aﬀairs by placing high value on a “customer-ﬁrst” attitude to ensure quality that earns the trust of society. The ﬁve Group insurance companies in Japan are engaged in eﬀorts based on customer-ﬁrst policy in the business operations and are periodically disclosing key performance indicators (KPI) that are used to objectively assess these eﬀorts and the progress made. Please see the oﬃcial websites of these companies for speciﬁc information regarding the eﬀorts/progress being made. ＜Customer-ﬁrst Business Operations ‒ FY2018 Overview＞ (Japanese only) Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. PDF Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Co., Ltd. PDF 077 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Quality that Earns the Trust of Society ＜Principal Approaches＞ We have been developing and adopting more convenient and comprehensible procedural methods to provide information on insurance and services to a variety of customers. Eﬀorts to enhance customer convenience in ・Procedures for applying for and obtaining policies are available online obtaining policies ・Procedures for obtaining policies without paper utilizing tablets and other devices. ・Dissemination of information on insurance products using LINE ・We are helping to rebuild customersʼ livelihoods as soon as possible by increasing manpower and improving administration at our Accident Claims Center and Insurance Claim Payment Center in line with the scale of disasters, including earthquakes, typhoons, ﬂooding, and heavy snowfall, and by rapidly settling insurance claims. Prompt and courteous customer service during ・We have developed a RPA system which helps register accident claim information and settling insurance claims. natural disasters ・We have been sending out post-disaster messages of sympathy and condolence as well as information on insurance claims by LINE. ・Claims determined not to be eligible for insurance payments but which nevertheless satisfy certain conditions are examined by a Screening Committee comprising outside attorneys and other experts. Screening of insurance payments ・MSI and ADI disclose the number of such claims examined and the cases examined on their oﬃcial websites. ・In accordance with the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications, customersʼ opinions that are received through consultations, requests and complaints are collected, managed, and analyzed centrally, and then utilized to improve operations. The details and outcomes of these improvement eﬀorts are being disclosed in sequence. Operational improvements utilizing customer ・We have issued a declaration of conformity with ISO10002, guidelines for quality management, customer suggestions satisfaction, and complaint response at organizations that also serve as international standards for customer service. We are continually upgrading our services in keeping with customer views. Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications Among the indicators used for measuring the level the ﬁve Group insurance companies in Japan have continued their eﬀorts in customer-ﬁrst business operations, customer satisfaction from customer questionnaires Use of customer satisfaction based on customer (completed by customers when signing up for policies or being paid insurance money) has been designated as questionnaire surveys as a KPI* one of the indicators for Group sustainability that earns the trust of society (*) Key Performance Indicator: an indicator used to quantitatively evaluate eﬀorts Targets and Results: “customer satisfaction indicated in a questionnaire survey when purchasing policies” and “customer satisfaction indicated in a questionnaire survey when receiving insurance payments” We have been fostering a suitable corporate climate by infusing customer-ﬁrst values into operations through education for employees and agents. ＜For employees＞ Inculcation of customer-ﬁrst value orientation We conduct workplace meetings and arrange training and contests aimed at improving skills in all departments. among employees/agents ＜For agents＞ We provide agents with various training and online learning opportunities, and we seek to motivate them via an agent quality certiﬁcation system. 078 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Quality that Earns the Trust of Society Quality Improvement Utilizing Cutting-edge Technologies To satisfy a variety of customer needs to a high degree, we develop products/services utilizing cutting-edge ICT and other technology and employ new technologies such as artiﬁcial intelligence (AI), Big Data, and voice recognition to revamp our operational ﬂow. ＜Principal Approaches＞ We have utilized AI to develop a chatbot* that automatically responds to inquiries from customers 24/7 on our oﬃcial website. (*) Chatbot, a portmanteau of “chat” and “(ro)bot,” is an AI-based automated conversation program. Improvement of customer convenience Launched a chatbot-based inquiry response service (Japanese only) PDF Introduced a manned chat service to respond to customer inquiries (Japanese only) PDF ・To achieve higher-quality customer service, we have joined with Persol Works Design Co., Ltd., to develop and introduce an automated model for assessing the quality of telephone responses which can be installed at the Improvement of telephone response quality at call Group company call centers. centers Developed an automated model for assessing telephone response quality at call centers (Japanese only) PDF We have developed and introduced a system to automatically and accurately describe accident conditions with text and illustrations by utilizing AI and telematics technologies. Enhancement of accident responses Introduced AI-based system to be used for automatically transcribing accident conditions from dashcams (Japanese only) PDF Introduced a new claims handling system utilizing telematics (Japanese only) PDF We have begun employing a solution provided by Shift Technology, a French start-up company, to detect fraudulent insurance claims. Enhancement of claim settlement operations [An industry ﬁrst] Solution to detect fraudulent insurance claims now in operation (Japanese only) PDF In line with MS&AD Insurance Group Information Security Management Basic Policy, we have been pursuing consistent system security management across the Group to ensure that service can be reliably provided in the face of rising cyber risks stemming from technological advances. We are also working to develop more robust information management system through activities such as establishing in-house regulations and educating Strengthening of information security management employees. Information Management External Evaluation (Japanese only) We were selected as a Competitive IT Strategy Company in 2019. PDF We received the IT Special Award (Technology Application Award) in the 2018 Information Technology Award. PDF MSI obtained three-star ratings (the highest rating) in the HDI Rating Benchmarks in inquiry desks, and online support categories. PDF ADI obtained three-star ratings (the highest rating) in the HDI Rating Benchmarks in monitoring (telephone response) category. PDF Mitsui Direct General obtained three-star ratings (the highest rating) in the HDI Rating Benchmarks in inquiry desks, and online support categories. MSI Aioi Life obtained three-star ratings (the highest rating) in the HDI Rating Benchmarks in inquiry desks, and monitoring categories. PDF 079 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Quality that Earns the Trust of Society / MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications The MS&AD Insurance Group shall respond to all customer communications quickly, appropriately and in good faith based on the Group's management ideology. The following principles for conduct are hereby promulgated to contribute toward greater customer satisfaction. 1. Deﬁnitions (1) Deﬁnition of Customer As used herein, customer shall refer to a customer having a relationship with the activities of the MS&AD Insurance Group with respect to both individuals and companies. (2) Deﬁnition of Customer Communication As used herein, customer communication shall refer to any and all expressions from customers (inquiries, consultations, requests, complaints, disputes, praise, expressions of gratitude, etc.). Here, complaint shall mean an expression of dissatisfaction from a customer. 2. Principles for Conduct (1) Basic Stance (i) All oﬃcers and employees shall respond to all customer communications quickly, appropriately and in good faith. (ii) All oﬃcers and employees shall be conscious of the fact that customer communications constitute important information for assuring trust from customers, realizing corporate growth and further improving quality. (iii) All oﬃcers and employees shall compile and analyze information relating to customer communications, and while making eﬀort to reduce complaints, shall also use this information to create measures that improve quality and raise the level of customer satisfaction. (2) Management of Responses to Customer Communications (i) Domestic Group insurance companies shall prescribe policies for responding to customer communications that factor in the business conditions present at their respective companies consistent with the MS&AD Insurance Groupʼs Mission Statement and the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications. (ii) Domestic Group insurance companies shall prepare rules, manuals and the like regarding the procedures and speciﬁc individual actions for responding to customer communications. (iii) When necessary, the other Group companies shall prepare measures for responding to customer communications and put these into practice as appropriate. 080 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Promotion of Diversity & Inclusion Promotion of Diversity & Inclusion The MS&AD Insurance Group is convinced that providing all employees with opportunities to grow through work and to demonstrate their capabilities will result in greater corporate competitiveness. Creating management platforms that enable employees to play active roles, a business infrastructure needed for employees to take on dynamic roles, in addition to the use of diversity & inclusion key performance indicators (KPIs) to set numerical management targets, has been positioned as a priority in the Vision 2021 Medium-term Management Plan, and we are moving ahead with eﬀorts to make this the source of the Groupʼs comprehensive capabilities. Issuing the Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Promotion Report Our Group issues a D&I Promotion Report and makes it publicly available on our oﬃcial website. This report presents the directions the Group has taken toward D&I, the projects being pursued by Group companies toward their common goals, and introduces speciﬁc D&I measures being implemented at individual Group companies. ＜Content of “Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Promotion Report”＞ D&I Promotion Report 2019 (Japanese only) PDF ・Message from Group CEO ・D&I Promotion at the MS&AD Group ・Groupʼs Current Data and Target Values ・Systems and Eﬀorts to Promote Active Roles for Women ・Global Human assets Activities ・Active Roles for People with Disabilities, Support for LGBT Staﬀ, Active Roles for Seniors ・Work-life Balance (Programs to Enable Employees to Continue Working) ・Creation of Environments Conducive to D&I ・Message from Diversity & Inclusion Oﬃcer ・Principal Awards Received from Government Ministries/Agencies KPIs for Sustainability Initiatives: Ratio of females in managerial positions, Ratio of taking fully paid paternity/secondary leave ESG Data/Reference Material: percentage and number of females among board members and corporate auditors, percentage and number of females in managerial positions 081 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Promotion of Diversity & Inclusion Registration as Member of the 30% Club Japan In agreement with the vision put forth by the 30% Club Japan, our Group regards gender diversity as an urgent business issue that companies should address and, accordingly, is making committed eﬀorts to cultivate female executives within the Group. MS&AD Joins 30% Club Japan PDF Eﬀorts to Realize an Inclusive Society through Support for Athletes We have been striving to realize an inclusive society in which a variety of people can play active parts by supporting sports for people with disabilities. Among the initiatives taken thus far include fostering and supporting athletes who are actively engaged in competitions, cosponsoring sports organizations for people with disabilities, and attending competitions around Japan to cheer on the participants. In this context, we have been employing abled and people with disabilities athletes, many of whom take part in the Olympics, Paralympics, Deaﬂympics, world championships, and other international competitions in order to create an environment in which people are able to dedicate themselves to both work and sports. MSI x Sports (Japanese only) AD Challenge Support, athlete support website (Japanese only) MSI Aioi Life: Promotion and Support of Sports (Japanese only) External Evaluation (Japanese only) We became the ﬁrst non-life insurance company ever to receive an award in the Diversity & Inclusion Category at the 4th White Company Awards (2019). PDF We received the Minister of Internal Aﬀairs and Communications Award recognizing us as one of the Top 100 Telework Pioneers. PDF We received a Gold rating (the highest) in Pride Index 2018, an index evaluating LGBT-related eﬀorts. PDF We are the only non-life insurance company to be certiﬁed as a Tokyo Sports Promotion Company for four consecutive years! PDF We were certiﬁed as a 2018 Sports Yell Company for the second year in a row by the Japan Sports Agency. PDF For other awards and certiﬁcations, see the Diversity & Inclusion (D&I) Promotion Report. 082 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Encourage Employees to Learn and Think by Themselves, Take on Challenges and Continue to Grow Encourage Employees to Learn and Think by Themselves, Take on Challenges and Continue to Grow We live in a drastically changing society that can also be seen in our diversifying workforce. To ensure that our employees grow and play active roles, it is important that they ﬁnd their work satisfying and rewarding, that they remain healthy and dynamic, and that they exercise originality and ingenuity to achieve their work goals so that both the individuals and the organizations can grow and better meet the expectations of society. MS&AD Insurance Group aims to develop human assets(*) with the goal of elevating the level of professionalism of each employee, pursuing betterment as opposed to remaining complacent with the status quo, and maximizing the organizational level power through the aggregation of individual capabilities. (*) Human assets: In the spirit of valuing the individual, the MS&AD Insurance Group refer to our employees as human assets rather than human resources. A Vision of the Ideal Employees Envisioning ideal employees as those “who learn and think by themselves, take on challenges and continue to grow”, Group insurance companies in Japan have been oﬀering education and assistance to promote training, OJT*, and self-improvement so that our employees can work as professionals with pride and satisfaction. We provide a wide range of opportunities, including obligatory courses for all employees in an e-learning format that is more convenient for course participants. More speciﬁcally, individual employees sketch out their career visions, undertake new eﬀorts to realize these visions and bolster their own capabilities and skills through a target management system. Superiors engage in career dialogue during target challenge interviews (interviews with subordinates utilizing career vision sheets) and in other approaches to help employees achieve their career visions and to enhance communication between superiors and subordinates. (*) OJT: On-the-Job Training ＜Conceptual Image of Human Asset Development System＞ 083 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Encourage Employees to Learn and Think by Themselves, Take on Challenges and Continue to Grow Enhancing Individual Strengths (Enhancing Individuals) Group insurance companies in Japan provide training programs as well as outside correspondence courses and other opportunities for selfeducation in support of self-directed learning and growth to individual employees. ＜Our Development Program＞ MS&AD Open College Classroom training to acquire business skills, such as problem-solving Voluntary in-house programs that enable employees to experience working in other departments/companies for short periods; among the aims of these programs are to further cultivate Group solidarity and improve Trainee programs communication ESG Data/Reference Material (number of participants of the trainee system) An open recruiting program through which employees considering their own career paths can convey their plans Post-challenge programs and wishes to their companies and take on challenges to progress down these paths. Eﬀorts to actualize autonomous career development. Enhancing Organizational Strengths (Enhancing Teamwork) To maximize the performance of organizations (workplaces), we are conducting a variety of stratiﬁed training programs for employees at all levels to support improvement in their way of thinking and behavior. ＜Our Development Program＞ We have a fair and impartial approach to hiring personnel that respects diversity. Additionally, we are operating New employee training OJT programs to enable employees to smoothly integrate into their workplaces after joining the company and to put their workplace experience to good use in obtaining the needed knowledge/skills We oﬀer training to help employees understand their unconscious biases and to learn methods for recognizing Training for managerial personnel and controlling their own biases. We also endeavoring to support the improvement of management and workplace communication capabilities to support human resources development across the board We have stepped up training and educational programs for female employees to promote career development of Training for female employees women (leadersʼ school, management seminars, and mentor programs for women, etc.) Support for “Meeting of male leaders to accelerate the success of leading female” (Japanese only) PDF 084 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Encourage Employees to Learn and Think by Themselves, Take on Challenges and Continue to Grow Development of professional human assets To respond to the advance of digitalization, the emergence of new risks, and other changes in social structure, we are systematically cultivating human assets with specialized skills who are capable of excelling on the world stage. We have put in place a framework for employees to mutually interact and improve themselves through friendly competition between overseas locations and Japan in order to foster internationally-minded specialists with expertise ＜Examples of training and programs＞ Development of global human assets ・Overseas training (learning business skills, languages, etc.) ・Global trainee system ・Temporary Transfer System for employees hired at overseas branches ESG Data/Reference Material (number of participants in global trainee system, etc.) We oﬀer training programs designed to foster industry-ready personnel (digital business creators and data scientists) (*)Digitalization should not be limited to improving the eﬃciency and convenience of processes, services, etc., via digital technology but it should also help reform the Groupʼs overall business operations ＜Examples of training and programs＞ Development of personnel to oversee digitalization* ・MS Digital Academy ・Data science education programs for all employees MS Digital Academy Established Stepped up eﬀorts to hire/train data scientists (Japanese only) PDF We are encouraging and supporting employees to take qualiﬁcation examinations conducted by the Institute of Support for acquiring actuarial qualiﬁcations Actuaries of Japan (IAJ) as part of our eﬀorts to develop actuarial professionals capable of applying probability, statistics and other methods to product development, risk management, etc. Fostering Personnel to Shoulder the Future (Internships) We oﬀer internships from the perspective of developing human assets through industrial-academic collaboration, and help students grow by ensuring that these internships provide them with opportunities to gain a deeper understanding of the signiﬁcance and appeal of the non-life insurance industry through group work and workplace experiences. Our proprietary internship program has been deemed noteworthy by serving as a model for other companies, and it has been selected by students to receive awards for excellence in the Internship Award, organized by Mynavi Corporation as the secretariat. (2018 ‒ MSI; 2019 ‒ ADI) Selected by students to receive an Award for Excellence in the Internship Award 2019 (Japanese only) PDF 085 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Work Style Reform and Health and Productivity Management Work Style Reform and Health and Productivity Management As Japanʼs birthrate declines and its society ages, securing an adequate workforce to enable our company to stay in business has become a major issue. Keeping working employees healthy is essential not only to improve the quality of life (QOL) of the employees themselves but also to realize the MS&AD Insurance Groupʼs Corporate Philosophy. Our Group provides venues for diverse personnel with a wide range of values to work together and pursue work style reform that will increase productivity while making their workplaces more comfortable and their work more satisfying, and creates healthand safety-conscious workplace environments to maintain and improve the physical and mental health of all employees. Promoting Work Style Reform Work style reform is being implemented across the board by diversifying work locations and hours, restructuring employee roles, and adopting creative approaches to prevent long working hours. ＜Principal Approaches＞ We are diversifying previously ﬁxed work locations and pursuing more diverse work styles for our employees ＜Example eﬀorts＞ Diversiﬁcation of work locations/hours ・Promoting mobile work (installation of thin-client PCs) ・Implementing work from home programs and utilizing satellite oﬃces ・Introducing shift work and short-term work systems We are seeking to reform employeesʼ thinking and behavior to ensure that they perform their work even better, Restructuring of roles further improving their productivity and strengthening their competitiveness. We are maintaining the health of individual employees and supporting work-life balance by preventing long working hours ＜Example eﬀorts＞ ・As a rule, employees must leave work before 19:00 Prevention of long-term working hours ・Finishing times are shared within workplaces using “ﬁnishing time declaration cards” to foster awareness of diﬀerences in working hours ・Industrial physicians provide one-to-one guidance to employees who operate PCs beyond a prescribed number of hours We encourage employees to take paid leave by formulating plans for regular leave in advance, and periodically conﬁrming that employees are in fact taking leave Encouragement of paid leave Targets and Results [the number of annual paid holidays taken] ESG Data/Reference Material (rate/days of paid leave taken) 086 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Work Style Reform and Health and Productivity Management Maintaining and Improving Employee Health We are working to maintain and improve the physical and mental health of employees and to create better working environments. ＜Principal Approaches＞ We conduct campaigns that encourage and support employees to carry out behaviors and lifestyle habits that improve health (self-care) ＜Example eﬀorts＞ ・Revamping day-to-day lifestyle habits by encouraging use of “Koko Kara Diary,” our proprietary app Support to improve health ・Providing meal campaigns, walking plans, health challenge rally (health point system) plans, support to help people who are quitting smoking (subsidies to cover teletherapy expenses), etc. ・Encouraging sneaker commuting, stair climbing (conducting a “2-Up/3-Down” campaign, displaying stickers on staircases showing calories burned), etc. Establishing an environment that promotes the lifestyle practices needed to improve health and prompts employees to acquire greater knowledge/skills on mental health, etc. ＜Example eﬀorts＞ Improving health literacy E-learning, videos featuring top athletes promoting exercise, provision of information on lifestyle practices that include physical/mental health, diet, exercise, sleep, smoking, and provision of health education as part of health consultations and tier-speciﬁc training We have set up a health and productivity management center and an employee consultation oﬃce to provide care for the mental health of employees. In addition to carrying out stress checks uniformly across the Group and bolstering mechanisms to prevent mental disorders, we are using the ﬁndings of group analysis to establish better workplace environments Mental health care ＜Example eﬀorts＞ Preventive activities: training, e-learning, stress checks, health consultations at workplaces Support for aﬄicted persons: consultations during rehabilitation Return-to-work support: preparations for returning to work during recovery periods, etc. Creating Safety-conscious Workplaces (Compliance with Occupational Health and Safety Act) We are striving to ensure safety-conscious workplaces with the Group insurance companies in Japan setting up industrial health committees in accordance with the Occupational Health and Safety Act. The committees investigate/deliberate on matters pertinent to preventing health hazards and maintaining/improving health each month. ＜Principal Approaches＞ MS&AD Holdings operates a uniform Group-wide medical checkup system so that employees can undergo standardized medical exams and analyses. For employees whose exam results require follow-up measures, we Uniform Group-wide medical checkup system provide health guidance and encourage them to undergo further examinations by industrial physicians/nurses. ESG Data/Reference Material (Consultation rate of medical checkup) 087 HOME / Sustainability / Our Value Creation Approach / Work Style Reform and Health and Productivity Management To improve operational eﬃciency among employees while ensuring their physical and mental health, we are Establishment of a suitable working environment establishing comfortable working environments with due consideration for lighting, circulation, temperature, humidity, noise, and ergonomics We conduct monitoring and risk assessments at workplaces in order to put in place the workplace environments needed to prevent falls and other accidents. Group insurance companies that use company-owned vehicles are managing accident rates and ensuring that employees engage in safe driving practices in keeping with the safe Prevention of workplace accidents driving management rules for company-owned vehicles. ESG Data/Reference Material (Number of claims for work-related injuries) Communicating with Employees We think it is vital that all employees understand the direction in which the company wishes to proceed and that working environments are created in such a way that the employees can maximally apply their enthusiasm and skills to helping the company along its course, and we are arranging various opportunities for communication among employees to this end. We also incorporate opinions expressed by employees in to our eﬀorts to improve corporate management and upgrade the quality of our products/services. ＜Principal Approaches＞ We periodically conduct opinion surveys of all Group employees. These surveys are used to instill the concepts of the Groupʼs Corporate Philosophy, Corporate Vision, and Code of Conduct, to conﬁrm whether a sense of Group Employee satisfaction surveys [Employee solidarity is being fostered, and to check whether employees feel satisfaction and a genuine sense of growth with Satisfaction] their work Targets and Results (Employee satisfaction) We have set up a bulletin board on the in-house system where employees can post improvement proposals and Mechanisms to make use of employee opinions in other messages. The posted content is then examined by the various head oﬃce divisions, who then provide improving operations feedback on the proposals. We periodically arrange opportunities for employees and top-level executives to exchange views so that the Dialogue with executives employeesʼ views can be incorporated into company management External Evaluation (Japanese only) We were recognized by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry as one of the outstanding organizations in their health and productivity management certiﬁcation program in 2019. PDF We received the highest award for excellence (the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare Award) at the 2nd Comfortable and Productive Company/Workplace Awards. PDF We became the ﬁrst insurance company ever to receive the Grand Prize at the 10th Work-Life Balance Awards. PDF 088 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material ESG Data / Reference Material The following are the materials and data about sustainability approaches of the MS&AD Insurance Group. Subject period: FY2018 (April 1, 2018 March 31, 2019) Subject organization and data coverage: Group Domestic Consolidated (Domestic consolidated (MS＆AD Group total) subsidiaries) Company name abbreviation Employee-based Employee-based Subject Subject coverage coverage Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. MSI ○ ○ Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. ADI ○ ○ Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Direct General ○ ○ 77.6% Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. MSI Aioi Life ○ ○ 100% Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Co., Ltd. MSI Primary Life ○ ○ MS＆AD Holdings MS&AD Holdings ○ ○ Overseas insurance subsidiaries Overseas ○ Other(*) Other ○ (*) Domestic group companies operating such as risk-related services Third-Party Assurance Since 2015, the MS&AD Insurance Group has engaged KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. to perform assurance of selected environmental and social data in order to assure credibility of reported ﬁgures. The data subject to the third-party assurance is indicated with ✓. 089 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Organizational Governance Consumer Issues Environment Community Involvement and Development Human Rights/Labor Practices ISO 26000 Core Subjects (Organizational Governance) Corporate Governance As a company with a Audit & Supervisory Board, the Company will endeavor to improve governance by ensuring that independently appointed Audit & Supervisory Board Members appropriately act in their auditing functions, in addition to ensuring that the Board of Directors appropriately acts in its oversight functions, while strengthening the functions of each and actively disclosing information. MS&AD Insurance Group The Basic Policies on Corporate Governance MS&AD Insurance Group The Basic Policy Partaining to the System for Internal Controls MS&AD Insurance Group The Basic Policy for Management of Conﬂicts of Interest MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy Concerning Antisocial Forces Directors (as of 24 June 2019) Chairman Chairperson of the Board (except holding concurrent post of President) Number of Directors 12(*1) Number of Outside Directors 5(*2) Number of independent Directors 5(*3) Number and ratio of women at the Board of Directors 2 / 16.7% (*1) Board members average tenure 3.9years (*2) Outside directors average tenure 2.4years (*3) The number of outside directors with relevant work experience in our company's sector : 1 090 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Corporate Auditors (as of 24 June 2019) Establishment of Board of Auditors Established Number of Audit and Supervisory Board Member 4 Number of Outside Audit and Supervisory Board Member 2 Number of independent Audit and Supervisory Board Member 2 Number and ratio of women in corporate auditors 2 / 50.0% Nomination and Remuneration Detailed Information Number of Meetings of Board of Directors etc. Function FY2018 Board of Directors 12*1 Governance Committee 4 Group Management Committee 12 Task-Speciﬁc Committees Sustainability Committee 4 Business Execution, Oversight Quality Improvement and Compliance Committee 4 Group Management and Monitoring Committee 9 Digitalization Committee 4 Group Systems Committee 5 Group International Business Committee 2 Risk Management Committee 4 Auditing, Oversight Board of Auditors 11*2 (*1) Outside Directors average attendance rate 93.1%. All directors average attendance rate 97.2% (*2) Outside Corporate Auditors average attendance rate 100% Detailed information of Corporate Governance 091 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Information Voting Right Number of shares Classiﬁcation Number of Voting Rights Description (shares) Shares without Voting Rights Shares with Restricted Voting Right (treasury stock, etc) Shares with Restricted Voting Right (others) （Treasury Stock） Share Unit Number Shares with Full Voting Right 9,580,000 shares of (100 shares) (treasury stock, etc) Common Stock Shares with Full Voting Right 582,026,400 shares of Same as above 5,820,264 (others) Common Stock Common Stock Fractional Shares Shares Representing Less than One Unit 1,685,354 (Less than 100 shares) Number of Issued Shares 593,291,754 Total number of Voting Rights 5,820,264 Compliance MS&AD Insurance Group Compliance Basic Policy MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Management of Customer Information MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Shared Use of Customer Information MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Management of Outside Vendors MS&AD Insurance Group Tax Policy 092 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Speak-up system (Whistleblowing system)*1 Items Coverage Units FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of cases reported Consolidated cases 50 93 164*2 (*1) We conducted an employee surveys to raise awareness of the whistleblowing system and to create a workplace where everyone feels comfortable speaking up (number of respondents to the 2018 survey: approximately 46,000 in Japan and 9,000 overseas) (*2) The number of reports has signiﬁcantly increased as we revised the system to allow anonymous reporting and consultation in 2018. Speak-up system (Whistleblowing system) Risk Management MS&AD Insurance Group Risk Management Basic Policy Information Disclosure MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Disclosure of Information ISO 26000 Core Subjects (Consumer Issues) MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Responding to Customer Communications Progress and KPI(key performance indicators) in relation to our customer-ﬁrst policy in the business operations (Japanese only) The Group's ﬁve domestic insurance companies have disclosed their initiatives based on their Customer-ﬁrst Policy in the Business Operations and KPI used to evaluate the result of their initiatives. Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Co., Ltd. 093 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material ISO 26000 Core Subjects (Environment) CO2 Emissions in Business Activities With our support for the Paris Agreement adopted in 2015, we have signed the Paris Pledge for Action that calls on its signatories to address climate change and global warming. In line with this, we have established a target of 70% CO2 emissions reduction by FY2050 and 30% by FY2020 (Total of Scope 1 and 2) compared to the base year (FY2009). Even though we had several large-sale natural disasters which resulted in quite increased number of payouts, we have reduced our CO2 emissions (Total of Scope 1 and 2) from the previous year as a result of our continuous eﬀorts for energy saving activities at our oﬃces and data centers through initiatives such as work style reforms and our unique environmental management system, which is the MS&AD Our Earth Project. With regard to data, we have obtained third-party assurance for the following new data items starting from FY2018: 1) the Category 3 in Scope 3, upstream emissions of purchased energy, 2) Total amount of waste recycling, and 3) Final disposal amount of waste. We strive to regularly assess our performance, identify the root course of problems, and take the next steps for further improve our operations. (Percentage change from the previous year in parenthesis) Third-Party Items Coverage Units FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Assurance CO2 514,833 513,320 529,913 emissions Consolidated t-CO2 (7.4%) (▲0.3%) (3.2%) (Scope1,2,3) Group 19,717 18,389 17,174 Domestic t-CO2 (▲3.4%) (▲6.7%) (▲6.6%) ✓ CO2 + Other emissions (Scope 1) 26,315 27,948 25,508 Consolidated t-CO2 ✓ (5.2%) (6.2%) (▲8.7%) Group 81,629 65,196 62,196 Domestic t-CO2 (▲2.4%) (▲20.1%) (▲4.6%) ✓ CO2 + Other emissions (Scope 2) * 94,615 76,721 71,897 Consolidated t-CO2 ✓ (▲0.3%) (▲18.9%) (▲6.3%) Group 101,346 83,586 79,370 Domestic t-CO2 (▲2.6%) (▲17.5%) (▲5.0%) ✓ CO2 emissions + Other (Scope 1 and Scope 2 combined) 120,930 104,669 97,405 Consolidated t-CO2 ✓ (0.8%) (▲13.4%) (▲6.9%) CO2 393,904 408,652 432,508 emissions Consolidated t-CO2 (9.5%) (3.7%) (5.8%) (Scope 3) * (*) From FY2017 onwards, we report CO2 emissions associated with energy used by the tenants of MS&AD-owned buildings as Scope 3 emissions. 094 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material CO2 emissions (Scope 3) (Percentage change from the previous year in parenthesis) Third-Party Items Coverage Units FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Assurance Category 2 Consolidated 39,376 39,560 60,904 t-CO2 ✓ Capital goods （▲2.7%） （0.5%） （54.0%） Category 3 Consolidated 11,219 10,434 10,132 Fueland energy-related activities t-CO2 （11.9%） （▲7.0%） （▲2.9%） ✓ (not included in Scope 1 or Scope 2) Category 5 Consolidated 2,948 2,750 3,463 t-CO2 ✓ Waste generated in operations (-) （▲6.7%） （25.9%） Category 6 Consolidated 10,192 9,740 4,295 t-CO2 ✓ Business trip by airplane (-) （▲4.4%） （▲55.9%） Group 7,332 7,489 7,388 Category 7 Domestic t-CO2 （▲3.4%） （2.1%） （▲1.3%） ✓ Employee commuting + Other Category 13 Consolidated t-CO2 8,013 7,352 ✓ Downstream leased assets * (-) (-) (▲8.2%) (*) From ﬁscal 2017 onwards, we report CO2 emissions associated with energy used by the tenants of MS&AD-owned buildings as Scope 3 emissions. 095 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Data on Environmental Burden Scope 1 & 2 Coverage [the Groupʼs consolidated ﬁgures (including overseas Companies)] (Percentage change from the previous year in parenthesis) Third-Party Items Coverage Units FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Assurance Consolidated 171,826 144,737 142,338 Electricity *1 MWh ✓ (0.1%) (▲15.8%) (▲1.7%) Consolidated 67,842 62,426 68,684 Heat supply GJ ✓ (15.1%) (▲8.0%) (10.0%) Consolidated thousand 2,258 2,113 2,439 City gas *1 ✓ m3 (11.9%) (▲6.4%) (15.4%) Liqueﬁed Consolidated 203 183 151 Petroleum t (7.5%) (▲9.7%) (▲17.3%) ✓ Gas Consolidated 107 58 51 Heavy oil kℓ ✓ (12.0%) (▲45.8%) (▲12.3%) Consolidated 192 80 50 Kerosene kℓ ✓ (0.9%) (▲58.4%) (▲37.3%) Consolidated 5.9 6.5 7.4 Diesel oil kℓ ✓ (▲4.5%) (8.6%) (14.6%) Consolidated 8,585 9,256 8,334 Gasoline kℓ ✓ (3.7%) (7.8%) (▲10.0%) 305,002 282,737 274,292 MWh ✓ Total (2.5%) (▲7.3%) (▲3.0%) energy Consolidated consumption *2 1,098,008 1,017,853 987,452 GJ ✓ (2.5%) (▲7.3%) (▲3.0%) (*1) From FY2017 onwards, we report CO2 emissions associated with energy used by the tenants of MS&AD-owned buildings as Scope 3 emissions. (*2) The calculation of the total energy consumption in MWh and GJ is based on unit heat values speciﬁed in Japanʼs Act on the Rational Use of Energy except for purchased electricity, for which 3.6GJ/MWh is used. 096 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Scope 3 Coverage (major items) (Percentage change from the previous year in parenthesis) Third-Party Items Coverage Units FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Assurance Paper Group t 13,005 11,085 10,545 Domestic (▲6.6%) (▲14.8%) (▲4.9%) + Other Proportion of paper with forest certiﬁcation MSI, ADI, % 17.2 13.6 12.8 MSI Aioi Life (4.8%) (▲20.9%) (▲6.1%) Total water use thousand 1,074 961 998 Consolidated ✓ m3 (18.1%) (▲10.5%) (3.8%) Disposed waste t 10,551 10,962 10,157 Total ✓ (17.8%) (3.9%) (▲7.3%) t 5,837 4,804 4,523 Recycled Consolidated ✓ (26.5%) (▲17.7%) (▲5.8%) t 4,714 6,158 5,634 Final disposal amount ✓ (-) (30.6%) (▲8.5%) Business trip (Aircraft use only)* Consolidated thousand 45,025 46,759 47,127 passenger (-) (3.9%) (0.8%) ✓ -km (*) We have revised the calculation method based on the results for ﬁscal 2018. Using the same method on the results for ﬁscal 2017, it would be 113,224 thousand passenger-kilometer. Renewable Energy Generation (Photovoltaic Power) We have installed solar power generation systems in our four major buildings, and are promoting to reduce CO2 emissions by using such renewable energy. (Percentage change from the previous year in parenthesis) Third-Party Items Coverage Units FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Assurance Energy Generation*1 4 Buildings*2 kWh 56,212 57,109 57,275 ✓ (▲0.7%) (1.6%) (0.3%) (*1) All generated electricity is for self-consumption. (*2) MSI Surugadai Main & New bldgs, MSI Osaka Yodoyabashi bldg, ADI Tokyo Customer Center bldg. 097 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Cost Eﬀect Items Coverage Units FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Electricity thousand Consolidated ▲24,098 ▲414,372 ▲69,920 *1 JPY Gasoline thousand Consolidated 38,316 91,525 ▲138,144 *2 JPY Copy Paper Group thousand Domestic + ▲5,265 ▲45,825 ▲15,463 JPY Other (*1) Calculated from the average unit price at MS&AD Holdings. (*2) Calculated from the petroleum products price survey gasoline nationwide annual average unit price (Agency for Natural Resources and Energy). Environmental Approaches through Supply Chain Our eﬀorts to reduce the environmental burden are also promoted in conjunction with key business partners. We are engaged in green purchasing, prioritizing eco-friendly products in procuring the materials used in our operations, and our entire value chain is working to establish a sustainable society. In addition, we are working with policyholders on Eco insurance certiﬁcates and web policy clauses that reduce the environmental burden of business activities and, at the same time, improve the convenience of policyholders. Items Coverage Units FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Ratio of Web Policy Clause * MSI, ADI % 75.2 76.8 76.4 Number of Agents and companies MSI, ADI companies 241 132 121 with certiﬁcation under Eco Action 21 Number of maintenance shops implementing MSI companies 391 386 379 Eco-inspection, Eco-maintenance (*) Online Terms & Conditions in consideration of environment ISO 26000 Core Subjects (Community Involvement and Development ) Through our Group's social contribution activities and involvement in and support for community development, companies can help their employees become interested in understanding the community and society, be creative, and be able to build a network with the communities. Based on these ideas, the Group provides our employees with opportunities to take part in social contribution activities, and we have seen the number of participants is increasing. In ﬁscal 2018, over 70% of employees in Japan joined the social contribution activities. If our employees think it diﬃcult to spare time to physically participate in these activities, they can alternatively make a monetary contribution through the employees' social contribution activity team. The monetary contributions start at 100 yen, and the contributions are withdrawn from their monthly salaries. We also strive to disclose social contribution expenditures, including conversion of social contribution activities. 098 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Items Coverage Units FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of acquirer MSI, ADI, MSI Aioi Life people 7 26 23 of Volunteer leave Number of acquirer MSI, ADI, MSI Aioi Life people 1 2 0 of Volunteer suspension Number of employees Group Domestic people 19,861 20,022 23,601 engaged in social contribution activities MS＆AD Unison Group Domestic people 16,159 15,701 15,414 Smile Club Number of members Donated Consolidated thousand yen 53,691 29,455 50,230 Disaster Relief amount *1 Donation Matching Number Consolidated people 21,010 10,594 21,129 Gift Program of participants *2 corporate philanthropic contributions 1,719,120 1,271,451 1,519,660 Charitable Donations 675,620 614,930 821,730 （Breakdown）Purpose Community Investments 327,410 303,441 303,330 Commercial Initiatives 716,090 353,080 394,600 Group Domestic thousand yen Cash contributions 1,607,340 1,155,290 1,413,220 Employee volunteering during paid working hours 7,690 15,749 750 （Breakdown）Money conversion In-kind donation, facility opening etc 7,340 16,270 14,600 Management overheads 96,750 84,142 91,090 (*1) Total amount of Donation Matching Gift and Donation from employees (*2) Total participants 099 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material ISO 26000 Core Subjects (Human Rights) (Labor Practices) Breakdown of employees Third-Party Items Coverage Units FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Assurance Number Consolidated male40,641 41,295 41,467 of the female Group combined (10,150) (9,745) (9,142) employees total *1 male 20,350 20,173 19,914 Temporary employees female 20,291 21,122 21,553 are superscripted Group male31,591 31,823 32,182 as the average domestic female number of combined (9,458) (9,108) (8,612) annual total temporary male 16,057 15,772 15,598 hires people in the bracket. female 15,534 16,051 16,584 companies MSI 14,650 14,572 14,577 ADI 13,052 13,287 13,657 MD 581 571 545 MSA 2,595 2,609 2,604 MSP 384 394 400 holding HD 329 390 399 company Domestic employees (including group companies) /Consolidated employees 77.7% 77.1% 77.6% Overseas male8,759 9,184 8,958 ✓ female combined (656) (603) (507) total people male 4,072 4,190 4,073 female 4,687 4,994 4,885 Overseas employees/ Consolidated employees 21.6% 22.2% 21.6% ✓ 100 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Other *2 male291 288 327 female combined male people 221 211 243 total female 70 77 84 Other employee/ Consolidated employees 0.7% 0.7% 0.8% (*1) Excludes excecutive oﬃcers and employees on leave. (*2) Risk-related services businesses operated by the Group Companies other than those in the domestic insurance industry Number of Employees by Age Items Coverage Units FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of Employees by Age Under 30 male-female 6,428 6,919 (Group Domestic) combined total male 2,097 2,235 female 4,331 4,684 30〜39 male-female 7,172 7,121 combined total male 3,128 3,101 female people 4,044 4,020 40〜49 male-female 9,124 8,694 combined total male 4,579 4,137 female 4,545 4,557 50〜59 male-female 7,348 7,620 combined total male 4,481 4,602 female 2,867 3,018 60+ male-female 1,751 1,828 combined total male 1,487 1,523 female 264 305 101 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Employment Items Coverage Units FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Average age *1 Group male-female 41.7 41.6 41.5 domestic combined total age male 44.6 44.6 44.6 female 38.6 38.7 38.7 Average length Group male-female 12.6 12.8 12.8 of service domestic combined total year male 13.5 13.7 13.8 female 11.7 11.9 11.9 New-graduate recruits *2 Group male-female 1,327 1,352 972 domestic combined total people male 377 417 311 female 950 935 661 Turnover rate *3 Group male-female 2.8 2.7 2.8 % domestic combined total The ratio between the total annual HD male-female 9.7 9.4 12.4 compensation of the Chief Executive combined total times Oﬃcer and the mean employee compensation *4 (*1) The end of March of each year (*2) The number of new hires in April of each next year (*3) Exclude retirees and are calculated based on voluntary resignees (*4) The total CEO Compensation / The mean employee compensation 102 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Diversity We are promoting diversity and inclusion (D&I) initiatives in order to create a working environment where all employees with diﬀerent backgrounds, characteristics, and values can fully demonstrate their abilities and play active roles. The percentage of females in managerial positions is steadily improving, with the aim of achieving the target of 15% in FY2020. Third-Party Items Coverage Units FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Assurance Employment rate Group ％ 2.52 2.37 2.37 ✓ and number of domestic employees people 755 719 711 ✓ with disabilities Rehiring Program Group people 1,008 1,133 1,173 after retirement domestic Number of users *1 Percentage and HD Directors ％ 16.7 16.7 16.7 number of females among people 2 2 2 board members and corporate Corporate ％ 50.0 50.0 50.0 auditors *2 Auditor people 2 2 2 Percentage Group Total ％ 12.7 15.7 18.1 ✓ and Consolidated managerial number of positions people 1,200 1,292 1,514 ✓ females in managerial Group General ％ 2.8 3.4 4.1 positions *3 domestic Managers people 35 36 47 Managers ％ 7.9 11.3 14.3 people 516 577 735 Total ％ 7.1 9.9 12.4 ✓ managerial positions people 551 613 782 ✓ (*1) Number of people newly or consecutively re-employed (*2) Approved at shareholders meeting held each next ﬁscal year. (*3) As of April 1st next ﬁscal year for Group Domestic. As of December 31st for Overseas insuarance subsidiaries 103 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Human Rights In February 2017, the Group established the MS & AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on Human Rights and implemented the Group's human rights due diligence system. We provide our employees with human rights training every year in order for them to understand human rights better and to develop an organizational culture that respects human rights. Items Coverage Units FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Training of Human rights * Group domestic % 100 100 100 (*) Ratio of the business units that completed mandatory human rights trainings which require all employee participation Items Coverage Units FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Labor union membership rate Group domestic % 90.2 93.8 93.9 Human Asset Development Items Coverage Units FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Number of participants of the Trainee System*1 Group domestic people 522 568 794 Total 90 118 112 Domestic 38 67 51 Number of participants of the Global Trainee System*2 Consolidated people employee Local employee 52 51 61 Number of participants of the overseas career training program*3 Group domestic people 41 55 52 Number of participants of the Temporary Transfer System to Headquarters from Overseas Consolidated people 11 9 11 Branches*4 (*1) Short-term program which allows employees to experience work they have never done before, at the request of the employee. (*2) Short-term program which allows employees in Japan to experience working at overseas subsidaries, as well as local employees at overseas subsidaries to experience working at the head oﬃce. (*3) MBA dispatch program, and training program which allows employees to experience working for a year at overseas subsidaries or insurance companies. (*4) Transfer system for which allows the local employees from overseas experience the jobs at the head oﬃce for 6 months to 1 year in Japan. Employee satisfaction *1 Items Coverage Units FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Employee satisfaction (questionnaire results), ”Pride, Job satisfaction”*2 point 4.4 4.4 4.4 Group domestic Employee satisfaction (questionnaire results), ”Working Vigorously”*3 point 4.2 4.3 4.3 (*1) The results of the opinion poll asking all Group employees (all-employee average on a 6-point scale, Scope: 36,546 all domestic employees including temporary employees at the time of survey, Response rate: 96.1%). (*2) Ratio of employees feeling pride or job satisfaction (*3) Ratio of employees, regardless of sex and age, feeling free and lively at workplaces. 104 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Programs for Promoting Work-life Balance We have been developing an eﬀective system that helps employees actively work with satisfaction and with the feeling of growth by balancing their work and personal life. In particular, we have set KPI for the rate of male employees taking childcare leave, and encouraged them to take part in the program. Items Coverage*1 Units FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Temporary leave Group people 646 708 788 before / after childbirth domestic Number of acquirers Number of employees taking childcare paid leave male-female people 849 994 1,026 combined total Group domestic male people 204 304 289 female people 645 690 737 Acquisition rate of childcare paid leave male-female % 74.3 78.0 85.2 combined total MSI, ADI male % 44.8 58.0 63.9 female % 95.4 98.6 98.0 Flexible working hours shorter hours people 851 982 1,126 for childcare Number of acquirers Group ﬂextime people 78 41 70 domestic change of Starting people 34 44 65 / ﬁnishing time Temporary retirement male-female people 17 9 17 for nursing combined total Number of acquirers Group domestic male people 5 1 1 female people 12 8 16 Flexible working hours Group number of for nursing domestic acquirers people 9 13 22 Number of acquirers Paid leave Group ratio of days taken*2 % 56.1 54.7 66.2 domestic days taken days 15.7 16.0 15.6 (*1) Includes temporary employees (*2) Number of days acquired / granted 105 HOME / Sustainability / ESG Data / Reference Material Occupational Health and Safety (OHS) In accordance to the Occupational Safety and Health Act, a health committee has been established to research and discuss relevant topics to preventative measures for OHS-related concerns and initiatives to support employees' health. We strive to provide a workplace environment that considers employee's health and safety. In addition, we have a group-wide health checkup system, a health management center, and a consultation room for employees in order to ensure that our employees can maintain their good health even better. Third-Party Items Coverage Units FY2016 FY2017 FY2018 Assurance Number of Group Total cases 227 178 162 claims for domestic work related Workcases 113 76 66 injuries related accident Accident cases 114 102 96 during commute Fatality cases 0 0 0 accident Consultation Group % 100 100 100 rate of domestic Medical Checkup*1 Absentee rate*2 Group % 0.561 0.565 ✓ domestic (*1) Number of employees undergoing medical checkup consultation / number of employees (*2) Total days lost due to absenteeism / Total days scheduled to be worked 106 HOME / Sustainability / Governance Governance The MS&AD Insurance Group have established “Our Mission, Our Vision and Our Values” as aspirations that all Group oﬃcers and employees should prioritize in all aspects of their work, and we are working to disseminate these aspirations to all of the oﬃcers and employees of the Company and Group companies. In addition, we have set corporate governance, compliance, and risk management as priority issues within our Group Medium-Term Management Plan and are making active eﬀorts to promote them. Outline of the Group Corporate Governance Compliance ERM and Risk Management Information Management Transaction Responsibilities Medium-Term Management Plan Vision Information Disclosure 2021 107 HOME / Sustainability / Governance / Outline of the Group Outline of the Group The MS&AD Insurance Group supports the business and life activities of its customers with the all-around capability of its Group companies. Company Information Financial and Non-Financial Highlights Company Overview Organizational Chart History Group Structure Our Business 108 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHO WE ARE / Company Information / Company Overview Company Overview MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. is the insurance holding company of the new Group formed in April 2010 through the merger of Aioi Insurance Co., Ltd., Nissay Dowa General Insurance Co., Ltd., and Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Group. The purpose of MS&AD insurance Group is to achieve sustainable growth and to enhance enterprise value through the creation of a worldclass insurance and ﬁnancial services group that operates globally, by rapidly and signiﬁcantly improving quality and expanding its operating presence and corporate resources. MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. Corporate Name Abbrev.: MS&AD Holdings Date Established Apr. 1, 2008 (Name changed in Apr. 1, 2010) Tokyo Sumitomo Twin Building (West Tower) Headquarters 27-2, Shinkawa 2-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan Map Representative Yasuyoshi Karasawa, Representative Director, President & CEO Paid-in Capital 100,000,000,000 yen Number of Employees 390(As of March 31, 2018) Our activities as an insurance holding company are: 1. Management of non-life and life insurance companies and companies qualiﬁed to become subsidiaries under Business Description insurance business law. 2. Any business associated with previous body. Tokyo Stock Exchange (First Section) Stock Listing Nagoya Stock Exchange (First Section) 109 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHO WE ARE / Company Information / Organizational Chart Organizational Chart 110 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHO WE ARE / Company Information / History History Background of Group Integration History of Holdings Background of Group Integration 111 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHO WE ARE / Company Information / History History of Holdings Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. is incorporated. April 2008 Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. Listed on Tokyo Stock Exchange and Osaka Securities Exchange and Nagoya Stock Exchange. Aioi Insurance Co., Ltd., Nissay Dowa General Insurance Co., Ltd., and Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. reach basic agreement on September 2009 business integration. In conjunction, announced integration plan, president of the holding company, address, descriptions and corporate name, etc. Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. changed its name to April 2010 MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. Aioi Insurance Co., Ltd. and Nissay Dowa General Insurance Co., Ltd. merged October 2010 into “Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd.” MS＆AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. converted Mitsui Sumitomo MetLife April 2011 Insurance Co., Ltd. into a wholly owned subsidiary and renamed it Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Company, Limited Mitsui Sumitomo Kirameki Life Insurance Co., Ltd. and Aioi Life Insurance October 2011 Co., Ltd. merged into “Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Co., Ltd.” History of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance (link to website) 112 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Our Business / Five Business Domains Five Business Domains — MS&AD Systems Co., Ltd. 113 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Our Business / Group Structure Group Structure MS&AD Holdings is a listed holding company with ﬁve directly invested Group insurance companies in Japan: Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. (MSI), Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. (ADI), Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. (Mitsui Direct), Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (MSI Aioi Life) and Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (MSI Primary Life); and ten aﬃliated operating companies: MS&AD InterRisk Research Institute & Consulting, Inc., MS&AD Business Support Co., Ltd., MS&AD Staﬃng Service Co., Ltd., MS&AD Systems Co., Ltd., MS&AD Business Service Co., Ltd., MS&AD Loan Services Co., Ltd., ANSHIN DIAL Co., Ltd., MS&AD ABILITYWORKS Co., Ltd., MS&AD VENTURES INC, and JAPAN ASSIST INTERNATIONAL CO., LTD. MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. Company Overview MITSUI SUMITOMO INSURANCE CO., LTD. (MSI) Responsible for non-life insurance business, which is a core business of the MS&AD Insurance Group, MSI is exercising its comprehensive capabilities to oﬀer insurance and ﬁnancial services business globally. Outline AIOI NISSAY DOWA INSURANCE CO., LTD. (ADI) Responsible for non-life insurance business, which is a core business of the MS&AD Insurance Group, ADI is leveraging its strong relationships with the Toyota Group and the Nippon Life Group and engaging in business based on close relationships with local communities. Outline MITSUI DIRECT GENERAL INSURANCE CO., LTD. (Mitsui Direct General) Mitsui Direct General is a non-life insurance company that specializes in directly selling personal voluntary automobile insurance to customers via the Internet and phone calls. Outline 114 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Our Business / Group Structure MITSUI SUMITOMO AIOI LIFE INSURANCE CO., LTD. (MSI Aioi Life) MSI Aioi Life is a life insurance company that oﬀers protection-type life insurance products, while leveraging the Group's marketing network and customer base. The company is realizing a growth model that involves a combination of strategies to utilize unique marketing channels. Outline MITSUI SUMITOMO PRIMARY LIFE INSURANCE CO., LTD. (MSI Primary Life) Specializing in the over-the-countersales via ﬁnancial institutions, MSI Primary Life is a life insurance company that oﬀers assetbuilding products centered on individual annuity insurance and whole life insurance. Outline Directly Invested Aﬃliated Operating Companies MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting, Inc. InterRisk Research & Consulting is one of the major risk consulting companies in Japan. It provides companies and government entities with consulting, risk survey, research and investigation, information provision and other services related to diverse kinds of risks. With overseas bases in Singapore, Thailand, China, and Bermuda, the company is seeking to provide risk solutions throughout the world. Outline MS&AD Business Support Co., Ltd. MS&AD Business Support provides the MS&AD Insurance Group with such infrastructure support as printing and logistics and also provides employee welfare services and real estate management services, etc. Outline 115 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Our Business / Group Structure MS&AD Staﬃng Service Co., Ltd. As the MS&AD Insurance Group's comprehensive human resource company, MS&AD Staﬃng Service provides each Group company with human resource services and also dispatches and introduces staﬀ to insurance agencies and other customers. Outline MS&AD Systems Co., Ltd. MS&AD Systems supports each MS&AD Insurance Group company by taking responsibility for information systems strategy and by planning, designing, developing, and operating information systems. Outline MS&AD Business Service Co., Ltd. MS&AD Business Service delivers contract administration services, services related to data entry, the creation of documents and forms, and other services to MS&AD Insurance Group companies. Outline MS&AD Loan Services Co., Ltd. MS&AD Loan Services provides customers within the Group with administration services for investments, loans and mortgage guarantee insurance, credit guarantee services, and loan services for individuals. Outline 116 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Our Business / Group Structure ANSHIN DIAL Co., Ltd. As a top-quality call center specializing in assistance services, ANSHIN DIAL provides such support services as roadside assistance and home assistance. Outline MS&AD ABILITYWORKS Co., Ltd. MS&AD Insurance Group is promoting diversity & inclusion by creating a working environment where employees with disabilities can fully utilize their potential and competence. Outline MS&AD VENTURES INC. MS&AD Ventures Inc. is a corporate venture capital ﬁrm. It seeks to invest in startups that may lead to new business models and technologies, enabling MS&AD Insurance Group to establish a competitive advantage as an innovation leader across diﬀerent markets and global territories. Outline JAPAN ASSIST INTERNATIONAL CO., LTD. Japan Assist International oﬀer various kinds of assistance services to all over the world as the assistance company that has the advantage of foreign languages. Outline 117 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Basic Policies on Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Stance Supervision System (Board of Directors) Support Systems for Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Auditing Nomination and Remuneration Remuneration Committee Criteria for the Selection and Independence of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Appointment of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Related Matters Basic Policies on Corporate Governance Responses to the Corporate Governance Code Internal Control Internal Control Systems Corporate Governance Report (last update : November 19, 2019) PDF （734KB） Basic Policies on Corporate Governance In line with its Corporate Philosophy (Mission), MS&AD, as a holding company overseeing all group businesses, has established a management framework that ensures transparent, fair, swift and decisive decision-making that takes into account the standpoint of all stakeholders. The Company's objectives are to sustain stability and consistent growth over the long term by using corporate resources eﬃciently and managing risks properly and ultimately, to further increase enterprise value. To this end, the “MS&AD Insurance Group Corporate Philosophy (Mission), Corporate Vision, and Values” were formulated as something all oﬃcers and employees of the Group should adhere to in all situations. In addition to working to disseminate these principles among all oﬃcers and employees of the Company and its Group companies, corporate governance, compliance, and risk management are positioned as important management issues in the medium-term management plan, and eﬀorts shall be made to actively promote that plan. Corporate Governance Stance As a company with a Audit & Supervisory Board, the Company will endeavor to improve governance by ensuring that independently appointed Audit & Supervisory Board Members appropriately act in their auditing functions, in addition to ensuring that the Board of Directors appropriately acts in its oversight functions, while strengthening the functions of each and actively disclosing information. The Company has formed the Governance Committee (made up of all outside directors, the Chairman of the Board and the President) in addition to the Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee (a majority of the members and a chairperson each have been appointed from among the Outside Directors) as internal committees of the Board of Directors, thus building a highly eﬀective and transparent corporate governance system. The Company has introduced an executive oﬃcer system and is proceeding to delegate authority over business execution to these executive oﬃcers to ensure swift execution. Management Structure of MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. 118 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance Supervision System (Board of Directors) Role of the Board of Directors In addition to matters speciﬁed by law and the Articles of Incorporation, the Board of Directors discusses and decides upon important matters involving Group management strategy and corporate management, including the Group's management policies, management strategies and capital policy, in addition to overseeing the duties of directors and executive oﬃcers. The Board of Directors allocates management resources according to risk appetite controlled with a balance of risk, return and capital, and aims to increase enterprise value in the medium-to-long term by achieving sustainable growth and improvement in earnings and capital eﬃciency with a foundation of soundness. In addition to appointing executive oﬃcers, the Board of Directors aims to separate management decision making and oversight by the Board of Directors from business execution by executive oﬃcers by clarifying their respective roles. Executive oﬃcers are responsible for executing business in the respective areas of business entrusted to them by the Board of Directors, and report on the status of business execution to the Board of Directors. Composition of the Board of Directors Composition of the Board of Directors More than one-third of the Board of Directors which has twelve members (ten men and two women) are nominated as Outside Directors to incorporate perspectives independent from management, strengthen monitoring and oversight functions, and conduct highly transparent management. We take into consideration overall balance of the Board of Directors in terms of expertise, experience, and capabilities of Directors and strive to ensure diversity, including that of gender. Please refer to Policies on the Board of Directors' Overall Balance of Expertise, Experience, Capabilities, Diversity, and Scale below. Expected Roles of Outside Directors Outside Directors are expected to perform the following roles: Provision of advice from a broad perspective on management policies and management improvement based on their knowledge and experience, with the aim of promoting sustainable corporate growth and increasing enterprise value over the medium-to-long term Supervising of management through important decision making at the board level Monitoring of conﬂicts of interest between the Company and related parties such as management* and/or major shareholders Realizing supervising from a standpoint independent of management by fulﬁlling accountability for stakeholders, including shareholders * Collectively refers to the directors, Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and executive oﬃcers of the Company and domestic insurance companies in the Group in which the Company has a direct investment. 119 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance Committees Comprised Mainly of Outside Directors / Providing Opportunities for Opinion Exchanges Aiming to enable Outside Directors to engage freely in constructive discussions and opinion exchanges, we have formed the following committee and meetings. Governance Committee (meets about twice a year) Outside Directors Council Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Joint Council Support Systems for Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Support for the activities of the Outside Directors is provided by the Corporate Planning Department, and support for the Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members is supplied by the Internal Audit Department. The agenda for the Board of Directors' Meetings is explained to the Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members in advance of the meetings by the Corporate Planning Department, which acts as the secretariat for the Board of Directors. In addition, information, such as important risk information, is reported on an ongoing basis to all Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members, internal and external. Support Systems for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members / Training Policy The Company has the following systems in place as required for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members to eﬀectively fulﬁll their roles and responsibilities: 1. The Company has assigned a person in the secretariat of the Board of Directors to each of the Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members (hereinafter referred to as “Outside Oﬃcers”) to provide support in areas such as providing brieﬁngs in advance. 2. The Company has established a system for ongoing provision of information and training at the time of appointment and during the term of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. 3. The Company provides appropriate opportunities for Outside Oﬃcers to share information and exchange opinions with management and senior employees. 4. The Company bears the expenses required to enable Outside Oﬃcers to fulﬁll their roles. 120 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance Auditing Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Audit & Supervisory Board 1. Responsibilities of Audit & Supervisory Board Members As an independent entity entrusted with authority by the shareholders, the Audit & Supervisory Board Members are responsible for ensuring the sound and sustainable growth of the Company, and establishing good corporate governance in response to the public trust by supervising the performance of duties of the Directors. 2. Authority and Roles of Audit & Supervisory Board Members Each Audit & Supervisory Board Member shall appropriately exercise his/her legal investigating authority, including the authority to audit operations and assets, and supervises the performance of duties of the Directors by attending meetings of the Board of Directors and other important meetings, viewing important approval documents, investigating departments within the Company, and investigating subsidiaries in accordance with the auditing policies and plans stipulated by the Audit & Supervisory Board. 3. Composition and Roles of the Audit & Supervisory Board The Audit & Supervisory Board comprises two Audit & Supervisory Board Members (Full-time) and two Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members, for a total of four members (two men and two women). Candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board Member are nominated by the Board of Directors with the approval of the Audit & Supervisory Board, based on the “Criteria for the Selection of Director Candidates and Audit & Supervisory Board Member Candidates”. The Audit & Supervisory Board receives reports from Audit & Supervisory Board Members on the status of performance of duties and reports from oﬃcers and employees on important matters related to auditing, and also makes decisions regarding auditing policies and auditing plans. Internal Auditing The Company has established the “MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Internal Audits.” Under this basic policy, the Company and domestic Group insurance companies have formed the Internal Audit Department that acts as an independent body with auditing functions. The Company's Internal Audit Department has been established as an organization to report directly to the Board of Directors. The General Manager of the Internal Audit Department (General Manager of the Audit Department) shall report important matters that have been discovered as a result of internal audits of the Company and domestic Group insurance companies to the Board of Directors and the Group Management Committee. In addition, the Internal Audit Department cooperates with auditing conducted by the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Accounting Auditors The Company has appointed KPMG AZSA LLC as its independent audit corporation. Please note that there are no special conﬂicts of interest between this company and MS&AD Holdings. The Board of Directors and the Audit & Supervisory Board endeavor to take appropriate action to ensure adequate auditing by the Accounting Auditors. The Audit & Supervisory Board makes decisions regarding proposals submitted to the General Shareholders' Meeting on the appointment or dismissal of Accounting Auditors. It also has the right to consent to decisions regarding remuneration of the Accounting Auditors. The Audit & Supervisory Board prepares criteria for appropriately selecting and evaluating Accounting Auditor. To promote appropriate accounting by the Accounting Auditors, measures are taken to conﬁrm the independence, specialist capabilities, and other requisite characteristics of the Accounting Auditors. 121 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance Accounting Auditor Remuneration (¥ million) FY2017 FY2018 Scope Compensation for Compensation for Compensation for Compensation for audit services non-audit services audit services non-audit services The Company 60 10 66 32 Consolidated 394 21 408 43 subsidiaries Total 454 32 474 75 * Regarding the content of non-audit services for which the Company paid compensation to the accounting auditor, in ﬁscal 2017 and 2018, these included expert guidance and advisory services towards the application of IFRS. Nomination and Remuneration For the purpose of maintaining high transparency, the Company has formed the Nomination Committee and Remuneration Committee as internal committees of the Board of Directors. Please note that these two committees comprise seven members each, and the chairpersons and other members are appointed from among members of the Board of Directors. With respect to each of the two committees, a majority of the members and the chairperson have been appointed from among the Outside Directors. Nomination Committee (Nomination Process) The Nomination Committee deliberates on major management personnel matters and provides advice on these matters to the Board of Directors. Such matters include the selection of candidates for the positions of Director, Audit & Supervisory Board Member, and Executive Oﬃcer of the Company as well as the selection of Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members for domestic insurance companies in which the Company has direct investments. With respect to the evaluation of candidates for Director and candidates for Executive Oﬃcer, evaluation items include performance evaluations (corporate performance and personal performance) and other items. The Board of Directors appoints candidates for Director as well as candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board Member and Executive Oﬃcers based on advice from the Nomination Committee. The consent of the Audit & Supervisory Board must be obtained for candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board Member. In ﬁscal 2019, the Committee has seven members made up of all ﬁve outside directors, the Chairman of the Board and the President. From the perspective of making eﬀective discussions to strengthen corporate governance at the Nomination Committee, policy for selecting candidates for Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members is added to the deliberation items. It has been clariﬁed that the Nomination Committee shall meet about twice a year. In ﬁscal 2018, the Nomination Committee met three times, and held a discussion on the Succession Plan etc. 122 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance Remuneration Committee This committee advises the Board of Directors regarding the remuneration of Directors and Executive Oﬃcers of the Company as well as the remuneration systems for management of domestic insurance companies in which the Company has direct investments. From the perspective of making eﬀective discussions to strengthen corporate governance at the Remuneration Committee, policy for remuneration of Directors and Executive Oﬃcers is added to the deliberation items. It has been clariﬁed that the Remuneration Committee shall meet about twice a year. In ﬁscal 2019, the Remuneration Committee met four times. Remuneration Determination Processes 1. Amount of Directors' Remuneration (1) Determination Processes Remuneration for each Director is set within overall limits approved by the Shareholders' Meeting. Consideration is given to the function of remuneration as an incentive for improvement in performance, long-term contribution to corporate proﬁts and enterprise value, the level of compensation appropriate for competitiveness as a global corporation, and other factors. To ensure transparency, the Remuneration Committee, which is composed of a majority of Outside Directors, considers remuneration amounts, and the ﬁnal decisions are made by the Board of Directors. The Remuneration Committee deliberates on the policy on remuneration for the Company's Directors and Executive Oﬃcers. The Board of Directors respects the advice of the Remuneration Committee to the maximum extent. (2) Composition of Remuneration Remuneration for Directors (excluding Outside Directors) consists of ﬁxed compensation and performance-based remuneration. The standard ratio of performance-based remuneration is 50% to 30% of the total remuneration amount, according to position. Performance-based remuneration is composed of monetary remuneration and stock-based compensation, and the standard ratio of stockbased compensation is 9% to 25% of the total remuneration amount, according to position (revised in April 2019). Outside Directors receive ﬁxed compensation only because they are independent from business execution. (3) Key Performance Indicators for Remuneration Performance-based remuneration shall be linked with the business performance of the Company and determined based on the results of key performance indicators (KPIs). These indicators are selected in accordance with the Groupʼs Medium-Term Management Plan, “Vision 2021”. (Main KPIs) <Financial indicator (single-year performance)> Group Adjusted Proﬁt (Note) Consolidated Net Income Group Adjusted ROE Note: For Group Adjusted Proﬁt, please refer to (15)a “Disclosure Based on the Principles of the Corporate Governance Code”, above. <Non-ﬁnancial indicator (medium term performance)> Achievement status of initiatives “Sustainability Priority Issues” aimed at Creating Shared Value (CSV) with society using SDGs as the guideposts including “create accident-free and comfortable mobility society” and “contributing to mitigation and adaptation of climate change”, etc. Achievement status of “Key Strategies” (Pursue Groupʼs comprehensive strength, Promote digitalization and Reform portfolio) in the Medium-Term Management Plan “Vision 2021” 123 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance The ratio between the ﬁnancial indicator and non-ﬁnancial indicator shall be 50 : 50 as the standard and the ﬁnancial indicators and nonﬁnancial indicator vary within a range of 0 to 3.0 and 0.5 to 1.5, respectively, with 1.0 as the standard. Restricted stock shall be provided as stock-based compensation and in principle, the transfer restrictions shall be released upon retirement of the related Director. If it is found that a Director was involved in a fraudulent act while in oﬃce, the Company acquires the restricted stock for free during the transfer restriction period or the Director is made to return it after the transfer restriction is released. (4) Maximum Total Compensation As a result of decisions made by the Shareholders' Meeting, maximum total annual compensation for Directors (excluding any salaries for work performed by Directors concurrently in employee positions) is set at ¥500 million (including a total allocation of ¥100 million for Outside Directors). With a separate framework, the remuneration of Directors (excluding Outside Directors) includes “total amount of monetary remuneration receivables provided for allotting restricted stock” with a maximum value of ¥200 million per year. 2. Amount of Audit & Supervisory Board Members Remuneration (1) Determination Processes Remuneration for Audit & Supervisory Board Members is set within overall limits approved by the Shareholders' Meeting. Consideration is given to whether Audit & Supervisory Board Members are full-time or part-time, their share of the auditing activities, and the content and level of remuneration of Directors. Decisions on remuneration levels are decided in discussions among the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. (2) Composition of Compensation Audit & Supervisory Board Members receive ﬁxed compensation only because they are independent from business execution. (3) Maximum Total Compensation As a result of decisions made by the Shareholders' Meeting, maximum total compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board Members is set at ¥110 million. Performance-Based Remuneration and Stock Option System The Company has introduced performance-based remuneration (linked to corporate and personal performance) into its corporate oﬃcer remuneration system. In order to realize a director remuneration system functioning as an appropriate incentive for improving linkage between director remuneration and business performance and achieving sustainable growth for the purpose of strengthening governance and increasing medium term corporate value of the Group, the Company has introduced a restricted stock remuneration plan for Directors (excluding Outside Directors). The plan involves granting treasury stock or new stock (allotment of restricted stock) by replacing a portion of the Companyʼs performance-based monetary remuneration with monetary remuneration receivables provided by means of contribution in kind. The Company introduced the same system as mentioned above and granted treasury stock or new stock (allotment of restricted stock) to the Companyʼs executive oﬃcers and the Directors (excluding Outside Directors) and Executive Oﬃcers of Group domestic insurance companies in which the Company has direct investments, by replacing a portion of the Companyʼs performance-based monetary remuneration with monetary remuneration receivables provided by means of contribution in kind. Directors' and Audit & Supervisory Board Members' Remuneration We disclose the total amounts of remuneration to all Directors and to all Audit & Supervisory Board Members according to the category (Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Members) and according to the types of remuneration. We also disclose total amounts of consolidated remuneration to oﬃcers amounting to 100 million yen or more. Remuneration for ﬁscal 2018 is prior to the revision of the system. The standard ratio of performance-based remuneration was 40% to 20% of the total remuneration amount, according to position, and the standard ratio of stock-based compensation was 10% to 20% of the total remuneration amount, according to position. Performance-based remuneration is calculated based on the Group Adjusted Proﬁt and consolidated net income, and stock-based compensation consists of the allocation of stock acquisition rights as stock compensation-type stock options. 124 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance Total Amount of Remuneration by Directors/Audit & Supervisory Board Members Category, and the Number of Recipients (ﬁscal 2018) Total Remuneration Category Number (¥ million) Directors (excluding Outside Directors) 9 238 Audit ＆ Supervisory Board Members 2 51 (excluding Outside Audit ＆ Supervisory Board Members) Outside Directors/Audit ＆ Supervisory Board Members 9 76 (Note) The total remuneration ﬁgures are the portion of the Company. All remuneration is total amount of basic remuneration and stock option. Persons with consolidated Remuneration (including remuneration for corporate oﬃcer posts at main subsidiaries, etc.) of ¥100 Million or More (ﬁscal 2018) Total consolidated Corporate Oﬃcer Name Company remuneration, etc. Posts (¥ million) Yasuyoshi Karasawa Director The Company 131 Director MSI Noriyuki Hara Director The Company 131 Director MSI Yasuzo Kanasugi Director The Company 103 Director ADI 125 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance Criteria for the Selection and Independence of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members 1. Policies on the Board of Directors' Overall Balance of Expertise, Experience, Capabilities, Diversity, and Scale Five of the twelve Directors (ten men and two women) and two of the four Audit & Supervisory Board Members (2 men and 2 women) have been appointed from outside the Company to incorporate perspectives independent from management, strengthen monitoring and oversight functions, and conduct highly transparent management. Please note that there are no concerns that the interests of these Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members of the various companies will be in conﬂict, in terms of human, capital, transactions, or other relationships, with the interests of shareholders in general. These Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members are independent, and their names as independent outside oﬃcers have been ﬁled with the Tokyo Stock Exchange Co., Ltd., and Nagoya Stock Exchange Co., Ltd. Outside Director candidates must satisfy the eligibility requirements as deﬁned in the Companies Act and the Insurance Business Act. In addition, with the goal of selecting candidates able to accurately and fairly supervise the overall management of insurance companies, candidates are selected based on consideration of specialized expertise such as that stemming from experience working as a general business company corporate oﬃcer, government administration oﬃcer, lawyer, and academic as well as specialized expertise regarding social, cultural, and consumer issues. Director candidates other than Outside Director candidates must meet legal eligibility requirements. In addition, with the goal of selecting candidates able to accurately and fairly supervise the overall management of insurance companies, candidates are selected based on consideration of specialized expertise, such as that stemming from extensive experience working as a manager in an insurance company as well as on consideration of varied experience, highly specialized experience, and the ability to exercise leadership in accordance with the Company's corporate philosophy. At least one candidate for Audit & Supervisory Board Member must have suﬃcient knowledge of accounting or ﬁnance. 2. Criteria for the Selection of Director Candidates and Audit & Supervisory Board Member Candidates and Criteria for Determining the Independence of Outside Corporate Oﬃcers Outside Director candidates must satisfy the eligibility requirements as deﬁned in the Companies Act and the Insurance Business Act. In addition, with the goal of selecting candidates able to accurately and fairly supervise the overall management of insurance companies, candidates are selected based on consideration of specialized expertise such as that stemming from experience working as a ﬁnancerelated government administration oﬃcer, general business company corporate oﬃcer, lawyer, and academic as well as specialized expertise regarding social, cultural, and consumer issues. Director candidates other than Outside Director candidates must meet legal eligibility requirements. In addition, with the goal of selecting candidates able to accurately and fairly supervise the overall management of insurance companies, candidates are selected based on consideration of specialized expertise, such as that stemming from extensive experience working as a manager in an insurance company as well as on consideration of varied experience, highly specialized experience, and the ability to exercise leadership in accordance with the Company's corporate philosophy. In addition, the Company has instituted the “Criteria for the Selection of Director Candidates and Audit & Supervisory Board Member Candidates” below. The determination of “independence” when selecting Outside Director candidates is undertaken in accordance with the criteria described in section “1. (3) Independence” below. 126 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance Criteria for the Selection of Director Candidates and Audit & Supervisory Board Member Candidates 1. Outside director candidates and outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member candidates Candidates must meet the following requirements. Must not be disqualiﬁed from serving as a director or Audit & Supervisory Board Member pursuant to the Companies Act. Must not be disqualiﬁed from serving as a director or Audit & Supervisory Board Member of an insurance holding company pursuant to the Insurance Business Act. Must have a suﬃcient level of public credibility. An outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member must satisfy the eligibility requirements for a Audit & Supervisory Board Member pursuant to the Insurance Business Act. Additionally, candidates must satisfy the following three requirements (1) 1) Eligibility A candidate must have the qualities listed below that are necessary to monitor the overall management of the company and provide advice, based on a general knowledge of company management and a basic understanding of the roles of the directors and board of directors. Ability to discern facts from materials and reports Capability to detect problems and risks and apply own knowledge to solve them Capacity to appropriately monitor business strategy and provide advice Mental independence to openly question, debate, re-examine, continuously deliberate, and propose ideas in opposition to a resolution (2) Expertise Must have knowledge in a specialized ﬁeld such as management, accounting, ﬁnance, law, administration, or social/cultural aﬀairs, and have a record of achievement in that ﬁeld. (3) Independence The following persons are ineligible. [1] An executing person of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company. [2] A director or Audit & Supervisory Board Member of a subsidiary of the Company. [3] A person for whom the Company is a major business partner (i.e. a person who received payments from the Company or subsidiaries of the Company that represent 2% or more of annual consolidated sales for the most recent ﬁscal year), or an executing person thereof (in the case of a consulting ﬁrm, auditing ﬁrm or law ﬁrm, a consultant, accounting professional, or legal professional who belongs to said corporation, partnership, etc.). [4] A major business partner of the Company (i.e. a person who made payments to subsidiaries of the Company representing 2% or more of the Company consolidated direct premiums written excluding deposit premium from policy holders for the most recent ﬁscal year), or an executing person thereof. [5] Any of the Company's top 10 largest shareholders (or, if the shareholder is a corporation, an executing person thereof). [6] An executing person of a company to which the Company or a subsidiary of the Company has appointed a director. [7] A consultant, accounting professional, or legal professional who has received, other than oﬃcer compensation, average cash or other ﬁnancial beneﬁts of at least 10 million yen per year for the past three years from the Company or subsidiaries of the Company. [8] A person falling under any of the items [2] through [7] during the past ﬁve years. (Note) “During the past ﬁve years” means ﬁve years from the time the content of a proposal to the General Shareholders Meeting to elect the outside director or outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member was resolved by the Board of Directors. [9] An individual who was an executing person of the Company or subsidiaries of the Company in the past (in the case of an outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member, including an individual who has been a director of the Company or a subsidiary of the Company.) [10] A spouse or second-degree or closer relative of a person listed in items [1] through [9] above (an executing person means an executive director, executive oﬃcer or an employee in a position of general manager or higher.) 127 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance (4) Term limits The total terms of oﬃce for newly elected outside directors and outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members from April 1, 2015 onwards are as listed below. [1] For outside directors, the expectation is 4 terms, 4 years, renewable for a maximum of 8 terms, 8 years. [2] For outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members, in principle the total term is 1 term, 4 years, but this is renewable for a maximum of 2 terms, 8 years. 2. Candidates for director other than outside director and candidates for Audit & Supervisory Board Member other than outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Candidates must meet the following requirements. Must not be disqualiﬁed from serving as a director or Audit & Supervisory Board Member pursuant to the Companies Act. Must not be disqualiﬁed from serving as a director or Audit & Supervisory Board Member of an insurance holding company pursuant to the Insurance Business Act. Must satisfy the eligibility requirements for a director or Audit & Supervisory Board Member who engages in daily business at an insurance company pursuant to the Insurance Business Act. Additionally, a candidate must have varied experience as well as highly specialized experience and must embody our corporate philosophy in the exercise of leadership. Appointment of Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Related Matters Outside Directors 128 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance Date of Attendance at Board of Name Reason for Selection Selection Directors Meetings* Mari Matsunaga June 2012 Ms. Mari Matsunaga was a chief editor of magazines and was involved in planning and development of new services at NTT DOCOMO, INC. She has been stating opinions at meetings of the Companyʼs Board of Directors and on other occasions based on her 11 of 12 broad knowledge and experience concerning society, meetings culture, consumer lifestyles, and other areas. We appointed her as Outside Director in order to continue to draw on her knowledge and experience in the management of the Company. Mariko Bando June 2017 Ms. Mariko Bando previously served as Director General of Gender Equality Bureau of the Cabinet Oﬃce, Consul General of Japan in Brisbane, Australia, President of Showa Womenʼs University, etc. She has broad knowledge and experience in public administration and education, as well as 11 of 12 wide insight into promotion of diversity. She has meetings been stating opinions at meetings of the Companyʼs Board of Directors and on other occasions based on her knowledge and experience. We appointed her as Outside Director in order to draw on her knowledge and experience in the management of the Company. Akira Arima June 2018 Mr. Akira Arima previously served as Director of Nippon Telegraph and Telephone Corporation, President, Chief Executive Oﬃcer of NTT Communications Corporation, etc. He has been stating opinions at meetings of the Companyʼs Board of Directors and 10 of 10 on other occasions based on his broad knowledge meetings concerning telecommunications business and experience as a management executive. We appointed him as Outside Director in order to draw on his knowledge and experience in the management of the Company. Kazuhito Ikeo June 2018 Mr. Kazuhito Ikeo has held a number of posts, including university professors and members of the Financial Services Agencyʼs Financial System Council. He has been stating opinions at meetings of the Companyʼs Board of Directors and on other occasions based on his broad 9 of 10 knowledge and experience concerning economic and meetings ﬁnancial ﬁelds as well as ﬁnancial administration. We appointed him as Outside Director in order to draw on his knowledge and experience in the management of the Company. Junichi Tobimatsu June 2018 Mr. Junichi Tobimatsu has a wealth of knowledge and experience concerning overall corporate legal aﬀairs including those overseas companies as an attorney-at-law and has been stating opinions at 10 of 10 meetings of the Companyʼs Board of Directors and on meetings other occasions based on his broad knowledge and experience. We appointed him as Outside Director in order to draw on his knowledge and experience in the management of the Company. 129 * The number of Board of Directors' meetings attended during ﬁscal 2018. HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Corporate Governance Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members Date of Attendance at Board of Directors/ Name Reason for Selection Selection Audit & Supervisory Board Members Kunio Chiyoda June 2016 Mr. Kunio Chiyoda is an expert in accounting and auditing and has served as a university professor Board of Directors meetings: and a member of a public institution. 12 of 12 We appointed him as Outside Audit & Supervisory Audit & Supervisory Board meetings: Board Member to reﬂect his wealth of knowledge 11 of 11 and experience in the management of the Company. Kyoko Uemura June 2017 Ms. Kyoko Uemura is a legal expert. She previously served as a judge and practices Board of Directors meetings: law as an attorney-at-law. We appointed her 12 of 12 Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Audit & Supervisory Board meetings: to reﬂect her wealth of knowledge and 11 of 11 experience in the management of the Company. * The number of Board of Directors' meetings and Audit & Supervisory Board meetings attended during ﬁscal 2018. Corporate Governance Report (last update : June 27, 2019) PDF （530KB） Internal Control 130 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / Compliance Compliance Compliance Basic Policy We formulated the Compliance Basic Policy and MS&AD Insurance Group Compliance Basic Policy which is compliance criterion of the Basic Policy. Based on this Basic Policy or each policy, we and MS&AD insurance companies work positively to develop thorough compliance. All oﬃcers and employees carry out our social responsibility with responding to conﬁdence of all the stakeholders including customers through the corporate activities based on the high ethical sense without failing to comply with laws and company internal rules. MS&AD Insurance Group Compliance Basic Policy Basic Policy Concerning Antisocial Forces Basic Policy for Management of Conﬂicts of Interest Compliance Promotion Structure The Company has formed Quality Improvement and Compliance Committee, as one of the task-speciﬁc committees under the Board of Directors, to monitor as well as discuss and make necessary adjustments in the compliance structure. For important matters related to compliance, Quality Improvement and Compliance Committee reports to the Board of Directors after discussion in the committee. The Company established its Compliance Department as the organizational unit to integrate and manage Group compliance matters. This department is responsible for integrating compliance initiatives within the Company and domestic Group insurance companies. Each unit in the domestic Group insurance companies that is in charge of compliance matters is responsible for the preparation and implementation of policies, internal rules, and measures related to compliance and for planning and operating activities related to business operating rules pertaining to insurance solicitation and sales. These units are also the focal points for fact ﬁnding and conﬁrmation as well as conducting investigations related to activities where there are concerns about violations of internal rules and other compliance issues. Activities Compliance Program We and MS&AD insurance companies, as a part of the compliance implementation plan, resolve the Compliance Program at the Board Meetings and pursue the speciﬁc issues. The implementation and issues of the Program and responding issues are regularly submitted to each company's Compliance Committee and/or the Board Meetings. 131 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / Compliance Compliance Manual We and MS&AD insurance companies have each Compliance Manual that states their compliance-related policies and regulations, with examples and interpretations, for board members and employees. The Manual is distributed to board members and employees, and its content is familiarized through training and examinations. Procedures for reporting inappropriate behavior is stipulated in the Manual for the speedy handling of misconduct. Compliance-related Training Based on the Compliance Program, we and MS&AD insurance companies organize annual education / training programs for employees and agencies to raise the knowledge of laws and company internal rules and to enhance the knowledge of compliance. Compliance-related Inspection MS&AD insurance companies conduct compliance-related inspections for prevention and early detection of unlawful acts that may violate laws or company internal rules. Monitoring Group Companies The Compliance Department monitors and reports on compliance-related activities of MS&AD insurance companies. Group Compliance Division Meetings are held to share knowledge and know-how on compliance-related issues in order to reinforce compliance throughout the group. Speak-up system (Whistleblowing system) The MS&AD Insurance Group has established the Speak-up system（whistleblowing systems）. Group company employees can contact the speak-up desk to make a report if a compliance-related issue arises. A contact desk has also been established at an external legal oﬃce to make it easier for whistleblowers to speak up a case. The identity of whistleblowers is protected and their information is handled carefully to protect them and ensure that they do not suﬀer any unfair treatment. Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism The MS&AD Insurance Group has formulated a “Policy on the Anti-Money Laundering and the Countering Financing of Terrorism” and is promoting initiatives to prevent the products and services of Group companies from being used in money laundering or the ﬁnancing of terrorism. Moreover, measures to prevent money laundering and the ﬁnancing of terrorism are implemented at overseas entities of the MS&AD Insurance Group, where “Guidelines on Measures for Anti-Money Laundering and Counter Financing of Terrorism” are stipulated in the “Compliance Manuals for International Operations”. Policy on the Anti-Money Laundering and Countering the Financing of Terrorism 132 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / Compliance Prevention of Corruption and Bribery The MS&AD Insurance Group has formulated a “Policy on Fair Operating Practices” and implements fair operating practices (“prevention of Corruption including bribery” and “compliance with laws and regulations regarding political activities and political funds”). Actually at the overseas entities of the MS&AD Insurance Group, “Guidelines on Anti-Bribery Measures” are also stipulated in the “Compliance Manuals for International Operations” and the establishment of adequate rules and training is implemented. Policy on Fair Operating Practices Compliance Promotion Structure in International Business Operations All executives and employees of the overseas oﬃces of the MS & AD Insurance Group give top priority to compliance and respect the culture, customs, and history of their respective countries and regions, as well as act in a manner that contribute to the development of the community. As a department that supervises and manages matters related to compliance at overseas oﬃces of the Group, the Company established the International Supervisory Department to monitor the status of compliance-related initiatives of these overseas oﬃces, while providing them guidance and support. This department works with the Compliance Department, which is in charge of overall integration of Group companiesʼ compliance matter, to provide periodic reports regarding the status of overseas compliance framework to the Company's Board of Directors, also engages in activities to improve and expand the overseas compliance promotion structure based on the discuss with other relevant departments. Tax compliance eﬀorts Our Global Tax Strategy In achieving a resilient and sustainable society, we believe that MS&AD Insurance Group should build trust as a social entity by supporting people live in stability and encouraging companies develop their business. We believe that is the basis of insurance business and our value to become a trusted and reliable partner. In order to earn the trust from the society, we always consider tax compliance. The environment surrounding taxation has changed signiﬁcantly in recent years, with the increasing focus on securing transparency in taxation as corporate responsibility and strengthening the international tax framework. Our Group believes it is important as a responsible insurer to fully recognize the importance of fair and transparent taxation and to disclose the Group's approach to and initiatives for tax compliance. 133 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / Compliance ■MS&AD Insurance Group Tax Policy Our Group has made a fair allocation of tax payments and ﬁlings in full compliance with the spirit of the relevant tax laws and regulations of each country where we operate. In April 2018, the Board of Directors adopted the MS&AD Insurance Group Tax Policy in order to ensure that each and every employee of the Group has a high ethical standard concerning taxation and to implement appropriate tax practice and procedures. Pursuant to the “Tax Management Principles” (please see below), MS&AD Insurance Group will promote a greater awareness of tax compliance to build trust from all stakeholders by ensuring to act transparently in each jurisdiction. Basic Policies (“Tax Management Principles”) 1. MS&AD Group values the trust and conﬁdence of its stakeholders and is committed to managing tax matters with integrity and responsibility while recognizing the importance and social signiﬁcance of appropriate tax payments. 2. MS&AD Group, in performing our business operations, complies with all applicable tax laws and the relevant regulations of each jurisdiction in which it operates. 3. MS&AD Group is committed to both optimizing tax-related costs as well as making appropriate tax ﬁlings and tax payments. 4. MS&AD Group does not conduct any transactions only intended to avoid tax without business purposes in a way contrary to the national and local tax laws. 5. MS&AD Group develops and maintains trusting relationships with the tax authorities in each jurisdiction in which it operates through sincere and transparent behavior in a timely and appropriately cooperative manner. Our Approaches Underpinned by Tax Management Principles ■Global tax governance framework Based on “MS&AD Insurance Group Tax Management Principles”, MS&AD Insurance Group will implement and strengthen its tax governance framework led by the parent company in order to thoroughly manage tax compliance at a global level. ■Tax transfer pricing We understand the purpose of the OECDʼs BEPS (Base Erosion and Proﬁt Shifting) project. We are committed to ensuring that we meet our tax obligation in the jurisdictions where we engage in business activities. Intragroup transactions are conducted at appropriate prices determined on an armʼs length basis under the group transfer pricing policy. We pay a fair allocation of taxes corresponding to proﬁts reported to the tax authorities in the jurisdictions where value is created within commercial activity. ■Tax planning We do not conduct tax planning only intended to avoid tax, such as through the transactions or organizations without business purposes or economic substance, using tax-free or low tax jurisdictions (known as tax havens). 134 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / Compliance Current income tax by country and region (FY2018) （Unit : 100 million yen） *The above table is based on the consolidated ﬁnancial statements issued by our group. *Income tax paid for our ﬂagship countries (FY2017) (Unit : 100 million yen) Country Income tax paid Japan 1,196 U.K. 17 135 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / ERM and Risk Management ERM and Risk Management Group Management Based on ERM The function of ERM (Enterprise Risk Management) is to control the balance among three key management indicators: proﬁt (return), risk and capital. The MS&AD Insurance Group positioned ERM as a driver in the previous medium-term management plan, “Next Challenge 2017,” establishing a platform for Group management. Under the current medium-term management plan “Vision 2021,” MS&AD is pushing forward with initiatives to improve proﬁtability and capital eﬃciency, while ensuring soundness, and base Group management on the ERM cycle. Function and Role of ERM When pursuing proﬁts through risk-taking, ERM considers opportunities with high ROR (Return on Risk) or means of increasing ROR and seeks to achieve the target return on equity (ROE) while maintaining the soundness of capital(ESR1). The relationship between these three is outlined in the following ﬁgure. 1. ESR: Economic Solvency Ratio (economic value-based solvency ratio) = NAV/Integrated risk amount 136 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / ERM and Risk Management Indicators Emphasized in ERM ESR (Economic Solvency Ratio) ESR is an indicator of capital adequacy with respect to the risk amount. ̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲ Risk amount is calculated based on the statistical quantiﬁcation of risks of losses and price ﬂuctuations associated with businesses and asset portfolios, and the integrated risk amount represents the total amount of risk assumed by the Group as a whole. The Group uses a recurrence interval of 200 years for the maximum foreseeable loss (in other words, losses will not exceed this value for 199 out of 200 years). 137 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / ERM and Risk Management ROR (Return on Risk) VA (Value Added) To assume risk, it is necessary to secure the capital that balances that Value Added (VA) indicates how much value can be generated with risk. Consequently, in business where ROR is high (in other words, respect to the risks assumed. business where proﬁt is large relative to the risk assumed), the proﬁt ̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲ that can be earned is large relative to the capital necessary. While ROR (Return on Risk) indicates the rate of return that can be obtained with respect to the risks assumed, VA is an indicator of absolute value. ERM and Risk Management The MS&AD Insurance Group formulates management plans in accordance with the Group Risk Appetite Statement with the aim of improving proﬁtability and enhancing capital eﬃciency while ensuring soundness based on the ERM cycle. Capital is allocated in accordance with the ERM cycle and the risks assumed, and by monitoring return on risk (ROR)* for the risks assumed we take steps to strengthen our risk controls and underwriting. *ROR = Group Adjusted Proﬁt/Integrated risk amount ERM Cycle ERM is implemented through the planning, execution and monitoring phases. Initiatives to Improve ROR Trends in ROR, which is an indicator of the proﬁts that can be earned on risks assumed, are a proxy for the earnings power of the Groupʼs risk portfolio. The MS&AD Insurance Group is working to improve ROR based on the ERM cycle and aims to achieve Group Adjusted ROE of 10% in ﬁscal 2021. 138 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / ERM and Risk Management Control of Risk The MS&AD Group has established the MS&AD Insurance Group Risk Management Basic Policy, which underpins the common risk management exercised throughout the Group. Speciﬁcally, the policy identiﬁes the principal types of risk with an impact on the Groupʼs business portfolio, stipulates how risk factors are to be evaluated both quantitatively and qualitatively, and promotes risk management based on those evaluations. Risk Management ・Risk Management Basic Policy ・Risk Management Structure ・Insurance Business Risks ・Risk Management in International Business ・Crisis Management System (Including Business Continuity Management System) 139 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / ERM and Risk Management Specifying Risks The Group speciﬁes material risks that aﬀect management as follows in ﬁscal 2019. Group Material Risks The Group identiﬁes material risks to be controlled by management, formulates a Management Action Plan and regularly monitors the status with respect to individual risk. Group Emerging Risks Group Emerging Risks are deﬁned as events that could aﬀect the Group business from a mediumto longer-term perspective and events that could aﬀect the Group business that management should be aware of but are diﬃcult to measure in terms of scale and timing. We regularly monitor Group Emerging Risks. 140 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / ERM and Risk Management Declining Birthrate and Aging Population The domestic insurance market will contract as the birthrate declines and the population ages, but growth in the elderly population and longer life spans have created new needs for insurance. The Group is continuously developing new products and services that support peopleʼs health and longevity that include providing “Tontine Annuities,” adding guarantees for dementia nursing care and launching “whole life nursing/dementia plans” that suﬃciently address anxiety over nursing care. We are undertaking key measures to address the risks associated with falling birthrates in Japan through reforms of our business portfolio that involve strengthening our international business and geographical/business diversiﬁcation. Environmental Damage Insurance companies might have to pay out insurance claims based on underwriting provisions as companies claim massive amounts of compensation for the environmental damage they have caused by pollution and/or signiﬁcant environmental burdens. Amid progressive climate change and natural resource depletion, it looks like concerns are deepening and risks are rising regarding such phenomena within society. The MS&AD Insurance Group is working to provide appropriate insurance underwriting and reinsurance while monitoring trends in global social concerns and legal regulations that address the causes of environmental pollution and burdens and focusing on the provision of risk consulting services related to environmental damage from business activities. Strengthening Natural Disaster Risk Management In 2018, several major natural disasters occurred in Japan and overseas. In Japan, the number of accident claims received Group-wide was 520,000, which far exceeds the Great East Japan Earthquake. Overseas, there was a signiﬁcant amount of natural catastrophe losses, such as those caused by hurricanes in the United States and the California wildﬁres. The MS&AD Insurance Group has built a system able to ensure the soundness of the entire Group by performing stress tests versus largescale insured losses caused by earthquakes as well as hurricanes in the United States, while securing the necessary capital based on risk criteria that uses event probability of once in 200 years. In ﬁscal 2018, the Group was able to reliably sustain operations while maintaining a proper level of ﬁnancial soundness. Recently, however, the scale and frequency of natural disasters, such as major hurricanes and typhoons, have been increasing. Under these circumstances, the Group intends to advance the level of its natural catastrophe risk management by reﬁning methods for measuring risks related to windstorms and ﬂoods in the United States, enhancing stress tests, and promoting research and assessments of natural catastrophe risks in Asia. Controlling the Retained Amount of Natural Catastrophe Risk While the amount of natural catastrophe damage in Japan reached a record high, we covered this loss using reinsurance as a means of recovering insurance money as well as catastrophe reserves that are accumulated each period to cover large-scale insurance payments like those seen recently. Throughout the Group, we redoubled our eﬀorts to control the retained amount of natural catastro-phe risk while implementing and enhancing measures to mitigate risks of earnings ﬂuctuations during the period. Speciﬁcally, we 1) Lower the natural catastrophe retention on a Group-wide basis ・Lower the natural catastrophe retention including that for windstorm and ﬂoods in the United States ・Further enhance the proﬁtability of the reinsurance business 2) Reduce the risk of proﬁt ﬂuctuations ・By enhancing the respective existing reinsurance coverage of Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance and Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance for domestic natural catastrophes and creating joint reinsurance treaty coverage shared by the two companies that covers annual aggregate losses, the Group reduces the losses on a once-in-10-years basis by around 20% year on year, decreasing the risk of proﬁt ﬂuctuation. 141 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / ERM and Risk Management Cyber Risk Initiatives We have developed a Group-wide platform to address cyber risks, which are a common challenge within the Group. ̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲ MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting, Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance and Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance closely cooperate to provide comprehensive risk consulting/diagnostic services to corporate customers. ̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲̲ We launched a multifaceted risk assessment service in cooperation with Verizon Japan and BitSight Technologies. (July 2018) We launched an intelligence information provision service (IntSights) in cooperation with the American company IntSights Cyber Intelligence (July 2018) ・Gather and analyze online data using a proprietary algorithm and machine learning ・Provide monthly reports on intelligence information 142 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / Information Management Information Management Basic View and Policy The MS&AD Insurance Group will observe the laws and regulations for information security, and will continuously implement measures to strengthen information management. These measures include setting internal rules, upgrading system security, conducting thorough information management training for staﬀ and agents, and taking steps to mitigate the risk of information leakage. In order to proactively strengthen information security management to the entire group, we have established the MS&AD Insurance Group Information Security Management Basic Policy. In light of the importance of protection for personal information, and in the interest of compliance with related laws and regulations as well as proper handling of customer information, we have formulated the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Management of Customer Information and the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Shared Use of Customer Information . MS&AD Insurance Group Information Security Management Basic Policy MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Management of Customer Information MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Shared Use of Customer Information Structure of Information Security Management The holding company appoints the Group Chief Information Security Oﬃcer (CISO) to build a framework and enhance information security management. The MS&AD Group maintains a framework to detect threats to information assets and always understands changes in the external environment, such as those related to cybersecurity, to ensure information security and respond to emergencies quickly. In accordance with the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Management of Customer Information , the domestic insurance companies in the Group determine guidelines and internal rules related to information management, and instate security initiatives. They also plan and operate programs for the education of employees and agents, and perform related checks and monitoring. In addition, they make arrangements for response in the event of incidents such as information leaks, take steps for prompt post-incident correction and recurrence prevention, and otherwise work for appropriate handling in this respect. Monitoring Activities The holding company monitors the status as regards arrangements for information security management at domestic insurance companies in the Group, and reports of its ﬁndings to management. In addition, it applies the ﬁndings of its monitoring activities in its eﬀorts to reinforce arrangements for information security management in the entire Group, through steps such as sharing of know-how with and provision of requisite support to domestic insurance companies in the Group. 143 HOME / About MS&AD Group / OUR PLATFORM / Risk Management / Information Management MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. Declaration of Personal Information Protection (Privacy Policy) The holding company and the domestic insurance companies in the Group have formulated privacy policy for various items related to the handling of customer information, including a declaration of commitment to compliance with related laws and regulations, appropriate acquisition, and limitation of the purposes of use. They have disclosed these declarations on their respective websites. Declaration of Personal Information Protection (Privacy Policy) 144 HOME / Sustainability / Governance / Transaction Responsibilities Transaction Responsibilities Basic Concept and Policy In the MS&AD Insurance Group Compliance Basic Policy, the MS&AD Insurance Group stipulates that all of our oﬃcers and employees should take sincere, fair, and proper actions to respond to the expectations and requests of society by complying with all laws and regulations related to our corporate activities with a constant awareness of our corporate social responsibility. Compliance Basic Policy Furthermore, we established the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on Human Rights in February 2017, in which we recognize our responsibility for the actual and potential adverse impact that our business activities have on human rights, including in the value chain. We have begun eﬀorts to implement activities and dialog that respect human rights. Basic Policy on Human Rights Based on the fact that there are situations in business activities where various activities are entrusted to outside vendors, we have formulated the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Management of Outside Vendors as our basic policy regarding outsourcing. Based on the above, the Group companies maintain and properly control the management of outside vendors. Basic Policy for Management of Outside Vendors Speciﬁc Initiatives Initiatives for Human Rights and the Environment Through its human rights due diligence, the MS&AD Insurance Group is making eﬀorts for the safe management of customer information by making the prevention privacy infringement arising from the leakage of customersʼ personal information a priority issue. The Group also conducts procurement that takes into account the sustainable use of resources. Human Rights Due Diligence and Remedial Measures Information Management Promoting Use of FSC-Certiﬁed paper 145 HOME / Sustainability / Governance / Transaction Responsibilities Conﬁrming the Appropriateness of Outside Vendors The Groupʼs domestic insurance companies have established standards for selecting new outside vendors and conduct regular inspections of vendors, in principle annually, to check the vendorsʼ customer personal information management system, the soundness of business management, and the appropriateness of business execution. Initiatives in the Value Chain Consideration for Human Rights Basic Policy on Human Rights The MS&AD Insurance Group urges related parties such as business partners, including suppliers, who are involved in the procurement of services, and agencies, to prevent and/or reduce the risk of adverse impacts on human rights through their business activities. Environmental Consideration As part of ISO14001 initiatives, MSI and ADI annually explain the MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy on the Environment to clients and ask for their cooperation in environmental consideration. Examples of speciﬁc initiatives include encouraging agencies and clients to obtain Eco Action 21 certiﬁcation, a simpliﬁed environmental ISO certiﬁcation, as well as spreading eco-maintenance* and promoting the use of recycled automobile parts. We also encourage the preservation of biodiversity by companies. Support for Certiﬁcation under Eco Action 21 Support for the Spread of Eco-maintenance and Eco-inspection * Encouraging the spread of eco-maintenance (engine cleansing) “Engine cleansing” has been stipulated by the government as one of the designated items of Green Purchase Method in April 2008. Support for obtaining Eco Action 21 certiﬁcation has directly lead to the spread of engine cleansing. 146 HOME / Sustainability / Governance / Transaction Responsibilities / Group Basic Policy for Management of Outside Vendors Group Basic Policy for Management of Outside Vendors Based on the fact that there are situations in business activities where various activities are entrusted to outside vendors, the MS&AD Insurance Group has formulated the Group Basic Policy for Management of Outside Vendors as the basic policy regarding outsourcing. Based on the above, the Group companies maintain and properly control the management of outside vendors. MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Management of Outside Vendors The MS&AD Insurance Group maintains proper management of outside vendors based on the below management policy in situations when it entrusts work externally. 1. Outside Contracting Subject to This Policy When the MS&AD Insurance Group delegates all or part of the administrative work necessary for it to conduct business to an outside vendor, there must be an assurance that such is appropriate in conjunction with the execution of business bearing in mind the need to assure that customers are protected and management is conducted soundly. As used herein, customer shall refer to a customer having a relationship to the activities of the MS&AD Insurance Group with respect to both individuals and companies. 2. System for Management of Outside Vendors MS&AD Holdings and the domestic Group insurance companies shall create the following system for managing outside vendors and properly implement the same: （1）Establish a supervisor and business unit responsible for managing outside vendors. （2）Establish and disseminate rules pertaining to the management of outside vendors. （3）Conduct inspections and supervision over outside vendors. （4）Conduct appropriate management of subcontractors. （5）Establish procedures for responding to inquiries, complaints and other communications from customers pertaining to outside vendors. （6）Create other procedures necessary for managing outside vendors and revise the same as appropriate. Other Group companies shall also create system for managing outside vendors and properly implement the same consistent with the above. 147 HOME / Sustainability / Governance / Information Disclosure Information Disclosure The MS&AD Insurance Group stipulates its external information disclosure policy for each Group domestic insurance company in “MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Disclosure of Information”. In accordance to the policy, each Group company has thoroughly put the disclosure rules in practice as set forth by the Financial Instruments Exchange and is engaged in disclosing information so that respective stakeholders can have a correct understanding of the true status of the Group companies without delay. Basic Policy for Disclosure of Information Disclosure of Information and Investor Relations (IR) We are conducting investor relations (IR) activities according to the basic policies（IR policy） to win trust from shareholders and other investors as well as to have our corporate value assessed fairly and properly. Disclosure of Information and Investor Relations (IR) Capital Management Policies and Shareholder Return Policy Our Group aims to ensure that capital is kept in line with the amount of risk while strengthening shareholder returns through dividends and share buybacks. Capital Policy and Shareholder Return Policy ＜References＞ We provide reference materials for our shareholders/investors, such as the dividends trend of recent years and basic information, which includes the securities identiﬁcation code and the number of MS&AD Holdings shares. Dividend Policy Stock Overview Climate-related Financial Disclosure The MS&AD Insurance Group endorses the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures（TCFD） and promotes the disclosure of ﬁnancial information. Climate-related Financial Disclosures 148 HOME / Sustainability / Governance / Information Disclosure / Disclosure of Information and Investor Relations (IR) Disclosure of Information and Investor Relations (IR) The MS&AD Insurance Group is actively conducting appropriate information disclosure to earn trust from a wide variety of stakeholders, including our customers, shareholders, investors, and business partners, so that our corporate value is assessed fairly and properly. Basic Policy and the Structure of Our Approach Our Group has compiled its stance relating to information disclosure in the “MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policies on Corporate Governance.” Based on this basic policy, we have established the “Policy for Constructive Dialogue with Shareholders” as a guideline for dialogue with shareholders, and the “MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Disclosure of Information,” etc. as a guideline for adequate disclosure, to ensure that the Group implements accurate, timely, and fair information disclosure. MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policies on Corporate Governance Basic Policies MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Disclosure of Information The MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Disclosure of Information is an external information disclosure policy established for domestic Group insurance companies. In accordance with this policy, all domestic Group insurance companies strive to thoroughly comply with the disclosure rules stipulated by laws, regulations and the disclosure rules of ﬁnancial instruments exchange. At the same time, the domestic Group insurance companies disclose information to ensure that their respective stakeholders can be made aware of important information in an accurate, timely, and fair manner. MS&AD Insurance Group Basic Policy for Disclosure of Information Policy for Constructive Dialogue with Shareholders Towards sustainable growth and improvement of corporate value in the medium and long term, our Group works to carry out constructive dialogue with shareholders, and is working to further create value by taking advantage of the dialogue in management. Policy for Constructive dialogue with shareholders IR Policy The IR Policy is the basic policy for IR activities established by MS&AD Holdings. Not only disclosing corporate information required under statutes and regulations of ﬁnancial instruments exchanges, our Group proactively releases information for investment decisions, ranging from basic policies and management plans to business strategies of the Group, thereby improving the quality of our disclosure. In addition, by disclosing such information, we strive to put out information that is timely, fair, and easy-to-understand. IR Policy 149 HOME / Sustainability / Governance / Information Disclosure / Disclosure of Information and Investor Relations (IR) Information Disclosure Framework To ensure timely and adequate information disclosure and evaluate the eﬀectiveness of information disclosure controls, our Group has established a Disclosure Committee and built a timely disclosure system. Disclosure Committee The Disclosure Committee has been established by a resolution of the Board of Directors, and it is the institution at the core of the information disclosure system. The Committee is composed of outside directors and oﬃcers/directors in charge of the planning, the accounting, and other departments related to information disclosure. Our Group regularly convenes this Committee and veriﬁes the appropriateness of procedures and evaluations, and the eﬀectiveness of the information disclosure controls of the entire Group. The overview of the structure for timely disclosure is provided in the Corporate Governance Report. Corporate Governance Report (last update:November 19, 2019) PDF （734KB） Communication with Shareholders and Investors Our Group is actively engaging in dialogues with shareholders, investors, and analysts with the Group management at its core. In addition to holding the various information meetings for institutional investors and analysts, we provide highly convenient and clear information disclosure to shareholders and investors via the MS&AD Holdings website. The Group responds in good faith to enquiries from investors/shareholders and securities analysts. We will share the requests and opinions that we received during the course of our IR activities within the Group companies and will use them to enhance our corporate value. Policy for Constructive dialogue with shareholders 150 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Management Plans and Policies / The Medium-Term Management Plan The Medium-Term Management Plan The Medium-Term Management Plan(2018〜2021） PDF （5,655KB） FY2018 First Information Meeting PDF （3,050KB） Presentation Previous Medium-Term Management Plan（FY2014-FY2017) Next Challenge 2017-Stage2(FY2016-FY2017) (May 26, 2016) PDF （451KB） Next Challenge 2017 (June3, 2014) PDF （5,709KB） 151 HOME / About MS&AD Group / WHAT WE DO / Management Plans and Policies / The Medium-Term Management Plan FINANCIAL TIMES (October 9, 2018) Visions of a Sustainable Future PDF PDF （1,180KB） 152 HOME / Sustainability / Third-Party Assurance Third-Party Assurance Third-Party Assurance Since 2015, the MS&AD Insurance Group has engaged KPMG AZSA Sustainability Co., Ltd. to perform assurance of selected environmental and social data in order to assure the credibility of reported ﬁgures. The data subject to the third-party assurance is indicated with ✓. 153 154 Scope and Method of Calculating Environmental Data Item Method of calculating amounts of energy used, amounts of CO2 emission factor disposed waste, and passenger-kilometers traveled Amount of Japan Actual measured energy usage collected in accordance with Emission factor by electric power, the Act on the Rational Use of Energy, which covers all of energy source gas, cold and the energy use within each of Company-owned buildings. based hot water, Overseas Calculated from energy purchase costs and unit price by on the Act on heavy oil, and country as published by JETRO (*1). Promotion of Global kerosene Warming used Countermeasures Amount of Japan In principle, actual measured amounts of gasoline and as gasoline and diesel oil are used. When an actual measured amount of published by diesel oil used gasoline is unknown, the amount is calculated from the Japan’s gasoline purchase cost and the domestic national average Ministry of the unit price as published in a survey of gas station retail prices Environment and conducted by Japan’s Agency for Natural Resources and emission factor by Energy. electric power utility. Overseas In principle, the amount used is calculated from gasoline For overseas purchase costs and unit price by country as published by electric JETRO. When the cost of gasoline is unknown, it is power, emission calculated from the amount of gasoline used per car and the factor number of cars at overseas sites, or the amount of gasoline by country published used per person at overseas sites and the number of by IEA (*2). employees overseas. Total amount of Japan The percentage of the actual measured amount of general waste waste disposed from Company-owned buildings is 94.5%. When an actual amount is unknown, it is estimated from the cost of waste disposal and the unit cost. The amount of general waste disposed from non-Company-owned buildings is calculated from the amount of disposed general waste per person in Company-owned buildings and the number of employees in non-Company-owned buildings. The amount of disposed industrial waste is the actual measured amount. Overseas Calculated from the amount of disposed general waste per person in Company-owned buildings in Japan and the number of employees overseas. Amount of Consolidated The actual measured amount of recycled waste recycled waste Amount of Consolidated Total amount of waste minus actual measured amount of disposed waste recycled waste Amount of Japan The percentage of the actual measured amount of water water used used in Company-owned buildings is 71.4%. The amount of water used in non-Company-owned buildings is calculated from the amount of water used per person in Company-owned buildings and the number of employees in non-Company-owned buildings. Overseas Calculated from water use per person in Company-owned buildings in Japan and the number of employees overseas Business Japan Japan Calculated from domestic and international air travel travel (by Overseas expenses estimated from domestic and international plane) business travel expenses (assuming that 10% or 20% of domestic business travel expenses and 50% of international 155 business travel expenses are air travel expenses), emissions unit values per amount of transportation costs incurred as published by Japan’s Ministry of the Environment, and emissions unit value per thousand passenger-kilometers traveled by type of transportation. Organizational boundary: MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. *1 JETRO: Japan External Trade Organization *2 IEA: International Energy Agency Scope and Method of Calculating Scope3 Category Subject Calculation method Emission source unit Capital goods Consolidated Facility investment amount x emission The Ministry of the Environment's source unit per price of capital goods database*3 [6] emission source units per price of capital goods (financial/insurance) Fueland Consolidated Usage amount of fuel and energy ①The Ministry of the Environment's energy-related Usage amount x emission source unit database*3 activities (not [7] emission source units per usage of included in electricity and heat scope 1 or ②CFP Program DB *4 scope 2) emission source units per amount of fuel Waste Consolidated Amount of recycled industrial waste, ① Carbon Footprint DB*4 generated in incineration processing, and direct landfill Emission source unit for incineration of operation processing x waster type/emission source non‐industrial wastes per weight unit by processing method ② The Ministry of the Environment's database*3 [8] emission source units by waste type (including waste transportation stage) Business Consolidated ○Cost of air flight The Ministry of the Environment's travel (by database*3 [11] Emission source unit airplane) Cost of air flight×Emission source unit per transportation expenses per transportation expenses Employee Major ○commutation allowance The Ministry of the Environment's commuting Domestic database*3 [11] Emission source unit consolidated commutation allowance × Emission per transportation expenses subsidaries source unit per transportation expenses Lease Consolidated ○Electricity and gas used in the lease Emission factor by energy source property property based on the Act on Promotion of Global Warming Countermeasures as ・energy and gas consumption amount × published by Japan’s Ministry of the Emission source unit per consumption Environment amount for electricity and gas *3：The Ministry of the Environment's emission source unit database (ver. 2.6) for calculating greenhouse gas emissions through the supply chain (March 2019) *4：Carbon Footprint Communication Program (CFP Program) Database (ver. 1.01) 156 HOME / Sustainability / Third-party Opinion Third-party Opinion Junko Edahiro Professor, Graduate School of Leadership and Innovation, Shizenkan University President, Institute for Studies in Happiness, Economy and Society Founder and President, e's Inc. This Report covers a wide range of topics including the MS&AD Insurance Groupʼs policies and initiatives, and, despite the vast volume of information covered, both its layout and text are reader-friendly. The process of identifying material issues and developing them into concrete measures as well as how the progress of those measures is managed is clear. In fact, the Group has reduced its carbon footprint (Scope 1 and 2) by 13.3% compared to 2009 and it has incorporated various measures to address global warming, a point I suggested last year, which attests to the Groupʼs commitment to steadily promote and expand sustainability initiatives. The Group is also stepping up its eﬀorts to develop a system that facilitates eﬀective engagement with sustainability through means such as by incorporating eﬀorts to tackle global warming into directorsʼ performance-based compensation. The Report is already a reliable one in its own right, but I would like to point out a few issues for further improvement. In this Report, the MS&AD Insurance Group reiterates “a resilient and sustainable society” as the image of the society the Group aspires to achieve. I would suggest that the Groupʼs own deﬁnition and image of such a society be shared with readers. “Resilient” is still an unfamiliar term and its meaning varies depending on the person. I believe that drawing a concrete image of such a society would give the readers a clearer picture of the goals of each initiative. Furthermore, I recommend that descriptions on the kind of world the MS&AD Insurance Group foresees and how the Group intends to respond to it be presented, for example, in the CEO Message, from a broader, long-term perspective. I understand that the Group is already working on matters “deemed as an issue in and outside Japan” and matters that “constitute social problems,” but what about risks that are yet to become a social issue? Moreover, besides global warming, I believe we need to anticipate new emerging risks in the era of AI and autonomous driving. Turning our eyes to Japan, what kind of risks would be brought about by a shrinking population and rural ﬂight from local communities? I think it is essential for an organization committed to “identify and inform on risks” to explore potential risks, including existing but yet unrecognized risks, and the danger of such unawareness, and to report on the possible solutions to the potential risks that are under consideration. Another point, which overlaps with my comments from last year, is that although the Report covers a wide range of initiatives taken, most of what is oﬀered consists largely of explanations of those programs. I would suggest that data on the Groupʼs performance and particularly changes over the past one year and future plans based on a review of that performance be included in the main text. Particularly, rather than merely re-presenting the ﬁgures, data such as employee satisfaction, for which ﬁgures remain unchanged over the past few years, the ﬁgures should be accompanied by deeper analyses and descriptions of the subsequent actions the Group intends to take. Lastly, it is natural that global warming accounts for the majority of the initiatives, given the nature of the Groupʼs business and the social requirement. However, I expect the Group to promote other global issues including water problems, biodiversity, regional revitalization, which is a pressing issue in Japan, and social impacts. As to sustainability of natural capital, the MS&AD Insurance Group has provided consultation services to customers, I would like to see the Group apply the same awareness to its own sustainability eﬀorts too. Furthermore, with regard to the CO2 emissions reduction target, a “70 percent reduction in 2050 from the 2009 level” was a drastic one at the time when it was devised. However, I believe that the target should become more aggressive considering developments such as the Paris 157 HOME / Sustainability / Third-party Opinion Agreement, the publication of the Special Report on Global Warming of 1.5°C last autumn, and the long-term targets announced by the Japanese government last spring. On the other hand, I expect the Group to also work on energy problems, such as by joining RE100. By evolving the exemplary disclosure that the Group already has in place, and articulating a broader perspective, the direction it will take, and each further step taken, I am sure the MS&AD Insurance Group will be able to produce an even more communicative report. Our Response to the Third-Party Opinion on Our Sustainability Report We sincerely appreciate your valuable opinions on the MS&AD Insurance Group Sustainable Report 2019. In ﬁscal 2018, we focused on Creating Shared Value (CSV) with the SDGs referenced as leading marks in order to realize our image of society in 2030 as a resilient and sustainable society , envisioned in our Medium-term Management Plan, Vision 2021, launched in 2018. Year after year, we are compelled to be prepared for contingencies arising from factors such as the ever intensifying natural disasters and increasingly sophisticated cyber attacks. Furthermore, we are faced with a multitude of risks that will emerge during the course of the drastic reforms towards realizing a sustainable society. The MS&AD Insurance Group is addressing social issues that many people hope to resolve, such as diversiﬁed/large-scale accidents and disasters, the global environment approaching the limit, mounting burden of nursing/medical care associated with aging population and a decline in social vitality due to widening inequalities, by proposing adequate measures to tackle such problems and risks. FY 2019 will continue to see us advance our CSV initiatives and provide insurance and ﬁnancial services that help to resolve these and other social issues. We highly value the opinions we receive, which we ﬁnd very suggestive and important when communicating to our stakeholders about our CSV eﬀorts to realize a “resilient and sustainable society,” the image of the society we will achieve by 2030. As to the four themes you have raised in your advice, we will take the following steps: First, to provide our deﬁnition and a concrete image of a “resilient and sustainable society,” the society we aspire to achieve by 2030 as outlined in our Medium-term Management Plan, Vision 2021, we will reorganize the steps toward the realization of such a society in a readily comprehensible way and provide a description of the society that is linked with our CSV eﬀorts. Second, to foresee the world from a broad and long-term perspective and address the forecast, we will proceed with research and study into potential risks, mainly around the four social issues, in cooperation with external institutions and will present the ﬁndings and solutions from a mediumto long-term perspective. Third, in order to indicate our future plans based on a review of the previous yearʼs performance as well as changes, we will reﬂect on the previous yearʼs track record and show our vision of the future pertaining to the issues we are working on, to the extent possible. Fourth, to advance with initiatives on global issues other than global warming, we will return to the MS&ADʼs Story of Value Creation and strive to materialize it. Our story of Value Creation is stated as follows: To fulﬁll our aim to realize a desirable society, we will squarely face the social issues that hamper societyʻs advancement and quickly identify various risks stemming from such issues and provide information on these risks. Then through a variety of products and services, we need to prevent risks from occurring or minimize the impact of those risks and to reduce the economic burden when those risks do materialize. By doing so, we help create an environment where customers can live and conduct business in a secure manner. To support the Groupʼs eﬀorts towards its Mission, to contribute to the development of a vibrant society and help secure a sound future for the planet by enabling safety and peace of mind, we will clarify what we can do and how we can contribute by proactively incorporating the opinions received and strive for disclosure that is meaningful both to stakeholders and the MS&AD Insurance Group. Yusuke Shirai, General Manager, Corporate Planning Department MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. 158 HOME / Sustainability / Editorial Policy Editorial Policy Concept of Sustainability Information Disclosure The MS&AD Insurance Group issues an annual Sustainability Report so that stakeholders can better understand the sustainability-related activities at the Group. In addition to including information that is considered important by stakeholders and the Group, the report is published via a website in order to save natural resources. The Group is making eﬀorts to Create Shared Value (CSV) by utilizing the SDGs as leading marks, in order to realize a “resilient and sustainable society,” our ideal for society in 2030 as set forth in our Medium-Term Management Plan, Vision 2021. The report focuses on initiatives related to our priority issues of “contributing to climate change mitigation and adaptation” “striving to improve sustainability of natural capital,” and “implementing activities and dialog that respect human rights,” in addition to other initiatives related to our value creation approach. The report also mentions unique initiatives being carried out at Group companies (please refer below for the scope of the report). The report includes a collection of sustainability-related data. 159 HOME / Sustainability / Editorial Policy Scope of the Report Target period Fiscal 2018 (April 2018 through March 2019) * Also includes some activities in and after April 2019. Target organizations and abbreviations The Company and Group companies are abbreviated as follows. (The Groupʼs domestic insurance companies are indicated with a star symbol.) ・MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. ⇒“MS&AD Holdings” or “HD” ・Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance Co., Ltd. (★) ⇒“Mitsui Sumitomo Insurance” or “MSI” ・Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance Co., Ltd. (★) ⇒“Aioi Nissay Dowa Insurance” or “ADI” ・Mitsui Direct General Insurance Co., Ltd. (★) ⇒“Mitsui Direct General Insurance” or “Mitsui Direct General” ・Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (★) ⇒“Mitsui Sumitomo Aioi Life” or “MSI Aioi Life” ・Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life Insurance Co., Ltd. (★) ⇒“Mitsui Sumitomo Primary Life” or “MSI Primary Life” ・MS&AD InterRisk Research & Consulting, Inc. ⇒“MS&AD InterRisk Research” or “InterRisk” Timing of Publication This issue September 2019 Previous issue October 2018 Next issue Scheduled for September 2020 160 HOME / Sustainability / Editorial Policy Referred Guidelines GRI, Sustainability Reporting Guidelines (Standard) Linkage with GRI Guideline ISO26000:2010 Guidelines on social responsibility (Japanese Standards Association) Past Sustainability Reports MS&AD Insurance Group Sustainability Report Mitsui Sumitomo Insuranceʼs CSR Report Aioi Nissay Dowa Insuranceʼs Communication Report (Japanese only) Contact Sustainability Section, Corporate Planning Department MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings, Inc. 27-2, Shinkawa 2-chome, Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan 104-0033 TEL: +81-3-5177-0201 / FAX: +81-3-5117-0602 Mail：sustainability@ms-ad-hd.com 161
