COP 2019 UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT ID® Identity communication on progress for 2019. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT CSR is about taking responsibility for comply with the Ten Principles. Today We seek to influence our manufacturers the impacts of an enterprise on people the principles are an integrated part of to live and integrate these throughout and the environment. Therefore, the CSR strategy and we can therefore their supply chain. it is essential for ID® Identity as a confirm that our activities are based on company to take care of the social and the Ten Principles in the areas: Human This is our second annual statement environmental challenges by actively rights, Labour rights, Environment and describing the actions and achievements taking the necessary responsible choices Corruption. we are working with to integrate Global to contribute with goods that are Compact and the Ten Principles into our ethically and responsibly produced. We focus on well-designed products business strategy. We will continue our ID® Identity has always practiced CSR produced in materials ensuring a long work with CSR to ensure a continued and, from the outset, emphasized to be lifespan to reduce environmental progress. a supplier that does things properly and impacts. The choice of environmentally thus responsibly wherever in the world friendly materials and manufacturing This statement will be available to our the goods are produced. processes is integrated into design stakeholders and other interested. and development processes. The 2017 was the year in which ID® Identity cooperation with our suppliers is based Thomas Husted, CEO decided to join the membership of on mutual respect for the fundamental UN Global Compact to recognize and human rights and working conditions. 2 COP Statement COP We have an important obligation to develop products with respect for the environment and for the human and labour rights. 44 COP Products PRODUCTS At ID® Identity we offer more than know will provide the product with the cooperate responsibility strategy. products to our customers. We offer needed strength to meet our demands When signing our Quality Manual our solutions to cover the need of our for long-lasting features. When working suppliers confirm to comply with REACH customers best possible and more. with selections of fabric and accessories, regulation not using forbidden or harmful Our solutions cover from products we also take great care to ensure substances or leaving any residue in the and marketing to warehousing and that our products are produced in an final garments. transportation. We have great respect for environmental and sustainable manner During the process of developing new the requirements from our customers, and not least produced with respect for products, a number of samples are and we take great pride in honouring the the human and labour rights and without always produced, which cannot be sold requirements. use of harmful chemicals or substances. as actual ID products to our customers, so we donate these to different kinds of As a textile company we have an We use international standards to test charity. important obligation to develop products and evaluate all our products to make with respect for the environment and for sure they meet not only our expectations the human rights and the labour rights and requirements but also those of our in the countries, where the products are customers. We always conduct wash and being manufactured. We follow the ILO wear tests for all new products besides Core Conventions and support the Ten testing all the properties of the products Principles of the UN Global compact. with the Bureau Veritas. ACTIONS Furthermore, we also set a standard When designing our products, the main for packaging and transportation goal is to create products with a longof the products. Our aim is using lasting usability to minimize the need materials supporting an environmental for new products and hence reduce the and sustainable production and not waste of products being thrown out causing pollution or damage. We after end-use. Therefore, we carefully choose forwarders, who support our select fabrics and accessories, which we requirements and who have a clear social KPI UN Glabal Compact. Achievements and goals Actions Achievements 2017/2018 Goals 2018/2019 PRODUCTS Development of 95% of core basic product have 1% increase of products with environmental friendly Oeko-Tex 100 certificate. Oeko-Tex certificate. products. Long usability and lifespan Obtained Ecolabelling certificate. Maintaining Ecolabel certificate. COP Achievements in 2018/2019 1. Oeko-Tex certificates on 95% of our core basic products. 3 out of our 5 sub-product categories are 100% Oeko-Tex 100 certified. 2. The first production of EU Ecolabel certificated garments has been completed. With EU Ecolabel we have taken a deeper dig into the work with the 17 UN sustainable development goals. 3. Our basic products from Bangladesh are tested in Bureau Veritas once every year towards our products requirements with satisfactory result. 4. The tests are a tool to maintain our quality level and to ensure our products meet our aim for long product lifetime. 6 COP Products Goals for 2019/2020 1. We will continue to work ensuring a sustainable production of our products and be environmentally responsible. 2. Evaluation of the EU labels program and the further possibilities with the certificate. 3. We will keep on ensuring our core basic products are Oeko-Tex certified. 4. Expect an increase of Oeko-Tex certified products during 2019/2020. 5. We will create overview for certificates obtained by our supply chain; related to environmentally and socially responsible certificates. COP 7 PROCUREMENT Acknowledge the responsibility we have improvements and security in all aspects in Bangladesh and to support the as an actor in the textile industry known of the business relationship. implementation of requirements. to represent risks towards human and We take pride in contributing to the labour right and the environment in the ACTIONS improvements made since the ACCORD production of our products. We need as a Based on our commitments we have started. company to identify and address the risks set up Code of Conduct in our Quality Most of our products are manufactured in all aspects of our business. Manual. All our suppliers are obligated in countries, where risks are possible. to read, sign and implement our Quality Here our cooperation with amfori BSCI Our ambition is doing business with Manual and Code of Conduct before is a great help for both us and our suppliers who have equal commitments production can proceed. If required we suppliers auditing the place of production as ID® Identity towards social, help our suppliers understand, improve according to the amfori BSCI Code of environmental and ethical sustainability. and comply with the requirements. Conduct. Regular visits in the different The frame work of ID® Identity is based ID® Identity has been member of amfori places of production and direct talks with on the ILO conventions and the Ten BSCI for several years and expect our management promote the understanding Principles of UN Global Compact. It’s suppliers to work with the certification for the requirements and hence needed our goal to influence our employees system or other similar certification improvements and creating a mutual and business partners to respect the systems such as SEDEX or SA8000. understanding for the development of Universal Declaration on Human and substantiality and general growth. Labour Rights and the environmental As a member of amfori BSCI we support protection. Sustainable Development Goal 8 – Decent work and economic growth. We trust in long-term partnerships with We have also signed the Bangladesh our suppliers. A partnership providing ACCORD on fire and building safety. both partners the possibility of growth, With this we are committed to source 8 COP Procurement KPI UN Global Compact. Achievements and goals Actions Achievements 2017/2018 Goals 2018/2019 PROCUREMENT Code of Conduct (CoC) All suppliers have signed CoC All suppliers have signed CoC Quality Manual (QM) All suppliers have signed QM All suppliers have signed QM Amfori BSCI 98% of sold products are running Same level is expected. with suppliers audited by BSCI. 2% of sold products are running Same level is expected with suppliers not audited by BSCI. Still 2% of the audited suppliers are Reduce suppliers at not acceptable not in acceptable level level to 1% as ACCORD (Bangladesh) All suppliers have signed the All suppliers must have signed the ACCORD. ACCORD Selfassessment Present in QM To be evaluated. COP 9 Achievements in 2018/2019 1. Office supply; All papers for printing and copies, booklets and similar are PEFC or FSC certified and in several cases also either certified according to Ecolabel or Nordic Swan. 2. All catalogues are printed at an environmental certified print house 3. 83% of our procurements for sold pieces are delivered in FSC certified export cartons. 4. Excisting suppliers has entered the amfori BSCI platform 5. Work with remediation plans 6% of suppliers have raised their rating in the amfori BSCI platform. 6. Ecolabel certified materials has open new sustainable procurement. 7. Paper towels and napkins are also FSC certified. 8. 2% 2% 98% of sold pieces in 2018 were from amfori BSCI suppliers. GOOD 61% ACCEPTABLE 35% 35% 61% NOT ACCEPTABLE 2% NOT BSCI 2% 10 COP Procurement Goals for 2019/2020 1. We will continue evaluating if further sustainable solutions can be found within office supply to other areas than paper articles. 2. We will continue working with FSC certified export cartons. We will keep on working with our suppliers to encourage them to do improvements and remediation plans. 3. Not only to achieve better ratings, but also to create continuous improvements for working environments and workers’ health and security. 4. We will continue the dialogue with suppliers who have not jet joined the BSCI platform, about the possibility for them to do so. 5. Our self-assessment document for new potential suppliers, not engaged with BSCI or holding other valid certificates, will be evaluated for future use. 6. All suppliers representing 2% or more of BV must join the amfori BSCI platform (or similar). Suppliers below 2% of BV are encouraged to join the platform within 2 years if BV is raising. 7. With the Ecolabel certificate we have opened the possibilities for further sustainable procurements. These are to be evaluated in the coming year. 8. Co2 emission result from forwarders. 9. We will work to develop due diligence processes more clearly than today in order to identify, prevent, mitigate and remedy potential or adverse impacts in our supply chain. COP PEOPLE People are one of the most important We strive to make sure that neither and management takes care about the resources for ID® Identity, both internally we or any of our business partners are safety and environmental issues in the and throughout our supply chain. We prohibiting the right to association and company and conducts regular meetings. take our responsibility seriously and have collective bargaining or complicit with incorporated the responsibility in our forced labour, child labour and human Externally; As we do not have any daily processes and actions. We want our trafficking. factories of our own, the Code of Conduct customers and their customers to feel and our quality manual are tools to confident when doing business with us, ACTIONS inform our suppliers about the human knowing that the fundamental human Internally; All new employees receive and labour rights, all suppliers must read, and labour rights always are of highest the Employee Handbook, the handbook sign and comply with these. The amfori concern. specifies how employees should act BSCI is the other tool we use to be sure At ID® Identity, we intend to act towards customers, suppliers and that our suppliers respect and comply responsibly and contribute to colleagues to maintain the human rights with the principal rights of their workers. sustainable development and reduce but also to secure good and ethical The ACCORD in Bangladesh also helps to our footprint on the environment. ID® ways for talking, writing and acting. All secure remediation and support worker backs the Sustainable Development employees are offered a pension scheme participation and training programmes. Goals set by the UN for a more and a health insurance and the possibility Most of our suppliers are long-term economical, social and environmentally of including their family. Every morning suppliers with whom we meet regularly sustainable world. ID® Identity provides bread and fruit and and visit the actual place of production, all through the day free coffee, tea and this way we also see for ourselves how ID® Identity supports the fundamental water. the conditions appear. human rights and we distance ourselves Every 3rd. year a written APV (Workplace from any form of discrimination due to evaluation) is conducted, running APVs Though the BSCI audits we get insight race, religion, gender, age or handicaps. are also held to secure updates for and the possibility to help our suppliers Diversity in our workforce is considered a workplace and the environment. All to improve if needed. It’s our aim to strength, therefore there are equal terms employees have the right to a yearly talk conduct business in a way which gives regardless of country of origin, gender or about wages and a personal interview. A benefit for our customer and suppliers other special conditions. safety committee mannered by employee and with secure growth for all parties We take our responsibility seriously and have incorporated it in our daily processes and actions. 12 COP People KPI UN Global Compact. Achievements and goals Actions Achievements 2018/2019 Goals 2019/2020 PEOPLE Diversity of workforce 45% of employees were women. Equal level of employed women, White collar employees: white and blue collar are expected. 69% men and 31% women. Blue collar employees: 47% men and 53% women. 2 senior citizens employed in special Possible increase to 3 senior citizens. senior citizen scheme. APV results No new suggestions during 2018 If new APV points are raised, they for APV improvements for working will be evaluated and needed conditions. improvements will be conducted. Health and security No risks identified. Workplace evaluation is conducted running and minimum with APV. Health insurance All have health insurance after All have health insurance after 9-month employment. 9-month employment. Code of Conduct All suppliers have signed CoC All suppliers to signed CoC COP 13 Achievements in 2018/2019 1. Work with grievance mechanism has started. 2. Our employees are informed about the strategy of the company by management currently and financial figures are published every month to keep an open and clear information level. 3. Through amfori BSCI remediation plans we help to improve working conditions with our suppliers. 4. In Bangladesh we continued our support to a local school and to secure the schooling for pupils. 5. We contribute to TTH handball and other clubs and organizations in the surroundings of Holstebro. 6. We support Hospital Clowns in Danish hospitals. 7. In the work with Ecolabel products we have chosen to work with Better Cotton Initiative cotton, where the education of farmers is one of the key points. In this way supporting the Sustainable Development Goals 2.3 and 4.4 and with the high restriction for use of substances supporting 3.9. 14 COP People Goals for 2019/2020 1. Grievance mechanism to be established; all employees can share their grievance or suggestions anonymously concerning working and environment conditions. 2. We will keep on communicating with suppliers who do not perform sufficient work with remediation plans. 3. Further work with the due diligence processes to identify, prevent, mitigate and remedy. 4. We will keep on the continuous work to improve working conditions for our employees. 5. We will continue to support the local school in Bangladesh. 6. We will continue to support TTH handball as well as other local clubs and organizations. COP ENVIRONMENT The aim of ID® Identity is to conduct a to renewable and CO2 neutral energy Transportation is another key area, here responsible environmental business, produced by Danish wind power. we always try to consolidate our shipping we support environmentally friendly volumes and avoid too much goods technologies, products and raw materials. ACTIONS needed to be shipped by air. We choose An environmental approach in the textile We continue to sort all our waste. The to work with forwarders, who also have industry is needed as the industry is sorting of waste has increased our an environmentally friendly approach to known for the possibility of negative knowledge and understanding for treating their business. We have developed a tool, impacts during the manufacturing of waste correctly and the result is much so we can monitor the different kind of raw materials and final products and the more waste being recycled. By next report transportation modes. With this tool we transportation. we expect for recycling of plastic to be have gained full transparency and can increased. compare the different modes. Our company policy is based on common Last year we used less electricity, which is sense, our producers are to understand good even though it’s wind energy. How TRANSPORT OVERVIEW and see the effect of continuous ever we used more water than previous improvements of the environmental year, as we have had an issue for some conditions in the supply chain. pipes, so for coming period it’s expected to We emphasize in our Code of Conduct drop again. The increase in heat is caused 96% that we aim to work with producers, who by higher activity in our logistic center, focus and strive to minimize the burden gates and doors have been open more on the environment. This balanced to their frequently. Hopefully the activity will keep 3% financial, geographical and innovative same level. possibilities. All employees are introduced to our environmental policy among other things sorting of waste, printing habits All suppliers have signed our Quality Manual and hereby confirming their 1% and always looking for new ways of being compliance with our Requirements for environmentally friendly. chemical restrictions and compliance with In 2013 ID® Identity moved to a new REACH restrictions. headquarter in Holstebro. The new We participate in networking meetings headquarter is aimed to be a sustainable with teaching of chemical restrictions construction, where the light and heating and environmental issues to improve our is controlled automatically and controlled knowledge and provide the important in relation to the weather. ID has knowledge to our supply chain in order to converted 100% of our electricity purchase avoid the use of harmful substances. 16 COP Environment COP The aim is to conduct a responsible and environmental business ENVIRONMENT Looking into the production of the chemicals, 12.4 Management of When talking about CO2 emissions Ecolabel products we are supporting chemicals and waste to reduce and communication of this; it is not different Sustainable Development release to air, water and soil to just a simple task. It needs time to be Goals. We know our contribution is minimize their adverse impacts on evaluated and to find the proper way not world changing, but we believe human health and the environment. of communicating on the subject, that each step in the right direction as otherwise it’s just data and we is good and will help to continue CO2 EMISSION all know it’s impossible to avoid CO2 the progress towards the 2030 UN This year we have started gathering emission. It’s more a question of Sustainable Development Goals. information from our forwarders how and where the emission concerning CO2 emission when can be reduced, so it gives sense With the Ecolabel production we transporting goods to and from our environmentally but also for our can therefor confirm supporting the warehouse. Not all forwarders have customers as well as ID® Identity. following Sustainable Development a full-scale tool developed to inform Goals 3.9 Reduce illness and a report concerning CO2 emissions. deaths from hazardous chemical, We expect for year 2020 to have all 6.3 Improving water quality by needed data provided to us. minimizing release of hazards 18 COP Environment KPI UN Global Compact. Achievements and goals Actions Achievements 2018/2019 Goals 2019/2020 ENVIRONMENT Waste management Total per employee Total per employee Carton for recycling 2.213 kg Carton for recycling 2.220 kg. Paper for recycling 190 kg Paper for recycling 200 kg. Plastic for recycling 53 kg Plastic for recycling 100 kg. We send 94% of our waste for Expect 1% increase. recycling. Energy consumptions Total per employee Total per employee Wind energy reduced by 11% per -Wind energy – No reduction expected. employee. Water increased by 8% per -Water – 2% reduction expected. employee due to pipe issue Heat increased by 2 % per Heat – No reduction expected. employee due to increase in activity in warehouse. Oeko-Tex 100 certificate 95% of core basic product have Same level expected. Oeko-Tex certificate. Ecolabel collection Ecolabel production completed. Evaluation of result. Transfers More than 30% of the transfers Purchase of waterbased transfers expected purchased are waterbased. to raise by 20%. IT equipment All sales coordinators have 2 From 2020 we will be able to evaluate our screens and consumption of print is print consumption. now monitored. Air shipments Today air shipment are 3% of our We expect no change for the level of air total procurement volume. shipment. ID® has converted 100% of our electricity purehase to renewable and CO2 neutral energy produced by Danish wind power. Achievements in 2018/2019 1. We continued sorting our cartons, paper and plastic for recycling. 2. During 2018 we have changed our polybags to a reusable type, by now we have approx. 2% left which we expect will be phased out during 2019. and clear information level 3. We use FSC carton for sending goods to our customers and reuse cartons when possible. 4. We have encouraged our suppliers to strive for the stricter appendixes and product classes within OekoTex 5. Air shipments today account for 3% of the total transport volume 6. CO2 Emission reports received from some forwarders. 20 COP Environment Goals for 2019/2020 1. We will follow the development within the packing materials and requirement of those. Especially use of plastic, if we can do further improvement for this area. 2. We will consider the possibility of recycling further subjects e.g. damaged clothes and IT equipment. Unfortunately we still have not found solutions, which are truly environmentally friendly. 3. We will keep on participating in arrangements, which can help us to obtain further environmentally friendly knowledge. 4. Expect that our work with suppliers for selecting environmental chemicals and focus on higher appendix within Oeko-Tex will give our products an even more environmental approach. ANTI CORRUPTION Corruption and bribery are known as ACTIONS barriers to sustainable development ID® Identity does not offer, promise and the free trade. ID® Identity has a or ask for bribery or other unethically zero-tolerance for corruption, bribery advantages to obtain or keep business and extortion, all business needs to be possibilities or advantages. conducted in an open, honest and ethical manner; no matter where in the world Employees are not allowed to receive or the business is taking place. give improper gifts in connection with their work. Neither do we pay any kind No employee may offer, promise, of protection money to obtain favorable authorize or receive any bribe, kickban terms. or other illicit payment. ID® Identity counteracts all forms and we will affect our business partners to follow the same conviction. KPI UN Global Compact. Achievements and goals Actions Achievements 2017/2018 Goals 2018/2019 ANTICORRUPTION Code of Conduct (CoC) All suppliers have signed CoC All suppliers to sign CoC No signs of corruption or bribery Anticorruption policy is included in detected. employee handbook Achievements in Goals for 2018/2019 2019/2020 1. 1. All suppliers have signed Code of Continue the work with risk Conduct and hereby confirmed assessment for possible areas of not to accept any kind of corruption or bribery. corruption or bribery. 2. 2. No signs of corruption or Policy for anticorruption to be a bribery have been noticed. part of employee handbook. 22 COP Anti corruption 1. COP 23 VISIT US AT WWW.ID.DK ID® | LÆGÅRDVEJ | 138 7500 HOLSTEBRO | +45 9749 2144 | ORDER@ID.DK ID, THE ID IDENTITY LOGO, ID TECH ARE TRADEMARKS OF THE COMPANY REXHOLM A/S © REXHOLM ALL RIGHTS RESERVED
