GREEN NETWORK COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS REPORT 2018 COVERS THE PERIOD FROM 01.01.2018-31.12.2018 1 Contents About this report In this communication on progress, we describe the actions, initiatives and work that we do in the area of corporate responsibility and sustainability. For Green Network however, this is also to describe, what we do as a business. Green Network has since it was founded in 1994 as a public-private partnership worked with sustainability and our goal is to enhance the caAbout this report 3 pacity and practice of companies in the areas of corporate responsibility and sustainability. Statement from the CEO 4 A network of partners 6 PARTNERSHIP: TRAINING CSR-TOOLS NETWORK Sustainable Business Partner Certification 8 BUSINESS PARTNERS Green Network Advisory 10 DEVELOPMENT ADVISORY PROJECTS Measurement of capacity 12 This means that what we do in terms of our business sist of concrete, custom tailored advisory and projepartners is creating the most impact. Therefore, this cts that develop new knowledge and build up capacommunication on progress describe how we work city for us and our business partners. with our partners to influence, impact and push them in a more sustainable direction in terms of all This report, therefore, consist of chapters with each the issues involved in both the Global Compact as of our business areas and how we trough these buwell as the Sustainable Development Goals. siness areas seek to impact our business partners – and others – to work with the sustainability agenda, The work with our business partners consists of the the Global Compact and the Sustainable Developpartnership, with events and knowledge sharing. ment Goals. In addition to this, we offer more intensive training and capacity building for our partners, as well as Sustainable Business Partner certification that our partners can achieve if they complete the training. The last elements that we work on is our advisory services as well as development projects which con2 3 Statement from the CEO The need for companies to implement measures to address their sustainability and responsibility is becoming more and more evident. The corporations play a critical role in addressing the need for a more sustainable world and hence, we observe that companies now focus on this agenda more than ever. This development legitimizes Green Network’s role as a forum for companies to gain knowledge, share best practice and find the right solutions for their sustainability and responsibility practice to fit the ever-changing conditions. In this annual Communication on THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Progress, we describe our actions to It seemed as if everybody was talking about the The continually improve the integration Sustainable Development Goals in 2018. The busiThe 360 degree prize was in 2018 awarded to Bluetown and Kaffe Bueno at Børsen in Copenhagen. of sustainability and the Global Comness community especially noticed the opportunitipact and its principles into our busies and benefits that the SDG’s offer for companies as ness strategy, culture and daily operations. We also a common language and a pathway towards sustaicommit to sharing this information with our stakenability. At Green Network, we welcome the SDG’s In addition to the implementation of the SDG’s, the Another important aspect of Green Network is the holders. as a common language and a clear way forward. revision of the Sustainable Business Partner-certifimany collaborations and partnerships with other cation also included a more explicit integration of organisations. In 2018 we once again collaborated Green Network is a leading network and advisory The global agenda and the complexity of the issues the §99a in the Financial Statements Act, which is with The Danish Business Authority, Danish Chamcompany in the market for CSR and sustainabilidoes, however, pose a challenge, especially when it essential to a growing number of companies since ber of Commerce and the Danish Ethical Trading ty-oriented managements services in Denmark. We comes to the small and medium sized enterprises. the strengthened legislative requirements came Initiative on the 360 degree award show hosted at work towards the integration of corporate sustainaTherefore, we have started to offer introductions to into effect in 2018. Børsen in Copenhagen. The award goes to companibility and responsibility in our partner companies. the SDG’s as a permanent activity in our event proThis was also the year that the first companies were es with solutions adressing sustainability, innovatigramme. Furthermore, we have integrated the SDGs re-certified as Sustainable Business Partners, theon and scalability and the winners were once again 2018 has been a busy year for Green Network. The in our Sustainable Business Partner-certification reby demonstrating their continuing efforts to encompanies adressing all of these aspects. transition to a privately-owned company has been and training and in our custom advisory services. hance their capacity to work with sustainability and effective and made it possible to expand our reach responsibility. 2018 has indeed been a busy year and we welcomed and also enabled us to work more strategically in inthe new year looking forward to pushing the agenda tegrating corporate social responsibility and sustaiFOCUS ON THE PARTNERS to even more partners and companies as well as cenability in our partner companies. We have worked Across the business areas, we have worked with lebrating our 25th anniversary as a network. hard to develop and refine the partnership, our traimplementation of sustainability according to the ining and the advisory services to fit our partners’ themes in the Global Compact principles. The partYours sincerely, changing needs. nerships with the companies in the network was in focus in 2018 and the visits to partners brought us closer to the them and helped us in establishing strong relations. We offer more events and courThe Sustainable Development Goals are 17 ses than ever before and with themes ranging from Susanne Lydholm, goals agreed upon by the United Nations towenvironmental issues to health and safety; many of Managing Director/ ards 2030. The Goals are a common language the Global Compact principles have been addressed Owner for businesses, the public sector and civil in events throughout the year. With more than 200 society and covers areas like poverty, climate people attending the events in 2018; the face-to-face action, health and responsible production. activities are still vital in reaching our partners. 4 5 A network of partners 6 As a tool that has been included in the partnership with Green Network almost since the network was founded 25 years ago, the manuals are a core basis PARTNER COMPANIES USE for implementing strong management systems in CHESS FOR CHEMICAL the areas of environment and Health & Safety. Green Network functions as a network for companies wishing to develop their capacity to COMPLIANCE work with corporate sustainability and responsibility. In 2018 the partnership-model was strengthened with more than 100 visits to partner companies and more than 200 attendees at our networking events and courses. Supporting the overall implementation of the Sustainable Development Goals in our business, the goals play an increasingly larger role in our events and offers. 14 COMPANIES AWARDED WITH DIPLOMAS FOR ENVIROMENTAL OR HEALTH & SAFETY 21 2018 was a year where Green NetMANAGEMENT SYSTEMS work’s partnerships with the comA new collaboration with Arbejdsmiljøbasen ApS panies were in focus. With many enables us also to offer the mandatory Health and In 2018 alone, 14 companies received diplomas for changes both internally and exterEVENTS HOSTED Safety Education (in Denmark: AMU) to our parttheir work with management systems within Ennally, the need to visit the partners and establish new ner companies. In these courses Green Network vironment or Health & Safety with either Green relations was high and with more than 100 partner addresses the principles regarding human rights Networks own templates (7 of these companies) or visits this was adressed to the full. The partner visits were very successful and taught us about the needs and challenges facing our partners in working with 200+ INDIVIDUALS ATTENDING (safety and health and protective equipment especially) and labour rights in a broader sense. ISO-accredited certifications (ISO 14001 or 45001). The companies establish a management system with clear targets, action plans and follow up that is and promoting sustainability, environmental conTOOLS linked to the Global Compact principles which recern, health and safety. EVENTS 2018 was also the year in which we implemented late to environmental concern and Human Rights This included introductions to the concept of corpothe chemical compliance solution CHESS at 6 of our and Labour Rights. EVENTS rate social responsibility (CSR) and also an introducpartner companies. The CHESS system is offered to A major part of Green Network’s impact on the parttion to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). our partners as a replacement of the former tool KeThe SDG’s these were directly present in the inner companies is through the events and courses These introductions were very popular with more miguiden, which has been a part of the partnership troduction for the companies, but we also linked a that we host. Over 200 people attended Green Netthan 40 participants between these two events. with Green Network for several years and addresses number of the other networking events directly to work events in 2018 and it is through these activities chemical compliance both in terms of the emplorelevant SDGs. E.g. when we hosted a networking that we inspire and call to action on topics and issuA huge part of the activity calendar is the suppleyees’ health (Human Rights principles) and in proevent on circular economy and linked the curricues that are relevant when considering current cormentary course in health and safety, in which the tecting the environment (Enviromental principles). lum to targets 12.5 and 14.1 or the event regarding porate sustainability and responsibility tendencies. attendees receive hands-on knowledge in areas like apprenticeships schemes with targets 8.6 and 4.3. chemical compliance, safety-measures, psychologiAnother major update that Green Network has worThereby the companies are exposed We hosted a number of introductory thematic mecal working environment and more related to these ked on in 2018 and which will be introduced in 2019, to the relevance of the SDG’s across etings around different topics in relation to the susissues. is a revision of the templates and manuals that parta variety of issues and develop a tainability agenda. ner companies use to produce and publish their Encapacity to link the SDGs to topics vironmental and Health & Safety statements. that they work with. OBJECTIVES FOR 2019: Event on Human Rights and one on Anti-corruption Launch of the updated templates for statements Event on carbon neutrality 6 7 Sustainable Business Partner Certification A major revision of the Sustainable Business Partner certification was conducted in 2018 and for the first time the concept of continuous re-certification was set in motion. The first six companies are now recertified Sustainable Business Partners (SBP) and have demonstrated their capacity to work strategically with corporate sustainability and responsibility. Our primary goal in Green Network a) A closer integration and alignment with the SecIMPACT AND STATUS is the enhancement of partner comtion 99a of the Danish Financial Statements Act As of December 2018, 12 individuals have completamong the participants, with a more particular fopanies’ practice and capacity within (the Danish implementation of the EU Directive on ed the extended capacity measurement following cus on the implementation of sustainability and reCSR and sustainability. CSR training non-financial reporting) and; Green Network’s CSR training and was certified insponsibility in their value chains. and the Sustainable Busines Partner dividually as Sustainable Business Professionals. We expect much of this new addition that will certification is one of the ways in which we have b) The integration of the framework for the Susenable us to further continue the improvement of done that continuesly. tainable Development Goals along the lines recomAt company level, 20 companies were certified Susthe capacity and practice of the certified companies. mended by the SDG Compass. tainable Business Partners by the end of 2018 and of New global developments, however, influence comthose, 6 companies have achieved a recertification The CSR training and SBP certification is one of the panies and the requirements to their CSR practice; Hence, participating companies are trained in how as Sustainable Business Partners (SBP) for a twoways in which Green Network works with compamaking it due diligent with a major revision of the to fulfill the legislative requirements; in the impleyear period. nies and partners to strengthen their capacity and CSR training track offered by Green Network and mentation of good reporting practice as well as the practice in corporate sustainability and responsibilleading to the SBP-certification. These revions were integration of material SDGs into the business in adAlongside the revision of the course material, a new ity. Through the training we can influence the comextensive and included, in addition to classic eledition to the traditional Global Compact principles. dimension was added to the certification with the panies and have an impact on their knowledge and ments of the course which are based on the Global establishment of SBP network meetings on specific integration of sustainability in the companies’ core Compact Principles primarily two new streams: topics, the first taking place in June 2019. business and thereby also in integrating the Global The network meetings were established to enable Compact principles, both directly and indirectly. 6 RE-CERTIFIED COMPANIES UPHELD THE 20 further sharing of knowledge and best practice SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS SUSTAINABLE BUSINESS PARTNERS PARTNER CERTIOBJECTIVES FOR 2019: FICATION IN 2018 4 re-certifed Sustainable Business Partners 12 INDIVIDUALS 100% COMPLETION 24 new Sustainable Business Profesionals 8 new Sustainable Business Partners CERTIFED AS SUSTAINRATE IN CSR ABLE BUSINESS PROFESSIONALS CAPACITY MEASUREMENT 8 9 Green Network Advisory DATA MANAGEMENT In terms of the environment we clearly see a tendency towards the increasing need for data and data management and as a result of this, we introduced a new partnership with CEMAsys, a sustainability management tool to help address the need for data Whenever our partners and other companies are challenged and need support for a specific for our partners. We expect much of this partnertask, Green Network offers customized and tailored solutions to address the challenges. In ship in the coming year as we see an interest from 2018 we have worked with over 15 companies in a variety of advisory service engagement. our partners in measuring their emissions and poFive of our projects involved production and implementation of CSR or CSR-related policies. tentially in becoming carbon neutral by reducing We have helped one company with their overall CSR strategy work and in 2018 five comemissions, sourcing renewable energy and by offpanies either received feedback, were assisted with project management or with in-depth setting the remaining emissions. content production related to their CSR reporting. BEYOND COMPLIANCE Our advisory scope does, however, also go beyond the classical CSR-elements mentioned. Two differSince the privatisation of Green The other company wanted to have a set of policies Our advisory services also include the production ent projects were directed towards a broader perNetwork in 2015, advisory serfor topics material to them, which meant that we and implementation of Code of Conduct both for spective. One of them on the external engagement vices have played a growing role helped in the development of environmental and suppliers and for employees. In 2018 we were inof CSR-initiatives and another on structuring and in the offerings to our partner health and safety policies as well as responsible volved in an extensive process with the aim of promeasuring the impact of donations and voluntary companies. Whenever we engage in advisory probusiness conduct, which as a result helped to covducing and structuring the implementation of an work. These two projects go beyond mere complijects, the aim is to offer the best possible solution to er all the principles of the Global Compact as well. employee Code of Conduct for a large company in ance and work towards enhancing the value of CSR our partners in the areas of corporate sustainabili. In total we helped 5 companies in the production Denmark. In this type of projects, we work to impleinitiatives to benefit and push forth both society and In terms of impact this means that we have a unique and implementation of CSR or CSR-related policies ment Global Compact principles in concrete codes the companies practice in a shared value mindset. of behaviour and actions, where we include the emOne in redefining how to work with philanthropy opportunity to influence and impact the companies and measures to address these policies in 2018 all ployees in the process as to create the most commitand voluntary work in a strategic manner, and the that we work with in a more sustainable direction of them in areas pertaining to the Global Compact. ment and impact as possible. other in engaging the initiatives and campaign’s exwith their business. ternally as to increase the reach, inspire others to In another project we made a Supplier Code of Confollow and thereby maximising the impact. In 2018 we supported companies in various advisory duct for a smaller company, structured around the projects directed towards enhancing sustainability The means that we have helped companies not only Global Compact principles and underlying themes 15 capacity. In 2018 the new §99a in the Financial Stateas well as working closely on the governance setup in constructing and implementing strategies, polments Act came into effect for middle-sized comof the company’s responsible supply chain manageicies and actions in relation to all of the different panies (Accounting Class Large C), which led to 5 ment. Thereby implementing Global Compact prinelements in the Global Compact, but also in taking companies receiving in depth advisory and analysis COMPANIES RECEIVED ciples not only in the specific company but reachCSR and the principles even further to benefit the of their CSR reporting from Green Network in 2018. ADVISORY SERVICES FROM ing more than hundred suppliers around the world companies and society. In the coming year, these The services were targeted towards the new legislaGREEN NETWORK with the concrete demands in the Code of Conduct, tendencies will be even more apparent as a natural tion, and directed at supporting them in their combuilt directly upon the Global Compact. consequence of the growing focus on the Sustainapliance as well as their development of material reble Development Goals. 5 porting in all aspects of the new legislation as well as the Global Compact. OBJECTIVES FOR 2019: In 2018, we worked closely with two companies in PROJECTS INVOLVED the Danish water supply sector. The first project CSR REPORTING Implement the collaboration with CEMAsys fully and communicate it consisted of the development of a CSR Strategy and in implementing the Sustainable Development 7 5 companies integrating data management Goals in the final strategy and action plans. This company now has clear targets and action plans and the strategy development included a process with 3 new companies assisted in CSR reporting PROJECTS INVOLVED establishment of baseline, materiality analysis and concrete actions plans for them to work on. Hence, PRODUCTION OF POLICIES OR we touched upon all aspects in the Global Compact CODE OF CONDUCTS 10 11 Measurement of capacity In the implemetation of the Global Compact principles in our own business we have used our own measure platform to measure our capacity across the topics of the global compact. This way we measure how well we ourselves have integrated the principles and topics in relation to our services for our partners. The measurement is presented in the Meassure scoreboard. In the process of implementing the Global Compact principles in our own operations we have integrated them in our meassure platform. The meassure platform can measure CSR CAPACITY: CSR and Sustainability capacity in individuals and organisations and the current version is based on Is the ability to comply with customer demands, legislation etc. the Global Compact principles and sub-topics and is therefore a valuable tool in measuring the impleIs the ability to increase the business mentation of the Global Compact in the organisabenefit of the corporations CSR engagetion. ment Reflects the ability to integrate The scoreboard works with 4 stages of implemenCSR broadly in the corporations tation process. Each displaying different levels of implementation of the Global Compact topics and includes both a compliance and an opportunity perspective. GREEN NETWORKS PERFORMANCE MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES IN GREEN NETThe measure scoreboard displays Green Networks WORK’S VALUE CHAIN DUE DILIGIENCE STAGES overall performance in each of the material sub-topNot only has Green Network integrated the use the ics in the Global Compact as well as one collective meassure platform in our Sustainable Business IDENTIFY INTEGRATE score across all the topics. Partner certification, where it serves to validate that the certified partner companies have reached a deConsultation of stakeholders Risk and opportunity analysis As shown the overall score of Green Network were sired level of CSR capacity. Research and other investigative activities Internal coordination and communication 45%, but the individual scores vary for each of the Assessment or measurement of impact different subtopics. Health & Safety issues, as well Green Network also offers the partner companisDevelopment of strategies, policies guidelines etc. as environmental issues ate well represented with es the possibility to use the meassure platform to implementation levels reaching the execute stage. measure how their suppliers comply with e.g. their Forced labour and anti-corruption is some of the Code of Conduct. In 2018, around 100 suppliers to areas where the performance is lower in the implepartner companies in Green Network were measEXECUTE UTILIZE mentation of actions and initiatives in these areas. ured using the meassure platform. Within labour rights in general the performance These measurements are based on the Global ComCommunication and capacity building Development or innovation of sustainable products, services or processes varies and the same tendencies can be observed for pact principles and hence, the partner companies Selection and evaluation of business utilizing this service can document how their suppartners Compliance with stakeholder pressure, human rights. These scores indicate the need for sustainability standards and legislation actions within the areas of human rights and anpliers comply with their Code of Conduct and the Sustainability-oriented collaboration ti-corruption, which is addressed in the goals for the Global Compact principles. with business partners and other parties Marketing and communication efforts towards stakeholders coming year. 12 13 CSR Advisory and Competencies Center Roms Hule 8, 3. sal, DK 7100 Vejle Direct: (+45) 70 25 40 70 www.greennetwork.dk 14
