COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS (COP) BASIC TEMPLATE Period covered by your Communication on Progress (COP) From: Jan 2018 To: Jan 2019 1. STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT BY THE CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER (OWNER OR PRESIDENT IN THE CASE OF SMALL BUSINESSES) Please use the box below to include the statement of continued support signed by your company’s chief executive EXAMPLE 8th January 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that eManage Africa reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Blanche KO GM 2. DESCRIPTION OF ACTIONS Human Rights Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of human rights. Examples include:  We have put in place policies on sexual harassment as well as employee conduct  We have taken measures to ensure safety of all workers while at work  We have taken measures to allow freedom of expression by ensuring an open door policy  We have put in place anonymous reporting channels for any form of violation Labour Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of labour. Examples include:  We comply with minimum wage standards  We have policies and guidelines on discipline, compensation as well as contracts for all employees Environment Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken in the area of environment. Examples include:  We provide for waste management  We ensure carry our Pulping of Paper as opposed to burning to reduce our carbon footprint  We ensure that we monitor our energy consumption by making use of natural light and ventilation s opposed to ACs and electricity  Ensure emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health  Minimize the use and ensure safe handling and storage of chemical and other dangerous substances Anti-Corruption Please use the box below to describe actions your company has taken to fight corruption. Examples include:  Assess the risk of corruption when doing business  Mention “anti-corruption” and/or “ethical behavior” in contracts with business partners  We carry out Quarterly training on Anti-Corruption  Ensure that internal procedures support the company’s anti-corruption commitment by ensuring that the AntiCorruption Policies are adhered to 3. MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES In the box below, please include the most relevant indicators to measure outcomes. Examples include:  Rate of accidents at work  Managing of Energy bills  Percentage of recycled materials  Employee Retention
