Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO) February 5th, 2019 To our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Forcier Consulting reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment, and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also reaffirm our commitment to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Natalie Forcier Chief Executive Officer Forcier South Sudan | Somalia | Sudan | DRC | Kenya | Mozambique | Uganda info@forcierconsulting.com | www.forcierconsulting.com Human Rights Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Assessment, Policy and Goals Forcier Consulting has made Human Rights a core concern of the company. As a firm that continues to grow and extend our reach annually, we remain committed to ensuring that Human Rights are respected in all of our activities. The principles enshrined in The Universal Declaration of Human Rights; The United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination; The United Nations Declaration on the Elimination of Discrimination Against Women and the International Covenants on Human Rights are core values that inform our employee conduct, client engagement and community interaction on all levels. Implementation Forcier Consulting provides various initiatives and actions to implement Human Rights policies, reduce Human Rights risks, and respond to Human Rights violations in the company. Respecting Human Rights comes under the general “Forcier Principles” in the initial hiring counselling session. Forcier continues to make it a priority that all of our research and technical staff complete the National Institute of Health’s certification course on Protecting Human Research Participants, as well as the course on Ethical Practices with Human Research Subjects. The Research Manager is responsible for ensuring that all projects conform to company policies on Human Rights, and research is conducted with Human Rights policies in mind. As all researchers are trained in the ethical treatment of research subjects, assessments are conducted in the field with the explicit objective of protecting human research subjects. Measurement of Outcomes Forcier Consulting constantly monitors and evaluates performance in the areas of Human Rights. Researchers that interact with subjects while in the field are under the supervision of Research Officers who have been trained in Human Rights practices, such as the trainings mentioned above. Each project is reviewed at its middle and end phase by the Research Manager to ensure that interviews and practices are conducted in the most ethical ways. Human Rights violations are also taken extremely seriously at Forcier Consulting. If an employee is found to have violated company policies on Human Rights, their immediate supervisor will review all infractions and decide on an appropriate course of action. As well, each employee’s contract states that Human Rights violations are grounds for termination of the contract. Forcier South Sudan | Somalia | Sudan | DRC | Kenya | Mozambique | Uganda info@forcierconsulting.com | www.forcierconsulting.com Labour Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation Assessment, Policy, and Goals Forcier Consulting remains steadfastly committed to upholding the highest standards of ethical business conduct and expects the same of its employees, and agents. We adhere to all of the ILO Core Conventions on Labour Standards, Forcier Consulting strictly upholds the freedom of association and collective bargaining, and the elimination of forced labour, child labour, and employment discrimination. Our company mission is to build the capacity of national researchers in the countries in which we work through the elimination of discrimination and internationally enforced labour standards. Implementation Our hiring process, client interaction, and community engagement is guided by the concept of selection by ability for individuals, seeking to eliminate discrimination based on gender, age, race, religion, disability, sexual orientation, political, social or cultural backgrounds. Every employee is expected to treat all coworkers, suppliers, and clients with dignity and respect in an effort to maintain a professional work environment that is free from threats and acts of violence, bullying, abusive or intimidating conduct or other similar behaviour. Forcier Consulting maintains a ‘ZERO TOLERANCE’ for harassment or discrimination. Employees are subject to anonymous, bi-annual surveys to voice grievances in a safe space. As well, we have a designated HR Manager to receive complaints on labour practices or instances of discrimination, and to handle all such cases with the utmost urgency. Measurement of Outcomes Forcier Consulting is committed to a diverse workplace, in regards to ethnicity, gender and age. All of our country offices are staffed by both local and international researchers. We have offices in the Democratic Republic of the Congo, Kenya, Mozambique, Somalia, South Sudan, Uganda and Sudan where a significant percentage of the staff are nationals of these countries from various ethnic backgrounds and linguistic origins. As well, roughly 50% of all upper management positions are staffed by women. Forcier Consulting senior managers perform bi-monthly internal audits of all company practices to ensure there are no violations of the Global Compact Labour principles. Forcier Consulting takes such violations very seriously, and if such a violation occurs senior management reviews each case to find an appropriate response. Forcier South Sudan | Somalia | Sudan | DRC | Kenya | Mozambique | Uganda info@forcierconsulting.com | www.forcierconsulting.com Environmental Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Assessment, Policy, and Goals Forcier Consulting is committed to providing a healthy and safe work environment and observes environmentally sound business practices throughout the world. Each employee is responsible for complying with Environmental, Safety and Health laws and regulations. As Forcier Consulting works in the most complex and challenging locations, our resource management is of immeasurable concern. This plays a direct role in environmental responsibility, as environmental risks are mitigated as resources are managed accordingly. Forcier Consulting also has policies in place requiring business partners and suppliers to adhere to the same environmental principles, to the best of their abilities and the possibility within the local context. Implementation Forcier Consulting is committed to meeting the global and local EHS Guidelines in our offices and in the field. In order to maintain our high company-wide standards on environmental-friendly practices, all employees are briefed on environmental responsibility in their initial hiring consultations regarding energy efficient research methods and effective waste management. As well, Forcier Consulting uses CAPI mobile technology to conduct research in the field. The use of smartphones and tables for data collection reduces the environmental impact of traditional paper and pencil data collection by a vast margin, and is utilised in all of our countries of research. Measurement of Outcomes All employees are informed to report any accident or injury sustained on the job or any environmental safety concern to management immediately upon occurrence. Forcier Consulting’s senior management performs periodic reviews of company actions in all countries to ensure environmental compliance. Forcier South Sudan | Somalia | Sudan | DRC | Kenya | Mozambique | Uganda info@forcierconsulting.com | www.forcierconsulting.com Anti‐Corruption Principles Principle10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Assessment, Policy, and Goals Forcier Consulting’s activities are generally subject to the laws, regulations, and associated executive orders administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury and other U.S. agencies regarding US Sanction. All exports of services by Forcier Consulting to any country sanctioned by the United States (for example, Iran, Syria, Sudan, Cuba, and North Korea), are generally subject to, and generally prohibited by, U.S. Sanctions. Under no circumstances will Forcier Consulting engage in any export activity contrary to U.S. Sanctions. Every Forcier Consulting director, employee, and agent shares responsibility for ensuring that Forcier Consulting complies with U.S. Sanctions. It is the policy of Forcier Consulting that each of our employees, officers, directors, vendors and all other third parties that do business with us strictly comply with the anti-bribery laws of the United States and of the foreign countries where we do business. Bribery of any kind, regardless of foreign custom or practice, is strictly prohibited. No Forcier Consulting director, employee, vendor or any other third party with whom we do business shall make any payment or provide anything of value, such as a gift, meal, or any other benefit or hospitality, to any person, in order to improperly influence that person to obtain or retain business, direct business to another person or entity, or otherwise secure any improper advantage for Forcier Consulting or its customers. Adhering to these standards may at times place the Company in a lesser competitive position relating to companies willing to engage in improper tactics; however, strict compliance with these standards and the law is of a greater value to us than any business that may be lost as a result of compliance. Implementation All Directors, Employees (including part-time, temporary, and contract employees), Consultants, and Distributors of Forcier Consulting are sent Forcier Consulting’s Compliance with U.S. Export Controls and the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act Company Agreement. As well, all staff are briefed on company anti-corruption policies in their initial hiring consultation. Within Forcier Consulting, our Finance Manager is responsible for reviewing and monitoring anti-corruption principles. Measurement of Outcomes Failure to abide by the policies set out in Forcier Consulting’s U.S. Economic and Trade Sanctions Compliance Manual can result in disciplinary action up to, and including, termination. As well, Forcier Consulting senior management conducts annual internal audits at the country level to ensure actions are being taken to prevent corruption and bribery during project implementation. Forcier South Sudan | Somalia | Sudan | DRC | Kenya | Mozambique | Uganda info@forcierconsulting.com | www.forcierconsulting.com
