UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2019 2 / COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS / DECEMBER 2019 Intracom Telecom delivered another year of significant technological advances that contribute to life improving services. Following our vision, social responsibility is strongly related with conducting our business in a way that leaves the world better than we found it. We have been strongly committed to the Global Compact values since 2015, by being member of the Global Compact Network Hellas and fundamental members of CSR Hellas and actively contributing to the growth and advance of Corporate Social Responsibility in Greece. I invite you to read our annual CoP report in which we discuss the progress of our work related to the developments we have made in our corporate responsibility activities versus 2018 reconfirming our commitment to the 10 principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human and labour rights, environment and anti-corruption. I am particularly proud to share with you that in 2019: ⇢ We extended our support to the young people education by organizing workshops for University students in Athens, Thessaloniki and Patras in order to share our professionals’ technological knowledge and expertise. Moreover, we provided a link between our organization and the Universities, collaborating with major Student Associations. ⇢ We publicly expressed our support to the “Call for Action and Collaboration to Business, Politics and Civil Society” that CSR Europe introduced towards a sustainable future. ⇢ We sponsored the 2nd National Conference on Occupational Health & Safety by ELINYAE in which 112 papers were presented and attended by 730 health and safety professionals. ⇢ We supported country’s blood donation system by donating technological equipment to the National Blood Center of Greece. ⇢ We created a Whistleblowing mechanism to enable our employees to voice concerns about wrongdoing or serious malpractice that affect the Company, in order to ensure the implementation of the highest standards of ethical behavior in all our actions. Our CSR report tells only part of our story. Everything we do at Intracom Telecom starts with our people and how we can do our business in a way that serves our people and respects the communities in which we operate. In 2020, we at Intracom Telecom will continue our efforts to enhance positive impact where possible by following our values and developing technologies and solutions that benefit us all. More particularly, we will enhance our activities by organizing outdoor activities that will contribute to the benefit of social groups in need. Mohamed Ahmed CEO, Intracom Telecom COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS / DECEMBER 2019 / 3 OUR GROUP We, at Intracom Telecom, work towards fulfilling the vision of a smarter connected world, where cutting-edge technologies in the areas of information and telecommunications technologies will play a key role in the enablement of life improving services. Inspired by customer needs, today Intracom Telecom has become the benchmark in fixed wireless access and it innovates in the 5G/4G wireless fronthaul, backhaul and small-cell SON backhaul international arena. The company offers a comprehensive portfolio of revenue-generating software solutions and a complete range of ICT services, focusing on IoT, SDN/NFV, Big Data analytics & data-driven intelligence, and Smart City solutions. Intracom Telecom also addresses the Energy & Utilities industry, emphasizing on smart metering and end-to-end IT solutions. It is also active in the defense systems sector providing security integrated systems for critical infrastructure protection and border surveillance. Intracom Telecom was derived from Intracom, a company that began operating in 1977 in Athens, Greece, manufacturing and assembling telecommunication equipment to address domestic needs. In 2005, Intracom was transformed into a holding company and the telecommunications business unit became a company under the name Intracom Telecom. With a high quality workforce of 1,800 professionals, the company has been distinguished for its technological achievements and excellent work environment. Local R&D Production Presence Centers Facilities 4 / COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS / DECEMBER 2019 OUR R&D Dedication to R&D and commitment to technology innovation is at the foundation of the company’s business strategy. Intracom Telecom invests significantly in R&D programs developing cutting-edge products and competitive solutions on an international level. Intracom Telecom operates its own R&D and production facilities in the European Union and has a strong participation in the European Union’s (EU) flagship initiative for 5G and a significant involvement in the EU Horizon 2020 research framework. Intracom Telecom maintains strategic R&D partnerships with major technology vendors and leading academic institutions globally, jointly conducting research and development of new products and services. In 2019, Intracom Telecom received the R&D Innovator of the Year Infocom Award in Greece and the international distinction as a key solution developer from Intel. Our dedication to research and development along with our skilled personnel worldwide enable Intracom Telecom to create technology that is shaping the future. OUR PEOPLE We recognize that our people are at the core of all of our businesses. The Group’s highly qualified and experienced employees are pivotal to achieving demanding objectives and advancing the capabilities of the Group to better serve its customers. Intracom Telecom offers a fast-paced, success-oriented and rewarding working environment fueled by the talent and skills of its people who are among the best in the industry. 69% GRADUATE & POSTGRADUATES 30% FEMALE 37% IN R&D & PRODUCTION Group data available as of June 2019 6 / COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS / DECEMBER 2019 OUR SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Intracom Telecom is strongly committed to the values of Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) and endorses United Nations Global Compact as well as actively participates as member in CSR Greece and Global Compact Hellas associations. The Group is fully aligned with the United Nations Global Compact’s ten principles in the areas of human rights, labor, the environment and anti-corruption. It is committed to conducting its business in an environmentally sound and sustainable manner, safeguarding pollution prevention, providing excellent workplace conditions and being committed to the communities in which we operate. In 2019, our CEO, Mr. Mohamed Ahmed, was among the first CEOs who publicly expressed their support to the “Call for Action and Collaboration to Business, Politics and Civil Society” that CSR Europe introduced. This is a Call related with a New Deal for Europe towards a sustainable future for companies that want to provide value to society and sustainable profitability through a strong purpose and ethical foundation of their Business. So far, more than 370 CEOs have endorsed the Call and are ready to work for a Sustainable Europe by 2030. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS / DECEMBER 2019 / 7 HUMAN RIGHTS HEALTH & SAFETY In Intracom Telecom we want to be ensured that our employees work under the best health and safety conditions. Fully committed to providing a healthy and safe workplace, Intracom Telecom STANDARD (OHSAS has adopted an OHSAS 18001:2007 certified Occupational Health and Safety Management 18001:2007) System, ensuring that all Health and Safety regulations are strictly followed in the workplace, enabling the company to identify and control health and safety risks, preparing Emergency Response plans and improving its overall performance. Moreover, all new employees attend orientation seminars aimed at familiarizing them with all the safety measures. This year, we participated as a sponsor in the 2nd National Conference on Occupational Health & Safety by ELINYAE (Hellenic Institute for Occupational Health & Safety). More than 700 health and safety professionals attended the Conference, in which 112 H&S papers were presented. Additionally, occasioned by the World Diabetes Day in November 14th, during this week we offered free fingerstick glucose screening to all employees, at the medical office of our premises. SOCIAL GROUPS Since 2005, Intracom Telecom has focused its financial support on non-profit organizations which provide protection and care to social groups in need, especially children. Until today, the company IN NEED has spent in total over 250,000 euros on charities. During 2019, the company continued the long-term collaboration with nonprofit child welfare and protection organizations, such as “The Smile of the Child”, “Educational Centre for People with Disabilities in Piraeus” and “Ark of the World”, hosting their charity bazaars on its premises in Greece. Moreover, the company continues the collection of bottle caps on behalf of the Association of Paraplegic and Handicapped of Pellas Prefecture in order to exchange them with wheel chairs for the Association’s members. DIATROFI It is our duty to be part of initiatives that encourage the adoption of healthy eating habits and eliminate children’s food insecurity in the country. Therefore, we continue for the 3rd consecutive PROGRAM year to support the DIATROFI Program by offering meals to students in primary and secondary public schools in socioeconomically vulnerable areas throughout Greece. Through this program, during the academic year 2018-2019, more than 650,000 meals were offered to over 6,000 students across 100 Greek schools. The DIATROFI Program has been implemented since 2012 by the Institute of Preventive Medicine Environmental and Occupational Health, Prolepsis, with main funding from the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and is executed under the auspices of the Greek Ministry of Education and Religion. 8 / COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS / DECEMBER 2019 VOLUNTARY Greece’s blood donation system is being modernized, utilizing innovative technologies and enabling the management and distribution of blood and its products, according to the needs BLOOD DONATION of patients. Intracom Telecom as a socially responsible company supported this initiative by providing for free the technological equipment for the National Blood Center’s operational needs. Furthermore, twice a year the company organizes a voluntary blood donation in its premises, in cooperation with General Hospital of Athens “G. Gennimatas”, reflecting our people’s social responsibility awareness and resolve to save lives. In 2019, we collected 180 blood units. In support of patients lacking social security coverage, company employees and medical staff donated one carton of medicines and medical supplies to the Athens Medical Association this year. REFURBISHED To enable public schools and non-profit organizations in Greece to upgrade their IT infrastructure and offer their students, members and stakeholders improved and easier access to knowledge, COMPUTERS Intracom Telecom has also donated more than 700 used refurbished personal computers in the DONATION last ten years. This initiative started back in 2007 to bridge, to some extent, the gap between technology education and lack of appropriate infrastructure. However this initiate has an environmental aspect too since the choice of extending the life/use of these PCs results to the reduction of the environmental impact of electronic waste. ENHANCING Intracom Telecom also plays a dynamic role in educating young scientists by supporting the European Pact for Youth initiative, launched by CSR Europe and the European Commission, YOUTH’S inviting businesses, social partners, education and training providers, employment services and EDUCATION parents to develop and consolidate partnerships in support of youth employability and inclusion. During 2019, by offering our sponsorships to the student associations EESTEC, BEST & IEEE we managed to organize workshops for university students in Athens, Thessaloniki and Patras in order to share our professionals’ technical knowledge. Additionally, in our recruitment process we include our active participation to career fairs. We have an annual golden partnership in Athens Job Fair and we are actively involved in career days hosted by the Greek Universities. Furthermore, our support of the Gefyra initiative, successor of the European Pact for Youth program, is steadfast. We have also created an annual framework for university internships and traineeships in various scientific fields in our company. Intracom Telecom also offers to university graduates the opportunity to participate in research projects as part of their thesis. Focusing on the incubation of highly specialized professionals, Intracom Telecom signed a technology partnership agreement with the Polytechnic University of Madrid, for the first edition of the Master’s degree on IoT. The program is offered by the University’s School of Telecommunications Systems and School of Informatics and Intracom Telecom will be providing development tools and application models for the design of sustainable solutions. BUSINESS No one can predict the future, but can be prepared for it. Since last year, in Intracom Telecom we pursued to be ready with a Business Continuity Planning. Our ISO 22301 certified Business CONTINUITY PLAN Continuity Plan outlines procedures and instructions the organization must follow in the face of an emergency or disaster in order to ensure that business processes, procedures, assets and human resources can continue operating during and after this time. Our goal is to be a proactive organization with employees that feel safe working in it. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS / DECEMBER 2019 / 9 LABOUR RIGHTS EXCELLENT WORK Our employees’ well-being is our key factor in determining Intracom Telecom’s long-term effectiveness and sustainability. The biggest reward and success of our company is our employees’ ENVIRONMENT satisfaction about their job and their continuous development that will assist them in reaching their highest potential. Within this framework, we offer benefits to all employees such as: ⇢ Free employee and subsidized family medical insurance plan ⇢ Free transportation on company buses ⇢ Free parking on company premises ⇢ Flexible working hours ⇢ Restaurant in our premises with competitive prices for our employees. FAIR HUMAN It is the policy of Intracom Telecom to maintain a work environment free of unlawful discrimination for all employees. Our Human Resources Management System and its subsystems, including RESOURCES recruitment & succession planning, career development, performance and rewards management, OPERATIONS training and development, are in full alignment with our corporate principles of equal opportunity and meritocracy. Our company applies policies for equal opportunities irrespective of caste, national origin, religion, disability, gender, sexual orientation, union membership, political affiliation or age. Given this framework, an 8% of Intracom Telecom Group’s employees are people who belong in categories such as: parents or members of multi-child families, disabled people or relatives of disabled people, etc. Promotions are awarded once a year as part of the annual performance appraisal procedure and employees are rewarded according to their performance and their individual contribution towards achieving the company’s goals. We are hiring with meritocracy, using criteria as academic qualifications and skill sets, with candidates taking written exams during a regularly organized assessment center process. FREEDOM OF In Intracom Telecom, employee trade union rights are respected and all employees are free to join trade unions or similar external representative organizations. The Employees’ Union is active ASSOCIATION with approximately 70% of our employees being union members. LIFELONG Intracom Telecom’s culture focuses on the lifelong learning of its employees and the attraction of highly qualified professionals in Greece and abroad. The company offers lifelong learning LEARNING opportunities to all employees with continuous in-house and off-site training, determined by the challenges they have to face regarding their job. In 2019, more than 6,500 training hours were invested on 484 employees throughout the Group. INTERNAL Intracom Telecom’s culture of sharing and collaboration is also supported by keeping up to date our employees. Our employees are updated in a weekly basis, through our company portal, COMMUNICATION bulletin boards, e-mails, staff meetings and corporate publications. In “Interact”, our company portal, they can find information like latest news and announcements, useful links about daily life, guidelines, internal services procedures and company’s policies. 10 / COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS / DECEMBER 2019 ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENTAL Intracom Telecom is committed to conducting its business in an environmentally sound and sustainable manner and takes precautionary measures to protect the environment and minimize MANAGEMENT any negative environmental impacts that may result from its daily operations. The company SYSTEM defines and documents identification and evaluation methods of all environmental aspects of (ISO 14001:2015) its operations and their associated impacts. Evaluation is performed against predefined criteria including legislative and other regulatory requirements. Emergency Response Plans are designed to secure prevention and mitigation of the associated environmental impacts. The company has established an Environmental Management System (EMS) which is certified in accordance with the international standard ΙSΟ 14001:2015 and is integrated with the ISO 9001:2015 (Quality), OHSAS 18001:2007 (Health and Safety), ISO 27001:2013 (Information Security) and ISO 22301:2012 (Business Continuity) based Management Systems. The company is subject to assessments by an independent certification body for its compliance with the abovementioned standards. The company seeks continual improvement by setting specific environmental objectives based on identified environmental impacts, on compliance obligations and on risks and opportunities, and by monitoring and documenting the achievement of these objectives. Intracom Telecom recognizes that environmental responsibility is crucial to its long-term success. Developing, manufacturing and marketing products that are not energy demanding and that can be reused, recycled or disposed of safely along with using environment-friendly manufacturing methods and enhancing employee awareness and training, contribute to the company’s aim towards sustainable development. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS / DECEMBER 2019 / 11 PARTICIPATION Procedures for recycling and reusing materials are applied at all facilities. The company participates in the nationwide Collective Alternative Management System “RECYCLING” TO COLLECTIVE (organized by “HE.R.R.CO”) for the collection, sorting and recycling of used packaging materials ALTERNATIVE and in Collective Systems for the operation of Alternative Management of WEEE in Greece MANAGEMENT (“APPLIANCES RECYCLING S.A.”) and other European Countries, fully adhering to the EU directive SYSTEMS on waste electrical and electronic equipment (recast WEEE directive 2012/19/EU). WASTE Intracom Telecom’s waste is collected by authorized companies. Indicatively, waste includes used electrical and electronic equipment (e.g. PCs of no further use, rejected finished or semi-finished MANAGEMENT products, etc.), building installation lighting, nonusable cables, metals (e.g. iron, aluminum, etc.), timber (e.g. pallets, wooden reels, etc.), packaging waste, (e.g. cardboard, plastic bags, etc.), printed material, lead batteries (e.g. from uninterruptible power supply units-UPS), small batteries, etc. Depending on their physical and chemical properties, waste produced is collected by authorized companies and delivered to authorized facilities for provisional storage, sorting, recycling, treatment, recovery or disposal. In 2019, the tonnage of non-hazardous waste was 55 tonnes, while the tonnage of collected hazardous waste was about 2 tonnes(1). ROHS DIRECTIVE Intracom Telecom has taken all necessary steps to ensure that its products comply with the EU directive on the restriction of the use of certain hazardous substances in electrical and electronic equipment (recast RoHS directive 2011/65/EU and its amendments e.g. Commission delegated directive (EU) 2015/863). GREENHOUSE GAS Intracom Telecom calculates and monitors greenhouse gas emissions produced from the company’s activities, using internationally approved calculation standards for greenhouse EMISSIONS gas emissions such as “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol” etc. In 2019, the CO2 emissions were 4,308 tonnes(1)(2). For the ninth consecutive year Intracom Telecom, participated to the Carbon Disclosure Project (CDP) initiative and reported on its carbon footprint. ENERGY SAVING Intracom Telecom has undertaken a line of action that contributes to energy saving and the minimization of climate change impacts. Indicatively, the company performs preventive maintenance on equipment and electrical networks, regulates electrical parameters, operates building service equipment (e.g. air-conditioning units, lifts etc.) in an environmental friendly manner, uses video-conference equipment, which reduces the number of business trips required, uses integrated information systems aiming to restrict the consumption of paper, hires coaches for the transportation of personnel from central points in the city to Intracom Telecom, etc. (1) Data available as of October 31, 2019 (2) From combustion of purchased diesel oil and natural gas for heating and purchased electricity 12 / COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS / DECEMBER 2019 ECOLOGICAL Intracom Telecom is paying close attention to the latest trend developments in the ICT field, and keeps its personnel informed and aware on the fundamentals and practices of ecological design. DESIGN OF Indicatively, design fundamentals concern: PRODUCTS ⇢ the reduction of the use of virgin materials that is harmful to the environment and the promotion of the use of recycled materials where technically and economically feasible ⇢ the capability of repairing and upgrading of products in order to extend their lifespan ⇢ the capability of products to be fully or partially disassembled and reused aiming to facilitate the recycling process and reduce the volume of waste ⇢ the provision of instructions for the end-user regarding the management of equipment at the end of its lifecycle, etc. CONTRIBUTION Intracom Telecom contributes as a partner to two Horizon 2020 European-funded projects: ⇢ E-LAND TO SUSTAINABLE The project focuses on the implementation, deployment and piloting of IT solutions that DEVELOPMENT support optimized management of various energy vectors present in well delimited geographic areas. The ultimate goal is to deliver economically attractive opportunities for decarbonising local energy systems on the mainland (e.g. isolated villages etc.).The project promotes sustainable development, in a broad sense, and combats climate change, helping people prosper in a low-carbon and resource constrained world. ⇢ GIFT The Geographical Islands Flexibility project aims to decarbonise the energy mix of European islands through the development of innovative solutions (virtual power system, energy management system, prediction of supply and demand etc.) capable of allowing islands to integrate vast amounts of renewables. The project will increase the penetration rate of renewable energy sources into the islands’ grid, reducing their needs for diesel and thus decreasing the greenhouse gases emissions directly related to it. EMPLOYEES’ Intracom Telecom aims to increase its employees’ environmental awareness through induction activities, reviews and audits. Employees are informed about the company’s environmental policy, ENVIRONMENTAL and relevant activities and initiatives, such as the waste management processes implemented, AWARENESS during the induction seminar at the beginning of their employment. Notifications and reminders to the employees are circulated and published in the company’s intranet. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS / DECEMBER 2019 / 13 ANTI-CORRUPTION WHISTLEBLOWING Intracom Telecom is committed to the highest standards of openness, professional integrity, accountability and transparency. Within this scope, we implemented in 2019 a whistleblowing mechanism to enable employees in Intracom Telecom, as well as other interested parties, such as consultants, customers, suppliers and partners, to voice concerns about wrongdoing or serious malpractice that affect the Company, in a responsible and effective manner. There are three available whistleblowing channels (via telephone, email and post) through which such concerns/ allegations can be expressed, without fear of reprisal. GDPR & In 2018, in the context of the new European Union General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), we created a strong GDPR strategy. We have our systems and procedures upgraded in order to be ISO 27001 compliant with the new regulations and we have strengthened our privacy and data protection INFORMATION policies. Furthermore, we are certified with the ISO/IEC 27001 Information Security Management SECURITY System, emphasizing the need for an ethical reflection on the digital environment and fundamenMANAGEMENT tal rights. In Intracom Telecom we face data security as something more that just a legislation. SYSTEM We believe it’s a dynamic field that requires respect and a continuous effort for improvement. CODE OF Intracom Telecom’s Code of Business Ethics sets forth the company’s position on fundamental legal, ethical and social matters, determines the way it operates around the world and applies BUSINESS ETHICS to all employees and external consultants, regardless of position or location. The Code offers clear guidance and sets certain non-negotiable standards of behavior that must be adhered to when interacting with coworkers, customers, suppliers, partners, shareholders, communities and public or state authorities while it is also communicated to suppliers and external consultants. The Code covers topics like compliance with laws and regulations, dealing with conflict of interest, proprietary information, dealing with competition, bribery and anti-corruption, political contributions, integrity, record keeping, company property, human rights and labor practices, health and safety, environment, leading by example, compliance and code violation reporting. 14 / COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS / DECEMBER 2019 EMPLOYEE We have issued an Employee Handbook which is posted on the company intranet and contains information about company policies as well as guidelines, expectations and procedures regarding HANDBOOK employees’ conduct and responsibilities. It is also vetted and approved by Greek public authorities. Among other key issues, the handbook underlines that employees are not allowed to accept payments, gifts, bribes and other benefits or privileges offered to them or their relatives. All new employees attend onboarding orientation seminars that cover corporate policies and procedures, including anti-corruption policies. DISCIPLINARY Our goal is to achieve the highest ethical standards of global citizenship and compliance, both internally and across our business activities. For this reason, we need to enforce disciplinary ACTIONS actions when an employee violates provisions of the Code of Business Ethics and/ or the Employee Handbook. The disciplinary actions to employees are imposed by the Management of the Company. In 2019, no disciplinary actions were imposed on employees for corruption cases. COMPLAINT In Intracom Telecom we have implemented a complaint mechanism in which all information regarding any specific incident will be kept confidential within the necessary boundaries of the PROCESS fact-finding process. No reprisal or retaliation against the employee reporting the unethical incidents will be tolerated. All employees can raise a complaint, following a process which is described in the company’s Employee Handbook and the Code of Business Ethics. INTERNAL AUDIT Internal audit can assess the effectiveness of anti-bribery and anti-corruption programs to help anticipate the risk, and identify the existence of potential and actual incidents. Within this framework, we have in place auditing mechanisms, audit committees (permanent and ad hoc) as well as internal control procedures in order to assure that risks are minimized and all activities are carried out in accordance with the corporate policies. All employees are strongly encouraged to talk to the Internal Audit Director or company’s Management about any behavior they believe may breach the Code of Business Ethics and about the best course of actions that can be followed in an anti-corruption direction. Within this year, we successfully passed TUV Austria’s internal audit. COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS / DECEMBER 2019 / 15 Follow Link Like Watch Intracom Telecom 19.7 km Markopoulou Ave., Peania, Athens, GR 19002 All information contained in this document is subject to change without prior notice. Intracom Telecom and the Intracom Telecom logo are registered trademarks of Intracom t: +30 2106671000 | f: +30 2106671001 S.A. Telecom Solutions. All other trademarks are property of their respective owners. www.intracom-telecom.com © 2019 Intracom S.A. Telecom Solutions
