United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress June 21, 2019 Pier2 Marketing Communication on Progress Confidential Page 1 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress June 21, 2019 Statement of continued support by the CEO To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that Pier2 Marketing reaffirms its commitment and support to the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labor, Environment, and Anti-Corruption, as well as, the Sustainable Development Goals. By presenting our Communication on Progress, we seek to reinstate our Active Level status in the Global Compact for 2019-2020. In this communication we describe our actions as a company to support the mission of the Global Compact and the Ten Principles, integrating them into our business strategy, operations, and culture. Through our membership we have made our commitment visible to our stakeholders, our community, employees, and the general public. By making this Communication on Progress accessible through the UN Global Compact website, we make this commitment visible to all of them, reinforcing our commitment to this mission. Sincerely, Gimena Peña Malcampo CEO, Pier2 Marketing Confidential Page 2 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress June 21, 2019 A. Human Rights Assessment, policy and goals For our company, understanding our human rights exposure and addressing potential human rights violations is an important responsibility. One way of identifying, preventing and mitigating the impact is by gathering people with different functions and expertise. Together, they are able to explore the potential impact down the value chain. The risks can be assessed in terms of likelihood and severity, and a strategy can be put in place, starting with addressing the most severe impacts. These principles are embedded in the culture of our organization, through (1) strong leadership from our top level management along with (2) training programs and conferences that communicate to employees why human rights are important and what they can do to help, and (3) continuous learning video programs. We enable this by translating the confusing human rights terminology into everyday operational language that employees outside the legal team can understand. We believe this is key to truly embed a human rights culture into our organization. In a decentralized company like ours, having a corporate culture in which respect for human rights is ingrained, is crucial. In this regard, designing tailor made training that accounts for the autonomy of different offices/locations and communicates the benefits of implementing policy rather than straightforwardly demanding you have to do this” have proven beneficial and successful when changing behaviors. Implementation We put in practice these principles by: • Raising awareness among all our employees, starting with our Executive Management team. • Training our employees on Human Rights (do's and dont's) • Allocation of responsibilities for the protection of Human Rights within the company. Establishing the right mechanism to make sure this is applied throughout the company, and across all our offices. • Human resource policies and procedures supporting Human Rights Confidential Page 3 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress June 21, 2019 • Treating all clients, partners, and employees with integrity, respect, fairness and honesty. • All our employees are encouraged to act in an ethical manner as responsible corporate citizens, making a contribution to their community and the environment. For this we encourage volunteering time. • All our offices within the US and abroad follow the Ten Principles of the Global Compact. • We don’t enter contracts or bidding processes with companies or governments that may be in violation of human rights. Measurement of outcomes We constantly measure and monitor this by: • Providing the Ten Principles to each new employee and emphasizing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights to each of them. • Training our employees once a year in Human Rights and the Ten Principles, to remind them of the behavior that is expected from them as part of our company. • Track and monitor any complaints (to this point we had no incidents, violations or complaints). • Assure Human resources complies with the established policies and promotes these procedures supporting Human Rights among employees and contractors. • We provide incentives to our employees to act as responsible corporate citizens, and encourage their contributions to their community and the environment by giving them the time or in some cases resources to do so. • Our policies describe specific actions to each of our offices on how to implement Human Rights policies, address any risks, and respond to any Human Rights violations, whether witnessed in our company or by any of our contractors or partners. • All our partners and contractors and given the same policy and encouraged to comply in order to do business with us. • Creating a series of resources and learning links for employees to consult when needed, and for development and personal growth. Confidential Page 4 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress June 21, 2019 B. Labour Assessment, policy and goals Pier2 Marketing provides equal employment opportunities to all employees and applicants for employment without regard of race, color, religion, creed, gender, national or ethnic origin, age, marital or veteran status, sexual orientation, any handicaps or disabilities. Diversity is recognized as a value within our company, because we know this is what drives our company and the world forward. All employees and contractors are responsible and encouraged to build an atmosphere in each of our offices, free of discrimination and harassment on any basis. Values such as respect, teamwork, integrity, fairness and honesty are constantly reminded and encourage as an intrinsic part of our company culture. Implementation To assure this, we have policies and procedures recognizing the rights of our employees, their compensations, and benefits: • Our policies and procedures are distributed to all employees, and we provide special training to any recruiting manager to make sure they understand and follow these principles. • We established Beyond Bias training to all managers to remove bias in decision points of the end-to-end talent lifecycle, from hiring through succession. • We encourage diversity in our recruiting process. • Our company does not tolerate any discrimination or harassment by anyone within our company. To assure this we have procedures established so employees can raise any complaints and concerns to Human Resources. • No employees are exempt from the requirements of this policy. Any individual who violates this policy will be subject to corrective action, up to and including unpaid suspension, or immediate termination. • We are certified by the Equal Benefits Program in San Francisco, which means our firm complies with San Francisco Administrative Code Chapter 12B and the Confidential Page 5 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress June 21, 2019 provisions of the Equal Benefits Ordinance. Our firm makes sure ALL employees have the right to receive the same employment benefits. Measurement of outcomes • Our company has 57% women representation and 43% men. Women and men are equally encouraged to career advancement and growth within our company. • They are also compensated equally regarding of gender, race or creed based on their unique skills. We make sure to revise payment gaps every year to make sure there are no intrinsic biases. • 38% of our team is Caucasian, 62% represent different origin or ethnicities. • This diversity is also represented in age breakdown, religions, marital status and other preferences. • This diversity is also represented in our Executive Management team where we have team members from different nationalities, races, creeds and beliefs. • We work with Veterans at Work to encourage employment of veterans and people with disabilities. • Our CEO is a woman, from Hispanic/ Latino descend, so this culture is encourage from top to bottom in our company. • We have clear processes for discrimination and harassment. So far we have never had any complaints or violations. We believe this is due to clear communication and training regarding this policy and zero tolerance for this behavior. • Our staff is diverse and multicultural, this diversity assures that we are following our objectives to have a diverse and talented team. Confidential Page 6 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress June 21, 2019 C. Environment Assessment, policy and goals Pier2 Marketing has been a certified Green Business since 2010. We have obtained our renewed certification, every 3 years. We started our renewal process last year and complied with all the measures from the Green program. Our current certification expires in March 2023. We are also an active member of the California Green Business program and comply with very strict policies and procedures to assure we are sustainable business. Our company has been an example business case study for the San Francisco Green Business Program, given our commitment to the environment, and the application of these principles throughout our company. Implementation We assure the implementation of these principles by enforcing the following: • We care for the environment and the world community. We encourage our customers to use environmentally sensitive printing processes and materials, in an attempt to minimize waste and reduce environmental impact. • We have clear policies and encourage our employees to print on recycled or used paper, only when needed. We also use soy ink cartridges in our printers. • We seek to conduct our business according to the three pillars of sustainability. • As a certified Green Business, we follow these principles in all our offices as well. • We use energy efficient lightning, electronics, and computers in our offices. • All employees are encourage to turn on the lights only when needed and to turn off the lights whenever they are not at the office. • We encourage and have policies for recycling and composting. • We encourage and incentivize all our employees to bike to work or use public transportation (set-up a commuter benefits program). • We use low toxic cleaning products and adopt IPM practices at the office. • We collect and safely dispose items that are prohibited fro the garbage. • We promote green marketing alternatives among our clients and partners. • Every year we calculate our business carbon footprint and invest in a local project to migrate and sequester greenhouse gas emissions. Confidential Page 7 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress June 21, 2019 Measurement of outcomes • We have written green policies that are distributed to all new employees. We also train our employees and contractors in these policies and incentivize them to follow each of these principles, not only at our office but also at home with their families. • Our clients also know that we apply green marketing techniques, promoting green printing materials and using technology to reduce printing as much as possible. • We have signage at our office to remind all our employees about these principles, such as recycling and compostable bins with signage of what is recyclable and compostable. • We have reminders in all our offices to turn lights off, even when people go out for lunch. • We have labeled bins for reusable paper that can be used for printing. • We only buy 100% recycled paper in all our offices. • We only purchase energy efficient lightning, computers, and other electronics including printers. • We use technology to share and revise documents internally and externally with clients and partners, to reduce or eliminate printing. • We conduct electronic invoicing and reporting to clients and partners. • We have the highest level of certification of the green business program (Platinum), complying with all of these standards and above > https:// sfenvironment.org/sites/default/files/fliers/files/sfe_gb_office_retail_checklist.pdf • We have bike to work programs, and have adapted our office to be bike friendly. • We also encourage our employees to use public transportation, and provide them with cards to cover the cost of transportation. • We also encourage employees that live farther away to work from home some days to avoid the use of their cars. • We use technology to keep us connected and to collaborate with the teams in other offices, to reduce the travel between our offices or to clients. Confidential Page 8 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress June 21, 2019 D. Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals We support the work of the UN Convention Against Corruption, we work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We ensure all our employees behave in an ethical manner consistent with these values. This includes, but it is not limited to the United States, we apply these principles in any location we do business around the world. Implementation We assure this is followed by all our employees with clear policies and procedures: • We regulate the offering or receipt of gifts, hospitality or expenses. • We maintain accurate books and records which properly and fairly document all financial transactions. • We have a zero tolerance policy for systematic corruption or activities that could be seeing as malfeasance. • We have strict policies that all employees must comply regarding this principle. • We have strict guidelines for contracts and bidding processes with government agencies and private companies. Measurement of outcomes In our company in 2018-2019: • There have been no reports of conflict of interest or bribery within the company or in any of our locations. • We also have no incidences or other ethical breaches. • The goal of zero is expected for the next years as we continue to emphasize our zero tolerance policy among all our employees. Confidential Page 9 United Nations Global Compact Communication on Progress June 21, 2019 Thank You! Pier2 Marketing www.pier2marketing.com San Francisco | Seattle | Houston | Amsterdam | Mexico City Confidential Page 10
