COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2018 REPORT UN Global Compact UN GLOBAL COMPACT Table of contents I. STATEMENT......................................................................................................................................................................................3 II. INTRODUCTION.............................................................................................................................................................................4 Purpose and values.............................................................................................................................................................4 Who we are...........................................................................................................................................................................5 Responsible business.........................................................................................................................................................7 III. OUR CLIENTS..................................................................................................................................................................................9 Shared values.......................................................................................................................................................................9 Trusted advisor...................................................................................................................................................................11 IV. OUR PEOPLE.................................................................................................................................................................................14 Inclusion belonging and balance...................................................................................................................................14 Safe working.......................................................................................................................................................................18 Sustainability.......................................................................................................................................................................19 Value chain..........................................................................................................................................................................21 V. OUR COMMUNITIES....................................................................................................................................................................22 Pro Bono – promoting the rule of law and access to justice around the world..................................................22 Equality of opportunities..................................................................................................................................................27 Reconciliation action plan..........................................................................................................................................................30 VI. FURTHER INFORMATION............................................................................................................................................................31 2 WWW.DLAPIPER.COM Statement A healthy business can’t exist Since our last CoP we have The firm’s ground-breaking in an unhealthy society. And an refreshed our values; they have partnership with UNICEF is in its unhealthy society won’t produce purpose at their core and as this sixth year, it touches almost every healthy businesses. CoP shows we continue to challenge part of the firm and supports ourselves to live up to these values UNICEF’s child protection work to At a time of unprecedented across the entire firm. help ensure children are protected challenge and change for business from violence and abuse and are with the world facing the tangible Over the last 12 months treated fairly. effects of the climate crisis and the we launched a new set of social upheavals of hyper-inequality, sustainability targets to 2025 and Our Global Scholarships Program business must step up and show are rolling out a tougher energy continues to grow and deepen; that it is fundamentally a force for management system. it provides unique opportunities positive, sustainable change. for top performing law students Our new Diversity and Inclusion and in 2018 we recruited a new Our 2018 Communication of Council and recently enhanced D&I cohort of Fellows. To further help Progress report does more than team are driving impact across our these exceptional students fulfil simply reaffirm our longstanding international business. their potential as tomorrow’s commitment to the ten principles of leaders, we recently partnered the UN Global Compact, more than We continue to deliver on our with Said Business School, merely list activities that advance the unrivalled commitment to Pro Bono University of Oxford to provide UN Sustainable Development Goals. Legal services, which is focused on bespoke leadership training. rule of law and access to justice, This report shows how we integrate and our lawyers around the world Everyone connected with DLA Piper the UNGC’s Principles and the deliver unique scale and impact wants – and expects – us to lead Sustainable Development Goals by donating over 200,000 hours as a responsible, ethical and into everything we do. In our own globally – from legal clinics in the sustainable organisation. Every day, operations. In our relationships UK in response to cuts in legal we strive to do so. with clients. And in our partnerships aid, to support in Zambia for Yours sincerely with communities. imprisoned juveniles. Andrew Darwin Senior Partner Global Co-Chairman 3 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Introduction DLA Piper is a global law firm with lawyers located in more than 40 countries throughout the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa and Asia Pacific, positioning us to help clients with their legal needs around the world. The legal profession is one of public We proudly strive for excellence in how we respond to the difficult service and, as proud guardians everything we do and create a work questions before us, and forwardof the law, we assist those in environment that fosters innovation, thinking, innovative organisations need of legal and related services. empowers new ideas and promotes will help us find the right Law is at the heart of many human partnerships with our global and answers. That is why every day we interactions, be that between private local communities. help our clients succeed. clients, corporations, charitable organisations or the government. Purpose and values Our progressive mindset challenges This central role provides us with Our vision is to be the leading global conventions and evolves our a unique opportunity to use our business law firm. Over the last global legal offering into broader experience and resources to four years, we have built a strong advisory services and new business practice our vision of responsible stable and profitable platform for areas. Through our deep industry business, support the rule of expansion and growth. We aim not knowledge, technological solutions, law, advance access to justice, just to maintain our current status, and diversity of thought and uphold human rights and promote but to become the leader of an experience, clients embrace change environmental sustainability. emerging new establishment of and seize opportunities. law firms and reposition ourselves DLA Piper’s commitment to the with our clients as their advisor Our entrepreneurial and supportive highest standards of honesty, of choice, whatever opportunity or culture promotes bold, ambitious transparency and accountability is challenge they face. thinking and a warm empathetic reflected in the firm’s vision to be a approach. And at the heart of leading global business law firm and At DLA Piper, we believe great everything we do are trusting its values around clients, people, business can make a better world. collaborative relationships with communities and culture. Society’s future depends on clients and each other. DLA Piper presence Cooperation firm AMERICAS EUROPE MIDDLE EAST AFRICA ASIA PACIFIC Argentina Austria Netherlands Bahrain Algeria Nigeria Australia Brazil* Belgium Norway Kuwait Angola Rwanda China Canada Czech Republic Poland Oman Botswana Senegal Japan Chile Denmark Portugal Qatar Burundi South Africa New Zealand Colombia Finland Romania Saudi Arabia Ethiopia Tanzania Singapore 4 Mexico France Russia United Arab Ghana Tunisia South Korea Peru Germany Slovak Republic Emirates Kenya Uganda Thailand United States Hungary Spain Mauritius Zambia WWW.DLAPIPER.COM Our values In everything we do connected with our people, our clients and our communities, we live by these values. BE SUPPORTIVE BE BOLD We care about others, value diversity We stand tall and challenge and act thoughtfully. ourselves to think big. BE COLLABORATIVE BE EXCEPTIONAL We give, we share and we join in. We exceed standards and expectations. Who we are To implement our ambitious strategy successfully, we must be able to articulate confidently who we are and what we stand for. From brand research and consultation with our people and clients, we have identified the key attributes that define us. PROGRESSIVE MINDSET GLOBAL OUTLOOK We challenge conventions, including We don’t just operate in all the world’s our own, and find bold solutions for major economies – we are global in every challenge. how we think and act. HUMAN APPROACH RESPONSIBLE ETHOS Our people are warm and empathetic. We care about our people, We build trusting and collaborative our communities and the environment, relationships with our clients and and uphold high governance and each other. ethical standards. 5 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Strategy Clients People Alignment Radical Change Quality We help our clients succeed Together we can make business better CLIENTS ALIGNMENT RADICAL CHANGE Grow broad-based, sustainable Operate globally as an aligned, Create a radical change relationships with our significant sector-driven firm, sharing our programme that will transform the clients built on a deep knowledge clients and meeting their needs client experience and develop our of their businesses and the sectors consistently across practices business advisory services, digital in which they operate. and geographies. solutions and data capabilities. PEOPLE QUALITY MISSION Encourage high-performance, Drive higher quality across our We believe great businesses can diversity and inclusion and business, and in how we deliver make a better world. That’s why develop the capability of our our services to our clients, our mission, every day, is to help people, helping them to realise enhancing our reputation as our clients succeed. their potential by training professionals and as a brand. and supporting them to a PURPOSE high standard. Together with our clients, we can make business better. 6 WWW.DLAPIPER.COM Responsible business DLA Piper was one of the first law firms to formally We continue to challenge ourselves to ensure our entire commit to the Global Compact in February 2013 and business is not just aligned with the UNGC principles to subscribe to the ten universal principles on human and Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), but they are rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. integrated into our strategic plans and daily operations. UNGC Principles 1. Support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. 2. Not to be complicit in human rights abuses. 3. Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Support the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. Support the effective abolition of child labour. 6. Support the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. 7. Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. 10. Work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 7 UN GLOBAL COMPACT These are the SDGs and the environmental, social and governance (ESG) areas where we can have the greatest impact. Support healthy employees, Ensure inclusive and equitable Achieve gender equality and families, communities and nations quality education and empower all women and girls. by ensuring healthy and safe work promote lifelong learning environments. opportunities for all. Promote sustained, inclusive and Reduce inequality within and Ensure sustainable consumption sustainable economic growth, full among countries. and production patterns. and productive employment and decent work for all. Take urgent action to combat Promote peaceful and inclusive Strengthen the means of climate change and its impacts. societies for sustainable implementation and revitalise the development, provide access to global partnership for sustainable justice for all and build effective, development. accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels. 8 WWW.DLAPIPER.COM Our clients Shared values As one of the world’s leading global business law firms, our clients expect us to live our values and to demonstrate credible leadership on these shared values in our operations, business relationships, the advice we provide and throughout our wider value chain. GOVERNANCE controls and practices to ensure management framework with Our global business is organised that we keep pace with the risk the international ISO 31000:2018 under a Swiss verein structure, with profile of the firm, changes in Risk Management Guidelines. a Global Board appointed by and legislation and the expectations among its members. of stakeholders, including clients, The effective implementation of the in a business environment that is UNGC universal principles is driven At DLA Piper we take an integrated, constantly changing. by the senior leadership team and enterprise-wide approach to shared by DLA Piper offices across managing legal, compliance, To maintain consistency across the globe. governance and reputational risks jurisdictions, practice groups in order to avoid conflicts, wasteful and sectors and wider value Our commitment is implemented overlaps and gaps. Our Board chain activities, we adopted a through internal training and and the Executive established a three line of defence governance guidance to our people based on framework of policies, internal model and aligned our risk their roles and responsibilities. Board, Risk Committee, Audit Committee External Drivers and Requirements Executive External audits Regulators Financial controls Articles of association, Quality management Board and Committee Operational controls, Financial audits charters, internal policies Cyber and infosecurity, Risk audits and procedures, codes of Legal compliance, conduct and values Professional indemnity, General insurances 9 UN GLOBAL COMPACT BUSINESS ETHICS Our ethical commitment is • Promotion of our whistleblowing Doing business ethically is central demonstrated in everything policy and associated to our values and what we do. we do, including: procedures for blame-free DLA Piper and our people aspire to reporting on a confidential or demonstrate integrity, truthfulness • Valuing our client relationships anonymous basis. and honesty in all our dealings, and putting our clients at the • Selecting our suppliers on an uphold our reputation, and inspire centre of everything we do: objective basis considering confidence and trust in our actions. seeking to build long-term factors including integrity and We are committed to conducting relationships based on shared shared values. our business in a professional, values and mutual respect. competent, fair and impartial matter, • Competing vigorously, lawfully • Zero tolerance of legal and and in compliance with all relevant and fairly with competitors, and regulatory breach. legal and regulatory principles. building our reputation on the • Commitment to prevent corrupt basis of our performance alone. This standard of behaviour and practices: we will not directly • Commitment to promote performance is maintained or indirectly engage in bribery environmental sustainability in DLA Piper’s relationship or corruption in any form. through our advice to clients, with our clients, people, • Commitment to opposing responsible operating practices, suppliers, communities and modern slavery in all its forms, partnerships across our all other stakeholders. and refusal to tolerate it either value chain and engagement within our business itself or in with communities. DLA PIPER’S HUMAN RIGHTS our supply chain. These are variously supported by AND MODERN SLAVERY • Maintenance of the highest policy and procedures published on POLICY IS CONSISTENT WITH: standards of confidentiality: our intranet site, and by ongoing • the International Bill of protecting confidential, programmes of communications Human Rights Universal privileged and personal data and training. Declaration of Human Rights; entrusted to us. • the International Covenant • Promotion of Human Rights in all DLA PIPER HAS SEVERAL on Civil and Political Rights; of our dealings, as demonstrated POLICIES IN PLACE THAT by our commitment to the ADDRESS HUMAN RIGHTS • the International Covenant UN Global Compact. AND BUSINESS ETHICS on Economic, Social ACROSS OUR SUPPLY CHAIN: and Cultural Rights; • Investing in and supporting our people to succeed: nurturing • Human Rights and • the International Labour our existing talent, attracting the Modern Slavery Organisation’s Declaration best to join us, and providing a on Fundamental Principles • Ethics supportive environment. and Rights at Work; and • Sustainable Procurement • Maintenance of a safe and • the UN Guiding Principles on healthy working environment • Anti-Bribery and Corruption Business and Human Rights. and a zero tolerance of any form • Anti-Money Laundering of harassment: treating all our people with dignity and respect • Whistleblowing with equal opportunities given to • Diversity and Inclusion all irrespective of race, religion, gender, sexual orientation, disability or age. 10 WWW.DLAPIPER.COM Our clients Trusted advisor Global businesses today are expected to ask themselves not just can we? but should we?. Clients expect their advisors to be able to provide not just technical legal advice, but strategic, commercial and evidence-based advice that aligns with clients’ purpose and values. We work with our clients to help term re‑framing of business value This means partnering with our them understand and respond to protection and creation combined clients to embed responsibility new value-drivers for business, with a clear understanding across the entire value chain such as radical transparency, that long-term success and every business area such or social purpose that is sought out is tied to identifying, managing as policy development and by talent and a new generation of and leading on issues relating implementation, governance, business leaders, and an activist but to environmental, social and strategy and risk management, also collaborative NGO community. governance best practice. investment planning, due diligence, All of this is set within a longerand transactional dispute resolution. BUSINESS AND HUMAN RIGHTS We play an active role in operations, business relationships land acquisition and resettlement, promoting the implementation and supply chains by, for example: public and private security forces, of the UN Guiding Principles on labour exploitation and modern Business and Human Rights in • supporting clients’ understanding slavery, community and indigenous the legal profession through our of human rights risks and peoples, host-government relations engagement with the International materiality to enable prudent and socially responsible investment; Bar Association Business and investment planning and • integration of human rights policy Human Rights Committee, as well business relationship screening, commitments into due diligence as through our work with national policy development and processes and risk management bar associations, including the Law implementation, governance systems to ensure human rights Society of England and Wales and structures, due diligence and risks are identified; the American Bar Association. risk assessment, supply chain management and with the design • advising on risk mitigation As a trusted advisor, we support of grievance mechanisms in and monitoring, including our clients to identify and line with relevant internationally KPIs and appropriate mitigate the risk of involvement recognised standards such as the contractual frameworks; in adverse human rights impacts. UN Guiding Principles on Business • reviewing human rights impact Our International Business and and Human Rights and the assessments and due diligence Human Rights team has continued OECD Guidelines; processes for specific projects/ to advise clients across a range • advising on domestic and transactions and undertaking of governance, transactional, international legal and soft law human rights investigations risk management, compliance and standards related to key human at country level or corporate dispute resolution issues related rights issues, for example, social level; and to human rights risks in clients’ feasibility and large-scale projects, 11 UN GLOBAL COMPACT • ensuring policies and due • Advising a global industry Association of Alberta (FRIAA), a diligence processes are adequate association on the re‑design collaboration between industry and to ensure access to capital of a novel grievance the public sector that now offers and compliance with relevant mechanism, which has included funding for a variety of programs standards, for example, advising on alignment including adaptive measures and OECD Guidelines and export with relevant international helping communities better prepare credit requirements. standards, specifically the for climate-related exposures. UNGP Effectiveness Criteria. Recent experience includes: The firm hosted and participated ENVIRONMENT AND in a number of seminars both for • Advising a number of multinational CLIMATE CHANGE clients and the wider community clients on compliance with DLA Piper continues to be a legal to promote sustainable business international human rights global advisor on a range of development such as an event for standards, including the United climate resilience and sustainability the University of Sheffield Grantham Nations Guiding Principles on initiatives and on climate change Centre for Sustainable Futures, Business and Human Rights legislation and rapidly changing which focuses on research work (UNGP) and the OECD Guidelines public policy. We have been asked to promote the UN’s sustainable on Multinational Enterprises to continue with our pro-bono development goals, and an event for (OECD Guidelines), policy work representing a developing investors in Africa on climate change frameworks, due diligence and country at UNFCCC conferences. risk and the recent guidelines from risk management procedures Following the work we undertook the Task Force on Climate-related and remediation mechanisms. last year for the client at the COP Financial Disclosures. at Katowice, preparations are now • Advising a number of major in hand for the forthcoming COP at Our lawyers and consultants also global businesses on compliance Santiago de Chile. donate their time and know-how. with human rights reporting One of our partners is Chair of the and transparency regulations The firm takes an active role in Sheffield city Region Sustainability across multiple jurisdictions, environmental and climate change Partnership. Another partner, including the UK Modern Slavery initiatives. We advise industry during his term as Sheriff of the Act, UK Non-financial reporting organisations, including the City of London, actively promoted requirements, Australian Modern European Federation of Energy the city’s Green Finance Initiative Slavery legislation, French Traders (EFET), RECS International, and one of our consultants was Devoir de vigilance and others. the I-REC Foundation, and the recently appointed as a director • Advising a project sponsor in Carbon Markets & Investment of the initiative. relation to implementation of Association (CMIA), on a variety corporate policies into practice, of legal matters, including on WIN including by drawing on the drafting of market standard Equator Principles, IFC Standards, legal trading documentation. WHAT IN-HOUSE LAWYERS NEED World Bank ESG Guidelines, in Most recently DLA Piper has Our award-winning programme What In-house order to establish a framework for advised on the drafting of the Lawyers Need (WIN) offers the tools, training and obtaining and maintaining free, EFET standard corporate power knowledge to in-house lawyers on a wide range of prior and informed consent of the purchase agreement. technical, commercial as well as personal aspects. In traditional owners in a manner addition to bespoke services, WIN offers interactive that supports establishment of We assist clients with cross-sector and practical training on topics that range from social license to operate and the innovative solutions, for example business and human rights, diversity and inclusion, bankability of the project. advising Emission Reduction Alberta employment law to health and safety, responsible which invests proceeds from carbon sourcing and outsourcing. • Advising numerous project pricing paid by large final emitters sponsors in negotiations with to reduce GHGs and strengthen In addition, the Women’s WIN initiative extends the Indigenous Peoples in Australia in the competitiveness of new and excellence of our Global Leadership Alliance for connection with mining, energy, incumbent industries. We also advised Women (Global LAW) programme to our clients and infrastructure and regional on the creation and establishment provides a unique platform for training, networking development projects. of the Forest Resource Improvement and sharing best practice for female lawyers. 12 WWW.DLAPIPER.COM Our people Inclusion, belonging and balance CULTURE was developed as a direct response underway internally to agree a DLA Piper is firmly committed to to feedback from our people during common standard of language advancing all aspects of diversity our CEO challenge consultation, relating to data, with the goal of and inclusion across our global conducted using crowdsouring improving its validity and accuracy. firm. We actively foster an inclusive software and feedback from the culture where everyone feels they winning team at our International ABILITY belong and can thrive. Associates Day. We partner with and are a gold member of leading disability We aspire to more diversity across This year, we will run an all-staff consultancy My Plus Consulting, all parts of our business, and engagement survey on our progress which provides career support recognise how unconscious bias can in building a culture that we can all for disabled students, and impact this objective. To date, over feel proud of. The responses – which helps organisations become half our partners have participated will be anonymised – will be crucial disability-confident in graduate in face-to-face unconscious bias in measuring engagement and recruitment. In 2018, we hosted its training. Later this year, we plan in identifying and understanding annual inter-firm event for disabled to develop an updated learning areas for improvement. Diversity students looking to pursue a module focused on inclusive and inclusion matters will be part career in law. leadership. In the US, we have a of the survey. programme of bespoke inclusion All members of the UK graduate training, customised and delivered Finally, we have recently repositioned recruitment and development by NYU Law School’s Center for our diversity and inclusion team, team have attended neurodiversity Diversity, Inclusion and Belonging. both to support our strategic drive training, and we have audited our for impact across our international selection process to ensure it meets We recognise the importance of business, and to increase the active neurodiverse best practice. embedding inclusive behaviours sponsorship it receives at the board into our processes, and so have and among the executive team. Although we uphold robust incorporated new metrics in our Simon Levine, managing partner reasonable adjustment processes annual performance assessment and Co-CEO, leads our Diversity and for all job applicants, we recognise process whereby our people can Inclusion Council. that there is more we can do to demonstrate how they live our values. ensure that people with disabilities DATA (including neurodiversity) feel We recently launched WorkSmart, We collect and monitor diversity inspired and welcomed to join our a firmwide agile working policy. data where possible, and in an team, remain in the firm, and have This empowers all our people to work appropriate manner. Though we an equal opportunity to achieve in a modern and progressive way, want to be as uniform as possible their potential with us. and helps them meet commitments in the data that we collect from both in and outside work. WorkSmart our people, as an international Our health and wellbeing steering starts with the recognition that high organisation we need to take group is a key part of our broader performance goes hand-in-hand into account local practices and approach to this area. It benefits from with flexibility and choice. The policy legislative restrictions. Work is executive sponsorship, and addresses 13 UN GLOBAL COMPACT the increasingly complex people risks has been consistently listed as one legal sector, particularly the largest emerging from the pace of change, of the most influential black people 25 UK law firms, unlike many other impact of technology, and new work in Britain, was our UK country organisations and sectors we have a norms. It also encourages greater managing partner for four years, better gender split in our top two pay awareness, education and acceptance and in 2018 she was promoted to quartiles. Our lower two pay quartiles for individuals seeking support. joint managing director for Europe. are representative of the proportion of female employees, which in turn AGE As well as statutory reporting to the drives the pay gap. Millennials comprise half our UK Solicitors Regulatory Authority, workforce, which is one of the which is required every two years, Leadership Alliance for Women reasons for launching WorkSmart we also track gender diversity in (LAW), an internal employee and allowing our people the freedom partners, 20% of whom are female. network, operates globally and was to work in a more agile way. Getting We recognise that this needs to established to share information, this right will help us attract and significantly improve. raise awareness, and promote retain the best talent, by supporting peer support, networking and our people at all ages and life stages. As of 1 May 2019, 32% of our internal client collaboration opportunities. candidates for election to partner LAW events and activities are not Our reverse-mentoring pilot are female (up from 24% in 2018). limited to women, and the network programme has both an ethnicity and Throughout our financial year benefits from the support of many age focus. By creating relationships 2018-19, 25% of partners hired were male allies. and connectivity across the business, female. Additionally, we have started we hope the programme will provide to track firmwide promotion rates by In the US, we’re a signatory to the valuable insights for our approach to gender and, in future, will be looking Mansfield Rule, a national initiative millennial engagement and retention. at broader demographics. We hire to increase diversity in leadership more women than men at trainee and governance roles, partner FAMILIES level, and post-qualification we elections and lateral hiring. We are As part of our review of our maintain the trend of having a higher committed to ensuring at least international people policies, we will proportion of women. Our lead 30% of candidates sourced and adopt and promote progressive and lawyer data demonstrates a relatively considered for those positions competitive policies that support even split between women and men. are BAME women and attorneys. those with or planning to have On the international stage, we have families (e.g. market-leading parental Our challenge remains at senior lead received the following recognition: leave and domestic and family lawyer and partner levels, where we violence and sexual assault policies see a decline in female representation in Australia). We offer maternity that becomes steeper with seniority. • Awarded best international firm and parental coaching in the UK This is broadly akin to the rest of the for women and – for the fifth and Asia Pacific to help people legal industry, and we see similar consecutive year – best gender manage the transitional period of challenges in the wider professional diversity initiative in an international commencing and returning from services sector. We believe, however, firm, at the Euromoney LMG parental leave. We train partners that with investment and the right Women in Business Law Awards and other managers whose role support in place for people at critical 2018. it is to facilitate an effective return points in their careers, we can better • Recognised by the Australian to work for staff through coaching retain and engage this important Workplace Gender Equality Agency and support. We are members of pool of talent and be an inspiration as an employer of choice for gender CityParents and Working Families, to others. In our 2018 UK gender equality. and work with Carers UK. We have pay gap report, we voluntarily also started planning an international included partner statistics. We • Awarded best firm at the IFLR employee network focused on family welcome the transparency, debate Annual European Women and caring responsibilities. and impetus that gender pay gap in Business Awards in the reporting has provided in the UK, Czech Republic, Norway, Poland, GENDER just as we welcome the leadership Romania and Ukraine. Our international executive board and encouragement of the GC is 27% female. In terms of UK community. Though our gap is leadership, Sandra Wallace, who broadly in line with that of the wider 14 WWW.DLAPIPER.COM We are mindful that diversity doesn’t SEXUAL ORIENTATION AND the heart of our business is not only end with gender. In line with many GENDER IDENTITY the right thing to do, but means we all of our clients commitment to this We are firmly committed to enjoy an enriched career experience. important matter, we also believe educating all colleagues about that inclusion promotes better LGBT+ issues and ensuring that At DLA Piper we are firmly decision-making for our clients those who identify as LGBT+ committed to diversity and inclusion. and our business, and creates an feel and enjoy an equal sense As a global business law firm, with enriched career experience for all of belonging at the firm and a diverse client base, we know our people. have a solid support network in that our clients expect our people place. Iris is our resource group to represent the communities RACE, ETHNICITY, FAITH AND for LGBT+ individuals and allies, in which we work and value our CULTURAL BACKGROUND and seeks to promote an inclusive ability to advise them on both local In many ways, our geographical work environment for all our and global cultures and markets. diversity has meant that working colleagues by organising networking We believe that our approach to across borders and cultures to opportunities, collaborating with diversity and inclusion enables ensure a seamless client experience clients on LGBT+ initiatives, and us to attract the best talent, build is integrated into the way we do sharing information and ideas. the most effective teams and deliver things at DLA Piper. We recognise, the highest level of client service. however, that an all-inclusive The international Iris network is approach to faith, ethnicity and sponsored by members of the board For us, diversity is not just about multiculturalism is not a given, and the executive, and recently held visible differences, it is the unique and so we are exploring establishing EMEA and Asia Pacific summits in blend of talents, skills, experiences an international multicultural Germany and Australia respectively. and perspectives that makes each employee network to address These brought together over of us an individual and we strive these issues on a local basis. 100 colleagues and partners from to create an environment where many jurisdictions to collaborate and these differences are valued We are piloting a reverse-mentoring develop the future strategy for Iris. and celebrated. programme with a small number We partner and work closely with of BAME (black, Asian and ethnic Stonewall, the UK’s leading LGBT+ As our organisation of nearly minority) associates and partners organisation, on LGBT+ matters. 10,000 employees operates across in the UK and, if successful, we will We have consulted Stonewall on our more than 40 countries throughout consider rolling this out across transgender policy and guidelines, the Americas, Asia Pacific, Europe, other countries and regions. and we use its definitions for LGBT+ Africa and the Middle East, We believe such programmes terminology in our firmwide written our policies in each jurisdiction play an important role in building style guide, which has a dedicated are tailored to the legal, regulatory networks, sharing perspectives section on gender-neutral and and cultural requirements of and valuing differences. unbiased language. We also sponsor each geography. Liverpool’s LGBT+ inclusive rugby In the UK, we partner and run team, the Tritons. In Australia, we We promote a culture in which events with Urban Lawyers, have been awarded Bronze Employer everyone feels respected, valued which aims to widen access to status for LGBTI inclusion in the and included, where everyone has opportunities in the legal industry workplace through the Australian the opportunity to grow their career to BAME students. We monitor – Workplace Equality Index (AWEI). and where pathways to career for adverse impact and bias in the progression are transparent. selection process – the proportion THE FUTURE of BAME candidates receiving newly We recognise that we have much We have continued to implement qualified job offers against the still to do and we welcome the our firmwide strategy to secure overall BAME trainee population in expectation from clients and wider the gender talent pipeline, with the given year group. We welcome society that we must embrace and progress reviewed by the Board opportunities to explore, celebrate promote the change that both they every six months. The strategy and respect all faiths, and those and our people demand. It is clear includes the moderation of all who do not adhere to any particular that putting diversity and inclusion at promotions to include gender religion or belief. analysis, the requirement for at least 15 UN GLOBAL COMPACT one woman to be on the shortlist for our career academy programme for discussions locally was engaging all key management appointments non-partner lawyers and business men – making gender equality and a comprehensive review of services professionals, aimed everyone’s issue and not just a our parental leave benefits and the at providing participants with a women’s issue. introduction of parental coaching. framework of techniques and skills to operate and collaborate more Our LGBT network continues effectively across cultures. to make excellent progress. Last year’s re-launch of the Awarded best gender diversity Following the success of our network in London under the new initiative in an international law Leadership Alliance for Women name Iris (from Greek mythology) firm (fourth consecutive year) by (LAW) initiatives throughout the UK, was followed up by local launch Euromoney LMG Europe. US and Australia, we have formed events in Sydney and Hong Kong. the Global Leadership Alliance for The group aims to promote an Employer of Choice for Gender Women (Global LAW). Global LAW inclusive working environment by Equality citation, Australian harnesses expertise of colleagues offering networking opportunities, Government Workplace engaged in local initiatives around raising awareness across the firm Gender Equality Agency having the firm and leverages best and partnering with clients on been a citation holder since practices among existing local LGBT initiatives. The group now the program began. mentoring, skills development and has over 100 members across the networking programs to support International firm. We are continuing to roll out our the advancement of our women Diversity and Inclusion training lawyers worldwide. The local We are Stonewall diversity curriculum. Partner workshops chapters of the Global LAW are now champions in the UK and members focusing on unconscious bias have established in France, Spain, Italy, of Pride in Diversity in Australia and continued and over 380 partners Germany, Belgium, the Netherlands, the Hong Kong Gay and Lesbian have now been trained to date. Luxembourg, the Nordics region, Attorneys Network. We have We have also worked to ensure Hong Kong, Japan, New Zealand and supported Pride in Hong Kong, the key learnings from the training the Middle East. Manchester, Rome and Auckland. are integrated in our people We continue to support Wear it processes, for example, performance International Women’s Day Purple day in Australia and management, promotions and was marked with the largest recognised World AIDS day in the compensation decisions. We have number of Global LAW events so UK. We also raised awareness of developed bite-sized guidance far. These included guest speaker LGBT history month, Transgender intended to be used by partners and events in London and Copenhagen, Day of Visibility and International managers in real time during these a panel event held jointly with client Day Against Homophobia, processes to serve as a prompt and RBS in Edinburgh, a networking Transphobia and Biphobia. reminder of how bias can manifest lunch for colleagues and clients in and how the impact of bias can be Brussels, an event in Saudi Arabia We recognize that our diversity minimised. We have also developed for colleagues and clients and initiatives have a long-term time a new module on Cultural Awareness networking events in Germany. horizon and like most law firms, which has been incorporated into The focus of many of the events and we still have some distance to travel. 16 WWW.DLAPIPER.COM Safe working We are committed to providing our employees with a safe and secure working environment that safeguards their health, and promotes physical and mental wellbeing, regardless of where in the world they work. To meet this commitment and promote positive health and safety develop innovative workplaces to ensure a consistent approach culture throughout the organisation. across our international property across our offices and areas of In 2020 we will commence the portfolio, we apply governance operation, we maintain a robust certification roll-out across our framework and bespoke guidelines health and safety management international offices to further to all our build, design and fit-out system. In early 2019 our UK offices ensure consistency of our approach projects. Our approach continuously have successfully transitioned to occupational health and safety evolves to reflect the latest design their health and safety certification in line with firm’s. Be Anywhere and concepts, standards and related from the national OHSAS 18001 WorkSmart policies. technologies. Among many other standard to the new international important aspects of the workplace ISO 45001:2018 standard, well in We view our workplace environment environment, our particular focus advance of the transition deadline as one of the most important is on the quality, sustainability, in March 2021. Through the process opportunities to achieve innovative technologies, security of continuous improvement, transformational change and to and access control, amenity spaces we strive to uphold the highest reflect on our pursuit of excellence. and staff wellbeing. performance standards and To ensure that we consistently What certification means for us: IMPROVED RISK MANAGEMENT PROVEN BUSINESS CREDENTIALS Seamless integration with Independent verification against wider business processes and recognised standard. global consistency. ADVISOR OF CHOICE BEYOND LEGAL COMPLIANCE Strong alignment with Voluntary commitment to client expectations. best practice. 17 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Sustainability For DLA Piper, responsibly managing the environmental impact of the firm is an integral and essential part of the way we conduct our business. The climate crisis demands nothing less. We strive to lead where we can, particularly when it comes to managing the environmental footprint of business activities and operations across our entire value chain, be that legal services or business support, such as property and workplace management, events organising and procurement. Our commitment to environmental committee with specific focus Renewable sources of energy sustainability is expressed in the two on identifying and supporting continue to play an important role core policy statements: actions to improve energy in our electricity supply: over 50% of efficiency and reduce carbon our total electricity consumption is • The global environmental footprint of operations across already sourced from green energy sustainability policy, which is our international offices. providers but we want to improve jointly championed by Simon this further through partnerships Levine and Jay Rains, our Co-CEOs STRATEGIC TARGETS with our landlords and their building and Global Board members Recognising the scale and nature management companies, as only with responsibility for the of our operational impacts on the 30% of our offices contributed to environmental challenges. environment, we have identified this target. the four priority areas where we • The international energy have greater control and impact in and climate change policy, Emissions addressing the risks and capitalising which is sponsored by Besides energy use, the most on opportunities within our value Jacqueline King, our COO and significant contributor to our chain for a positive contribution member of the International carbon footprint is business travel, towards greater sustainability. Executive Committee. particularly as we were so successful Our current environmental targets in expanding our global reach over The Global Board oversees our have been recently reviewed by the past few years. Although the use environmental performance and the Global Board and are now set of video conferencing has increased the progress towards strategic for the period through to 2025. by nearly two-thirds since 2012, environmental sustainability targets. These not only build upon the the emissions associated with our progress made during 2012-18 but travel have also increased by 40%. The Global Sustainability Initiative also push us to go further. With this in mind our new targets (GSI) provides technical support to aim to reduce the carbon footprint the Global Board on formulating a Energy and renewables by 25% by 2025 and to carbon strategic and integrated approach With over 90 offices in our property off-set non-client air travel. on managing environmental portfolio, energy use and efficiencies impacts and opportunities are a natural priority for us. Up throughout our value chain. It was until 2018 our main focus was on Waste established in 2007 and is governed electricity use across our global With improved record management by the two sponsoring partners and offices and we have managed to (e.g. matter management, a cross-functional committee. reduce this by 18%. We aim to document retention, digitisation) achieve greater consistency on and through introduction of To further support our commitment gas/fuel use reporting across the ground-breaking legal technologies, to environmental sustainability, international offices and reduce the use of paper across the offices we set up the International our total energy use by further has been reduced by over 30% since Energy and Climate Change (IECC) 20% by 2025. 2012. We have also maintained 18 WWW.DLAPIPER.COM high percentage of recycling for our Procurement sustainability commitments. We are paper waste and all other categories Following a review of contractors now working towards a new goal of office recyclables, such as printer across the key service areas and will actively engage or form toners, plastic, glass and cardboard. (i.e. catering and vending, partnerships with those that have With introduction of the new targets cleaning and security, couriers and the greatest potential to influence our focus will be on ensuring that taxis, travel, record management, our sustainability performance by 2025 at least 95% of our waste is stationary and print, utilities, and support us in delivering our reduced, recycled or used for energy confidential shredding, building strategic objectives. generation through a wide variety maintenance) we are confident of waste minimisation, segregation that approximately 77% of our and disposal initiatives. critical suppliers and service providers are fully aligned with our ENERGY RENEWABLES EMISSIONS WASTES SUPPLIERS Reduce energy use by Increase use of green Reduce carbon footprint Divert 95% away from Partner to achieve 20% in 2025 energy by 25% in 2025 landfill targets 2019 – 2025 2012 – 2018 By 2018 we have Approximately 50% For a number of years We have achieved By 2018 we have reduced the use of of our total electricity we have encouraged nearly 100% identified strategic electricity on average by 2018 was sourced the use of modern recycling rates for suppliers across the by 18% across from green energy communication paper and other key service areas. all offices. providers but only technologies to “office recyclables”. 30% of our offices reduce emissions Our key focus is In 2019 the Board contributed towards associated with our From 2019 our now on active approved further this target. business travel. main focus will engagement and reduction and set an be on optimised strong partnerships Energy Committee We will continue In 2019 the Board procurement for sustainability to oversee to pursue further approved new targets and improved implementation. opportunities. to address wider management of climate change wastes. challenges. EXTERNAL VERIFICATION business practices and processes, carbon reductions year on year Our management system has and is designed to achieve our and realise the benefits associated been ISO 14001 compliant and objectives and targets. with efficiencies. independently certified across our global business for over a decade. In 2018 we successfully certified We have applied for ISO 50001 It is shaped by the external and our UK offices for compliance energy management certification. internal issues that are material to with Carbon Trust standard and Our ambition is to achieve the firm and our key stakeholders. achieved an overall performance certification in the UK by the end It is integrated into the core score of 80%. This accomplishment of 2019 and roll it out across recognises our efforts to deliver our international offices in 2020. 19 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Value chain The value chain within DLA Piper, as in most professional services, consists of the various workflows that drive profitability and competitiveness of the firm by adding value to its core services and contributing to the wider sustainability of the firm. PROPERTY MANAGEMENT EVENTS MANAGEMENT mitigating the lifecycle impact. At the Sustainability is one of the key Our event organisers are also guided same time, we are fully committed considerations within our property by the principles of sustainability. to working closely with smaller local governance framework and related DLA Piper internal and external events companies to help them achieve guidelines. With 90 offices in over come in a variety of formats – from necessary experience, capability 40 countries, property management corporate conferences to office and financial viability to successfully is a significant part of our business parties, from educational seminars to undertake the work while complying operations and we apply a life-cycle fundraising events. As a responsible with our policy requirements. approach to how we manage our business we always consider aspects premises on a daily basis: our due such as health, safety and welfare of In 2019 we took our supplier and diligence questionnaire incorporates the people attending, the impact on contractor management a step sustainability criteria for selecting the environment and the wellbeing of further and initiated the development new offices (e.g. energy efficiency, the surrounding communities. of the internal supplier assurance building certificates, recycling, framework. This framework will energy micro-generation, etc.); SUSTAINABLE PROCUREMENT apply to all our suppliers across at the fit-out stage we apply our Our supply chain is relatively the board and help us, among International Design Guidelines, straightforward and yet it cuts across other things, gather and verify which, in addition to environmental many different national cultures, supplier sustainability evidence as criteria for procuring office furnishing wide-ranging business norms and well as mitigate potential risks and and equipment, also cover local traditions, bringing with it a multitude reputational damage throughout approaches to global design, of potential risks as well as rewarding the supplier engagement lifecycle; workspace environment (e.g. lighting, opportunities for businesses, the from onboarding through to temperature, humidity, acoustics), environment and societies. performance improvement. amenity space and wellness facilities. During tenancy we are continuously Our global Sustainable Procurement Our supplier assurance framework looking for operational opportunities Policy provides a high-level outline focuses on a range of sustainability for improvement through of our approach to ensuring that themes, including governance and introduction of new technologies all suppliers and contractors risk management, information (e.g. smart lighting, air purifying act consistently with our values security and business continuity, paint, chemical-free cleaning and commitments, particularly environmental protection and climate agents, etc.), optimisation and with respect to the key principles change, working conditions and upgrades (e.g. building management embedded in the UN Global Compact. human rights, business ethics and systems, smart metering, renewable responsible sourcing. The training, energy generation), engagement We actively encourage diversity implementation and roll-out is and partnerships with our key throughout our supply chain and seek scheduled for December 2019 and stakeholders (e.g. landlords, suppliers to provide a level playing field for all the framework will go live within the and service providers, employees). potential suppliers irrespective of their next 12 months. size, ethnicity, ownership and location. Towards the end of tenancy, we focus We form partnerships with our more on management of waste and other mature and advanced suppliers sustainability aspects of the property’s and service providers to achieve re-instatement and relocation. economies of scale and scope in 20 WWW.DLAPIPER.COM Our communities Pro Bono – promoting the rule of law and Global pro bono stats access to justice around DLA Piper coordinates pro bono projects in North America, EMEA the world and Asia Pacific, offering pro bono legal services to low-income and Around the world, our lawyers disadvantaged individuals, families and nonprofit groups. provide pro bono legal services to promote the rule of law by HOURS DONATED GLOBALLY strengthening civil society and building capacity, and to support access to justice, particularly for 111,650 65,550 24,600 hours donated in hours donated hours donated in children and forcibly displaced North America in Europe, Asia Pacific people. Through New Perimeter, our Middle East and global pro bono initiative, we also Africa provide pro bono legal assistance in under-served regions around the world to support access to justice, social and economic development 201,800 and sound legal institutions. total pro bono hours donated globally by DLA Piper during 2018 As one of the largest law firms in the world and a thought leader in the creation and delivery of pro bono that qualify for pro bono assistance. In Australia we supported a client services, we are able to develop, Our lawyers have the opportunity to in a high court case on democratic manage and deliver pro bono services be involved with pro bono work from freedoms and protest rights (Brown v in size, scale and scope unlike any their first day with the firm. Government of Tasmania). other global law firm. Everyone at DLA Piper plays a role in our pro bono Our pro bono practice focusses on In Asia, we are continuing to work practice. Our lawyers spend time each two global themes: the rule of law and on a law reform project to remove year providing free legal services to access to justice. restrictive barriers to NGOs who want individuals who cannot otherwise to employ a solicitor. afford a lawyer and organisations RULE OF LAW Strengthening Civil Society Our rule of law work is designed We have also established a new We continue to support NGOs with to support just laws, fair and open partnership with the University of individual complaints to UN human courts, transparent and accountable the South Pacific in Suva, to support rights bodies, and are providing governments. Examples of this work their inaugural Law Clinic course. short human rights courses to include the following. high-school students in the UK. In Europe, we are continuing In Tanzania, our DLA Piper Africa to support fair and open trials firm IMMMA provided support to by providing trial observation, clients in a number of high-profile preparing accessible letters of rights cases relating to freedom of choice, and providing support amicus briefs rule of law and good governance. on human rights issues. 21 UN GLOBAL COMPACT CAPACITY BUILDING torture has been inconsistent and NEW PERIMETER Many of our projects support organisations such as REDRESS are Through New Perimeter, our upcoming law students to obtain encouraging regional human rights nonprofit affiliate that provides the skills necessary to be the future systems, such as the European Court, long-term pro bono legal assistance guardians of the rule of law. We also to adopt a more coherent approach. in under-served regions around the work to build capacity across the A team of over 20 lawyers from across world, we support access to justice, legal profession and beyond, by Africa, Europe and Asia drafted a social and economic development, providing training and resources for report which examined international and sound legal institutions. judges, government lawyers, and by and regional jurisprudence in respect providing NGOs with the skills they of the calculation of compensation We team with the National Centre for need to understand and interact with for victims of torture. Off the back State Courts to deliver trial advocacy the legal system. We are continuing of this report, we have now been training to police prosecutors in to support the government of instructed to assist with a number of Caribbean nations. Vanuatu through advice to various cases, helping both individuals and ministries on a range of business, groups who have suffered torture to We work with a global NGO to infrastructure, foreign affairs issues advocate for adequate compensation support its work to improve juvenile and risk management, and local through both the regional and justice in under-served areas. capacity building. international human rights system. We are also working with REDRESS We provide mentoring and training We have worked with REDRESS, to develop a practice note which can on ethics and commercial law an international human rights be used by human rights lawyers as a topics to women lawyers in Nepal, NGO, to produce a report on the guide to calculating compensation for in collaboration with an NGO and the calculation of compensation for victims of torture. This will be the first Nepali Bar Association. victims of torture. International and guide available on this subject and will regional jurisprudence in respect be a useful tool for lawyers working We train government lawyers from of compensation for victims of with victims of torture. East Africa on negotiating complex agreements, in partnership with the East African Development Bank. In 2018 from participated in 177 45 32 lawyers offices projects SOCIAL AND ECONOMIC SOUND AND ACCESS TO JUSTICE WOMEN’S ADVANCEMENT DEVELOPMENT LEGAL INSTITUTION Provide: Support: Train: Assist: Courses on pro bono and Financial inclusion Law students Female lawyers and public interest law entrepreneurs Intellectual property protection Legal professionals Legal ethics training Anti-human-trafficking Legislative drafting Judges and initiatives Assistance to legal government lawyers service providers Efforts to combat domestic violence 22 WWW.DLAPIPER.COM ACCESS TO JUSTICE CHILDREN’S RIGHTS and Edinburgh, working with the We have a strong commitment We are working to support children’s Central England Legal Centre and to access to justice around the rights in every corner of the world. Just Right Scotland. These clinics world. While our efforts are help children in the UK to apply tailored to the local environment, In Africa, we have been providing for and enjoy British citizenship. we have a particular focus on support to a local Zambian The service addresses the huge gap protecting vulnerable populations, human rights organisation that between the tens of thousands of including children and forcibly works to reach children detained children with a legal entitlement displaced people. in adult facilities in the region to apply for British citizenship and and assists imprisoned juveniles the number of children who face In the UK, we support over 13 clinics obtain legal representation and barriers to applying. Since 2015, nationally. Most of the unmet legal social support. Due to the lack of we have taken on 101 cases with need in the UK is outside London dedicated juvenile justice facilities a 97% success rate. Later this year and yet most pro bono projects in some Zambian regions, children we will launch our fourth children’s and clinics are run by large firms accused of offences can be held citizenship clinic in Manchester in London. Having seven offices in adult facilities while waiting in collaboration with the Greater around the UK means that we are for their cases to be concluded. Manchester Immigration Unit. in a unique position to address Copperbelt Province is one such unmet legal need in areas such region. With the cooperation of the GLOBAL PARTNERSHIP as Manchester, Edinburgh Leeds Zambian judiciary and its Ministry WITH UNICEF and Sheffield, where the legal of Home Affairs, a team of lawyers In 2013, UNICEF UK and DLA Piper aid crisis has been felt acutely. from across DLA Piper Africa launched a ground-breaking Last year, we launched four new member firms joined with the NGO partnership to support and develop legal clinics in our offices outside staff for a week-long visit to prisons UNICEF’s child justice work around London. These clinics are in direct and courts in Copperbelt Province. the world. Over six years, DLA Piper response to the cuts to the legal aid Team members interviewed, has raised more GBP1.8 million and include assistance for welfare counselled and drafted case plans through corporate donations and benefit appeals and immigration for over 100 children. They then employee fundraising to support matters. For example, in Leeds traced critical files and documents UNICEF’s child protection work we launched a clinic with Manuel to accelerate the disposition of globally to help ensure that children Bravo, a refugee charity to assist cases, contacted and counselled coming into contact with the law refugees to apply for indefinite parents, drafted submissions are protected from violence, abuse, leave to remain. In Sheffield, we are and advocated for the children in exploitation and treated fairly. working with disabled children and court. The information gathered To date, DLA Piper has provided their families to appeal decisions to by the team will allow the NGO to over 25,000 hours of pro bono remove disability living allowance. expand its services – previously legal support, worth GBP4.7 million, In Manchester and Liverpool, largely confined to Lusaka Province for UNICEF’s work globally. This we also run a legal support service – to children in the Copperbelt. work includes: for young entrepreneurs supported The data, which included interviews by The Prince’s Trust. These young with Judiciary and Corrections • Supporting the nationwide people often come from lower officials, has been shared with consultations on child-friendly socio-economic backgrounds and the government of Zambia to transitional justice processes are supported by The Prince’s inform its ongoing review of child with UNICEF in the Gambia, Trust to start their own business justice systems. and providing technical support or social venture. We work with to help integrate child protection these young people to provide legal In 2015 we launched the as part of the process. support to support the running of first children’s citizenship clinic in • Preparing National Baseline their businesses in the North West the UK with Coram Children’s Legal Assessments for UNICEF region of the UK. This is in turn is Centre, in collaboration with another Mexico and UNICEF Norway helping young people contribute law firm. In 2018, we worked examining the extent to which the to their community and access with the Kids in Need of Defence children’s convention has been stable employment. Network (KIND UK) to launch two implemented in domestic law. additional clinics in Birmingham 23 UN GLOBAL COMPACT • Contributing to the Children’s deprived of liberty. The findings • Supporting UNICEF Italy in report that has been submitted were presented by the providing pro bono advice to the UN CRC by the Australian independent expert, Professor to unaccompanied minors in Child Rights Taskforce. Manfred Nowak, to the UNGA in Italy within the framework of September 2019. the UREPORT-Children On the • Assisting UNICEF Mongolian Move program. This project is to conduct a review of the • Providing technical advice to the reducing the risk and vulnerability Mongolian Child Protection Act Tajik Union of Lawyers to develop of many refugee children, who to ensure it is in line with the CRC and deliver a training program for face homelessness, exploitation and international best practice. lawyers on the safeguarding of and abuse. children in the court process. • Drafting a qualitative analysis • Drafting a Model Law on for 15 countries in Asia Pacific • Undertaking research on the eradicating child marriage in to support UNICEF EAPRO’s return of migrant children in their Francophone Africa countries contribution to the UN Global country of origin. with UNICEF Western and Central Study on Children Deprived of • Conducting an analysis of Norway, Africa Regional Office. Liberty. The Study provides Sweden and Finland responses to recommendations for law, policy asylum-seeking children. and practice to safeguard the rights of children and help to reduce the number of children Courtesy of UNICEF 24 WWW.DLAPIPER.COM DISPLACED PEOPLE In New Zealand, we are assisting We continue to provide legal Safe and orderly migration refugees to bring family members support to organisations such continues to be one of the most to New Zealand by preparing as Refugee Action in the UK, critical issues facing the world. family reunification applications and provide training on a range of Some of the work done by our on their behalf. issues, including witness statement offices around the world is set training for caseworkers. out below. Our Know Your Rights programme, a legal empowerment course for We staff guardianship and family Our offices in Ethiopia and refugees and migrants, has been preparedness clinics in the US Mozambique conducted research successfully delivered across a so that immigrants can create on the domestic and international number of cities to date, including emergency plans for the care of laws affecting economic migrants in Paris, Vienna, Hamburg, Cologne, their children. their jurisdictions. Brussels, Melbourne, Milan, London, Luxembourg and Rome. In the US, we have sent multiple In Thailand, we partnered with teams of lawyers to volunteer at TrustLaw and the International We also undertook comparative immigration detention centres Rescue Committee to prepare and research for UNHCR on state located in remote areas where it deliver training for migrant workers practices related to the retention is difficult to access counsel. on their rights. and confiscation of passports of refugees and asylum seekers, We represent immigrants that have and we launched a report in Austria fled their home countries with the on ending childhood statelessness. hope of seeking asylum in the US. Courtesy of UNICEF 25 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Equality of opportunities ACCESS TO A CAREER IN socioeconomic background. We use HEAD START LEGAL SECTOR this tool to level the playing field Our Head Start programme supports As a leading global business law through enabling a more socially talented young people who face firm we want to ensure that our diverse talent pipeline. social, economic and cultural barriers business reflects the communities in to entering and succeeding in the which we operate, representing all THE DLA PIPER FOUNDATION legal profession. We run Head Start sections of society. In 2018 we launched the DLA Piper in locations we have DLA Piper offices Foundation, which funds both and where we understand the locally In 2018, Sandra Wallace, joint our Global Scholarships and specific barriers to the profession – managing director for Europe, our Head Start programmes. e.g. social mobility in the UK. Over the was appointed as one of only Through the Foundation we invest next three years we aim to support 12 Social Mobility Commissioners significant resources each year to 120 students, who will be sponsored in the UK. The Social Mobility support students attending school or and mentored by 160 lawyers from Commission (SMC) monitors university from up to 8 countries. Head Start is progress towards improving social under-represented groups who have aligned with and complimented by mobility in the UK, and promotes the talent and ambition to study law the firm’s broader goals to promote social mobility in England. We are but who would benefit from access diversity and inclusion. Head Start also founding members of PRIME to quality mentoring, internships programs run for between one (an alliance of law firms across and the opportunity to build peer and five years and participants the UK committed to improving and professional networks, to achieve receive mentoring, work experience, access to the legal profession their full potential. educational support, networking through work experience), and we and multiple opportunities for have consistently been part of the Through the DLA Piper Foundation professional development, as well as conversation about improving social we are committed to encouraging bespoke support based on their mobility in the legal sector. We have and supporting the next generation needs and goals. We work with a a long history of senior people who of lawyers globally, from a variety of number of established charities, have, both internally and externally, backgrounds and social groups, to schools and universities to deliver talked about their journeys and the understand and pursue the right Head Start. While Head Start is not a fact that they come from less socially opportunities for them. pipeline programme, all Head Start mobile backgrounds. We improved Scholars are introduced to our Global our ranking from 38 in 2018 to Graduate Programme. 18 in 2019 in the Social Mobility Employer Index, which is a joint initiative between the Social Mobility Foundation and the Social Mobility Commission, in partnership with the City of London Corporation. We partner with Rare Recruitment to provide contextual screening for all new trainees in the UK, Australia and, where possible, other jurisdictions. This enables our recruiters to put the achievements of each candidate in the context of their educational and 2019 Head Start Scholars 26 WWW.DLAPIPER.COM GLOBAL SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAMME The aim of our Global Scholarship student, known as Fellows, Fellows can see what is possible Programme is to equip law students we provide full tuition payment, and it equips them to further fulfil to become the next generation of additional education resources, their potential. lawyers, business and community local and international mentors leaders so that each can play their involving 150 of our lawyers around We have partnered with universities part in advancing the rule of law and the world, practical legal education, around the world, the Bingham ensuring sustainable development in employability skills leadership Centre for the Rule of Law and some of the world’s least developed training, internships and the Said Business School to deliver this regions. Each of the students on the opportunity to build peer and programme. The second cohort of programme come with incredible professional networks. Fellows have begun the Programme personal stories of sacrifice, and we currently have 54 Fellows on perseverance and character. Leadership development is an the programme from 17 countries important part of the programme and including Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Launched in 2017, this unique we have partnered with Said Business Cambodia, El Salvador, Ethiopia, two-year programme is for top School, University of Oxford, to create Guatemala, Laos, Myanmar, performing law students in less bespoke leadership training course Uganda, Senegal, Solomon Islands developed countries. For each for the Fellows. This course ensures and Zambia. 2019 Global Scholarship Programme Fellows 27 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Reconciliation action plan In Australia our longstanding • Procured USD100,000+ Building on the success of our RAP commitment to equality is worth of goods and services in Australia, we are now looking to demonstrated through our from Indigenous suppliers expand on these principles across Reconciliation Action Plan (RAP) – – investing in outstanding our global network. We look forward a public document that outlines businesses that are employing to developing a firmwide plan to the practical actions that we as a and empowering Indigenous strengthen our relationships with firm will take in order to advance Australians, and helping to Indigenous peoples all over the world. reconciliation between Aboriginal support a vibrant and sustainable and Torres Strait Islander peoples Indigenous business sector. We commissioned Aboriginal and other Australians. artist Lucy Simpson (pictured in A key shift in our latest RAP is that front of her artwork) to create a we are seeking to better utilise our Our first RAP was launched in 2012, bespoke textile installation for greatest strengths – that is, our skills and since then we have: our Sydney office. in business law. We see a unique role for our lawyers in building the • Provided more than capacity of Indigenous businesses USD3.5 million worth of pro bono and communities, thereby enabling legal services to Aboriginal and the full social, cultural and economic Torres Strait Islander clients – participation of Aboriginal and undertaking strategic litigation Torres Strait Islander peoples in the to address systemic issues and life of our nation. inequalities, and providing access to justice for clients who would We also look forward to not otherwise be able to afford strengthening our relationships legal representation. with Indigenous communities and • Sponsored and supported learning more about their rich 11 Indigenous interns to histories and cultures. We firmly pursue careers in the legal believe that being a truly inclusive sector – working to reduce and reconciled workplace enriches DLA Piper commissioned Aboriginal the under-representation us all, and can only make DLA Piper artist Lucy Simpson (pictured in front of of Indigenous Australians in a better business – a better place her artwork) to create a bespoke textile the law, and particularly in to work, and a better advisor and installation for our Sydney office commercial law. partner for our clients. 28 WWW.DLAPIPER.COM Further information For additional information Diversity and Inclusion Pro Bono about DLA Piper’s approach and http://www.dlapiperdiversity.com/ https://www.dlapiper.com/en/uk/ activities related to the UN Global focus/probono/pro-bono/ Compact Principles, please refer to Environmental Sustainability the following: https://www.dlapiper. UNICEF Partnership com/en/uk/aboutus/ https://www.unicef.org.uk/ Responsible Business corporateresponsibilityfolder/ corporate-partners/dla-piper/ https://www.dlapiper.com/en/uk/ aboutuscontentpagefolder/ aboutus/ sustainability/ We welcome any queries or comments you may have on this report. Please address them to: Nicolas Patrick Partner Head of Responsible Business T +44 20 7796 6560 M +44 7968 558 658 nicolas.patrick@dlapiper.com Ian Hagg Director of Responsible Business T +44 20 7153 7641 M +44 7738 295 362 ian.hagg@dlapiper.com Claire Donse International Director of Pro Bono T +33140152429 M +33698445295 claire.donse@dlapiper.com 29 DLA Piper is a global law firm operating through various separate and distinct legal entities. Further details of these entities can be found at www.dlapiper.com. This publication is intended as a general overview and discussion of the subjects dealt with, and does not create a lawyer-client relationship. It is not intended to be, and should not be used as, a substitute for taking legal advice in any specific situation. DLA Piper will accept no responsibility for any actions taken or not taken on the basis of this publication. This may qualify as “Lawyer Advertising” requiring notice in some jurisdictions. Prior results do not guarantee a similar outcome. Copyright © 2019 DLA Piper. All rights reserved. | NOV19 | A03013
