Ref. C/21/19 2019 Communication on Progress Participant MUE Group Published 20.02.2019 Time Period March/2018 – March/2019 Statement of continued support by the Chief Executive Officer February 20, 2019 To our stakeholders: I am pleased to confirm that MUE Group reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to share this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Dhafir Selbi Managing Director 1 Human Rights & Environment Assessment, policy and goals Our Group is committed to keeping and maintaining all the human rights of its employees, including the health and safety of its employees. MUE Group is certified OHSAS 18001:2007 (Occupational Health and Safety) and ISO 14001:2015 (Environment Management), our Integrated Management System Policy dictates the following: “ The company aims achieving a product that surpasses competitors’ products and clients’ expectations, and to minimize the impact on the environment and ensure health and safety of all parties affected by the company’s operations. MUE Group commits itself firmly to the following: • The management and personnel of MUE Group are committed to ensure the preservation of the Quality Systems, Environment and Health and Safety throughout the group’s activities. • Comply with applicable legal requirements and other requirements to which the group subscribes, and which relates to the health, safety and environmental aspects. • Achieving requirement for ISO Standard 9001, 14001, 45001. • Protect the environment, co-worker, and visitors by setting means and objectives that drive continuous improvement throughout the activities and processes of the group. • Prevent the accidents and incidents that might result from MUE Groups’ operational activities through applying occupational health and safety procedures. • Allocate all necessary and available methods to prevent occupational health diseases and accidents. • Provide necessary information, instruction and training to ensure the health and safety at work of all our employees. • Continuously improve policies and procedures as an integral and fundamental part of our business strategy and operating methods. • Communicate this policy to all our employees, in such a way that confirms their understanding and commitment to implement. • Committed to consultation and participation of workers, workers' representatives. “ 2 Implementation All personnel, upon embarking on working with the group, are notified of their and other employees rights, are personnel are also notified, that in cases of human rights violation by colleagues, partners or management members, they are to notify the violation details by email and send it a list of provided addresses. All the Group activities are governed by our certified Integrated Management System. Our IMS, in accordance with the requirements set by OHSAS 18001:2007 and ISO 14001:2015 ensures that all personnel safety and environment protection are closely monitored. Additionally, we are in the process of upgrading our IMS to be compatible with the new ISO 45001:2018 during the coming year. Safety of the personnel is one of the most important rights that must be provided to the personnel, all personnel, whether working in office premises or on project sites, must be fully aware of the safety procedures and regulations to help them work in a safe and healthy environment. The management commits to a zero-tolerance human rights violation policy, all personnel at all levels are aware of the rights of other personnel. Complaints are dealt with immediately by the Managing Director, Board of Directors and Human Resources department. Measurement of outcomes No violations have been recorded or reported during the last year. 3 Labour Assessment, policy and goals The Group's management is committed to making sure that each employee of this group, regardless of their position/profession, job/task, shall never be: 1. Unpaid for his/her working hours. 2. Forced to work in harsh and unsafe conditions. 3. Forced to work in spite of being ill or being unable to conduct the required work for physical reasons. 4. Forced to work extra hours without the employee's consent or without the full compensations. 5. Discriminated against in any way. Also, the group maintains a zero-tolerance policy against child labor in our client/contractor relations. Implementation The management commits to a zero tolerance labour rights violation policy, all personnel at all levels are aware of the rights of other personnel. All personnel, upon embarking on working with the group, are notified of their and other employees rights, all personnel are also notified, that in cases of violation of our labor policy by colleagues, partners or management members, they are to notify the violation details by email and send it a list of provided addresses. Complaints are dealt with immediately by the Managing Director, Board of Directors and Human Resources department. Measurement of outcomes No violations have been recorded or reported during the last year. 4 Anti-Corruption Assessment, policy and goals All personnel are notified, that the Group's management maintains a zero tolerance policy against all forms of business corruption, whether internal or external. Any corruption proven on any employee shall result in swift and direct actions against it. Implementation Our established procedures of procurement and contracting, which are part of our ISO 9001:2015 approved IMS, ensure all communications and agreements are transparent and fully compliant. All personnel are notified that they are to notify any noted/suspected corruption details by email and send it a list of provided addresses. Report/Complaints of corruption are dealt with immediately by the Managing Director, Board of Directors and Human Resources department. Measurement of outcomes The management is to discuss annually all the reported corruption cases, and study the outcomes of these reports and whether stringent actions have been taken upon proven cases or not. No reports of corruption have been generated or received in the group during the last year. 5
