ULTIMATE ARMOUR WORKS FZC COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS JULY 2019 ULTIMATE ARMOUR WORKS FZC Plot No. 22 RAK Free Zone Technology Park PO Box 54595 Ras Al Khaimah United Arab Emirates Tel:+971 7 243 4839 Fax: +971 7 243 5257 www.armour-works.com sales@armour-works.com ULTIMATE ARMOUR WORKSFZC (UAW) is a privately owned company registered in RAK Free Zone, United Arab Emirates. The company was established in 2005 and currently have approximately 300 full time staff from 19 different countries. UAW facilities operate 24 hours, six days per week to ensure annual production targets. We believe that we are among the market leaders for quality and reliability. We aim to be ranked by our staff as the best place to work in our industry. Ultimate Armour Works FZC Plot No. 22 RAK Free Zone Technology Park Ras Al Khaimah United Arab Emirates PO Box 54595 Tel: +971 7 243 4839 Fax: +971 7 243 5257 ISO9001:2015 Quality Management Systems 10 July 2019 United Nations Secretary General António Guterres 1st Ave. and 46th Street New York, NY 10017 USA Dear Sir, Ultimate Armour Works joined the United Nations Global Compact initiative in 2013 . We sustain our commitment to the ten principles of the Global Compact, with respect to human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. In our day to day operation we are dealing with employees from different countries, having different believes, cultural and social backgrounds. We are always sensitive to our workers needs and are bringing continual improvement in human rights management. This year we are invested in education to improve the employee skills and to prevent corruption by further education, advocacy and system review. Therefore it is with great pride that we hereby submit our sixth Communication of Progress Report for July 2018 to July 2019. Yours faithfully Mark Regenass Managing Director HUMAN RIGHTS Principle 1: Business should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights. Principle 2: Business should ensure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Protection of human rights is one of our core business principles. We encourage a work environment that fosters mutual respect and acceptance and offer a work environment free from discrimination of all forms and equal opportunity for advancement . Actions in 2018 Measurement of Outcome 2019 Objectives and Targets Eliminated staff who were extorting payments 2 Employees had a case filed against them with Measures will be taken to investigate and fully from staff for employment positions. the police and were terminated from eliminate any possible fraud and misleading employment. actions undertaken by employees to entice Educate labour workforce to report threats and Team leaders have had several meetings with other workers for benefits that penalize a fair extortion of all forms internally or externally. team members to explain what constitutes evaluation of employees. threats and extortion and to report directly or through anonymous channels. LABOUR STANDARDS Principle 3: Business will uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4: Eliminate all forms of forced and compulsory labour Principle 5: Abolish child labour Principle 6: Eliminate discrimination in employment and occupation UAW does not prohibit the right to freedom of association. UAW does not conduct or condone any forms of forced and compulsory labour or child labour. UAW complies with all labour laws, regulations and recommendations in order to ensure a safe, fair and non-discriminative workplace for our employees . Actions in 2018 Measurement of Outcome 2019 Objectives and Targets Set up internal staff representatives to allow Staff representatives raised a total of 2 staff Education of worker rights, fair evaluation and collective bargaining between staff and grievances that were acted upon by company discrimination. company ownership. ownership. Encouraged reporting of discrimination against 3 serious complaints received and investigated Set up a more discreet reporting of staff to higher management. for discrimination. discrimination mechanism. ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Support a cautionary approach to environmental challenges. Principle 8: Undertake initiatives to promote environmental responsibility. Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. UAW FZC is committed to protect the environment by reducing carbon emission, energy and water consumption. Our aim is to continuously improve the environmental performance within our facility by using efficient technologies and provide continuous training to our employees. UAW FZC operate in full compliance with applicable national, international, state and local environmental regulations. Actions in 2018 Measurement of Outcome 2019 Objectives and Targets Designed and built a prototype electric vehicle Prototype vehicle built and being used for Planting more trees around the factory which to encourage active staff participation in internal tasks. will help reduce the consequences of rising implementing new environmentally friendly temperature. technology. Converting all labour camp water heating to solar water heating. Educated staff about their actions environment Employees have reduced overall electric and Upgrading all labour accomodation aircon units impact and the need to reduce consumption. water usage per person through reduction of to more environmentally friendly and energy wastage at the labour facilities. efficient units . ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Work against corruption, in particular bribery and extortion UAW does not accept or condone any form of corruption including bribery and extortion“. Actions in 2018 Measurement of Outcome 2019 Objectives and Targets Create and publicize whistle blowing policy in Through education in labour law and human UAW will implement a procedure preventing UAW. rights the employees are more aware of their industrial espionage and company Follow through with a complete investigation rights. Instead of hiding the events they misrepresentation among clients and after a whistle blowing event. communicate with management and prevent suppliers. further law extortion. INNOVATION NOT IMMITATION ULTIMATE ARMOUR WORKS FZC Plot No. 22 RAK Free Zone Technology Park Ras Al Khaimah United Arab Emirates PO Box 54595 Tel:+971 7 243 4839 Fax: +971 7 243 5257 www.armour-works.com sales@armour-works.com
