Fiscal year 2019 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / About this report About this report How to use this report Our approach and scope Interactivity This Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report When opened in Adobe Reader, this PDF document incorporates several interactive features as consolidates information on our company strategy, corporate indicated below. social responsibility (CSR) activities and fiscal year 2019 performance into one document. It includes all the information previously found in our CSR Report and the editorial pages of our Annual Report. All financial data for fiscal year 2019 is available in our Financial Report. Additional or more detailed information Integrating our reporting in this way enables us to provide stakeholders with a single source of information in key areas. It also signals that CSR is inseparable from our core business Additional content on the web strategy and activities. As you’ll read in this report, our training solutions generate benefits across the three central elements of sustainability: economic, environmental and social. Additional information This report covers our global operations and, unless otherwise stated, presents quantitative and qualitative information for fiscal year 2019 (ended March 31, 2019). Link to content within this document Reporting standards Hyperlink (to external content) This report is aligned with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Standards. An independent institution, Print this report the GRI provides a standard framework for sustainability reporting across companies and industries. You’ll find an index outlining our alignment with the GRI Standards core reporting requirements and references to other relevant information sources here. All figures in this report are in Canadian dollars unless otherwise Access to previous or next page stated. Feedback Access to the table of contents We welcome your views on the topics covered in this report. Please send your comments, suggestions and questions to media.relations@cae.com. Cover page: CAE's Digital Accelerator team 02 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Table of contents Table of contents 02 About this report Corporate social responsibility Feature stories 04 Message to shareholders 36 A message from our CSR Leader 17 CAE Women in flight 07 Overview 37 CSR governance and oversight 10 Strategy 38 People and safety Business highlights 22 Supporting United Nations' peacekeeping 13 Civil Aviation efforts in Mali Training Solutions 46 Ethics and integrity 28 To Err is Human Documentary on preventable medical harm 18 Defence & Security 51 Innovation and customer experience 30 Going the extra mile by volunteering 24 Healthcare 58 Community and environment 33 Gender equality matters Appendix 65 Site certifications 70 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) 78 Non-GRI indicators indicators 03 Message to shareholders Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Message to shareholders 10,000 employees with a singular focus on excellence in training CAE delivered a record financial performance in fiscal 2019 with annual revenue growing 17% to $3.3 billion and earnings per share before specific items1 growing 13% to $1.25. We also generated $324 million of free cash flow1, which represents a near one-to-one conversion of net income, and is a positive statement about the underlying quality of CAE’s earnings. Our outstanding results this past year are the product of a sound strategy and the singular focus of CAE’s more than 10,000 employees worldwide to deliver excellence in training. Our continued success winning our customers’ trust further validates our training strategy and adds to our already highly recurring revenue profile. We continued to build momentum growing our share of market, and I am especially pleased with our record $4 billion in annual order intake1 and $9.5 billion backlog1, which help position CAE for continued superior growth in the period ahead. In Civil Aviation Training Solutions―the largest of our three business Last year, we delivered more than one million hours of aviation units―we grew annual segment operating income before specific training for the first time in our history. CAE is now the largest civil items1 by 13% and booked orders totaling a record $2.8 billion, aviation training company in the world, with over 280 full-flight including an unprecedented 78 full-flight simulator sales. Our order simulators at more than 50 locations. I believe our success is due in book also includes a higher number of long-term training contracts, large part to the fact that we are uniquely a training pure-play and which is indicative of a larger pipeline and our ability to accelerate we bring to bear a long track record of credibility as an innovation the pace of airline outsourcings. Among these are a 10-year pilot leader and a resolute focus on our customers’ experience and needs. training contract with easyJet, exclusive multi-year pilot training In Defence and Security, we also delivered superior market agreements with Asiana and CityJet, and an exclusive 15-year training performance with annual segment operating income1 growth of outsourcing agreement with Avianca. We also greatly expanded 9%2 and we booked $1.1 billion in orders, including training systems CAE’s position in business aviation training with the purchase of integration programs, for a record $4.5 billion backlog. Our status as Bombardier’s Business Aircraft Training unit―a transformative move a global top-tier training systems integrator (TSI) is solid. Among the for CAE and our largest-ever acquisition. Business aviation training key contracts we won during the year are the U.S. Air Force C-130H is an important, high-value segment and we now have much greater Aircrew Training Services program and the U.S. Navy CNATRA CIS access to the operators of more than 4,800 Bombardier business jets program that will see us provide instruction at five Naval Air Stations in service worldwide. We also have an expanded position in some of in support of primary, intermediate and advanced pilot training. We the largest and fastest growing segments of the business aviation also signed a contract to provide a comprehensive training solution Marc Parent training market, specifically in the mediumand large-cabin business and long-term training services to the Royal New Zealand Air Force President and jet segments. Chief Executive Officer 1 These terms are non‑GAAP and other financial measures and do not have any standardized meaning under IFRS. Therefore, they are unlikely to be comparable to similar measures presented by other issuers. Refer to the definitions in “Section 3.7 Non-GAAP and other financial measures” in our Management Discussion and Analysis for the fourth quarter and year ended March 31, 2019. 04 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Message to shareholders NH90 helicopter program; a contract with Boeing to provide a P-8A world. Collectively, we derive a great sense of satisfaction from our Poseidon aircraft simulator for the Royal Air Force; a contract with the company’s noble purpose. We are fortunate to provide the training German Air Force to provide upgrades and updates on Eurofighter solutions that help make air travel safer, enable defence forces to be simulators; and a contract with Lockheed Martin to provide C-130J mission ready, and help medical personnel save lives. This serves as full-mission simulators for the U.S. Air Force. General Atomics also a powerful motivator for our employees to provide the best training awarded us a contract to develop the synthetic training system for services and products in the industry. In turn, a passionate and the UK Protector remotely piloted aircraft system. committed workforce translates into the highest level of customer satisfaction and trust. We anticipate even more growth opportunities in the United States with the strategic acquisition of Alpha-Omega Change Engineering. Eyes on the next horizon This acquisition enhances our core capabilities as a TSI in the U.S. and expands CAE’s position to include a broader range of enduring We are making great progress on our key strategic priorities to aircraft platforms. Together with our newly created subsidiary CAE drive innovation and delight our customers by further establishing USA Mission Solutions, this gives us an expanded addressable CAE as the thought leader in aviation training. Our vision to be the market with the ability to pursue and execute even higher-level worldwide training partner of choice is anchored in our ambition to security programs. be essential to our customers. While digital innovation is not new to CAE, this year we bolstered our capabilities with the launch of our And finally, in Healthcare, we continued to leverage CAE’s expertise Digital Accelerator to systematically develop even more competitive in simulation and training in this compelling third core market differentiators and to find ways to further delight our customers― for CAE. The steady stream of new simulation products that we faster. We are advancing the science of training by leveraging the have brought to market and the expansion of our salesforce led latest in artificial intelligence, data analytics and other exciting to accelerated revenue growth toward the end of the fiscal year. digital technologies that provide our customers with previously And by continuing to use Healthcare’s internally generated funds, unattainable training insights and greatly enhance their experience we met several strategic objectives during the year, including the with us. You can read more about it in the following pages of this development and launch of innovative products to secure future report. The Digital Accelerator is only one element of a much larger growth. We introduced the CAE Luna infant simulator for neonatal and bolder commitment we made this year: to invest $1 billion over and infant care training, and the well-received CAE Ares, our the next 5 years in Digital Intelligence to revolutionize pilot, aircrew emergency care manikin. We also welcomed Rekha Ranganathan as and healthcare professional training. the new President of CAE Healthcare. Rekha has a deep commercial experience in the healthcare field and I am confident that she will CAE is a pure-play training company that continues to benefit from leverage our current progress and lead the business to a significantly secular tailwinds in our core markets. I am highly encouraged by the larger scale. continued evolution of CAE’s strategy to garner sources of growth and long-term competitive advantage. I am enthusiastic about the Driven by a noble purpose company’s prospects for sustainable and profitable growth and our ability to generate attractive returns in large markets where CAE CAE’s value creation goes well beyond superior financial results. benefits from an excellent position and a high degree of recurring In addition to creating significant value for our customers and business. We expect to continue exceeding underlying market our shareholders, we also create real value for over 10,000 CAE growth as we deliver on a record backlog and convert a large pipeline employees and their families in over 35 countries across the into higher market share and new enduring customer partnerships. 2 Before acquisition and integration costs incurred in fiscal 2019 in the Defence and Security segment. 05 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Message to shareholders In Civil aviation, market fundamentals remain supportive with of CAE are its people, and just in the last year we have grown our continued passenger traffic growth and an expanding global inteam by more than 1,000 employees. What makes us unique is our service fleet of aircraft. We expect to continue growing our share One CAE culture that places a high value on employee empowerment of market through innovation and with the benefits of the largest and engagement. I am pleased with our cultural evolution and will and broadest global training network, market-leading simulation highlight just a few elements that we have implemented this past products and support, and the most comprehensive offering of year. cadet-to-captain training solutions. Our customers face complex We launched a Diversity and Inclusion initiative aimed at bolstering challenges, including securing a supply of new pilots to support the participation of women in a traditionally male-dominated their operations. CAE forecasts a requirement for 300,000 new pilots industry. I have made it my personal mission to ensure that women globally in the next 10 years to serve the commercial and business at CAE can realize their full potential as equal partners with men in aviation markets. We see this as a great opportunity to enable our the workforce and have every opportunity for advancement. Here customers to recruit and develop the next generation of pilots. We too, we are making good progress: this year, we were selected for have positioned CAE to be the go-to company for training solutions, the 2019 Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index, which highlights 230 and increasingly, for pilots. Among several other initiatives, to ensure firms that are trailblazers in their commitment to transparency in we tap into the full available talent pool, we launched the CAE workplace gender reporting. You can read more about our Diversity Women in Flight scholarship this year, to encourage more women to and Inclusion progress in this report. consider becoming pilots. You can read more about it in this report. We also introduced an agile and innovative Employee Performance In Defence and Security, the market is also highly supportive with Management system focused on employee development, frequent governments around the world placing a high priority on mission conversations, agile goals and skills-learning. To be an employer readiness and looking at outsourcing to partners like CAE to help of choice, we also increased our focus on the wellness of our create and maintain critical operations personnel. Here too, we’re employees, promoting physical and mental health. seeing good momentum as we convert a large bid pipeline into orders. Our outstanding results are made possible by the commitment, passion and customer-focus of our people. CAE employees are to be And finally, in Healthcare, our new products and strengthened commended for their dedication and excellence and I cannot thank front-end organization show a lot of promise, and I’m confident that them enough for their contributions. It is my great privilege to lead there’s a large enough market for CAE to build on the innovations CAE, a dynamic growth company that each day moves closer to the CAE Healthcare has already fielded and achieve greater scale. realization of our vision of being the worldwide training partner of choice. As an industry leader, I take great personal satisfaction in our Bolstering talent and promoting a One CAE role to help make the world a better and safer place for everyone. culture Bolstering talent is one of our top strategic priorities and we continually strive to be an employer of choice, ensuring that we engage and attract the best people. We understand that at the heart 06 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Overview Overview Our noble purpose of making the world a safer place motivates our employees on a daily basis. It is gratifying to know that the training we provide helps make air travel safer, prepares defence forces to be mission-ready and enables medical personnel to save lives. Marc Parent President and CEO, CAE Roots in innovation When Ken Patrick, a former Royal Canadian Air Force officer, founded CAE in 1947, his goal was to “…take advantage of a war-trained team that was extremely innovative and very technology intensive.” By the mid-1950s, we were already creating our first flight simulators. One innovation led to another and, by 1982, we had developed a flight simulator so realistic that training on real aircraft was no Training partner of choice. Since 1947. longer necessary. The rest is history. For seven decades, we’ve sustained our leadership by offering compelling solutions to customers operating in complex, It’s all about safety, efficiency and readiness mission-critical environments. Our success reflects our ability to evolve and rapidly adapt to changing needs and to deliver on Today we’re the training partner of choice in end-to-end virtual-to-live solutions for a growing our promises of quality, reliability and performance. number of aircraft operators, defence forces and healthcare professionals and institutions. Our training network, the world’s largest, spans more than 65 training centres and flight academies Our success is also a testament to our people. Their passion, around the globe. innovation and focus have allowed us to become the best at what we do and to build a brand that’s trusted around the world. Each year, we train more than 220,000 civil and defence crewmembers, including more than 135,000 pilots. We work with more than 300 airlines and major business aircraft operators to increase the safety of air travel. As a leader in training systems integration, we deliver air, land, naval and public safety training to approximately 50 defence forces in over 35 countries. We help ensure these men and women return home safely by preparing them for a range of missions. We’re also a leading provider of innovative healthcare training solutions that enable medical personnel to provide better care. At CAE, our mission is to make air travel safer, allow defence forces to be mission ready, and help medical personnel save lives. We’re confident that Mr. Patrick would be proud of what we’ve become. 07 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Overview Worldwide presence View interactive map online ARCTIC OCEAN ARCTIC OCEAN KARA SEA GREENLAND SEA BAFFIN BARENTS SEA EAST SIBERIAN SEA BEAUFORT SEA BAY NOR WEGIAN SEA BERING SEA SEA OF OKHOTSK NORTH NORTH NORTH PACIFIC ATLANTIC PACIFIC OCEAN OCEAN MEDITERRANEAN SEA OCEAN GULF OF MEXICO PHILIPPINE BAY OF SEA CARIBBEAN ARABIAN SEA SEA BENGAL SOUTH CHINA SEA SOUTH PACIFIC CORAL SEA OCEAN SOUTH INDIAN ATLANTIC OCEAN OCEAN Civil Aviation Training Solutions GREAT AUSTRALIAN BIGHT TASMAN SEA Defence & Security Healthcare 160 + 35 + 10,000 + Corporate locations countries employees 08 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Overview FY19 financial and business highlights $3.3 $9.5 $4.0 billion billion billion $1.25 record annual revenue record backlog record annual order intake earnings per share1 (up 17% year over year) $487.4 12.9% 76% million 1.20x return on capital employed1 civil training centre annual annual SOI1 before specific annual book-to-sales ratio utilization rate items (up 10% year over year) • Sold 78 full-flight simulators (FFS), surpassing our previous record of 53 FFS sales • Formed SkyAlyne Canada, a joint venture with KF Aerospace, that will focus on developing world• Announced a plan to invest $1 billion in research and development (R&D) innovation over the next class military pilot and aircrew training in Canada five years, including Project Digital Intelligence (PDI). The Governments of Canada and Québec have • Launched the CAE 700MR Series FTD for military helicopter flight and mission training; the CAE agreed to participate in PDI through partially repayable investments of $150.0 million and Medallion MR e-Series Visual System for military fighter and fast-jet training and introduced $47.5 million, respectively CAE RiseTM to the defence market • Acquired Bombardier’s Business Aircraft Training (BAT) business to expand our position in • Won notable contract awards, including services or equipment for the following programs: the USAF business aviation training KC-135; the New Zealand Defence NH90; the U.S. Navy Naval Air Stations; the USAF C-130H; the U.S. • Acquired Avianca’s 50% participation in the recently formed training joint venture Avianca-CAE Navy for the Royal Australian Navy’s MH-60R; the German Eurofighter; Lockheed Martin C-130J for Flight Training the USAF; the Royal Air Force P-8; General Atomics Aeronautical Systems United Kingdom’s Protector remotely piloted aircraft. • Signed long-term training contracts with Avianca, easyJet, CityJet, Endeavor, AirAsia, AirAsia X and Volaris • Launched the CAE Ares emergency care manikin, the CAE Luna infant simulator for neonatal and infant care, and the Anesthesia SimSTAT Appendectomy and Robotic Surgery modules • Announced the expansion of our training capacity in the Americas, Europe and Asia with several new FFS deployments • Launched enhancements to CAE CathLabVR interventional simulator, CAE Vimedix 2.0 ultrasound simulator, CAE Maestro patient simulator operating system • Created the CAE Women in Flight scholarship program in collaboration with leading global airlines: Aeromexico, AirAsia, CityJet, easyJet and American Airlines • Received the Power of A Silver Award by the American Society of Association Executives for driving innovation with Anesthesia SimSTAT • Acquired Alpha-Omega Change Engineering (AOCE), a provider of aircrew training services, operational test, evaluation and engineering support services, which has been integrated with CAE USA Mission Solutions, a subsidiary of CAE USA eligible to pursue higher-level security programs 1 Before FY19 specific items, which include the costs arising from the acquisition and integration of Bombardier’s BAT business. 09 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Strategy Strategy End-to-end training partner of choice Four areas of strategic priority Our vision is to be the recognized global training partner of choice to Four areas of strategic priority to protect CAE’s leadership position, enhance customer safety, efficiency and readiness. achieve superior growth, and ultimately realize our vision to be the recognized worldwide training partner of choice: Achieving this vision depends on the successful implementation of four strategic imperatives, which will help protect our leadership position and grow our market share. Delight Our global leadership stems from our: customers • Comprehensive training solutions • Highly qualified and passionate employees • Extensive experience and credibility delivering academic, simulator and live-flying training • Industry-leading global training network • Commitment to excellence and innovation spanning more than 70 years • Close collaboration with regulators and policymakers to help Create Partner Drive shape the future of training value of choice innovation • Ability to reduce customers’ environmental impact through simulation-based training Bolster talent 10 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Strategy Six pillars of strength High degree of Headroom in recurring business large markets Our strategy and investment theses are based on six interrelated pillars of We operate in highly regulated industries with Significant untapped market opportunities exist strength. We benefit from a high degree of mandatory and recurring training requirements in our three growing core businesses. While we recurring business, a strong competitive for maintaining professional certifications. Our lead in the simulation product market, we're also moat and significant headroom in large long-term agreements with many airlines and pursuing the training market, which is several markets that are being driven by secular business aircraft operators and defence forces multiples larger than the product market. are also an important source of our recurring tailwinds. These factors, combined with business. our culture of innovation, give us the potential to generate superior returns. As we look ahead, we're confident in the strength of our position and the supportive Potential for Strong fundamentals of our end markets. superior returns competitive moat At CAE, we believe we have the potential to grow Our global training network, unique end-tofaster than the underlying markets and that our end cadet-to-captain training solutions, training large backlog and recurring revenue profile give systems integrator (TSI) expertise, unrivalled us greater visibility into what lies ahead. customer intimacy and strong, recognizable brand further strengthen our competitive moat. Underlying Culture of secular tailwinds innovation The civil aviation and defence sectors are enjoying Innovation is part of our DNA and our people make strong tailwinds. Air passenger traffic and defence it happen. In collaboration with our customers, budgets are expected to continue to increase we design and deliver the most advanced training globally. solutions. 11 Business highlights Civil Aviation Training Solutions Leading the industry Our Civil Aviation Training Solutions business is recognized for its commitment to quality, reliability and innovation. It’s how we’ve built the world’s largest civil aviation training network. It’s also how we’ve become the global training partner of choice for aviation professionals, airlines, business aircraft operators and aircraft manufacturers globally. Over the decades, we’ve developed first-to-market simulators for more than 35 types of aircraft and simulated a total of over 150 aircraft platforms. Today we deliver end-to-end aviation training solutions that address the pilot’s total lifecycle needs, from cadet to captain. And now, our game-changing training system CAE Rise™ is set to significantly elevate every pilot’s training experience. #1 55 + in civil aviation training training centres and aviation academies 13 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Civil Aviation Training Solutions FY2019 highlights 15% 13% revenue segment operating growth income growth1,2 1.48x $2.8 billion book-to-sales ratio3 record order intake $5 billion 76% record backlog4 utilization rate5 Year in review During fiscal 2019, Civil booked a record total $2.8 billion in orders and a record backlog of $5 billion, which is 22% higher than last year. Record 1 million 78 Notable wins included a 10-year pilot training contract with easyJet, exclusive multiyear pilot training agreements with Avianca and CityJet, and a record total 78 fullflight simulator sales to customers worldwide. hours of training full-flight Overall for the year, Civil grew segment operating income before specific items1,2 by delivered simulator sales 13% and filled its training centres to 76% utilization, while at the same time adding over 30 new simulators to meet customer demand. 1 Segment operating income (SOI) is a non-GAAP measure 3 The book-to-sales ratio is a non-GAAP measure calculated and our key indicator of each segment’s financial as total orders divided by total revenue in a given period. In total, CAE’s Civil aviation training network now operates over 280 full-flight performance. This measure gives us a good indication 4 Backlog is a non-GAAP measure that represents the of the profitability of each segment because it does not simulators from more than 55 locations, and for the first time in our history, we include the impact of any items not specifically related to expected value of orders we have received but have not yet executed. delivered more than one million hours of training last year. the segment’s performance. We calculate it by taking the operating profit and excluding the impact of restructuring 5 Utilization rate is a non-GAAP measure that assesses costs. the performance of our Civil Aviation simulator training With this growth, CAE has become the largest Civil aviation training company in the network. 2 Before specific items for fiscal 2019 including the world. costs arising from the acquisition and integration of 14 Bombardier's Business Aircraft Training (BAT). Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Civil Aviation Training Solutions Our pilot training network sees Partnership with Aeromexico Formacion robust growth and other pilot creation programs Our longstanding relationship with easyJet continues to A new cadet program in partnership with Aeromexico grow. The European leading airline awarded CAE a contract Formacion to train future pilots is the first of its kind in to train all of its pilots, allowing CAE to expand its training Mexico. The initiative gives cadets who have no flying network in Europe. The airline will benefit from three experience the opportunity to become Aeromexico pilots new European pilot-training sites equipped with a fleet after a rigorous 18-month training program. The students of CAE’s latest XR Series flight simulators. A new, state-ofare first put through their paces in ground school training the-art training centre will be built at London Gatwick with at Aeromexico’s training centre in Mexico City. dedicated space for easyJet. The location will be equipped with nine Airbus A320-family full-flight simulators (FFSs) They then get flight training at our aviation academy in and three flight training devices (FTDs). Two additional Phoenix, Arizona before returning to Mexico to complete centres are to be established in Manchester, UK and Embraer E170 type-rating training. All training is to be Milan, Italy. We have been providing training solutions to conducted on our fleet of Piper aircraft. Other pilot easyJet since 2004. In other jurisdictions, long-term training creation agreements that were signed elsewhere in the agreements were signed with Avianca, AirAsia, Volaris and world include those with American Airlines, AirAsia, and CityJet. Vueling Airlines. Expanding our presence in the business aviation training space CAE acquired Bombardier’s Business Aircraft Training (BAT) business for US$645 million – the largest acquisition in the company’s history. The acquisition offers significant growth opportunities in the business-jet segment, with CAE estimating there is a need for 50,000 new business jet pilots Forecasting business jet pilot demand Training the next generation of pilots over the next 10 years. Bombardier business aircraft at AirAsia comprise one of the largest in-service fleets in the In 2018 CAE unveiled its Airline and Business Jet Pilot category in the world. The acquisition also allows Demand Outlook, an update on the previous year’s report. We signed a new five-year Multi-Crew Pilot License (MPL) us to expand in the business-jet sector, the largest For the first time, the outlook offers a business-jet forecast training program agreement with AirAsia. The program will and fastest growing categories of business aviation for pilot demand. The document provides fleet operators train more than 400 cadets to become pilots with AirAsia. training. The Bombardier BAT business includes with valuable data and insight on trends and professionalTraining takes place at CAE Kuala Lumpur, CAE Melbourne a modern fleet of full-flight simulators (FFSs) and pilot needs in both business and commercial aviation. and CAE Phoenix. Once they have successfully completed training devices for the Learjet, Challenger and Among key findings, the report indicates that the active their training after a comprehensive 18-month program, the Global product lines. business-jet pilot population will reach 65,000 by 2028, an cadets will become first officers with AirAsia. The agreement 18% increase, with a turnover rate of almost 100%. The represents an extension of the MPL training program that report can be downloaded at cae.com/civil-aviation. we introduced with AirAsia as our launch customer in 2010. 15 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Civil Aviation Training Solutions CAE RiseTM strengthens partnerships with AirAsia, AirAsia X and Jetstar Japan Our latest pilot training innovation, the CAE RiseTM training system, is the first commercial offering in our Next Generation Training System strategic initiatives. It was launched with our longstanding partner, AirAsia, and most recently the use of the training system was extended to its Wizz Air’s pilot-training for European Encouraging women to become pilots long-haul affiliate AirAsia X. Using cutting-edge technology, expansion gets a boost the CAE RiseTM training system will enhance instructors’ ability We’re committed to inspiring more women to become to deliver standardized training in accordance with airlines' We strengthened our relationship with Wizz Air by professional pilots. We launched the CAE Women in Flight Standard Operating Procedures (SOP). What’s more, it allows providing two new Airbus A320 full-flight simulators and program, worth up to $1 million, that will award up to for the objective assessment of pilot competencies using live signing an exclusive 10-year training centre operations five full scholarships for a cadet pilot training course for data during training sessions. The system also offers deeper services agreement to support its expansion in Europe. women. The scholarships will cover the full cost of a cadet analytical tools and a new source of data, making for a more Based out of Budapest, Hungary, Wizz Air is the largest lowtraining program, including accommodation and travel, in advanced pilot training program. Evidence-Based Training cost airline in Central and Eastern Europe. The two new collaboration with five leading global airlines: Aeromexico, (EBT) methodologies are integrated and identification of pilot CAE 7000XR Series FFSs are equipped with the innovative AirAsia, CityJet, easyJet, and American Airlines. CAE will also proficiency gaps is facilitated. The CAE RiseTM training system CAE TroposTM 6000XR visual system. They will be delivered provide the successful candidates access to their first job is also an integral part of the six-year pilot training agreement to Wizz Air’s new training centre opening in Budapest. flying for one of the partner airlines. The candidates must signed with Jetstar Japan, the largest low-cost carrier in Japan. demonstrate leadership skills, be actively involved in their communities, and show perseverance. They must also be passionate about aviation as they will be ambassadors and role models inspiring more women to become pilots. Looking Women account for less than 5% of the global pilot pool and yet over 300,000 new pilots will be needed in civil aviation over the next decade. CAE will follow the progress ahead of the scholarship winners with regular social media Demand for trained aviation professionals is updates and the sharing of their stories at public events. driven by air traffic growth, pilot retirements and A salute to our ambassadors Read our story on CAE Women in Flight. the increase in active aircraft fleets. As global of flight instruction economies and airline fleets continue to expand, so Launch of the CAE 600XR Series flight does the demand for qualified airline personnel. Congratulations to the 11 winners of the FiiN (Flight training device (FTD) Instructor Initiative) Elite program recognizing CAE’s civil CAE is well known as an innovation leader, with flight instructors. They are role models and ambassadors Our innovative XR Series has a new addition: the CAE 600XR the largest and broadest global training network, who realize our vision of being the worldwide training Series FTD, representing the latest generation of FTDs and and the most comprehensive offering of cadet-topartner of choice, dedicated and passionate about their offering the highest level of training fidelity in today’s fixedcaptain training solutions. We’re harnessing the work. based training market. Among outstanding features of the latest in augmented and virtual reality and the CAE 600XR are a representative flight deck surrounded power of digital, with new data-driven solutions with crew seats and fully tactile cockpit with exact panel such as CAE RiseTM. positioning. 16 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / CAE Women in flight Feature story CAE Women in flight A scholarship program for aspiring female pilots media updates on their progress as both cadets Meet the winners of the first edition and pilots. Their mission will include sharing their of CAE Women in Flight passion for aviation at various events and airshows. We will continue to follow them in their first two years as pilots working for our airline partners. Encouraging more young women to become pilots is a central goal of a unique new scholarship program Leadership and communication launched by CAE called CAE Women in Flight. Promoting Leadership and communication skills, perseverance, the advancement of women in aviation, a male-dominated and a commitment to teamwork are among the industry, helps broaden the civil aviation talent pool and The journey to the flight deck qualities these exceptional young women must address the industry’s need to train over 300,000 new The five who were ultimately chosen had to undergo possess. And of course, they have to be passionate pilots over the next 10 years. The scholarship recipients will a rigorous assessment process to be admitted to about taking command of an aircraft. become CAE Women in Flight ambassadors and role models, one of our five participating CAE airline-mentored Each will receive a fully paid scholarship to cover tasked with the mission to inspire the next generation of cadet training programs. Upon successfully the entire cost of their cadet pilot training, including graduating from their cadet training, the participants women to join them on the flight deck! accommodation and travel. CAE is committing up to will be given the opportunity to get their first pilot $1 million annually to the program. As a global leader at the heart of the pilot-training process, job, for one of the five airlines that are partners with CAE in the first edition of the initiative: Aeromexico, CAE feels a responsibility to help increase the number of High demand for airline pilots AirAsia, American Airlines, CityJet and easyJet. This women in the industry and in the academies. A study we mix of carriers ensures a wide geographic diversity As global demand continues to rise, airline fleets conducted, which included interviews with over 100 women, that is truly representative of the global nature of are expanding rapidly and pilot retirement rates confirmed that there are not enough female role models in the program. are increasing. Over 50% of the pilots who will fly this sector. So we decided to do something about it. the world’s commercial aircraft in 10 years have “As part of this first edition, CAE is awarding five full not yet begun their training. Expanding the talent Currently, only 5% of professional airline pilots in the world scholarships to aspiring female pilots, applicable pool by attracting more women to the profession to one of CAE’s selected airline-mentored cadet are female. This situation also gives us a clear opportunity to addresses the market's needs while providing pilot training programs across our global training increase diversity and address a historic gender imbalance. increased opportunities for underrepresented network,” says Nick Leontidis, CAE’s Group We believe much more effective action is needed to attract demographics in aviation. President, Civil Aviation Training Solutions. “We were women to the profession. looking for dedicated candidates who could inspire We are excited about the launch of CAE Women a new generation of professional pilots, and we look in Flight, a notably proactive approach to tackling Five women out of a total of 350-plus applicants were forward to accompanying these future ambassadors the challenges of gender diversity and global pilot selected as CAE Women in Flight scholarship recipients for and passionate women throughout their journey.” demand. Read our Airline Pilot Demand Outlook. this first edition of the program. The young women’s journey to the flight deck will be closely followed, with CAE providing regular social 17 Defence & Security Helping improve mission readiness worldwide Our Defence & Security business is a world leader in helping defence forces achieve and maintain the highest levels of mission readiness. As a globally recognized training systems integrator (TSI), we develop and deliver integrated live-virtual-constructive (iLVC) training solutions for our air, naval, land and public safety customers. We serve our global defence and security customers through regional operations in Canada, Europe/ Africa, Asia-Pacific/Middle East and the United States/Latin America. 100 + Acquired Alphacustomer sites providing Omega Change training services Engineering Inc. (AOCE) to pursue higherlevel security programs in the U.S. 25,000 + aircrews trained in 2018 18 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Defence & Security FY2019 highlights 21% 9% revenue segment operating growth income growth1,2 1.03x $4.5 Year in review In fiscal 2019, our Defence & Security business grew its operating income by 9% and book-to-sales billion ratio including options 3 booked $1.1 billion in orders. backlog 4 The Defence backlog reached a record $4.5 billion with key wins during the year that firmly established CAE’s position as a top-tier global Training Systems Integrator. These include the U.S. Air Force C-130H Aircrew Training Services program, and the U.S. Navy CNATRA CIS program where we provide instruction at five Naval Air Stations to support primary, intermediate and advanced pilot training. As well, we 1 Before expenses related to the acquisition and integration 3 Book-to-sales ratio is a non-GAAP measure calculated won a contract to provide a comprehensive training solution and long-term training of AOCE. as total orders and options divided by total revenue in a given period. services for the Royal New Zealand Air Force NH90 helicopter program. 2 Segment operating income (SOI) is a non-GAAP measure and our key indicator of each segment’s financial 4 Backlog is a non-GAAP measure that represents the We also acquired Alpha-Omega Change Engineering Inc. (AOCE) during the year, performance. This measure gives us a good indication expected value of orders we have received but have not of the profitability of each segment because it does not yet executed. which together with our enhanced structure in the U.S., expands our addressable include the impact of any items not specifically related to market to now include higher-level security programs. the segment’s performance. We calculate it by taking the operating profit and excluding the impact of restructuring costs. 19 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Defence & Security A U.S. acquisition enhances growth A significant win: the U.S. Air Force C-130H High fidelity simulation for the UK’s opportunities in defence aircrew training contract next-generation remotely piloted aircraft Our role as one of the world’s leading training systems The United States Air Force chose us as its prime contractor General Atomics Aeronautical Systems (GA-ASI) awarded integrators (TSI) for defence and security forces got a boost for its C-130H Aircrew Training System (ATS). The eight-year us a contract to develop a synthetic training system for with the acquisition of Alpha-Omega Change Engineering contract, valued at more than US$200 million, is a major the United Kingdom’s Protector remotely piloted aircraft (AOCE), based in Williamsburg, Virginia, and the formation achievement for us as we had been a subcontractor on the system (RPAS) program. Protector will be operated by the of CAE USA Mission Solutions. The acquisition allows our program for almost 20 years. The C-130H is a workhorse for Royal Air Force and is a variant of GA-ASI’s SkyGuardian U.S. subsidiary, CAE USA, to pursue higher-level security the U.S. Air Force with approximately 200 aircraft providing RPAS. The training system to be designed and developed programs in the United States, the world’s largest defence tactical airlift and transport. Each year, more than 11,000 by CAE will include desktop and high-fidelity mission market. CAE USA Mission Solutions now provides a variety crewmembers from the U.S. Air Force and other U.S. defence training devices. The SkyGuardian RPAS and the UK's of aircrew training services as well as operational test and services, as well as over 30 other countries, are trained under Protector variant can meet the most stringent certification evaluation and engineering support services to the U.S. the C-130H ATS program. CAE USA is now responsible for requirements of aviation authorities. Department of Defense. providing classroom and simulator instruction, training device modifications and upgrades, system engineering support, Advances in helicopter training solutions program management and contractor logistics support. The CAE 700MR, a next-generation flight training device Extending our digital reach tailored specifically for defence helicopter flight and mission training, was launched at the 2018 Farnborough CAE Rise™ has proven itself as an innovative, data-driven, Airshow. Shortly thereafter, the New Zealand Defence Force real-time training system for our airline partners. Last year, it selected the CAE 700MR as part of a comprehensive NH90 Supporting the U.S. Navy’s pilot training was introduced to the defence market. CAE Rise™ (real-time helicopter training solution that CAE is now developing for insights and standardized evaluations) makes pilot-training the Royal New Zealand Air Force. Last year also saw the We strengthened our relationship with the United States more efficient, standardized and objective by analyzing launch of the CAE Medallion MR e-Series turnkey visual Navy last year when we were awarded a contract to provide massive amounts of data during training sessions and solution for fighter and fast-jet training. Both systems offer the Chief of Naval Air Training (CNATRA) with instructor providing instructors with real-time assessments of student highly immersive and realistic simulation environments for support services. The contract calls for us to support the performance. Assessment subjectivity is reduced and cost-effective mission training. delivery of ground-based training for the U.S. Navy. CAE training insights are gleaned in order to help continuously USA is now providing classroom and simulator instructors adapt and improve the training program. at five Naval Air Stations (NAS) to support primary, intermediate and advanced pilot training for the U.S. Navy. 20 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Defence & Security Looking ahead With the global emphasis on national security and increasing defence budgets around the world, we see a strong bid pipeline and numerous Partnering to reach new heights in pilot and CAE Dothan Training Center wins TSI award growth opportunities. Defence forces are making aircrew training substantial investments in new technologies, The CAE Dothan Training Center in Alabama won the networked systems and interoperability, all of A new partnership was created last year in a move to take “Outstanding Training System Integration Project” award which create training requirements aligned with our defence pilot and aircrew training in Canada to the next from Military Simulation & Training magazine. MS&T cited TSI solutions and capabilities. level. The joint venture is called SkyAlyne Canada and the fact that CAE built a training centre from scratch, as well it’s a partnership between CAE and Kelowna, B.C.-based as all of the simulators, and made it operational all in one In addition, defence forces face challenges with pilot KF Aerospace. The two leading Canada-based companies year. The state-of-the-art, 79,000-square-foot pilot training recruitment, training, and retention, thus creating in the defence pilot training sector will combine their facility near Dothan Regional Airport opened for business opportunities for industry-enabled and outsourced efforts to design and develop innovative pilot and aircrew one month ahead of schedule in February of 2017 to flight training. training solutions that meet the current and future needs support U.S. Army fixed-wing flight training as well as U.S. Our extensive research in areas such as integrated of Canada and its allies. SkyAlyne is aimed at forging Air Force C-12 recurrent training. All told, more than 600 U.S. live-virtual-constructive (iLVC) training, virtual/ synergies between two existing programs: the NATO Flying Army and U.S. Air Force pilots train annually at our centre augmented/mixed reality, and cybersecure synthetic Training in Canada (NFTC) program managed by CAE and in Dothan. environments positions us well in this market. So the Contracted Flying Training and Support (CFTS) program Further strides in process improvement does the growing acceptance by governments and managed by KF Aerospace. defence forces of outsourcing training services. CAE's Mirabel, Canada operation reached the Capability At CAE, we’re committed to providing our defence A bigger footprint in Australia Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) Level 3 rating for Services and renewed its Level 5 certification for and security customers with comprehensive In April 2018, we expanded our presence in Australia with Development, the highest quality standard possible training solutions to optimize their efficiency and the opening of a new office in the capital city of Canberra. for software engineering, after an independent CMMI effectiveness, and most importantly, help them This brings us physically closer to the decision-makers appraisal. CAE Mirabel provides in-service support for the achieve mission readiness. And we anticipate within the Australian Defence Force (ADF), allowing us to Royal Canadian Air Force's CF-188 Hornet fighter fleet, significant opportunities ahead for forging longbe even more responsive to their training needs. We’ve including systems engineering and software and integrated term partnerships with our defence customers. been in Australia for 25 years and are the largest provider logistic support. CMMI is a globally-recognized process of aerospace simulators and support to the ADF, offering improvement approach that provides organizations a full range of training services on a variety of platforms. with the essential elements of effective processes that ultimately improve their performance. 21 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Supporting United Nations' peacekeeping efforts in Mali Feature story Supporting United Nations' peacekeeping efforts in Mali Royal Canadian Air Force crew members Proud CAE employees are on a critical mission airlifting supplies Canada is supporting the United Nations’ peacekeeping to a particularly dangerous zone in strifeefforts in Mali with about 250 Canadian Armed Forces torn Mali. Suddenly, they are thrust into personnel providing medical evacuation, transport crisis mode, with the loss of power in two of and logistics aid. A critical component of the prethe four engines on their CC-130J Hercules deployment operations was immersive flight preparation transport plane. on advanced CAE training systems, not only for the CC-130J aircraft but also for CH-147F Chinook and Gusty winds and threats on the ground CH-146 Griffon helicopters. complicate a hair-raising emergency landing. Supporting peacekeeping activities and humanitarian assistance with high-fidelity simulation training is an integral That’s just one CAE-designed flight simulation part of the services offered by CAE’s Defence and Security scenario among dozens that RCAF aircrews division. CAE employees are proud that their work supports dealt with in rigorous pre-deployment such important peacekeeping missions. training for the Mali peacekeeping mission, “I feel very honoured and privileged to be able to help create at Canadian Forces Base Trenton in Ontario. a training scenario that assists the Canadian Government to provide critical peacekeeping support to that war-torn “I make sure they’re as close to the real thing as possible,” African country,” says Darryl Pajot, a CAE Flight Evaluation he says. “It’s all exactly the way it would happen in the real Pilot at the Air Mobility Training Centre (AMTC) in Trenton. world.” “As a former military pilot on the Hercules, I have flown many peacekeeping missions throughout the world and I All told, there were nine CAE employees who worked on the know first-hand how we Canadians are appreciated. To be project at the AMTC. Three members of the team worked able to have major influence in this capacity once again is on developing the visual scenes while the rest created the very satisfying for myself and for my CAE colleagues here at lesson plans and scenarios for training, recalls Darryl. the AMTC who have similar backgrounds.” Simulations included low-level flights and the onloading or Darryl’s work on the Mali simulation program for Task offloading of cargo at airports within minutes. Force Mali included creating high-fidelity virtual databases that allowed for the accurate representation of the various airports and landing strips in Mali as well as their surroundings. 22 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Supporting United Nations' peacekeeping efforts in Mali Rehearsing life-saving missions The year-long Canadian participation in the Mali initiative — officially known as the United Nations Multidimensional Integrated Stabilization Mission in Mali (MINUSMA) — includes the 24/7 capability to medically evacuate UN forces by air. Mali is considered the UN’s most dangerous peacekeeping mission. It represents Canada’s first significant deployment for the UN in almost 15 years. We knew Task Force Mali would be a very high tempo mission requiring our aircrews to be prepared and ready at a The simulation-based pre-deployment mission training moment’s notice. Simulationfor MINUSMA involved RCAF Chinook aircrews from 450 based training is an invaluable Tactical Helicopter Squadron at Petawawa, Ont.; Griffon aircrews from 408 Tactical Helicopter Squadron in Pictured, left to right, on the ramp of one of two tool in helping familiarize our Edmonton; and Hercules aircrews from 8 Wing Trenton. CC-130J flight simulators: Martin Turpin, Marlon aircrews with the operational CAE developed its high-fidelity virtual database of Mali Klasson, Jesse Leonard, Darryl Pajot and James environment and giving them using the Open Geospatial Consortium Common Database Jeckell. Not present: Greg McCullough. the ability to practice and (OGC CDB) for the Chinook and Hercules programs, and a generic database of the Mali region for the Griffon The CAE team members who worked on the Task Force Mali simulation program bring their rehearse a variety of mission simulator. considerable expertise and experience to provide scenarios before actually “Simulation is an ideal tool for pre-deployment operation a topnotch customer experience. Darryl and Martin having to perform these lifeand mission rehearsal training because it gives aircrews are former RCAF Hercules pilots, Marlon is an exRCAF Hercules Navigator. James is a former Hercules saving missions for real. the opportunity to safely and cost-effectively prepare for real-world operations in a virtual environment,” said Joe Loadmaster and the Training Support Group Leader. Armstrong, Vice President of Operations, CAE Defence Jesse and Greg are Visual Database Designers with Canada Centralized Services. Darryl, Martin, Marlon Colonel Mark Goulden, & Security. “CAE is the RCAF’s training partner on all the Commander 8 Wing, RCAF aircraft platforms involved in Task Force Mali, and we and James have a combined total of 14,400 hours of bring a great deal of experience and expertise as a training Hercules flying experience. As of mid-March 2019, Task Force Mali had conducted eight systems integrator in being able to help the RCAF leverage medical evacuation missions and the helicopters flown its simulation-based training enterprise to support its more than 2,500 hours in support of MINUSMA. operational missions.” 23 Healthcare Enhancing patient safety Just as passenger safety is the top priority in civil aviation, patient safety and outcomes matter most in healthcare. Medical errors are the thirdleading cause of death in U.S. hospitals. Simulation-based training provides a low-risk alternative for practising lifesaving procedures, rapid response and interprofessional clinical teamwork and major disaster response. Building on our aviation expertise, we launched our Healthcare business 10 years ago to enhance healthcare training and education as well as improve patient outcomes in clinical settings. Today we’re a training partner of choice for the healthcare industry, scientific societies and associations worldwide, helping foster confidence, competency and teamwork. We offer the industry’s broadest portfolio of healthcare simulation products and solutions along with world-class support. 14,000 + 50 + simulators installed Industry's broadest worldwide training products and services portfolio 24 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Healthcare FY2019 highlights $121.6 Expanded million sales force by in revenue (6% higher than last year) 30% Year in review Anesthesia SimSTAT In fiscal 2019, we accomplished a number of strategic objectives to enable future growth, we further developed sales and distribution and we launched a series of was awarded the Power of A Silver Award by the innovative products. CAE Ares, our emergency care manikin, was very well received by American Society of Association Executives customers, and we introduced CAE Luna, an innovative newborn simulator designed for newborn care in the first 28 days of life. We made good inroads as a thought leader with the release of the next two modules of Anesthesia SimSTAT for Appendectomy and Robotic Surgery, and we released CAE Vimedix 2.0 for ultrasound simulation, which is now compatible with new augmented reality add-ons. Our new simulation products and expanded salesforce led to accelerated revenue growth toward the end of the year. We recently appointed Rekha Ranganathan as our new Healthcare leader who brings deep commercial experience to leverage our current achievements and take that business to the next level of scale. 25 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Healthcare HPSN 2019 A productive year for launches A Code of Ethics for healthcare simulation At HPSN World 2019, we showcased a prototype of our Among exciting launch events were the release of the CAE CAE Healthcare’s Chief Medical Officer, Stefan Monk, CAE AresAR high-fidelity emergency care manikin with a Ares training simulator for the Emergency Medical Services was part of the working group that developed the Microsoft HoloLens application. CAE Ares is our newest (EMS) market. CAE Ares is an emergency care manikin Simulationist Code of Ethics, a document that spells out mid-fidelity manikin, designed to fulfill the requirements operated by CAE Maestro software. In collaboration with the highest standards for individuals and organizations for Advanced Life Support (ALS), Advanced Cardiac Life the American Society of Anesthesiologists, we released involved in healthcare simulation. The code affirms six Support (ACLS) and emergency care team training within the Anesthesia SimSTAT — Appendectomy online training “key aspirational values: Integrity, Transparency, Mutual academic programs, hospitals, and emergency care module for Maintenance of Certification in Anesthesia Respect, Professionalism, Accountability, and Results services. CAE Ares is portable, lightweight and durable, with (MOCA). Anesthesia SimSTAT — Appendectomy is the Orientation.” It has already been formally adopted by many the right mix of features for life-saving simulation training. latest module in our interactive, screen-based simulation, societies, including the Society for Simulation in Healthcare designed to provide practicing anesthesiologists with (SSIH), which also participated in its development. As a Physician training to reduce risk and avoid advanced training to handle difficult patient emergencies growing and increasingly important sector, healthcare patient complications in five different clinical environments. simulation can only benefit from a code providing a strong ethical framework for everyone working in the field. The market has responded enthusiastically to our new Our custom technologies and services for industry and CAE Luna infant simulator, which meets rigorous clinical society partners support patient safety, education and training requirements for neonatal and infant critical care training objectives and digital transformation. Our major in the first 28 days of life, including emergencies requiring contracts and initiatives during FY19 included: interprofessional teamwork. • Augmented reality training solutions to Merck, Other product launches include the CAE Vimedix 2.0 supporting their digital transformation initiative, to ultrasound simulator; a fully redesigned CAE CathLabVR educate healthcare professionals about diabetes and cardiac surgical simulator that is mobile and modular; the anesthesia; CAE Blue Phantom Cardiac Echo ultrasound training model; • Custom simulators to Abiomed for its Impella® left and CAE Blue Phantom’s new Pediatric Regional Anesthesia ventricular assist device, that allow physicians to and Central Line Ultrasound Training Model. practise with modeled, responsive patient physiology; • Continuing to globally deploy our physics-driven ISO 9001:2015 certification for Sarasota, simulator for the Medtronic Micra™ Transcatheter Florida Pacing System (TPS), the world’s smallest pacemaker; Microsoft highlights our LucinaAR The hard work of our Sarasota team was rewarded with • Collaborative development contract with McGill ISO 9001:2015 Quality Management System certification. We are proud of the fact that Microsoft chose our University for a virtual reality spinal surgery simulator ISO 9001:2015 is recognized as the world’s preeminent LucinaAR childbirth simulator with HoloLens for a for Depuy Synthes, a division of Johnson & Johnson; quality standard. It sharpens an organization’s focus on VIP visitor demonstration room at its headquarters. • Custom simulator program to Edwards Lifesciences, A Microsoft team traveled to several CAE locations delivering to customers a consistent level of quality in which focuses on structural heart disease procedures, to produce this video about our training solutions, products and services. Indeed, in some parts of the world, more specifically with catheter-based mitral valve which demonstrate the power of our technology only companies that are ISO certified are allowed to bid repair. partnership with them. on tenders. ISO certification sends a strong message to • Custom simulator program for Baylis Medical to customers and potential customers that our products support its cardiovascular transseptal puncture Watch the video and processes are standardized. The next big challenge is systems. helping all our suppliers to become ISO certified. 26 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Business highlights / Healthcare New simulation centre in Buenos Aires on the market, the centre includes a realistic hospital environment for immersive training and advanced highThe Medical Federation of the Province of Buenos fidelity simulation products. Best practices from aviation Aires (FEMEBA) announced the opening of INSPIRE, an are transferred to the healthcare sector to help improve ultramodern simulation centre that has CAE as a partner and patient safety. whose aim is to deepen the skills of practicing physicians in a wide variety of areas, including laparoscopic surgery, endoscopy and microsurgery. The emphasis is on making When Harry met Lucina simulation an important part of the academic curriculum. Looking ahead Latin America’s first mobile simulation Prince Harry and Meghan Markle got a first-hand look at centre our Lucina manikin and childbirth simulator system during a visit last October to the Dubbo Base of the Royal Flying State-of-the-art simulation training is now more widely Simulation-based training represents the future Doctor Service of Australia. The organization uses the Lucina available in Costa Rica thanks to Latin America’s first ever of healthcare training and patient safety. The childbirth training simulator as an important tool in its mobile simulation centre. The School of Nursing at the world's aging population will increase both people’s aeromedical services to rural and remote regions of Australia University of Costa Rica is behind the project, which also healthcare needs and nations’ healthcare costs. New and was very proud to show its work to the royal couple. offers emergency medical support. Two CAE manikins – the regulations are expected to further stimulate the CAE Apollo and the CAE Juno – are available for simulation adoption of simulation-based training in medical Code Orange drills in Montreal hospitals training in more than 70 standard clinical procedures and schools and for certification purposes. Limited access interventions. Students and clinicians learn and practice to real patients during training and advances in Our team participated actively in the Code Orange mass how to deal with everything from cardiorespiratory arrest medical technology are driving the use of simulation. casualty incident drill with two major Montreal hospitals: to childbirth. The trailer also transforms into a classroom New medical devices and procedures, such as intra Hôpital du Sacré-Coeur and Montreal Children’s Hospital. for debriefing sessions. What’s more, the centre’s training cardiac echocardiography, cardiac assist devices, CAE Healthcare’s patient simulators were used for the methods get a boost from CAE LearningSpace, a powerful and mechanical ventilation enhancements, require first time as part of this exercise, which previously worked tool to assess and review the training environment advanced training solutions, such as simulation, for only with live actors. This addition helped in the full-scale performance and educational outcomes. In addition to internal product development and customer training. testing of the local health network’s response capabilities simulation training, the centre also offers CPR and first aid in the event of a Code Orange situation involving the mass courses in local communities. According to a study by patient-safety researchers transport of casualties to hospitals. published in the British Medical Journal in May 2016, CAE OnBoard: healthcare professionals get medical errors are the third-leading cause of death Renewal of a contract for a Brazilian the full aviation safety experience in U.S. hospitals and the World Health Organization healthcare training facility reported in 2018 that there is a 1 in 300 chance of CAE OnBoard was a one-day event in Toronto that allowed We renewed our service agreement with Hospital Israelita being harmed during health care. Training using 12 influential healthcare leaders to fly an Airbus A320 in a Albert Einstein for another three years. A complete simulation can help clinicians gain the confidence, simulator as well as experience aviation safety practices. training centre solution is offered: classrooms, equipment, knowledge and expertise for improving patient The session included crew briefings and debriefings that courseware, simulators and task trainers, LearningSpace safety in a risk-free environment. allowed participants to get to know better the aviation and technical support inside our CAE aviation facility in industry’s culture of safety. Many aspects of the aviation Sao Paulo, Brazil. The CAE Training Centre for Healthcare industry’s approach to safety are applicable in the Professionals trains over 4,000 professionals every year. healthcare field and patient safety. In addition to providing the most advanced technology 27 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / To Err is Human Feature story To Err is Human A documentary highlighting the need to reduce preventable medical harm Protecting a patient’s safety is a foundational Heartbreaking personal experience principle of healthcare. It’s at the very heart “We actually watched our son suffer brain damage in the hospital before our eyes of the healthcare professional’s solemn and, quite honestly, that will haunt me forever,” Sue Sheridan, long-time patient commitment to “Doing no harm.” And yet that safety advocate, says in the film. She recounts how newborn son Cal’s brain was noble ideal can get lost in the stressful daypermanently damaged after his severe newborn jaundice went undiagnosed and to-day bustle that healthcare professionals was not appropriately treated. Brain damage from newborn jaundice is known and caregivers are caught up in. A mistake in as kernicterus and results in cerebral palsy as well as hearing, speech and ocular impairments. Years later, Sue’s husband Patrick was diagnosed and treated for a surgery or the miscommunication of a critical mass in his cervical spine that was reported to be a benign tumor. He was treated medical detail can result in patient harm and for a slow-growing, apparently benign brain tumour. Tests from pathology actually even death. revealed a malignancy but somehow the results got lost in the shuffle or were never communicated to Patrick’s physician. By the time the cancer had spread and To Err is Human, a feature-length documentary become very aggressive, treatment proved ineffective and Patrick died in 2002 at film directed by Mike Eisenberg, zooms in the age of 45. on the issue of medical mistakes and what Rather than despair, Sue channeled her energies into steps can be taken to reduce alarmingly high fighting for changes to the U.S. healthcare system. She is rates of preventable errors leading to patient currently director of Patient Engagement with the Society harm. The movie underlines the significant to Improve Diagnosis in Medicine. Son Cal and daughter role that simulation can play in the mission of Mackenzie are patient safety advocates as well. “I am hopeful patient safety: practice and mistakes should and I have seen change. That’s what really encourages me, when patients and family members get engaged with the be made on manikins or in virtual-reality healthcare system in driving change,” Sue stated in an environments, not on humans. The idea is to interview. train practitioners in safe-to-fail environments so as to lower the chances of errors being While agreeing that simulation is a key element in the overall medical picture, Sue believes it can be a lot more effective CAE Healthcare convened a patient safety panel at HPSN made in the real world. World 2019 to discuss preventable medical errors, the third when developed in tandem with the patient community. leading cause of death in the United States. From left to CAE was one of the sponsors of the film after She took part in a keynote panel on the impact of medical right: Dr. Tara Bastek, Neonatalogist and Bioethicist from errors at HPSN World 2019, the Human Patient Simulation WakeMed Health; Patient Safety Advocate Sue Sheridan; its release and has organized private viewings Network conference in Orlando, Florida. She and her family Amar Patel, Chief Learning Officer at CAE Healthcare; Mike for employees and customers. also shared their personal stories at the 100th screening of Eisenberg, Director of the To Err is Human documentary and Dr. West Paul, Chief Quality Officer at WakeMed Health. To Err is Human during HPSN World. 28 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / To Err is Human “In terms of change in healthcare, there needs to be a partnership with the patient community in identifying what are the areas that really need addressing because people Patients that are transferred from point have been harmed. And we have so much knowledge and to point have one of the highest rates of so much wisdom to impart. We can help write the script. We’ve lived it, we know it. I think with simulation, especially error tied to them. That’s where simulation when you’re writing scripts and trying to portray a real starts to play a role. We can build patient, we need patients in there co-designing,” said Sue Sheridan at HPSN World. workflow models and processes where it makes it easier for handoffs to occur, A growing role for medical simulation communication to be more effective and, Dr. Amar Patel ultimately, safety to be managed. Director Mike Eisenberg – whose father John was a pioneer Chief Learning Officer at CAE Healthcare of the patient safety movement in the U.S. – wasn’t sure what to expect when he first embarked on the film project but says he came to realize that medical simulation has Estimates put the number of preventable deaths from In To Err is Human, former airline pilot Chesley “Sully” an important part to play in helping reduce patient harm. medical mistakes at upwards of 400,000 in the United Sullenberger, who famously landed US Airways Flight “It really was eye-opening for us how much of a role States alone, the third leading cause of death after heart 1549 in the Hudson River ten years ago after both engines simulation had in patient safety and how interesting it was disease and cancer. Reducing errors means remaking blew when hit by a flock of birds, talks about how critical to us,” he says. the healthcare system from top to bottom, experts simulation training and practice is to the aviation industry interviewed in the film attest. That includes transferring to and how simulation can make a huge difference in the healthcare sector the deeply ingrained safety-critical preventing harm when fully integrated into the healthcare culture of high-risk industries like aviation and nuclear sector. “There are some things that just can’t be practiced power. And that’s where simulation-based training, such safely any other way than in a simulation for the first time as that offered by CAE, can be an invaluable tool. and it gives you a chance to practice things over and over again,” Sullenberger says in the film. For example, hospitals are increasingly using simulation in the staging of exercises for the practice of handoffs, There is a growing recognition among healthcare the transfer of patient care from one shift to another, or professionals, educators and safety advocates that the from one department to another. Handoffs are one of vulnerabilities and weaknesses built into the healthcare the leading causes of medical error because of the high system need to be addressed more forcefully. Since To risk of a breakdown during the transfer of critical patient Err is Human’s limited release for healthcare audiences in data from one medical team or department to another. 2018, nearly 200 leading medical universities, colleges and “Patients that are transferred from point to point have hospitals have screened the film for practitioners as part one of the highest rates of error tied to them,” says Dr. of efforts to raise awareness. The documentary is also now Amar Patel, Chief Learning Officer at CAE Healthcare. available to the general public on Amazon and iTunes. Patient Safety Advocate Sue Sheridan, who was featured in “That’s where simulation starts to play a role. We can build the documentary film To Err is Human, spoke at HPSN World workflow models and processes where it makes it easier “Simulation is such an important part of learning,” says Sue 2019. Pictured, Sue Sheridan with her husband Chad, son Sheridan. “Simulation has been a gift.” Cal and daughter Mackenzie. for handoffs to occur, communication to be more effective and, ultimately, safety to be managed.” 29 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Going the extra mile by volunteering Feature story Going the extra mile by volunteering The spirit of giving It is in this spirit that CAE is significantly ramping up its commitment to volunteering, including honouring employees who go above and beyond the call of duty by devoting their time, energy and skills to causes dear to their hearts.These compassionate individuals are everyday heroes at CAE who inspire their co-workers with their selflessness. Their stories are shining examples of how one person can make a significant difference in the lives of others The year 2019 saw the launch of the first edition of our Volunteer of the Year awards program. It’s a high-profile way to recognize the outstanding work being done by CAE employees who fully engage in the spirit of giving on their own time. So many exceptional submissions reached us that it was decided to award more prizes than initially envisaged – six instead of three. Discover the story of our “Although we already knew CAE employees were generous and involved in their communities, the stories and letters of support were Volunteers of the Year beyond any expectations and revealed that giving back is a passion for many of the participants,” stated Hélène V. Gagnon, CAE’s Vice President, Public Affairs and Global Communications. At CAE, we believe in the benefits of The Gold prize for Sheridan’s Sunshine Foundation giving back to the community and The Gold prize winner is James the trying days of her treatment and recovery efforts, Sheridan helping make the world a better Bautista, a CAE USA KC-135 Boom participated in cancer walks and cancer research fundraising place. Operator Instructor at Altus Air events. “The families and children affected by this disease are my Force Base in Oklahoma. James reason to keep fighting for a cure,” James stated. “Even though the We know that encouraging put in 1,300 hours last year for days are long, I know our efforts are not misspent.” employees to contribute to good Sheridan’s Sunshine Foundation, causes in support of people and which he created with his wife The foundation opened in 2012 and US$89,000 has been raised so Melinda in memory of their far for childhood cancer research. Other initiatives that are part of communities in need is not only daughter Sheridan, who suffered the group’s work include offering financial help to families touched personally enriching but also by childhood cancer. One activity in partnership with Altus Air from a form of bone cancer and promotes a better, healthier Force Base is the Pilot for a Day program that gives kids and their passed away at the age of 8 in workforce. December of 2011. families a chance to experience a typical day in the life of a jet pilot. Gold award: Jim Bautista Studies show that companies with for Sheridan’s Sunshine As she bravely fought the disease, The award comes with a $10,000 direct contribution to his a volunteering-friendly culture Foundation undergoing chemotherapy foundation. “I feel very excited, very honoured,” James says about treatments and limb-salvage the recognition. Asked what he would say to CAE employees who improve their employee morale surgery at the Children’s Hospital in Oklahoma City, Sheridan told are perhaps hesitant to commit to volunteer work, he replies: “I and are better at attracting and would tell them: ‘Try it. You never know. What you think you may her parents her wish was for a foundation to raise awareness retaining talent. feel about it will come out in a totally different, positive light.’” of childhood cancer and raise funds for research. Even through 30 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Going the extra mile by volunteering Three Silver awards for Search and Rescue teams The jury decided to award silver prizes in a tie decision to three employees who are part of Search and Rescue teams. Although full-time CAE employees, they are also on-call 24/7/365, handling critical situations and saving lives. They are their communities’ guardian angels! And they are role models for CAE, living our mission daily. For Nicole Deguire, search Kevin Burnett, a System/ David Millett and his and rescue (SAR) volunteering Software Developer – Air bloodhound Beauregard are is an opportunity to put Traffic Control – at CAE volunteers with MARK9, a her pilot skills in the service Halifax, put in more than 300 Texas non-profit organization of others. “I wanted to do hours with Halifax Search and that helps locate missing something helpful that would Rescue. Over the past seven people using sniffer dogs. draw on my experience,” says years with the volunteer A retired military pilot with Nicole, Project Controller group, Kevin has contributed a background in military in the Defence & Security a total of about 2,000 hours. and civil Search and Rescue division at CAE Montreal. “It’s His work ranges from rescue (SAR) operations, David has Silver award: specialized volunteer work Silver award: missions in the wild to Silver award: always felt an obligation Nicole Deguire calling for a strong sense of Kevin Burnett urban search and rescue David Millett to help and protect the for SERABEC, Quebec Air for Halifax Search and for MARK9 Search and Rescue altruism and the desire to do Rescue and responding to incidents most vulnerable among us. everything possible to save involving people with mental “Reaching back to my time a human life.” She is one of health issues or who are in the military, I have always three recipients of the Silver award, with $5,000 going to despondent. Dealing with medical distress events in remote felt an intense obligation and desire to help protect the each of their organizations. Nicole put in almost 500 hours in locations is part of his skill set as well. He and fellow team vulnerable,” said David. At CAE in Dallas, he is Group Leader, 2018 as assistant director and training officer with SERABEC, members are also on call for any kind of civil emergency. Training Standards. MARK9 provides free assistance to Montreal region. SERABEC, Quebec Air Search and Rescue, Rescue efforts can occur in extreme weather conditions over law enforcement, fire-and-rescue, parks and wildlife and is a volunteer group that provides support to the National extended periods of time. “Reuniting lost loved ones with other groups involved in all kinds of SAR activities: urban, Search and Rescue Program. their families, performing a suicide intervention, or providing wilderness, disaster, water, and body recovery. David medical care to save lives in remote areas are all events that trains every week with Beauregard for four to six hours. The members are all trained and highly skilled in SAR are their own reward,” said Kevin. “Rescues can turn into There are mandatory training weekends every quarter and techniques. They help national SAR efforts in both response recoveries. Not all suicides can be prevented. Volunteering regularly scheduled seminars and classroom sessions. Only and prevention. Past missions Nicole has participated in or will mean you put yourself in a position of seeing things that volunteers who are rigorously prepared and who observe helped coordinate included locating missing airplanes and can’t be unseen.” Among Halifax Search and Rescue’s more the highest professional standards are accepted. David rescuing crash survivors or recovering bodies. Nicole has notable missions is the assistance provided to emergency devoted 260 hours of his own time to MARK9 last year. a private pilot’s license and flies a four-seat, single-engine response and recovery efforts following the crash of Swissair Cessna 172. “Air safety is a big interest of mine,” she says. Flight 111 off the coast of Nova Scotia in 1998. Her training extends to survival techniques and first aid.“It’s a cause that is very dear to me. I was moved to find out I had been among so many other candidates,” Nicole says. “It’s a big plus to get a helping hand from CAE.” 31 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Going the extra mile by volunteering Two Bronze awards Monica Kirkland is a Cristina Cifre is a Senior devoted member of the Cabin Safety Instructor at Junior League of Tampa CAE Madrid who got involved (JLT), a group committed to in the non-governmental We now have a team volunteering program to breaking the cycle of poverty organization (NGO) Together encourage employees to organize and participate through child welfare and for Cambodia after she in activities once a year that benefit the community, educational programs in the visited the country in 2014. during work hours. The initiative is meant to build community. Monica, Senior She was touched by the team spirit while helping local organizations. Program Accountant at CAE group’s efforts to fight human Employees can volunteer from a few hours to the Tampa, has been Chair of trafficking and the sexual equivalent of a workday, up to about eight hours of Bronze award: JLT’s Family Literacy Night Bronze award: exploitation of women. “I feel time in total per year. The activities can take place as Monica Kirkland Committee for the past two Cristina Cifre the need to give something for the Junior League for Together for Cambodia a single event or be spread out over a longer period of Tampa years. She and her team back and year after year I of time in a number of separate events. This newly have provided backpacks, have had the opportunity to launched initiative was applauded by employees and school supplies and books see how any contribution, we are looking forward to sharing the results of the to hundreds of children in the Tampa Bay region. The however humble it is, makes a real difference,” she says. program’s first year in FY20. committee partners with local schools in programs that promote literacy for parents and children, with events that The NGO’s mission is to help build a better future for encourage reading at home. women, disadvantaged Khmer children and families. Cristina has contributed 390 hours in activities for Together for Monica loves to share her passion for reading with families Cambodia that include sharing her English-language skills in at school events. Other programs she has helped out on or speaking and listening classes. organized include the Diaper Bank, and Kids in the Kitchen. It was her energy and commitment that made it possible She has also supported the NGO with the proceeds from her for the Family Literacy Night Committee to hand out over initiative to transform discarded life jackets into tote bags 3,300 books. that are then sold. Cristina’s group also received $2,000. To further encourage volunteerism among CAE employees, we have launched Dollars for Your Last year, she gave 350 hours of her time. Monica’s Cause, a program that awards $250 to each nonorganization received $2,000 from CAE. profit organization of 150 CAE employees who have demonstrated a strong commitment to their charity outside work hours. We’re confident this will be another successful effort in advancing good causes through employee involvement. 32 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Gender equality matters Feature story Gender equality matters Our tagline “Thousands of differences. One “The right thing to do” CAE” is more than just a way of paying lipAt CAE, we’ve decided to make gender diversity one of our service to the importance of diversity and strategic priorities, given the existing gender imbalance in inclusion in the workplace. some areas of the business. Our workforce of over 10,000 people around the world is 80% male and 20% female. In CAE’s Engineering talent pool, 14% of engineers and technical staff are women, compared to an average of 23% of women studying engineering in Canada. Our Chief Executive Officer Marc Parent continues to speak Watch the video emphatically to employees and stakeholders about the importance of diversity in our ranks. “Diversity is important to me, first and foremost because it’s the right thing to do,” A key part of that engagement is making adjustments to We know that fostering a diverse and inclusive states Marc. “And I say that as a father. The last thing I would HR practices and processes to better accommodate the want is for my son to have more opportunities than my two needs of employees, particularly women, such as flexible workforce is simply good business and a smart daughters would have. They should be able to rise to their work schedules, extended leave policies and back-tostrategic priority in a highly competitive global potential. And as a business, it is critical because we want to work programs, says Dan Sharkey, Vice President, Human industry. Above all, it is the right thing to do – be able to tap into the full talent pool in order to grow our Resources. “Ensuring that people have the ability to manage it makes us stronger and better. For example, business.” their work/life balance is an important aspect for us,” he said. the wider and deeper your talent pool, the CAE’s senior management has signaled a strong commitment On the leadership front, existing programs are being finegreater the positive impact on operations. to programs and initiatives aimed at fostering a culture of tuned and new ones adopted to ensure that women are And the greater that sense of belonging, of D&I throughout all layers of our company. A workshop with better represented and enjoy opportunities for positions of fairness and gender equality, of opportunities our senior management generated many great ideas that influence. for recognition and promotion, the more were included in our strategic plan. employees will contribute to innovative thinking and heightened productivity. Studies conducted by consultants McKinsey & Co. There was the realization that, as the business indicate that gender-diverse companies are continues to grow quickly, what really is going 15% more likely to outperform non-genderto enable us is the ability to have the right diverse companies and that ethnically diverse talent. It’s necessary for us to make sure we’re companies are 35% more likely to outperform. Dan Sharkey fully engaged in the entire talent pool. CAE’s Vice President, Human Resources 33 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Feature stories / Gender equality matters STEM careers for women There is also a significant effort required to get more women into Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) programs at colleges and universities so as to broaden recruitment and find qualified female candidates to fill engineering, software development and simulation instructor positions. “We’re understanding the journey of a woman who goes to college and decides she’s interested in becoming a flight instructor,” says Marine Messin, Director, Leadership and Organizational Development, Human Resources at CAE who is one of the co-leads on CAE’s D&I committee. What are the stumbling blocks or barriers to that young woman actually becoming a flight instructor, pilot or engineer? And what can be done to make it easier for her to succeed? These issues won’t be resolved in the short term. But work has begun on putting in place an educational program to build a STEM pipeline. For example, making sure more women role models Josée Gauvin, Pascale Alpha and Marine Messin proudly co-lead CAE's Diversity & Inclusion initiative go out to do recruiting in the colleges and universities, says Pascale Alpha, Director of Public Affairs and Global Communications at CAE and co-lead of Workplace gender practices disclosure the D&I committee. By strengthening the D&I Among our shorter-term goals: The initial three-year D&I program at CAE got started in 2018 with the help 9 program, we are aligned of external experts who champion women’s progress in the workforce • Ensuring that 30% of Board members are with the Government and accompany businesses in their D&I journey, said Josée Gauvin, Senior women by 2022 of Canada’s focus on Director, Global Strategic Sourcing at CAE. “CAE leadership was committed, • Increasing the number of high-potential diversity in aerospace and very implicated and engaged,” says Josée, also a co-lead of the D&I committee. employees in key roles by 20%, with 30% of defence procurements. We also support the federal newly identified high-potential employees Putting D&I in motion government’s new diversity being women, by fiscal 2023 requirements under • Benchmarking current best practices and Our D&I programs include Training & Coaching; Women in Leadership Innovation, Science and Economic Development setting targets to increase the recruitment and program; mentorship and networking initiatives; and the employee-led CAE Canada’s (ISEDC) Industrial Technological Benefits placement of female leaders Professional Women’s Network (PWN). (ITB) Policy. Currently being put into place as part of our On a company-wide basis, about half of the employees have already gone three-year plan are Employee Resource Groups, Transparency and benchmarking are a key part of through a required training program which is focused on awareness and and employee feedback mechanisms. “Diversity our D&I policy. We are one of 230 companies around understanding of the importance and value of diversity. and Inclusion can’t just be top-down. It involves the world to have made it onto Bloomberg’s 2019 everyone, takes time and requires a lot of effort,” Externally, we launched the CAE Women in Flight scholarship program to Gender-Equality Index (GEI). The companies on this says Marine. “I’m so proud of the fact that Diversity encourage women to become professional pilots. We will provide financial exclusive list are deemed to have set a new standard and Inclusion was made an integral part of our support to aspiring female pilots by awarding up to five full scholarships to of transparency as a core part of their commitment business strategy,” states Pascale. “This is a priority attend one of CAE’s cadet pilot training programs. Less than 5% of pilots and to gender equality. Currently, only 10% of eligible for the company. There’s a ‘wow’ factor at work. It’s instructors today are women, and yet we will need over 300,000 new pilots companies are disclosing their workplace gender like a signal to everyone: ‘We believe it.’” in the civil aviation industry over the next decade. policies and practices. 34 Corporate social responsibility Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / A message from our CSR Leader Corporate social responsibility A message from our CSR Leader A focus on workplace gender equality Fiscal 2019 was a significant year for CAE as we deepened and strengthened our corporate social responsibility (CSR) commitments. We acted decisively with concrete actions on several fronts, notably in workplace diversity and inclusion, and implemented policies, programs and initiatives that are rooted in our core CSR values. Living up to our commitments in the interest of fairness and gender equality but also because higher pilot demand is anticipated over the next decade. Tapping Among recent measures that are making a real difference is the into the widest pool of talent possible is the smart and equitable creation of an Executive Diversity Council to not only oversee thing to do. With that in mind, CAE proudly created the CAE progress in diversity and inclusion (D&I) awareness throughout CAE Women in Flight scholarship program. It’s a highly visible way to but also ensure that our three-year plan is on track. In terms of promote the advancement of women in the profession. CAE will overall CSR policy, we have chosen to place a strong emphasis on fully finance the cadet training of the five women to be selected for gender diversity. That’s not surprising, given the gender imbalance the scholarships. The winners will have the opportunity to secure in our industry generally and at CAE specifically. their first pilot job with one of five participating airlines. They will also act as ambassadors and role models to inspire more women In fiscal 2019, initiatives aimed at redressing the gender imbalance to join the pilot profession. CAE is investing $1 million a year in the included unconscious bias training, women’s leadership multiyear program. Already, we are seeing positive results. There development, programs promoting work-life balance, women has been an increase in the number of women applicants to our role models in non-traditional jobs, female talent acquisition training academies since the announcement of CAE Women in and advancement, as well as scholarships for women in Science, Flight at the 2018 Farnborough Airshow. Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM). We also conducted a training and survey for employment equity across Canada, including the requirement for contracts with the The Bloomberg 2019 Gender-Equality Index Government of Canada, and we are working towards creating Employee Resource Groups (ERGs) to foster a more inclusive Much remains to be done in workplace gender diversity and culture. career development for women. But we are seeing positive and encouraging results. CAE is proud to have been chosen as one of only 230 companies on Bloomberg’s 2019 Gender-Equality Index Hélène V. Gagnon CAE Women in Flight (GEI). This puts us among “trailblazers in their commitment to Vice President, Public Affairs and transparency in workplace gender reporting” across these four Global Communications and There are compelling reasons for getting more women interested pillars. You’ll find our new pillars and their associated goals and Leader of the CSR Committee in careers in aviation. They currently represent less than 5% of objectives outlined in this report. professional pilots and instructors. That needs to change, not only 36 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / CSR governance and oversight The rewards of volunteering CSR governance and oversight All of us at CAE are getting behind employee volunteerism in a big way. We are particularly pleased with our team volunteering Our CSR Committee program, which frees up employees to work together on • Includes members from all functions and business units community projects by donating their time up to the equivalent of a day’s work, once a year. Team volunteering is one way to • Includes three members of our Executive Management Committee encourage employees to participate in community actions for • Interacts with our various stakeholders (investors, employees, customers, suppliers, aviation regulators, the first time. And it’s a terrific way to foster a cooperative team governments, local communities and universities) spirit at work. Also recognized at CAE is individual volunteering. • Oversees our four core CSR priorities We have just launched the Volunteer of the year awards The CSR Committee meets quarterly to review progress and, through the CSR Committee Chair, reports highlighting the wonderful work of our “super volunteers” while performance to the Executive Management Committee and periodically to the Board of Directors. The Chief also helping fund their chosen good causes. Finally, through Compliance Officer provides monthly compliance reports to the Executive Management Committee and quarterly Dollars for Your Cause, 150 CAE employees who are actively reports to the Board. involved in helping their communities are eligible for a $250 award to their non-profit organization. Materiality matrix In fiscal 2018, we revisited our materiality matrix following consultations with internal and external stakeholders Taking digital to the next level to focus our efforts on the issues that matter most. At CAE, we have been at the forefront of digital technology – Customer engagement and satisfaction Product quality and services notably in our pioneering use of virtual reality training – for decades. Our $1 billion investment in innovation over the next five years includes funding for Project Digital Intelligence, a Employee engagement program to transform the customer experience through the Health and Importance for internal stakeholders Customer and end-user safety leveraging of data analytics, artificial intelligence and other safety for products and services Leadership to improve digital and machine learning breakthroughs. We are keen to Talent retention aviation and healthcare and attraction sector practices take digital to the next level. At the same time, we are well Training and Compliance Ethical business aware of the ethical issues involved, such as the risks related to development conduct Human rights data profiling and monitoring. We are committed to upholding Data privacy and security the highest ethical standards on the digital front. To that end, we are proud to launch our new Data Ethics principles that will Corporate governance and disclosure guide our actions in the coming years. Financial participation with governments Diversity and inclusion Dues and taxes to governments Energy and climate change Innovation and noble ideals Environmental management Innovation is at the heart of what we do at CAE. But meaningful Contribution to local economy progress also requires an unceasing dedication to furthering Atmospheric emissions our noble ideals of gender diversity, community involvement Low Medium High and workplace inclusiveness. That’s what makes us unbeatable Importance for external stakeholders as One CAE. Community and environment Ethics and integrity Innovation and customer experience People and safety 37 Corporate social responsibility People and safety Why it matters At CAE, our purpose is all about ensuring the safety and well-being of our employees, customers and our industry. It’s about putting people first. As our company shifts from a product to a training service focus, attracting, developing and retaining the best talent is more crucial to fulfilling our mission than ever. So is cultivating the highest levels of employee engagement. We’re committed to ensuring that flying stays one of the world’s safest mode of transportation by advancing the highest standards of aviation safety, from the ground up into the skies. Our goal Be a global employer of choice and a world-class leader in safety. Our objectives As part of our Corporate Social Responsibility roadmap, we are continuously working towards the following objectives and measuring our progress. Be an aviation safety model for the industry in our Attract and retain the most talented and engaged flight operations people around the world • Increase the number of voluntary safety reports by • Craft and implement tailored development plans to 10% annually support the growth of our people • Reduce the number of incidents with serious injury • Move or promote 20% of identified high-potential or material damage by 10% annually employees to new roles annually • Perform one or more external, live flight safety • Continue to maintain and create co-op and reviews annually internship opportunities in Canada every year, including Work-Integrated Learning (WIL) activities (seminars, industry-led classes, industrial visits, hackathons on industrial challenges, mentoring, etc.) Achieve world-class performance in occupational Increase diversity and inclusion throughout our health & safety workforce • Reduce our Injury Frequency Rate (IFR) and our Days • By 2022, ensure 30% of our Board members are Lost Rate (DLR) by 5% annually women • Develop interdependence behaviours to increase • By FY23, improve our gender diversity by increasing our Near Miss Reporting Rate (NMRR) by 5% the number of female employees by at least 10% annually • By FY23, increase the number of high-potential • Include H&S as a key indicator in the governance employees in key roles by 20%, with 30% of newly process for all our business units identified high-potential employees being women • Continue investing in our Global Health & Safety • Establish a Diversity Council made up of members of Management System to achieve our zero-injury CAE’s leadership team vision • Benchmark current best practices and establish targets to increase the recruitment and placement of female leaders Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety A new Aviation Safety Management As far as the incident reported last year that occured at our flight academy in Gondia Aviation safety System (India), the investigation concluded that rogue pilot behavior was the cause of the accident. As a result, we reviewed our operational controls. We successfully completed the full rollout of our Aviation safety is a deeply new Aviation Safety Management Software to all ingrained part of CAE’s culture. Recognizing our safety champions Civil Aviation and Defence & Security live aviation As a leading global provider of training operations around the world. We are very simulators and training services, When our people do remarkable deeds in aviation safety, we like to single them proud of this achievement because it enables we contribute to flying’s enviable out. Here are some of the employees who garnered safety awards, certificates and us to use one unified system to collect, manage reputation as one of the world’s commendations for FY19: and monitor all data and information related to safest means of transportation. aviation safety hazards and risks. We get near Aswin Del Monte, a Flight Instructor at CAE Oxford Aviation That also means a rigorous real-time (NRT) updates and statistics that help Academy, was awarded a CAE Flight Safety Commendation for adherence to the most stringent us gauge how effective our integrated system is. his quick thinking and action. Having been cleared onto the safety measures in everything we An added plus is that the new system allows us to runway, Aswin felt unhappy with the feel of the rudder pedals do in our flight operations and on perform superior data analysis, which in turn aids and aborted his sortie. Upon further examination, it was found the ground. us in identifying potential hazards based on trends. that a rudder control cable had failed and could have caused an accident. CAE notified the aircraft manufacturer and a worldwide Community of best practices mandatory service bulletin was issued. Brainstorming on safety issues was the order of the day at a special gathering of CAE people from CAE Gondia, India Cadets Rutesh Nazirkar and Hitesh Gait were disparate locations and business units. In fiscal 2019, we held the first ever combined CAE Civil presented with Flight Safety Awards for their superb voluntary Aviation and Defence & Security aviation safety conference. It was hosted by our CAE USA Dothan efforts in assisting with flight safety analysis and production Training Center in Alabama. Aviation safety employees from all of our live aviation training sites of flight safety presentations whilst continuing with their pilot attended the five-day conference. Among the topics discussed were the sharing of best practices training. and finding innovative ways to continuously improve and measure the effectiveness of our aviation safety program. The conference was deemed a great success, with a number of impressive ideas Congratulations and certificates were handed out to a very that will no doubt contribute to a stronger One CAE Aviation Safety Team. special group of people at CAE Abu Dhabi Aviation Training Centre. The team was recognized for professionalism in handling Creating ways to heighten safety awareness a very difficult emergency that required flying an RQ-1E Predator When it comes to aviation safety, we are always on the lookout for ways to heighten employee UAV with engine problems and returning it safely to the airfield awareness. In fiscal 2019, we created a three-minute video that explores the concept of aviation on three separate occasions. They are: Alan Mark Sickling, Curtis safety, why it’s important, and what a “Just Culture” is. The Chief Aviation Safety Officers of our Civil Bradley, Tristan Vincent-Philpot and John James. Aviation and Defence & Security business units hosted the video. It is available to all employees through the CAE intranet. Complementing the video is a Lunch & Learn education program offered Our Safety Manager at CAE Phoenix Aviation Academy, Brent at all of our CAE aviation training locations by one of our two Chief Aviation Safety Officers. Crow, was awarded two prestigious safety awards: FAA Safety Team (FAASTeam) Representative of the Year for Arizona and The In June 2018, one of our employees on a maintenance test flight at our Melbourne, Australia flight Ruth Reinhold Award given by the Arizona Pilots Association. operation died in a fatal crash of a Cessna C172S that experienced engine failure. The cause of this tragic accident is under investigation and we will apply any conclusions from the inquiry to enhancement of aviation safety. 39 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety Taking the pulse of our health and safety culture We are constantly looking for ways to improve our performance and we value the input of employees. To that end, we launched a questionnaire to get employees’ views on CAE’s health and safety culture. Here are the highlights of the survey: Health & Safety a priority 90% of respondents believe their leaders prioritize safety and set the example. Health and wellbeing are the main areas for improvement identified by participants Safety conversations Health and Safety 87% consider that the right H&S conversations We are relentlessly working towards a zero-accident goal. Health and safety performance is a process that are taking place. However, 76% consider relies on leadership and the active participation of every employee. This year, we launched a questionnaire that this topic is mainly brought up by to get employees’ views on CAE’s health and safety culture. The feedback from this safety diagnostic allowed the Environment, Health & Safety (EHS) us to suitably assess the current situation and implement targeted action plans for aspects that might need improvement. We also updated and refined our strategic plan. Among the highlights: representative • Increase focus on risks and hazards in daily • Reinforce the responsibility of each employee in operations identifying and controlling risks Event reporting • Emphasize the importance of leadership in • Increase alignment and integrate Environment, terms of setting clear expectations regarding environmental, health and safety issues Health and Safety (EHS) procedures in daily operations to increase their efficiency 84% confirm reporting accidents when they Other measures being implemented include merging the Global Environment and Global Health and Safety departments to enhance the reporting process and allow for improved responses by team members. happen. However, 10% anticipate negative repercussions when reporting incidents 40 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety FY19 highlights A prevention culture: Near-miss training launched in September 22% increase in events reported One of the best ways to lower the workplace accident Our health and safety performance in fiscal 2019 may not rate is proactive identification and reporting of near miss have been up to our expectations, but we are proud of a events. A near miss incident is defined as an unexpected positive shift in our reporting culture. There was a 22% event that did not result in injury, illness or damage but increase in the number of events being reported, with 467 that had the potential to do so. The reporting of a near miss in FY19 compared with 382 the previous year. This shows situation allows CAE to act in a preventive way instead of quite clearly that our safety culture is trending in the right reacting to events after they occur. As part of our accident direction, as even the very minor events get reported. It awareness campaign, we have set up mandatory near reflects well on CAE employees and their commitment miss online and video training for employees to help them Slippery parking? to active involvement in our safety-focused values and improve their ability to identify any at-risk situation and/or Report it and break the ice! practices. behavior. The training was launched in September 2018. By the end of February 2019, the video had been seen by When winter blows in, we need to be extra cautious about more than 8,500 employees worldwide! Near miss training icy and slippery surfaces. Unfortunately, some of our A brand new EHS management software! is also required for all new employees. colleagues at CAE headquarters in Montreal slip and fall We’re getting lots of positive feedback from employees in the parking lot in the wintertime. To mitigate this risk, regarding our new platform for the reporting of health and Updated EHS event reporting standard the Montreal EHS team launched an awareness campaign. safety risks or events. It’s a Global Environment, Health and Besides a high-profile communications operation, “Ice Safety (GEHS) management software that will help take our To be even more proactive in health and safety you need Reporting” stations were set up at the security desks of culture and performance to the next level. CAEGEHS, offers to adopt more detailed and probing measures for the EHS main entrances. When someone notices a patch of ice in the following benefits: reporting protocol. At CAE, we modified our EHS protocol the parking lot, they get priority attention at security, where to highlight the most credible and realistic outcome of they are asked to identify the icy area on a map. Security • Standardizes event reporting process, investigation an event. Before fiscal 2019, the requirement was to alerts facility services so they can quickly go to the spot and and communication investigate an EHS event based on the actual consequence spread an abrasive on it. • Increases the accuracy of our metrics and Key of an incident. In simple terms: “I have a scratch on my arm Performance Indicator (KPI) as a result of what happened.” Today, the requirement is In addition, “Attention Slippery” signs are put up at parking • Gives all EHS Leaders real time access to their safety based on the potential outcome of the situation and what entrances on icy days. Employees are also asked to review performance data the likelihood is of that possible outcome occurring. So: “I a guidance sheet on safe behaviour in the parking lot. have a scratch on my arm but I could possibly have had a • “One-stop shop” for tracking of corrective actions fracture as a result of what happened.” following events In this way, the new approach allows us to: • Identify risks and hazards that we might have overlooked • Spot trends and tendencies in minor events before they turn into serious events • Put in place more mitigation and controls 41 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety Total Health Index as a pilot project In January, CAE conducted a Total Health Index (THI) assessment in Canada and Malaysia. The THI is a confidential 25-minute online assessment performed by Morneau Shepell, our employee and family assistance provider. This index provides employees with important information about four aspects of their overall health: physical health, mental health, personal life and work environment. Immediately after the assessment, employees received a report with personalized recommendations, resources Employee engagement initiatives and advice to let them know what to focus on to improve their health. The aggregated results helped CAE take the right Meet the team! is an engaging and popular program based initiatives to improve employees' professional wellbeing. on the humble, old time tradition of sending a postcard. Colleagues around the world are encouraged to send a What’s more, managers can track the wellness of their quick note to all employees via bi-weekly newsletters telling team through weekly Officevibe pulse surveys that include us about their site, what the team does and what makes wellness as a key metric. This year, our overall objective was them feel connected to One CAE. Fun facts about the site, to improve the wellness results by 5%. But the emphasis as well as favorite meals, the main languages spoken and we put on this important factor resulted in a wellness-score preferred traditions or celebrations at the site are also part improvement of 11.9%. Such an enhancement is the result of the missive. of an awareness that the gap existed, expectations set by the CEO that we need to improve wellness, and teams implementing plans and taking action to address the issues Wellness raised by employees. Employee wellbeing means having access to the tools and Our employees resources that help maintain a balance between work, Working remotely personal life, physical and mental health. Our guide to Today, CAE boasts 10,000-plus employees at One way to promote a flexible workplace is to offer wellness in the workplace is updated regularly to give CAE 160 sites and training locations in more than 35 employees the option of occasionally working remotely. Montreal employees access to timely information on a countries. It’s One CAE, a huge, diverse family For CAE, remote-work arrangements for eligible employees variety of related topics and resources. For example, there made up of individuals who are committed to are enhancing the employee experience by providing is the Employee and Family Assistance Program (EFAP), a driving the company forward as the training flexibility and greater work/life balance. They empower confidential, free resource offering a range of consulting partner of choice in civil aviation, defence and employees, giving them a heightened sense of autonomy services that includes family, legal, financial and nutrition security, and healthcare. Empowering our various and personal accountability. Our working remote guidelines counselling, health coaching and support in fighting teams and fostering a sense of belonging are allow employees to work where they will be most efficient addiction. There are also onsite wellness activities such as central to our philosophy. at achieving results and making decisions at their level, with yoga, conferences on issues like stress management, and personal accountability. Having the ability to work remotely policies to enhance the work/life balance (remote work, is known to help increase productivity and job satisfaction as flexible hours). well as ensure business continuity. It’s also aligned with our values and culture evolution. 42 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety Diversity and inclusion: A business imperative 9 At CAE, we’re proud of our noble purpose. We are also actively building a company that’s more open, progressive and people centric, and creating a workplace where all employees can feel accepted, included and valued for who they are. Sharpening our focus on Diversity & Inclusion is both the smart and right thing to do. The more diverse our people are and the more inclusive our culture is, the more innovative and successful we’ll be in achieving our purpose. Greater diversity and inclusion will also help us attract and retain top talent as well as better connect with customers worldwide. This year, we have several notable accomplishments: Proud to be selected for 2019 Bloomberg Gender• Launched our Diversity & Inclusion program • Participated in l'Effet A, a development program for women Equality Index including D&I philosophy and policy • Propelled CAE's Professional Women's Network to a new • Created a communications campaign including level The 2019 Gender-Equality Index employee and CEO video to promote D&I awareness and • Held a special awareness workshop for CAE leaders on highlights 230 firms that are regular articles in employee newsletters as well as unconscious bias trailblazers in their commitment to Lunch & Learns, a section on cae.com and on our intranet transparency in workplace gender • Launched the CAE Women in Flight scholarship • Launched a D&I awareness training for all employees reporting. All companies included in • Launched CAE Tech: Program your career!, a scholarship globally this index have set a new standard program for technicians promoting diversity among of transparency as a core part • Launched our Executive Diversity council chaired by our CEO applicants of their commitment to gender • Launched a training for Employment Equity in Canada • Supported a Poly-Out event, the LGBTQ+ group at equality. • Reviewed all job offer templates to incorporate inclusive Polytechnique Montréal (Engineering faculty at Université wording de Montréal) Voluntarily, CAE and 229 companies • Launched CAE's remote working guidelines worldwide are sharing the numbers behind what they are doing to advance gender equality in their Professional Women’s Network workplaces and communities. We are proud to be one of them! Promoting the personal and career development of women at CAE is the mission of the Professional Women’s Network. The volunteer group, started by five women at CAE in Also, in accordance with the UK 2015 and revamped in 2018, also works to raise awareness of the importance of diversity Government’s Equality Act 2010 in the workplace. It’s guided by an advisory committee made up of CAE executives. The (Gender Pay Gap Information) group’s activities and initiatives are open to everyone and include mentorship programs, Regulations 2017, CAE UK plc has networking events, wellness workshops, conferences and training support. released its 2018 Gender Pay Gap Report. The PWN’s mission is to promote the development of women at CAE and to raise Read the full report here awareness of the importance of diversity via activities centred around two strategic pillars: professional development and wellbeing. 43 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety Initiatives for talent recruitment Over the past five years, our employees have helped develop Canada’s next generation of talent and expertise by working side by side with over 1,400 co-op students. The benefits to both CAE and the students are significant. Our employees also actively mentor high school students interested in engineering and science through diverse programs and competitions. CAE+me: our new approach to performance To support CAE’s growth in fiscal 2019, we leveraged development several tools and events to tap into our global pool of In May 2018, CAE was named 2nd Best employer brand CAE+me is all about the performance development external candidates. in Canada by Randstad. The winners were determined experience, a new, lighter approach centered on employee through an impartial survey conducted by Randstad Because our employees are well-positioned to identify development. Its focus is feedback and feedforward Employer Brand Research (REBR). Participants in the REBR new members of the CAE family, we also improved and conversations in which employees, colleagues and leaders survey ranked companies based on 10 factors: salary and relaunched CAErefer, our employee referral program to help each other to grow and continually improve along benefits, career progression, financial health, contributions increase eligibility and participation. lines of performance excellence. The user experience is the to society, interesting job content, job security, work driver, and the focus is on regular conversations between atmosphere, use of the latest technology, reputation, and The recruitment team in Canada has worked relentlessly to the employee and the leader. The frequency of the touch work-life balance. achieve ambitious recruitment goals in a highly competitive points is based on what works best for them. Performance job market. ratings have been replaced by a Talent Compass, a tool Pulse surveys to measure employee to help employees reflect on key topics: contributions, • Increased the number of hires by more than 40% engagement values, growth, compensation and rewards. Discussion compared to last year topics can range from coaching to hone skills and help • Developed a series of video job postings in various Since 2017, we have been using a simple Officevibe fivewith challenges; regular feedback/feedforward exchanges; disciplines, which were highly publicized internally minute employee engagement pulse survey that runs to setting priorities. and externally on our social media channels. In each every two weeks. The survey allows employees to express capsule, an employee holding the same position as themselves and gives leaders real-time valuable insight into the one advertised talks about what the job and work their team’s mindset at any given point. It also catalyzes Starting conversations with Conversations! atmosphere are all about, so that potential applicants more open discussions between leaders, employees and To enable our CAE+me performance development can have a clear idea of what it’s like to work at CAE teams and, where needed, helps them work together approach, which is based on regular one-on-one • Increased the number of co-op and internship to address areas requiring improvement and celebrate discussions, we launched Conversations, a dynamic opportunities by more than 20% achievements. and user-friendly online platform. The platform allows • Increased CAE’s participation in university and Leaders are able to spot trends over time and focus their employees to easily capture highlights of their one-on-one college events by over 50% efforts accordingly. They’re also encouraged to share conversations with their leader, request and give feedback, • Hosted over 25 industrial tours for students findings and learn from each other to collectively focus on and set agile goals. The platform is fully integrated with • Launched the CAE Tech: Program your career! initiative fostering an excellent employee experience at work. CAEchampions, our worldwide recognition program, so employees can see both their performance development and recognition moments in one place! 44 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / People and safety Developing talent at CAE As part of our CAE+me performance development approach, a strong focus has been placed on coaching. All CAE leaders have been invited to an online training session followed by an in-person training to teach them about the GROW coaching model, which structures the coaching conversations around the discovery of Goals, current Reality, available Options and summoning to Will to achieve the goals. Mentoring program In-house training programs Online training programs Mentor-me is a mentorship program • Leadership for the Future 1, 2 and Leadership for the Future – Leaders of CAEacademia is CAE’s online offered by CAE’s Professional Influence are internal development programs for leaders at different levels in learning management system. Via Women's Network to all female the organization, with a goal to improve the leadership skills of CAE leaders in CAEacademia, employees can access employees. The mission of the alignment with our values and the CAE+me philosophy. CAE trainings, such as trainings program is to: • The Ken Patrick program: The mission of the Ken Patrick program is to create on Health and Safety, IT security, the next generation of leaders at CAE. Over the course of two years, the best CAE+me, various e-learnings on • Build relationships and enable specific topics, or language courses. university graduates in engineering accelerate their development as they the professional and personal rotate through four intensive, stimulating assignments, one in each CAE growth of women at CAE by business unit. Applicants will interact regularly with their peers and present providing an open and flexible their accomplishments to other Ken Patrick program participants and senior mentoring framework management. The variety of assignments and challenges will allow participants • Help in finding a mentor to acquire a unique understanding of CAE's business units, services, roles and according to the individual’s opportunities. personalized goals • Leadership Development Program (LDP): Developing CAE leaders is important • Offer the support and tools to for our future. The Leadership Development Program (LDP) is designed facilitate participation in the specifically for leaders across the world with great potential. The program program provides leaders with the knowledge and skills to understand our business • Review participants’ experience challenges and lead with greater purpose by questioning assumptions, and conclusions after 120 days disrupting the usual ways of doing business, and introducing unexpected ways of thinking. New collective agreement: Overcoming our challenges In July 2018, the company experienced a five-week work disruption which preceded the successful negotiation of a new collective agreement on a four-year term and one-year option with CAE’s manufacturing employees in Canada. We overcame our challenges and delivered a record number of FFSs with excellent quality. One outcome of the new agreement was the increase in investment for production equipment. Since CAE has begun the required investment for equipment that will be operational in 2019, the collective bargaining agreement effective on June 20, 2018 will now stand until June 19, 2023. 45 Corporate social responsibility Ethics and integrity Why it matters Adhering to the highest ethical standards is essential to building stakeholder trust, goodwill and value in today’s world. We expect our employees and business partners to consistently meet these high standards. Our goal Reach the highest integrity and ethical conduct standards across all our activities. Our objectives As part of our Corporate Social Responsibility roadmap, we are continuously working towards the following objectives and measuring our progress. Instill and apply an ethics and integrity Conduct our business with world-class mindset to all actions and decisions processes to meet and surpass data privacy • Ensure CAE lives and works by its five core and export control standards values • Standardize data handling processes in • By FY19, target 100% acknowledgement of all regions worldwide to help continually compliance with the CAE Code of Business enhance our compliance processes and Conduct by all employees maintain state-of-the-art security and • Continue to train all management and key controls of controlled data personnel on the CAE Code of Business • Standardize export control training Conduct, and by FY21 extend the training to processes in all regions worldwide all employees Manage our supply chain in accordance with the highest ethics and sustainability standards • Establish and communicate a policy on responsible procurement to suppliers and employees • Evaluate major suppliers representing 50% of our annual spend on CSR compliance 46 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Ethics and integrity Data protection: an essential part of doing business Launching our new ethical principles for We value the trust that our customers, employees and the evolving data protection regimes in a digital economy. the responsible use of data analytics business contacts place in us. Protecting their privacy in We also implemented controls designed to ensure the The adoption of new technologies and the use by CAE all areas is crucial to maintaining that trust. This means protection of intellectual property and the exportation and of machine learning and artificial intelligence algorithms putting a premium on the careful handling of personal importation of commodities, services and technical data. capable of extracting advanced insights from raw data information. We treat all data and information with Under the leadership of our Chief Information Officer will result in emerging and complex data risks that need the requisite level of sensitivity and confidentiality in (CIO), we aligned our IT policies framework with the U.S.’s to be managed effectively. In addition to identifying compliance with all laws and regulations. Under the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST) and assessing data-related risks, CAE adopted ethical oversight of the Global Ethics and Compliance Office, we 800-053 and 800-171. To further enhance our protection principles for the responsible use of data analytics to adapted our business processes and activities to comply against data security breaches, we continue to invest in better manage risks associated with new technologies with the EU’s new General Data Protection Regulation the deployment of cyber security controls to comply with used for profiling and monitoring purposes. The (GDPR) and have started to consider the impact of other aerospace and defence industry standards. adoption of these principles affirms our commitment changes to data protection requirements globally. Every year, all employees participate in mandatory IT to adhere to the highest standards of ethical conduct Our team of 12 data protection officers continues to security awareness training. We recently strengthened in our dealings with employees, customers and all strengthen its mission of overseeing our activities for the this training program to further enhance employees’ other stakeholders in our ecosystem. The principles implementation of applicable data protection regulations. knowledge of cyber risks and information protection are also a commitment to go beyond what is legally Meetings and conference calls amongst data protection measures. We also regularly assess our IT security controls. required to protect CAE’s and its stakeholders' officers are held on a regular basis to discuss global data Our CIO reports IT security incidents to the Executive data. We look forward to a productive dialogue on protection requirements, emerging issues and trends. Committee and the Board's Audit Committee. The CIO also these issues with customers, partners, employees and These forums serve as a means for data protection presents our IT security plan and reports on its progress. legislative bodies. Our guiding principles will evolve with officers to share best practices and stay up to date with these discussions and the ever-changing technological landscape. Ensuring our data systems and technologies are well protected Our principles are: Vigilance is the watchword when Security experts say that end users • We have revamped our it comes to making sure the vital — in other words, we humans — annual mandatory IT Security Safety first Transparency Empowerment electronic information and data we are the weakest link in the IT chain. Awareness Training program to Our goal is to Our analytics Artificial rely on every day are secure and Changing our behaviour, becoming modernize it and make it more improve safety intelligence is intelligence in protected. Security awareness is more aware of the threats that are engaging for employees. transparent and our systems understandable is intended to everyone’s business, especially as out there and cultivating habits that empower people cyberattacks and systems breaches boost cybersecurity are key elements become ever more sophisticated and of a more secure IT environment. potentially damaging. We don’t leave At CAE, we are taking decisive action Duration Privacy Nonvaluables in unlocked cars. So too Individual learning and Security discrimination to address cybersecurity concerns: should we take the necessary steps data must have by Design Artificial at work to protect against online • We strengthened our IT agreed life span We put data intelligence that and computer-related risks like security governance by creating protection and creates unfair bias security at our will not be pursued phishing (using a disguised email as a Cybersecurity Steering A fun awareness campaign featuring core a tool to steal information), malware Committee to support security cartoon characters was rolled out initiatives and the realization of to remind employees of the main IT (malicious software), viruses and security threats to beware of. identity theft. the security program. 47 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Ethics and integrity Building a global Ethics and Compliance They will assume the role of compliance ambassador on a we’ve taken several significant measures to address these organization voluntary basis and in addition to their actual role outside risks and strengthen our compliance program. the Ethics and Compliance Office. In August 2018, CAE 's Chief Compliance Officer appointed a In fiscal 2019, we continued to take pivotal steps to better new Global Leader, Ethics and Compliance whose mandate The Ethics and Compliance Office plays a pivotal role manage the risks posed by foreign representatives, includes the development, implementation and monitoring in promoting CAE’s strong culture of integrity, and in consultants and other third party intermediaries. We of CAE’s global Ethics and Compliance programs and overseeing the implementation of strategies, policies and terminated or didn't renew a number of agreements with initiatives, including those related to the Code of Business processes to manage ethics and compliance risks. foreign representatives as we expanded our local presence Conduct, the ethics and anti-corruption program as well as around the globe. Since 2014, we've reduced the number the data protection program. of foreign representatives we use by over 60%. Channeling our efforts toward growing our worldwide sales force has, in A diagnostic was performed to assess the maturity level FY19 highlight turn, decreased our need for third-party intermediaries. For of various components of CAE’s Ethics and Compliance 97% fiscal 2019 and beyond, our goal is to continue to reduce the program against leading industry practices. The results of number of third-party representatives we use. We carefully this diagnostic were presented to the Board of Director’s monitor our foreign representatives’ activities, conduct riskGovernance Committee and used to develop a three-year of management and of employees based due diligence prior to engaging or renewing their roadmap to further enhance CAE’s compliance program in key functions completed online agreements, and require that they sign an anti-corruption and systems. The Governance Committee will oversee the training and certification for our Code certification every year. execution of this roadmap. of Business Conduct In fiscal 2019, we initiated the review of CAE’s Anti-Corruption Policy and ancillary policies (including the Gifts and Compliance Program Components Reinforcing our Code of Business Conduct Entertainment Policy) and delivered live training sessions on CAE’s Anti-Corruption Policy to certain targeted groups Governance In fiscal 2016, we launched a process to enhance our of employees, including the sales and business development Culture Prevention Risk management Code of Business Conduct, underscoring our commitment teams. We continued to improve our Corporate Policies and Compliance Organization Policies and prodedures to address major business ethics risks. This included Procedures, including looking at ways to make them more Training and communications integrating our CSR core priorities into the Code and accessible to all employees. Supervisory controls Detection Internal controls training our managers on the Code. In May 2018, we also Independent monitoring launched a revamped Code of Business Conduct to make We will continue to leverage our ongoing compliance review Whistleblowing and Investigations Reporting it more succinct and user friendly. to reinforce our governance, risk management and internal Information technologies Evaluation and continuous improvement Remediation controls. Periodic risk assessments and audits of our areas Starting in fiscal 2020, all employees worldwide are of risk help us maintain oversight on our practices and required to follow mandatory periodic training as well as operating guidelines. Our Global Ethics and Compliance One of the many priorities stemming from this diagnostic to read, acknowledge and agree to comply with our Code Office works closely with the internal audit team to ensure is the need for a more formal and structured Ethics and on an annual basis. that adequate actions are taken to address findings and Compliance Office comprised of dedicated Ethics and recommendations based on risks. The team also conducts Compliance professionals, in addition to establishing risk assessments and monitoring on different programs as Pivotal steps to improve business integrity a network of compliance ambassadors to support the the need arises. and ethics governance business units in key regions in their management of compliance-related risks. The ambassadors will be part Bribery and corruption are risks faced by virtually all of the businesses and work with local employees daily. organizations operating globally. Over the last few years, 48 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Ethics and integrity Reinforcing ethical standards in EthicsPoint: Our third-party anonymous and EthicsPoint reports since FY18 our industry confidential reporting system FY19 FY18 CAE believes socially EthicsPoint helps us ensure that our local and international ISSUES responsible conduct business activities meet the highest ethical standards. The is expected by EthicsPoint website and call centre service provides employees, CAE property 0 0 our leadership and our stakeholders, and customers, partners and suppliers with a simple, risk-free way to is critical to our Company’s success and confidentially report issues of concern associated with unethical reputation. In December 2018, CAE joined or illegal activities including potential violations of our Code of Computer systems, internet, intranet the International Forum on Business Ethical Business Conduct and key corporate policies. We do not tolerate 0 0 and email Conduct (IFBEC) for the Aerospace and any punitive action or sanction against anyone who, in good faith, Defence Industry, an association committed asks a question or submits an allegation of non-compliance through Confidentiality of company, employee to global principles of zero tolerance for EthicsPoint or any other reporting channel. 2 0 and third-party information corruption and the sharing of best practices We strongly encourage our employees and any party we conduct to reinforce ethical standards in our industry. business with to come forward if they notice or become aware of an IFBEC has more than 30 member companies Conflict of interest, improper payments activity of concern, including potential unethical or illegal activities. 1 0 and its global principles were first issued and business courtesies Our Whistleblowing Policy, which recently underwent a complete in 2009. We appreciate the opportunity to review, protects good-faith whistleblowers from retaliation. Our reinforce our values in partnership with whistleblowing process will also undergo significant enhancements Contracts and records 1 2 IFBEC. in FY20 to ensure that all CAE employees understand and are aware of the different channels through which they may report concerns United Nations anonymously and confidentially. Safety in the workplace 1 0 Global Compact Most concerns reported in recent years relate to human resources issues. We ensure all reports are rapidly and confidentially handled as required by law. Certain violations such as breaches Equal opportunity and harassment-free We became a signatory to the UN 9 10 workplace to the Code of Business Conduct require disciplinary action which Global Compact in fiscal 2016. varies depending on the severity of the breach. We make sure Since then, we’ve aligned key that appropriate incident investigation and corrective actions are Interpretation of the Code of Business documents with the UN Global 5 0 taken for all reports. The Global Ethics and Compliance Office Conduct Compact’s Ten Principles and the provides monthly compliance reports to the Executive Management United Kingdom Modern Slavery Committee and quarterly reports to the Governance Committee of Reporting violations of the Code of Act. We now require vendors to 6 5 the Board of Directors. Business Conduct confirm their commitments to high ethical, environmental and social In fiscal 2019, the number of whistleblowing reports increased standards. compared with 2018 as shown in the table. We communicated the Total 25 17 accessibility and confidentiality of Ethicspoint and we are glad that We developed a companywide our employees are increasingly using it. The most common type Human Rights Policy, which was of EthicsPoint report relates to equal opportunity and harassment rolled out during fiscal 2018. issues (10 in fiscal 2018 and nine in fiscal 2019). See all our site certifications 49 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Ethics and integrity Enhanced export control processes and Responsible supply chain management training As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we demonstrate In fiscal 2019, we migrated a large part of our technical data our commitment to upholding its principles, in part, by taking to a new Digital Library, to strengthen our export control steps to ensure responsible procurement. We integrate processes. labour, environment and anti-corruption considerations into our global strategic sourcing tools and processes. The new library offers a standardized and robust solution for handling our technical data worldwide. It delivers enhanced An assessment of CAE’s core supply chain validated the protection throughout the data lifecycle, increased reporting alignment of our strategic suppliers' CSR principles with capabilities and standardized business rules for handling those of CAE. Procurement documents such as Request technical data. It also minimizes the risk of proliferating and for Proposal, Supplier Survey Report and Purchasing disclosing technical data to unauthorized parties. General Terms and Conditions include clauses that address Learning about export control processes compliance with laws and ethical business conduct. and having fun The digital library’s new search capabilities and shorter Employee health and safety, combatting bribery, prohibiting processing time for approving access are among the new the use of child or forced labour, hazardous materials, data Your mission, should you decide to accept it: track a features that improve our export control process efficiency. protection and conflict minerals are among the issues package and successfully complete six assignments in addressed. order to become an export control special agent. It’s a video We also launched new online training modules specially game created by the imaginative members of our Global adapted for each department. This training is better adapted Social and environmental factors are considered alongside Communications and Global Export Control teams who not for each department and standardizes the export control financial factors when making procurement decisions, and only want CAE employees to learn about export controls training worldwide. are detailed among the criteria used for supplier selection. but also have fun doing so. Export control is an important, We conduct spot verifications on suppliers and their supply Global alignment for strategic sourcing at times complex, part of doing business internationally. chain when necessary. If a verification reveals non-compliant Different countries and regions have different laws The Global Strategic Sourcing team continues to work with practices, we suspend all activities with the supplier and and regulations and it’s crucial that a major exporter of representatives from multiple regions to communicate, demand an immediate action plan and remediation. If the simulation products and services like CAE comply with them. exchange and align on key initiatives and topics. Topics delinquent supplier implements corrective measures and such as corporate social responsibility, health and safety, demonstrates compliance with our policy, we then decide The video game is one of several teaching tools that was whether to resume business with the supplier. We had no and the European Union's General Data Protection produced this year to give CAE employees in all departments reported incidents on supplier practices in fiscal 2019. Regulation (GDPR) are among those approached from a a better understanding of this serious topic. More than 600 global perspective. Opportunities for synergies within the people played the game and 85% of employees completed Conflict minerals procurement processes were leveraged in several projects, the mandatory export control training session that is specific yielding value and alignment within the organization. We continue to communicate our Conflict Minerals Policy to to their department. our suppliers, and include the requirements set out therein in our Purchasing – General Terms and Conditions. Our Green procurement due diligence process, which includes supply chain surveys, supports this policy. We have suspended or discontinued Suppliers are requested to provide information and appropriate documentation indicating their alignment with our business relationship with some suppliers who failed our environmental principles. Their responses regarding involvement in environmental initiatives and sustainability to respond to or provide complete responses to these strategies are integrated into our approach to green procurement within the supply chain. surveys. We also verify smelters reported in supplier surveys to ensure their participation in the Responsible Minerals Learn more about our machinery procurement with Amada Assurance Process (formerly the Conflict-Free Smelter Program). 50 Corporate social responsibility Innovation and customer experience Why it matters Providing an outstanding customer experience and innovative products and services is key to our competitive advantage. Our strong innovation culture and commitment to best-inclass customer service ensure our industry leadership. They also support our vision to be recognized as the global training partner of choice. Our goal Provide the best products and services in the industry by continually improving the quality, efficiency and safety of our customers’ training experience. Our objectives As part of our Corporate Social Responsibility roadmap, we are continuously working towards the following objectives and measuring our progress. Elevate the CAE customer journey with a Be a thought leader on the evolution seamless training experience and delight of safety practices in the aviation and at every interaction healthcare sectors • Implement our digital strategy to enhance • Continue to invest significant amounts in our customer experience and leverage the research and development every year latest learning technologies • Design and deliver quality and sustainable • By FY23, provide training to employees on next-generation training products and our digital strategy services • Continue to differentiate our suite of • Partner with at least one important core simulation products by achieving society/regulatory body in new product 95% or more on our quality and schedule development performance metrics • Participate in at least one research program demonstrating the effectiveness of simulation in healthcare training 51 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Innovation and customer experience Sustainable products and services Product excellence and innovation CAE is the global leader in the sale of full-flight simulators (FFSs), a climate-friendly product. In fiscal A passionate commitment to R&D and a deeply ingrained innovation culture at CAE go a long 2019, we sold 78 civil FFSs. way to explaining our status as the leading-edge training partner of choice, developer of flight simulators, training systems integration (TSI) solutions and immersive patient simulation. We Our simulators save millions of tonnes of CO2 annually. consistently rank among the top 20 Canadian companies for R&D investment. In our Civil Aviation training network alone, the simulators we operate save over five million metric tonnes of CO2 per year. We estimate this number using the number of training hours spent on CAE flight simulators and multiply this by the normal burn rate (at cruise) of equivalent real aircraft. We lead the industry in introducing disruptive sustainable innovations to meet the highest safety standards required by governments, regulatory authorities and airlines. One of our latest pilot training innovations, the CAE RiseTM training system, takes pilot training standardization and evaluations to a whole new level. A transformative investment in the future Design for safety and environment CAE plans to invest $1 billion over five years in a program Executive Officer of CAE. “By seizing new technologies such Our Global Engineering department designs our of innovation to stay at the forefront of the global training as artificial intelligence, big data, or augmented reality, as simulator technologies and training materials to industry. A key aspect of the program is the funding of well as many others, and applying them to the science of improve resource efficiency, eliminate hazardous Project Digital Intelligence, an ambitious venture to learning, we will revolutionize the training experience of materials and increase our customers’ energy efficiency. develop the next generation training solutions for aviation, pilots, aircrews and healthcare professionals, as well as We follow numerous standards throughout our defence and security, and healthcare. improve safety.” products’ lifecycle, from the design and manufacturing stages to the end-of-life phase. As an example, we Project Digital Intelligence aims at nothing less than Project Digital Intelligence will be carried out in Canada, adhere to the Restriction of Hazardous Substances transforming CAE’s products and services with cuttingusing CAE’s R&D laboratories and test and integration (RoHS) directive of the United Nations' Registration, edge digital technologies and systems such as big data, facilities. There will be collaboration and technology Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals artificial intelligence (AI), cloud computing, cybersecurity codevelopment with smalland medium-sized companies (REACH) regulation. and augmented/virtual reality. Plans call for three major across Canada and the qualification of more than 150 new activity areas: advanced digital technology development, suppliers throughout the country. CAE will also work with In fiscal 2019, we continued assessing the digital transformation of the training and user experience, over 50 post-secondary institutions and research centres. environmental impact of our simulator product line, and CAE innovation and collaboration facilities. The governments of Canada and Québec are contributing including the design and development of the CAE 600XR a combined investment of $200 million over the next five Series flight training device (FTD), the latest addition to “This strategic investment will take our company to years. our innovative suite of XR Series training solutions. the next level,” stated Marc Parent, President and Chief 52 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Innovation and customer experience Paying tribute to our inventors We operate in an industry where securing intellectual property (IP) is vital to protect our innovations in a competitive market. As of today, we hold 132 patents and 171 patent applications thanks to our creative employees and the teams that support them. In fiscal 2018, we were granted 39 new patents derived from our R&D activities of previous fiscal Sky is not the limit – CAE innovators talked space exploration years. We also filed several new patent applications and Using neuroscience and big data to improve and healthcare technologies with former astronaut Robert rewarded their inventors through our Eureka Program that pilot performance Thirsk. recognizes CAE inventors. In fiscal year 2018, we joined forces with HEC Montréal's Tech3Lab to study how biometrics, neuroscience and Research that’s relevant for society big data analysis can be used to learn about behavior While collaborative R&D with partners is key in advancing in a training context and to identify high-performance our technologies, we are also invested in ensuring the factors. Tech3Lab is one of North America’s leading research is relevant for society. Leveraging simulation to user experience research labs. This year, we continued develop an innovative emergency response ecosystem is advancing this research. As part of a joint project with one example. In this case, CAE, three partner companies Concordia University, McGill University, National Research and three universities are joining forces to leverage the Our inventors go green Council of Canada (NRC), Université de Montréal and the latest artificial intelligence-based unmanned aerial vehicle CRIAQ/CARIC, we further explore novel methods for using There aren’t many green technology applications (UAV) technology to enhance crisis response, management, biometric data to significantly advance aircraft pilots’ user filed every year with the Canadian Intellectual training and data analysis. experience in flight simulators. Property Office. In FY18, a total of 38 were filed with We are also part of the Partnership for the Organization of the agency and one of them belongs to CAE. Éric From supporting McGill University’s ATLAS Lab’s conference Innovation and New Technologies (4POINT0), an ambitious Debonville, a Project Manager in Civil Simulation on the Role of Emotions in Technology-Rich Learning cross-sectoral and interdisciplinary research group which Products and Sébastien Labelle, a Technical Leader Environments to advancing research on human factors mobilizes 14 Canadian universities and five institutions in in Electrical Engineering, came up with a novel way and crew resource management for aircrews working in France, Italy, the United Kingdom and the United States, as to pump hot air from the electronic racks to the offshore transportation, we continue to invest in strategic well as 30 partner organizations. pilot/instructor’s area in the simulator to offset the R&D initiatives. chilly environment needed for cooling purposes. As one of IVADO’s founding members, we take pride This innovative technology can result in savings of In fact, we are currently partnering with over 25 universities, in helping provide its 900 affiliated scientists with a up to 20,000 kWh per year per simulator. The patent research centres and post-secondary institutions to multidisciplinary institute for developing processes to application was allowed in FY19 and the patent was advance research and prototyping in a broad range of extract trends, metrics and concrete information from granted in May 2019. CAE has decided to offer this domains from aerodynamics algorithms and models to big data. Experts from IVADO’s talent pool work alongside feature as an option on its 7000XR FFS. cybersecurity, augmented and virtual reality, and next our subject matter experts on research projects related generation immersive technologies. to safety, security and efficiency, using data science and Click here for a summary of the patent artificial intelligence. 53 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Innovation and customer experience Underscoring the importance of intellectual property CAE Tech: Program your career! helps students get their careers off the ground Intellectual property is a driver of innovation. At CAE, we take IP and its protection very seriously. Our IP team’s mandate includes raising employee and manager awareness of Assisting technical students with their career advancement IP and explaining why it matters. The team held a series of Lunch & Learn sessions with is the mission of CAE Tech: Program your career! We Engineering employees to help them better understand key aspects of IP, including patents partnered with five post-secondary institutions (CEGEPs) and trade secrets. Members of the team also distributed an amusing shape-shifting in Quebec and their respective foundations on a threecube as part of an information kit underscoring the important role that IP plays, such as year program offering student scholarships and on-the-job protecting our position as a global industry leader, preserving our competitive advantage, training at CAE Montreal. and preventing rivals from copying our innovations. The kit also encourages creativity and inventiveness, while stressing the need to follow company guidelines on IP protection. And Every year over the course of the program, CAE will offer it touts the Eureka rewards program for employee-inventors. the following to two full-time students from each CEGEP: • Scholarship and tuition fees • The opportunity to get an “on-call” • Paid summer internships or jobs work contract during the school year • The opportunity for an offer of fulluntil completion of their program. time employment at the end of their Priority will be given to the intern’s studies studies and his or her class schedule will be respected. • Mentorship The aerospace industry is rapidly evolving and so is OneSpark: igniting employee creativity the workforce. Programs like A single spark of an idea can have a profound impact on the way we do things. The OneSpark CAE Tech support our future program is an opportunity for employees to share ideas that could enhance our processes, talent, help us meet our growth the way we work or just about anything else. It puts the employee at the heart of global innovation at CAE. The idea, for example, could be a way of streamlining a work method Pascal Grenier objectives and support our that is inefficient. Or it could consist of automating a task that the employee or colleagues Vice President, Global Operations, Technologies efforts around the digital perform repeatedly. and Innovation at CAE transformation. OneSpark is open to all CAE employees with ideas they are passionate about and that improve what they usually accomplish in their daily activities. The program can also The focus is on students in computer science, software development, avionics, digital contribute to an employee’s professional development. Employees can submit a new technologies and systems integration. Grantholder selection will also take into account concept for which they will be granted eight hours to develop the idea and discuss it with a CAE’s values of diversity and inclusiveness. supervisor. Once it passes muster at that stage, there is a further 24-hour fine-tuning period The participating CEGEPs are André-Laurendeau, Bois-de-Boulogne, Édouard-Montpetit/ before submission to second-level management. École nationale d’aérotechnique (ÉNA), John-Abbott and Montmorency. All told, 100 proposals were submitted. Sixty-eight ideas were approved for the eight-hour development period. Six made it to the 24-hour phase. And 10 ideas were implemented. 54 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Innovation and customer experience Awards Swimming with the sharks At CAE, we have a knock-off version of the popular TV show where budding entrepreneurs pitch their concepts to seasoned business pros in hopes of getting financial backing. We call it the Innovation Challenges. This popular CAE initiative encourages employees to pitch their innovative ideas in predetermined subject areas. Submitted ideas are reviewed by members of the Technology and Innovation team, with a few finalists selected in each category. The finalists then go before a panel of CAE CEO of the Year Anesthesia SimSTAT wins leaders. In fiscal 2019, more than 100 ideas were submitted for the three prestigious award Congrats to Marc Parent, our President and Chief themes or challenges: artificial intelligence, Blockchain and Customer Executive Officer. He was named 2018 CEO of Anesthesia SimSTAT won the 2018 Power of Satisfaction. The selected ideas will be announced in fiscal 2020. the Year in the “Large Company” category by Les a Silver Award given by the American Society Affaires, Quebec’s premier business publication. of Association Executives (ASAE). The award is In explaining why it chose Marc, the magazine one of several that celebrate the extraordinary said: “CAE and its leader, Marc Parent, are often contributions that associations make to society by under the radar. However, with Mr. Parent enriching lives, creating a competitive workforce, at the helm, the Quebec aerospace giant has driving innovation and making the world a better undergone a major transformation over the last place. Anesthesia SimSTAT was developed by ten years that is propelling it to new heights.” the American Society of Anesthesiologists and CAE Healthcare in collaboration with SimTabs. Click here to read the full article It gives practicing physician anesthesiologists (in french only) Partnering with innovative young minds advanced training in dealing with emergency situations using high-fidelity scenarios in a virtual CAE is a key early member, with Montreal's École de technologie supérieure environment. The modules feature 3D graphics (ÉTS), of the Collision program at ÉTS’ Centech technology-company and interactive methods. accelerator. The initiative involves the creation of 10 open innovation cells that foster creative exchanges and collaboration between students, tech experts, innovative young firms and established technology companies. The goal is to produce marketable products and solutions in a variety of areas. Centech is one of Canada’s leading university-associated tech incubators. 55 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Innovation and customer experience Customer service Tracking customer satisfaction At CAE , we’re serious about making the customer experience a delight. Our global Customer Service Executive compensation is tied, in part, to the team is made up of dedicated individuals who are single-minded about meeting all of the needs of customer satisfaction scores generated by our our growing customer base around the world. annual customer survey. In fiscal 2019, customers ranked our performance as follows: A busy year in customer service In Civil Aviation, our 24/7 emergency support system Civil Aviation 95.9% delights our customers by leveraging our worldwide locations. Our global team answers more than 500 emergency calls per year and supports our customer needs at all times. We also maintained our focus on providing customer satisfaction proactive technical communications. A strong focus was put on the development of our leadership team. Monthly sessions on different leadership topics were held and different tools and techniques were Defence & Security presented in conferences in order to improve our team's Enhancing the customer relationship 100% engagement. The focus has yielded results: we have seen a ratings improvement of over 10%. satisfaction for on-time delivery Getting closer to the customer: the Amsterdam experience CAE Amsterdam recently completed one year as the first 100% CAE Customer Service Centre to be co-located with Civil satisfaction for product quality and Business Aviation Training facilities. That means a closer relationship with our customers as well as the ability to respond even faster to their needs. We are also extending quicker customer response throughout Europe by implementing a regional customer-service experience. European customers can speak directly with their Customer Healthcare 4.7/5 Experience Lead in the same time zone. On-site visits to customers are also more frequent, with a technical support team that can be quickly deployed to different locations. Southwest Airlines’ timely tips on net satisfaction score customer service 56 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Innovation and customer experience The Digital Accelerator: a high-level roadmap for digital innovation Our dedication to continually improving the customer experience is getting a huge boost from the CAE Digital Accelerator. It’s an innovative approach to designing and delivering digital solutions to customers. With the Digital Accelerator, we are driving innovation and transforming our industry ahead of the competition. Although we have built a strong digital foundation at CAE, we need to speed up the pace of the solutions we provide as the global leader in simulation training. The Digital Accelerator team will work on customer experience innovations that reach initial release within weeks and months rather than months and years. So far, we have created eight digital “lighthouse” projects in the Civil unit and we will extend that approach to the other divisions over time. Each lighthouse, led by an assigned “Journey Owner”, is responsible for coming up with a vision for an innovative digital solution along with a roadmap to build the components of that vision. The teams work in close collaboration with the customer over the entire timeframe of the development process. Our approach is multidisciplinary and cross-functional, involving everyone from data analytics experts and human resources people to marketing and finance employees. Some projects involve partnerships with other companies as well. One of the lighthouses is focused on providing new digital solutions that make the pilot training Click here to watch the video experience smoother and more efficient. 57 Corporate social responsibility Community and environment Why it matters We know that we can only be successful if the communities and economies in which we operate are thriving and prosperous. Minimizing the environmental impact of our operations helps protect natural resources, improve employee and community quality of life, and preserve our license to operate. Our training solutions contribute to this wellbeing by increasing aviation safety, strengthening public security and improving patient outcomes. Our goal Create a positive and sustainable impact in our communities and our environment. Our objectives As part of our Corporate Social Responsibility roadmap, we are continuously working towards the following objectives and measuring our progress. Reduce our environmental footprint across our operations • By year-end FY19, implement at least one • By FY22, source 75% of the electricity paperless initiative in each of our sites consumption of our European sites through • By FY21, conduct or update energy and renewable energy* waste audits* • By FY23, install LED or energy efficient lights* Support the communities where we operate through our global community investment program Canada Worldwide • In FY20, expand and promote the Canadian • Better promote the CAE scholarships scholarship program to cover technicians, offered globally people wanting to become pilots, and • By FY21, spend at least 40% of our students willing to be ambassadors to donations and sponsorships budget on promote Work Integrated Learning in education Canadian aerospace companies • By FY23, develop a volunteering program • By FY21, launch a diversity scholarship for our employees program to allow women, Indigenous Peoples, persons with disabilities and visible minority individuals to complete their studies and better access positions with a greater representation gap • By FY23, collaborate with over 50 post* At all CAE sites where we have operational control of the secondary institutions and research centres building or control on energy sourcing Employees from our Kanata, Ontario office supported the Ottawa River flood disaster relief effort. Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Community and environment A neighbour of choice Investing in local communities and their economies is key to building a reputation for being a neighbour of choice everywhere we operate. It also helps strengthen employee engagement across CAE. In fiscal 2019, our employees made a difference in several ways around the world. Riding to FIRST Robotics: Positively Pink, Jacob gets RoboCup 2018 conquer cancer Mentoring youth Europe to Brazil his wish Student societies Centraide/ We (virtually) went and engineering Post-secondary Putting a smile United Way up, up and away and commerce scholarships on a child's face campaign Down Under competitions 59 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Community and environment Engaging with stakeholders Donations and sponsorships in FY2019 We proactively engage with a diverse range of stakeholders on a broad number of In fiscal 2019, we donated a total of $21 million (cash and issues. This engagement takes the form of conferences, sectorial and cross-sectorial in-kind) to local and regional initiatives worldwide initiatives, partnerships with government and educational institutions as well as direct dialogue with various community groups. FY19 cash and in-kind donations $54,058 Communities $259,815 Contributing to fundamental and a fund for the promotion and advancement of Innovation, research $358,463 $761,103 and development organizations applied research girls and women in science and engineering at the Environmental University of Ottawa’s engineering faculty. The fund initiatives Over the past eight years, we’ve contributed talent will finance activities and initiatives that encourage Arts and culture $96,350 and more than $9 million to collaborative projects girls to consider studies and careers in engineering Health $87,855 $391,033 with universities and research institutes. Projects and provide them with positive female role models. $18,210,004 Education range from basic research to product, process and $296,247 service commercialization. Bridging the gap between engineering Civil Aviation $11,512 $32,952 and commerce Defence & Security $11,800 $146,358 Examples include: Trade, industry associations $5,210 $370,612 and events We are proud to support the Engineering • Founding member of IVADO (Institute for and Commerce Case Competition (ECCC), an $0 $1,000,000 $20,000,000 In-kind Cash Data Valorization) annual Montreal event aimed at promoting • Operational Research Chair at École interdisciplinary collaboration between the faculties Polytechnique de Montréal of engineering and commerce to better prepare • Healthcare partnership with Université de students for professional careers. Universities from Montréal around the world participate. In 2019, CAE awarded Supporting local economies • Key early member of the Collision Program the Certificate for Best Ethics and Sustainability launched by École de technologie supérieure Solution and was on the judging panel of the case Through our presence in more than 35 countries around the competition. world, we’re helping create economic growth by delivering via its technology company accelerator goods to our customers, jobs for our employees, payments Centech to our suppliers, investments in communities and value to Contributing to a maritime network our investors. Here’s a snapshot of how we supported local Women in Engineering Chair at strategy for Quebec economies in fiscal 2019. University of Ottawa FY19 revenues $3,304.1 We contributed to the Scientific Committee of the We continue to advocate for more women in Total operating costs $2,823.5 Quebec Maritime Network, the Réseau Québec engineering through professional networking, Salaries and other short-term employment $1,071.2 maritime (RQM), which conducted an assessment training and employment at CAE and across the and recommendation exercise for ensuring the Corporate income taxes paid $34.0 industry. success and sustainability of the network. Created Community investment and charitable donations $2.3 in 2016, RQM’s mission is to provide a consultation In-kind donations $18.7 We’re donating $20,000 annually for a period of and cooperation maritime research tool. three years, for a total of $60,000 toward establishing Amounts in millions 60 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Community and environment Making lives safer and more efficient In the spirit of enhancing safety, improving efficiency, maintaining readiness and solving challenging problems in all aspects of Canadians’ lives, we are involved in the geospatial community as co-chairs of the Open Geospatial Consortium’s Canada Forum on Geospatial Standards. The Canada Forum is dedicated to better serving the country’s needs for geospatial data and services by focusing on the sharing of information, capacity building, innovation, outreach and industry business development. The forum also acts as a venue for enhancing the level of Canadian influence in the OGC geospatial standards process. Promoting STEM careers Championing work-integrated learning Getting young people fired up about science and encouraging them to explore rewarding careers in Science, Over the past five years, we have created more than Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) is 1,400 co-op and internship positions in Canada something we strongly believe in. That’s why we support alone. In fiscal 2019, more than 350 co-op and the Eurêka Festival!, the largest science fair tailored for student positions were offered. We plan to do a children and families. Since 2007, more than 868,000 people, lot more, with our commitment to enhancing the including 48,000 students, have visited the annual festival at number and relevance of work-integrated learning the Montreal Science Centre in Montreal’s Old Port. opportunities. We are a founding member of the Canadian Mobility and Aerospace Institute. The We are also a dynamic member of the Canadian Aero/ institute coordinates and enhances the delivery Space Skills Network. Through this network and its Career of Work-Integrated Life-Long Learning (WILL) Exploration Fair, we share our passion for science and The talents of tomorrow opportunities in the transportation and aerospace technology and help inspire the next generation. sectors. CAE has for many years been helping advance student Another way we extend our STEM outreach is via the training and education in Quebec universities. We continue As a member of the Business/Higher Education Classes Affaires one-week internships offered to high school to build on that legacy by being actively involved in Roundtable, CAE is a Champion of the organization’s students under the Montréal Relève program. Over the past sharing our technical know-how. We are eager to develop Work-Integrated Learning (WIL) program — WIL in year, over 400 students visited our facilities and production the talents of tomorrow. Here are some of the ways we Action — for the mobility and aerospace sectors. cells and met with our employees. do that: teaching a credited aerospace undergraduate The goal is to create an additional 10,000 WIL course at Polytechnique Montréal in one of the CAEopportunities in those sectors. Watch the video funded simulation laboratories, hosting a masterclass for University of Sherbrooke students on gameplay Watch the video techniques, mentoring engineering teams working on a variety of capstone projects and industry challenges, and presenting a seminar on real-time image synthesis technologies. 61 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Community and environment Growing employee engagement Reporting Across CAE, we're increasingly sharing best practices and initiatives that cover all our environmental aspects, including energy efficiency and waste Environmental performance reduction. Our global presence spans 160 sites and training locations in over 35 countries. Our Environmental Policy and ISO-14001inspired reports are presented to Environmental Management System (EMS) guide us in managing our environmental impact across these sites and locations. Enviro-News, our global the Board of Directors on a internal environmental newsletter, is sent out monthly and provides updates on best practices and initiatives taking place across the company. This quarterly basis. Every site communication tool enables us to share corrective actions and stimulate continuous improvement in our environmental performance. manager is responsible for tracking performance against Shrinking our environmental aerospace industry. The group is devoted to environmental targets as well footprint maintaining Quebec’s competitive position in as for compliance with local a quickly changing global aeronautical market We are proud of the environmental strides environmental regulations by focusing on R&D activities in response to being made at CAE. Here is a summary of our and requirements. new environmental regulations to combat top five environmental achievements in fiscal climate change. 2019, in line with our objectives: Training our leaders • For the fourth consecutive year, we Doing their bit to fight litter on environmental celebrated Earth Day across our sites, issues with a twist: exploring the potential of CAE Dothan in Alabama joined the “Adoptcombining environmental improvement a-Mile” program in an environmental and All company executives, with community involvement. community-involvement effort to remove group leaders and trash along a local roadway. • Renewable energy and paperless environmental officers initiatives. must participate in our • Key Environment, Health and Security corporate environmental A new approach to workspace (EHS) representatives got together to awareness program. The design share best global practices and offer program explains the training sessions targeting specific Our Montreal location has over the past few basic elements of good improvement projects. years been reconfiguring the workspaces in a environmental management • A global platform in EHS data program called AGORA. Our Facilities team has principles, the environmental management was launched in order to developed these collaborative environments responsibilities of all Local green heroes on Earth Day facilitate risk management and the filing allowing a better sharing of spaces, which employees and the actions to of performance indicators. leads to a reduction of our energy footprint. be taken in the event of an CAE encouraged employees to both help The guiding principles for the remodeling are: environmental emergency. • We developed a sustainable mobility the environment and get involved in the Environmental training program offer at our headquarters in R: Reuse and recycle and, whenever possible, community by joining clean-up groups in programs are also developed Montreal. sell or give away the material or furniture areas close to the site. CAE colleagues in Tokyo on an ad-hoc basis and made being replaced rather than trash it. had already made a tradition of the activity, Coalition for Greener Aircraft available to all employees which involves clearing garbage around their CAE is a member of the Coalition for Greener A: Awareness – Information tools have been through our intranet. building every Earth Day. Many other CAE sites Aircraft, a non-profit organization whose developed and shared with employees, and decided to follow suit this year. mission is the development of smarter, more a point of contact is designated in each area efficient and effective technologies while being remodeled. Watch the slideshow reducing the environmental footprint of the featuring our green heroes 62 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Corporate social responsibility / Community and environment Sustainable mobility initiatives at CAE Montreal Members of our environment team in Montreal continued honing their expertise and introducing improvements in the area of sustainable mobility, making it easier for employees to use alternatives to the automobile. Here are some highlights: • The number of electric vehicle (EV) charging stations grew to 34 at our headquarters, not counting the increase in many of our locations, reflecting the growing use of EVs. New certifications Down with single-use cups, • CAE’s subsidy of employees’ annual public transit pass increased. plates and utensils! • A sustainable mobility fair was organized. Employees got to test electric bikes and EVs. All of our Oceania sites, excluding the co-enterprise ones, are now certified Many members of the mobility community were present to explain their services, such as The year saw the growing popularity at ISO 14001. It’s an international public transit, bike repair workshops, and ride-sharing platforms. some of our sites of measures to ban standard that specifies what is required or reduce the use of single-use plastic Smart commuting gets a boost for an institution to have an effective or Styrofoam items like cups, plates Environmental Management System and straws. Employees are provided Another environmental feather in CAE (EMS). with ceramic plates and cups in the Montreal’s cap is the sustainable mobility cafeterias and encouraged to use eco“Leaders” award from MOBA and Voyagez Our Stolberg, Germany centre cups for their coffee, while new arrivals Bicycle commuting gets its due Futé, an honourable mention for continuity successfully obtained “Ökoprofit” were issued reusable water bottles. in our green initiatives. Voyagez Futé is a certification. “Ökoprofit” is a one-year CAE Montreal received gold-level certification Montreal-based sustainable mobility hub cooperative partnership between Towards improved energy from VÉLOSYMPATHIQUE, a Quebec nonpromoting and supporting alternatives to local or regional authorities and efficiency profit group that encourages communities and solo driving. MOBA is the transport division of private-sector companies for EMS organizations to advance the cause of cycling Développement économique Saint-Laurent. implementation and improvement. At CAE, we are always keen to find ways of making our energy use more as an efficient, healthy and environmentally Doing more for recycling efficient and environmentally friendly. friendly means of transportation and Among site-specific initiatives are the recreation. Previously certified bronze, With a view to improving their recycling CAE Montreal continues to improve on the switch to heating and air conditioning performance, several CAE sites made measures put in place in 2015 to inspire that require less energy, placing improvements to their garbage employees to cycle to work. The gold solar screens on windows or fans in collection and recovery systems. The certification is a welcome acknowledgment of some buildings to disperse the heat new and improved measures included those efforts. Congratulations to all the CAE in winter, the use of natural light setting up recycling islands, banishing employees who contributed their time and in simulator bays or offices, or the individual trash bins and introducing energy to making this happen, including Jeaninstallation of motion sensors. Some composting. At our training site in Yves Bilodeau, who is in charge of the Bike-tosites are already equipped with LED Kidlington/Oxford, UK, arriving new Work club. Claire Aubert, Group Leader in Environment, lighting that helps lower energy use Health and Safety proudly received the Leaders student pilots are provided with clear while also cutting the electricity bill! award from MOBA and Voyagez Futé. guidance regarding the waste sorting rules on campus. 63 Appendix Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Site certifications Site certifications ISO 9001:2015 Quality management systems – Requirements CAE Montreal Headquarters CAE Cold Lake CAE Mirabel CAE Military Aviation Training 8585 Côte-de-Liesse, Saint-Laurent, Quebec, 4 Wing Cold Lake, P.O. Box 6759, Station 10000 Helen-Bristol Street, Mirabel, Quebec, NATO Flight Training in Canada (NFTC), Canada, H4T 1G6 Forces, Cold Lake, Alberta, Canada, T9M 2C2 Canada, J7N 1H3 Colonel O.B. Philp Complex, Building 160, PO Box 120, Bushell Park, Saskatchewan, Scope: Design, manufacture, service and Scope: Maintain and service flight training Scope: Provide capacity-service support for Canada, S0H 0N0 maintenance of simulation products and devices; provide supply support and the entire system lifecycle including systems training solutions. provisioning; provide onsite hardware/ engineering and software and integrated Scope: Provide ground school training, aircraft software support; provide data and records logistic support. maintenance repair and overhaul, engineering 400 Montée-de-Liesse, Saint-Laurent, management. support and technical management activities. Quebec, Canada, H4T 1N8 CAE Trenton NATO Flight Training in Canada (NFTC), Scope: Storage, handling and warehousing. CAE Greenwood 426 Squadron, 20 Buffalo Avenue, 8 Wing Building H10, Cold Lake, Alberta, Canada, 404 Squadron, Building 250, 14 Wing Trenton, Astra, Ontario, Canada, K0K 3W0 105 Montée-de-Liesse, Saint-Laurent, T9M 2C5 Greenwood, Greenwood, Nova Scotia, Quebec, Canada, H4T 1S6 Scope: Maintain and service flight training Canada, B0P 1N0 Scope: Provide egress training and aircraft devices; provide supply support and Scope: Assembly and test of simulation maintenance. Scope: Maintain and service flight training provisioning; provide onsite hardware/ products. Storage, handling and warehousing. devices; provide supply support and software support; provide data and records Presagis Canada Inc. CAE Ottawa provisioning; provide onsite hardware/ management. 4700 De La Savane Street, Suite #300, 350 Legget Drive, 2nd floor, Ottawa, Ontario, software support; provide data and records 46 Yukon Avenue, 8 Wing Trenton, Astra, Montreal, Quebec, Canada, H4P 1T7 Canada, K2K 2W7 management. Ontario, Canada, K0K 3W0 Scope: Provide software technical services Scope: Provide software development, systems CAE Gagetown Scope: Repair and maintain flight simulators, and consultation for defence and aerospace engineering, system integration, ISS, operational 403 Squadron, Building L24, 403 Squadron, aircraft maintenance training devices and realtime simulation and modelings systems, enterprise training and consulting CFB Gagetown, Oromocto, New Brunswick, associated training equipment; provide onsite applications; include customization and services for the entire system lifecycle, including Canada, E2V 4J5 hardware/software support; manage spares integration of COTS software, 3D modeling and integrated logistics support. This also includes and inventory; coordinate and schedule synthetic environment creation. Scope: Maintain and service flight training aircrew training (including computer-based training time; provide aircrew training services; devices; provide supply support and training), egress training, aircraft maintenance develop and maintain courseware and training CAE India Private Limited provisioning; provide onsite hardware/ repair and overhaul, aircraft engineering documentation; provide data and records 1st Floor, Survey No. 26 & 27, software support; provide data and records support and technical management, Training management. Bandaramanahalli Village, Uganavadi Post, management. Centre Operations, and simulation products Devanahalli Taluk, Bangalore 562 110, maintenance for defence, aerospace, healthcare CAE Petawawa Karnataka, India CAE Halifax and public safety applications. 450 Tactical Helicopter Squadron, Building 36 Solutions Drive, Suite 200, Halifax, Nova Scope: Provide analysis, design, development, CC12C8, 450 Mattawa Trail, Garrison Scotia, Canada, B3S 1N2 manufacturing, integration, installation, CAE Moose Jaw Petawawa, Petawawa, Ontario, Canada, commissioning, maintenance and support of 15 Wing Moose Jaw, P.O. Box 30, Bushell Scope: Provide software development, K8H 2X3 simulators and engineering systems solutions Park, Saskatchewan, Canada, S0H 0N0 systems engineering, systems integration, Scope: Repair and maintain flight simulators for aerospace, defence and power sectors. in-service support, operational systems, Scope: Maintain and service flight training and associated training equipment; provide enterprise training and consulting services for devices; provide supply support and onsite hardware/software support; manage defence, aerospace, public safety and security provisioning; provide onsite hardware/ spares and inventory; coordinate and schedule applications. software support; provide data and records training time; provide aircrew training services; management. develop and maintain courseware and training documentation; provide data and records management. 65 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Site certifications CAE USA – Tampa CAE USA Fairchild AFB Swordfish Road, HMAS Albatross, Nowra, Army Aviation Training Centre, Army Airfield 4908 Tampa West Boulevard, Tampa, Florida, 101 W. Arnold Street, Fairchild Air Force NSW 2541, Australia Oakey, QLD 4401, Australia USA, 33634 Base, Spokane, WA 99011 Scope: Provide maintenance support for Scope: Provide systems engineering and Scope: Provide design, integration, testing and Scope: Provide simulation device integration, simulation training devices; provide training maintenance support for simulation training installation of simulation devices for military installation, maintenance and training. services using simulation training devices. devices; provide training services using training. simulation training devices. Simulator Facility Building, 375 Percival CAE USA Hickam AFB 5411B Pioneer Park Drive, Tampa, Florida, Street, RAAF Base Richmond, NSW 2755, RAAF Base, Building 398, 292 Squadron AFS, 395 Mamiya Avenue, Hickam Air Force Base, USA, 33634 Australia Edinburgh, SA 5111, Australia Honolulu, HI 96853 Scope: Provide assembly and testing. Scope: Provide systems engineering and Scope: Provide systems engineering and Scope: Provide simulation device integration, maintenance support for simulation training maintenance support for simulation training installation, maintenance and training. CAE USA – Orlando devices; provide training services using devices. 2603 Discovery Drive, Orlando, Florida, USA, simulation training devices. CAE USA Grissom ARB CAE Sale Training Centre, Lot 16, Wellington 32836 4376 Hoosier Boulevard, Grissom Air Reserve 350 Parramatta Road Campus Business Park Park Way, Sale, VIC 3850, Australia Scope: Provide assembly and testing. Base, Kokomo, IN 46971 Homebush NSW 2140, Australia Scope: Provide maintenance support for Scope: Provide simulation device integration, Scope: Provide systems engineering and project simulation training devices. CAE USA – Sherwood installation, maintenance and training. and program management for simulation 2402 Wildwood Avenue, Suite 501, 79 SQN Simulator, Building A0989, RAAF Base Sherwood, Arkansas, USA training devices; develop growth opportunities Pearce, Bullsbrook, WA 6084, Australia CAE USA Milwaukee ANGB within the business. Scope: Provide analysis, design, development, 1874 E. Grange Avenue, Milwaukee, WI 53207 Scope: Provide systems engineering and implementation and evaluation of integrated 76SQN Hawk Simulator Facility Building 868, maintenance support for simulation training Scope: Provide simulation device integration, RAAF Base Williamtown, NSW 2314, Australia training solutions. devices. installation, maintenance and training. Scope: Provide systems engineering and CAE Perth Training Centre, 81 Verde Drive, CAE USA – Altus maintenance support for simulation training CAE USA Kadena AFB Jandakot, WA 6164, Australia 203 North 6th Street, Building 179, Room 154, devices; provide training services using Building 748, Kadena Air Force Base, Altus, Oklahoma, USA, 73523 simulation training devices. Scope: Provide civil aviation training services Okinawa, JA 904-0299 and maintenance support of flight simulators Scope: Provide simulation device integration, RAAF Base, KC30-A Sim Facility Building, 1123 Scope: Provide simulation device integration, and training devices. installation, maintenance and training. F-111 Drive, Amberley, QLD 4306, Australia installation, maintenance and training. Scope: Provide systems engineering and CAE New Zealand Pty Ltd CAE USA MacDill AFB CAE USA Pittsburgh ANGB maintenance support for simulation training Seasprite Simulator 6 Squadron HQ, RNZAF 7800 Hanger Loop Drive, MacDill AFB, 304 Mustang Drive, Coraopolis, PA 15108 devices; provide training services using Base Auckland, Tainui Street, Whenuapai, Tampa, FL 33621 Scope: Provide simulation device integration, simulation training devices. Auckland, 0618, New Zealand Scope: Provide simulation device integration, installation, maintenance and training. 120 Edward Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000, Scope: Provide systems engineering and installation, maintenance and training. Australia maintenance support for simulation training CAE USA Scott AFB devices. CAE USA March ARB Scope: Provide systems engineering, training 5790 Pryor Drive, Scott Air Force Base, 1250 Y Street, March Air Reserve Base, services and project management for 14 SQN Training Centre, Kororareka Ave, Belleville, IL 62225 Riverside CA 92518 simulation training devices; develop growth Ohakea, 4816, New Zealand Scope: Provide simulation device integration, opportunities within the business. Scope: Provide simulation device integration, Scope: Provide systems engineering and installation, maintenance and training. installation, maintenance and training. Building 0808, CH47F Training Centre, RAAF maintenance support for simulation training CAE Australia Pty Ltd Base Townsville, Ingham Road, Garbutt, QLD devices. Bankstown Airport, 33 Nancy Ellis Leebold 4810, Australia Drive, Bankstown, NSW 2200, Australia Scope: Provide maintenance support for Scope: Provide maintenance support for simulation training devices. simulation training devices. 66 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Site certifications CAE Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia RAF Benson Medium Support Helicopter, AS9100C Quality management systems Requirements for Lot PT25B, Jalan S5, Southern Support Zone, Aircrew Training Facility, RAF Benson, aviation, space and defence organizations KLIA, 64000, Sepang, Selangor, Malaysia Wallingford, Oxfordshire OX10 6AA, United Kingdom Scope: Provide training for commercial pilots, CAE Montreal – Headquarters CAE Ottawa cabin crew, ramp, guest services and aircraft Scope: Provide design, supply and maintenance 8585 Côte-de-Liesse, Saint-Laurent, Quebec, 350 Legget Drive Suite 200, Ottawa, Ontario, maintenance. of training equipment and synthetic Canada, H4T 1G6 Canada, K2K 2W7 environments, and the provision of associated CAE Germany – Stolberg training, customer requirements analysis and Scope: Provide design (hardware and Scope: Provide business development and CAE Elektronik GmbH, Steinfurt 11, 52222-D through-life support; provide systems and software), manufacture, repair and overhaul program management of the magnetic Stolberg, Germany software development and support; provide of the Magnetic Anomaly Detection (MAD)/AIMS anomaly detection (MAD)/AIMS equipment. maintenance management. equipment. Scope: Provide operation, development, manufacturing, technical and logistic RNAS Culdrose Sea King & Merlin Training support for training equipment and synthetic Facility, RNAS Culdrose, Helston, Cornwall, environments, systems and software TR21 7HR, United Kingdom CMMI-DEV V1.3 Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) for applications (mainly flight and tactical Development, Version 1.3 Scope: Provide design, supply and maintenance simulators); provide associated training of training equipment and synthetic programs. CAE Montreal – Headquarters CAE Australia Pty Ltd environments, and the provision of associated 8585 Côte-de-Liesse, Saint-Laurent, Quebec, 350 Parramatta Road, Campus Business CAE Germany – Bückeburg training, customer requirements analysis and Canada, H4T 1G6 Park, Homebush, NSW 2140, Australia CAE Services GmbH, Bäckerstr. 18, 31683-D through-life support; provide systems and Obernkirchen, Germany software development and support; provide Scope: Maturity Level 3, Defence and Security. Scope: Maturity Level 3, Engineering. maintenance management. Scope: Provide maintenance, support and CAE Mirabel CAE Germany – Stolberg operation of training equipment and synthetic RAF Brize Norton C-130J Training Facility, 10000 Helen-Bristol Street, Mirabel, Quebec, CAE Elektronik GmbH, Steinfurt 11, 52222-D environments (mainly flight and tactical RAF Brize Norton, Carterton, Oxfordshire, Canada, J7N 1H3 Stolberg simulators; provide associated training as OX18 3LX, United Kingdom Scope: Maturity Level 5, Operational Systems Scope: Maturity Level 3, Flight Simulation, required. Scope: Provide design, supply and maintenance and In-Service Support (OS & ISS). Program Management Office, Quality of training equipment and synthetic CAE United Kingdom Management and Continuous Improvement, environments, and the provision of associated CAE USA – Tampa Procurement, and Human Resources. CAE Burgess Hill (UK), Innovation Drive, York training, customer requirements analysis and 4908 Tampa West Boulevard, Tampa, Florida, Road, Burgess Hill, West Sussex, RH15 9TW, through-life support; provide systems and USA, 33634 United Kingdom software development and support; provide maintenance management. Scope: Maturity Level 3, Defence and Security. Scope: Provide design, supply and maintenance of training equipment and synthetic environments, and the provision of associated training, customer requirements analysis and CMMI-SVC V1.3 Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI) for through-life support; provide systems and Services, Version 1.3 software development and support; provide maintenance management. CAE Montreal Headquarters CAE Australia Pty Ltd 8585 Côte-de-Liesse, Saint-Laurent, Quebec, 350 Parramatta Road, Campus Business Canada, H4T 1G6 Park, Homebush, NSW 2140, Australia Scope: Maturity Level 3, Customer Services for Scope: Maturity Level 3, Defence and Security Defence and Security. Training Operations (Maintenance). CAE Mirabel CAE New Zealand Pty Ltd 10000 Helen-Bristol Street, Mirabel, Quebec, 14 SQN Training Centre, Kororareka Ave, Canada, J7N 1H3 Ohakea, 4816, New Zealand Maturity Level 3, Operational Systems and InScope: Maturity Level 3, Defence and Security Service Support (OS & ISS). Training Operations (Maintenance). 67 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Site certifications ISO 14001:2015 Environmental management systems Requirements with guidance for use CAE Military Aviation Training 76SQN Hawk Simulator Facility, Building 868, 79 SQN Simulator, Building A0989, RAAF RAF Brize Norton (UK), 24 Sqn HQ, Carterton, NATO Flight Training in Canada (NFTC), RAAF Base Williamtown, NSW 2314, Australia Base Pearce, Bullsbrook, WA 6084, Australia Oxfordshire, OX18 3LX, United Kingdom Colonel O.B. Philp Complex, Building 160, Scope: Provide engineering and maintenance Scope: Provide systems engineering and Scope: Provide design, supply and maintenance PO Box 120, Bushell Park, Saskatchewan, support for simulation training devices; provide maintenance support for simulation training of training equipment and synthetic Canada, S0H 0N0 training services using simulation training devices. environments and associated training; provide Scope: Provide maintenance of aircraft, ground devices. customer requirements analysis and through CAE Perth Training Centre, 81 Verde Drive, school training and airfield operations. life support. RAAF Base, KC30-A Sim Facility Building, 1123 Jandakot, WA 6164, Australia F-111 Drive, Amberley, QLD 4306, Australia CAE Medium Support Helicopter Aircrew CAE Australia Pty Ltd Scope: Provide civil aviation training services Training Facility (UK), RAF Benson, Unit 42, Brindabella Circuit, Brindabella Scope: Provide systems engineering and and maintenance support of flight simulators Wallingford, Oxfordshire, OX10 6AA, United Business Park, Canberra Airport, ACT 2609, maintenance support for simulation training and training devices. Kingdom Australia devices; provide training services using simulation training devices. CAE New Zealand Ltd Scope: Provide design, supply and maintenance Scope: Provide the development of growth Seasprite Simulator 6 Squadron HQ, RNZAF of training equipment and synthetic opportunities within the business. 120 Edward Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000, Base Auckland, Tainui Street, Whenuapai, environments and associated training; provide Australia Bankstown Airport, 33 Nancy Ellis Leebold Auckland 0618, New Zealand customer requirements analysis and through Drive, Bankstown, NSW 2200, Australia Scope: Provide systems engineering, training life support. Scope: Provide systems engineering and services and project management for Scope: Provide maintenance support for maintenance support for simulation training simulation training devices; develop growth simulation training devices. devices. opportunities within the business. Swordfish Road, HMAS Albatross, Nowra, 14 SQN Training Centre, Kororareka Ave, Building 0808, CH47F Training Centre, RAAF NSW 2541, Australia Ohakea, 4816, New Zealand Base Townsville, Ingham Road, Garbutt, QLD Scope: Provide maintenance support for 4810, Australia Scope: Provide systems engineering and simulation training devices; provide training maintenance support for simulation training Scope: Provide maintenance support for services using simulation training devices. devices. simulation training devices. Simulator Facility Building, 375 Percival Army Aviation Training Centre, Army Airfield CAE United Kingdom Street, RAAF Base Richmond, NSW 2755, Oakey, QLD 4401, Australia CAE Burgess Hill (UK), Innovation Drive, Australia Burgess Hill, West Sussex, RH15 9TW, United Scope: Provide systems engineering and Scope: Provide systems engineering and Kingdom maintenance support for simulation training maintenance support for simulation training devices; provide training services using Scope: Provide design, supply and maintenance devices; provide training services using simulation training devices. of training equipment and synthetic simulation training devices. environments and associated training; provide RAAF Base, Building 398, 292 Squadron AFS, 350 Parramatta Road, Campus Business customer requirements analysis and through Edinburgh, SA 5111, Australia Park, Homebush, NSW 2140, Australia life support. Scope: Provide systems engineering and Scope: Provide systems engineering and project RNAS Culdrose (UK), Building D51, Helston, maintenance support for simulation training and program management for simulation Cornwall, TR12 7RH, United Kingdom devices. training devices; provide development of growth Scope: Provide design, supply and maintenance opportunities within the business. CAE Sale Training Centre, Lot 16, Wellington of training equipment and synthetic Park Way, Sale, VIC 3850, Australia environments and associated training; provide Scope: Provide maintenance support for customer requirements analysis and through simulation training devices. life support. 68 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Site certifications OHSAS 18001:2007 AS/NZS 4801:2001 Occupational health and safety management systems Occupational health and Specification with guidance for use safety management systems Requirements CAE Australia Pty Ltd 120 Edward Street, Brisbane, QLD 4000, CAE New Zealand Pty Ltd Unit 42, Brindabella Circuit, Brindabella Australia Seasprite Simulator 6 Squadron HQ, RNZAF Business Park, Canberra Airport, ACT 2609, Base Auckland, Tainui Street, Whenuapai, CAE Military Aviation Training Scope: Provide systems engineering training Australia Auckland, 0618, New Zealand NATO Flight Training in Canada (NFTC), services and project management for Colonel O.B. Philp Complex, Building 160, Scope: Develop growth opportunities within the simulation training devices; develop growth Scope: Provide systems engineering and PO Box 120, Bushell Park, Saskatchewan, business. opportunities within the business. maintenance support for simulation training Canada, S0H 0N0 devices. Bankstown Airport, 33 Nancy Ellis Leebold Building 0808, CH47F Training Centre, RAAF Scope: Provide maintenance of aircraft, Drive, Bankstown, NSW 2200, Australia Base Townsville, Ingham Road, Garbutt, QLD 14 SQN Training Centre, Kororareka Ave, ground school training and airfield 4810, Australia Ohakea, 4816, New Zealand Scope: Provide maintenance support for operations. simulation training devices. Scope: Provide maintenance support for Scope: Provide systems engineering and simulation training devices. maintenance support for simulation training Swordfish Road, HMAS Albatross, Nowra, devices. Cyber Essentials Scheme NSW 2541, Australia Army Aviation Training Centre, Army Airfield Test Specification Cyber Oakey, QLD 4401 Australia Scope: Provide maintenance support for Essentials PLUS simulation training devices; provide training Scope: Provide systems engineering and services using simulation training devices. maintenance support for simulation training devices; provide training services using CAE United Kingdom Simulator Facility, Building 375, Percival simulation training devices. Innovation Drive, Burgess Hill, RH15 9TW, Street, RAAF Base Richmond, NSW 2755, UK Australia RAAF Base, Building 398, 292 Squadron AFS, Edinburgh, SA 5111, Australia Scope: Cyber Essentials programme is the Scope: Provide systems engineering and CAE.CO.UK network, which is administered by maintenance support for simulation training Scope: Provide systems engineering and the Defence & Security (D&S) division of CAE devices; provide training services using maintenance support for simulation training (UK) Plc. simulation training devices. devices. 350 Parramatta Road, Campus Business CAE Sale Training Centre, Lot 16, Wellington Park, Homebush, NSW 2140, Australia Park Way, Sale, VIC 3850, Australia Scope: Provide systems engineering and project Scope: Provide maintenance support for and program management for simulation simulation training devices. training devices; develop growth opportunities 79 SQN Simulator, Building A0989, RAAF Base within the business. Pearce, Bullsbrook, WA 6084, Australia 76SQN Hawk Simulator Facility, Building 868, Scope: Provide systems engineering and RAAF Base Williamtown, NSW 2314, Australia maintenance support for simulation training Scope: Provide systems engineering and devices. maintenance support for simulation training CAE Perth Training Centre, 81 Verde Drive, devices; provide training services using Jandakot, WA 6164, Australia simulation training devices. Scope: Provide civil aviation training services RAAF Base, KC30-A Sim Facility Building, 1123 and maintenance support of flight simulators F-111 Drive, Amberley, QLD 4306, Australia and training devices. Scope: Provide systems engineering and maintenance support for simulation training devices; provide training services using simulation training devices. 69 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY19 FY18 GRI 100 – UNIVERSAL STANDARDS Organizational profile 102-1 Name of the organization page 1 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 1 FY18 Activity & CSR Report: Civil pages 13-16 Civil, pages 12-15 102-2 Activities, brands, products and services Defence & Security pages 18-21 Defence & Security, pages 18-21 Healthcare pages 24-27 Healthcare, pages 24-27 102-3 Location of headquarters page 8 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 7 102-4 Location of operations page 8 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 7 102-5 Ownership and legal form MD&A pages 108-110 MD&A pages 102-104 102-6 Markets served pages 7-8 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, pages 6-7 102-7 Scale of organization pages 7-8 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, pages 6-7 102-8 Information on employees and other workers See GRI standard 401-1 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, pages 64-65 102-12 External initiatives pages 58-63 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 52 Strategy 102-14 Statement from senior decision-maker page 4-6 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, pages 4-5 102-15 Key impacts, risks and opportunities MD&A pages 36-41 MD&A pages 35-41 Ethics and integrity 102-16 Values, principles, standards and norms of behaviour page 46 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 5 102-17 Mechanisms for advice and concerns about ethics pages 46-50 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 45 Governance 102-18 Governance structure page 37 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 102-19 Delegating authority page 37 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 102-20 Executive-level responsibility for economic, environmental and social topics page 37 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 102-21 Consulting stakeholders on economic, environmental and social topics page 37 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 102-22 Composition of highest governance body and its committees See website – Board of Directors See website – Board of Directors 70 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY19 FY18 GRI 100 – UNIVERSAL STANDARDS 102-23 Chair of the highest governance body See website – Board of Directors See website – Board of Directors See Proxy Circular – Financial Reports: See Proxy Circular – Financial Reports: 102-24 Nominating and selecting the highest governance body Proxy Circular for FY19 Proxy Circular for FY18 102-26 Role of highest governance body in setting purpose, values and strategy See website Governance FY18 Activity & CSR Report, pages 30-31 See Proxy Circular – Financial Reports: See Proxy Circular – Financial Reports: 102-27 Collective knowledge of highest governance body Proxy Circular for FY19 Proxy Circular for FY18 102-28 Evaluating the highest governance body’s performance See FY19 Proxy Circular Financial Reports See FY18 Proxy Circular Financial Reports 102-30 Effectiveness of Risk Management Processes See FY19 Proxy Circular Audit Committee See FY18 Proxy Circular Audit Committee 102-31 Review of economic, environmental and social topics page 37 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 102-32 Highest governance body’s role in sustainability reporting page 37 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 See FY19 Proxy Circular See FY18 Proxy Circular 102-35 Remuneration policies Section 7 Executive compensation Section 7 Executive compensation See FY19 Proxy Circular See FY18 Proxy Circular 102-36 Process for determining remuneration Section 7 Executive compensation Section 7 Executive compensation See FY19 Proxy Circular See FY18 Proxy Circular 102-37 Stakeholders’ involvement in remuneration Section 7 Executive compensation Section 7 Executive compensation Stakeholder engagement 102-40 List of stakeholder groups pages 36-37 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 33 102-41 Collective bargaining agreements 59 43 102-41 Percentage of employees covered by collective agreements 22% 18% 102-42 Identifying and selecting stakeholders pages 36-37 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 102-43 Approach to stakeholder engagement pages 36-37 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 102-44 Key topics and concerns raised pages 36-37 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 71 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY19 FY18 GRI 100 – UNIVERSAL STANDARDS Reporting practices Financial Reports: Financial Reports: 102-45 Entities included in the consolidated financial statements Annual Information Form for FY19 Annual Information Form for FY18 102-46 Defining report content and topic boundaries pages 36-37 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, pages 33-34 102-47 List of material topics pages 36-37 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 34 102-49 Changes in reporting pages 36-37 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, pages 33-34 102-50 Reporting period page 2 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 2 Corporate Social Corporate Social 102-51 Date of most recent report Responsibility Report 2018 Responsibility Report 2017 102-52 Reporting cycle page 2 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 2 102-53 Contact point for questions regarding the report page 2 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 2 102-55 GRI content index pages 70-77 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 60 Management approach FY18 Activity & CSR Report: People and safety, pages 38-45 People and safety, pages 35-41 Ethics and integrity, pages 46-50 Ethics and integrity, pages 42-45 103-2 Management approach and its components Innovation and Innovation and customer experience pages 51-57 customer experience, pages 46-49 Community and environment pages 58-63 Community and environment, pages 50-54 72 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY19 FY18 GRI 200 – ECONOMIC TOPICS Economic performance 201-1 Direct economic value generated and distributed Direct economic value generated ($M) 3,304.1 2,823.51 Cost of sales ($M) 2,362.6 1,945.61 Research & development expenses ($M) 232.1 182.7 Selling, general & administration expenses ($M) 415.2 380.8 Finance expenses net ($M) 80.9 77.2 Income tax expenses ($M) 59.6 30.9 Economic value retained ($M) 205.7 274.7 201-2 Financial implications and other risks and opportunities due to climate change MD&A page 37 MD&A page 38 Market presence 201-3 Defined benefit plan obligations and other retirement plans ($M) 212.6 200.6 201-4 Funding received from government ($M) 45.2 29.0 202-2 Proportion of senior management hired from the local community2 Canada 100% 99% US 78% 79% Other 92% 92% Overall 90% 94% Procurement practices 204-1 Proportion of spending on local suppliers Australia 87% 77% Asia 89% 78% Europe 80% 47% Middle East 85% 83% North America 50% 63% South America 77% 80% Anti-competitive behaviour 206-1 Legal actions for anti-competitive behaviour, anti-trust, and monopoly practices 0 0 1 FY18 numbers were restated following the retroactive adoption of the new IFRS 15 accounting standard. 2 Director and up, citizenship in the country in which they work 73 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY19 FY18 GRI 300 – ENVIRONMENTAL TOPICS Energy 302-1 Energy consumption within the organization (MWh) 281,2551 292,5601,4 Natural gas (MWh) 13,4041 15,5071,4 Electricity (MWh) 189,0521 186,2531,4 Diesel, heating oil, propane, fuel for aircraft and cars, hot and chilled water 78,7991 90,8001,4 (MWh) 302-3 Energy intensity (MWh/$million revenue) 85.12 103.624 Water2 303-1 Water withdrawal by source (m3) 328,848 344,7983 Emissions 305-1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions (tCO2e) 25,213 28,4244 305-2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG emissions GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2 location based) (tCO2e) 87,825 90,1044 GHG emissions (Scope 1 and 2 market based) (tCO2e) 80,550 84,9754 Energy indirect GHG Emissions (scope 2 location based) (tCO2e) 62,612 61,6804 Energy indirect GHG Emissions (scope 2 market based) (tCO2e) 55,336 56,5514 Effluents and waste 306-2 Waste by type and disposal method (Montreal only) Waste generated absolute (tonnes) 1,401 1,603 Total weight of hazardous waste (tonnes) 46 62 Total weight of non-hazardous waste (tonnes) 1,355 1,541 Non-hazardous waste recycled (%) 855 865 Environmental compliance 307-1 Non-compliance with environmental laws and regulations No significant fine No significant fine 1 Conversion rates vary for each country and province. Estimates were done for sites for which information was not yet available based on data from sites with the same type of activities. 2 For sites where we have operational control of the building. 3 Data published in the FY18 report is corrected due to an error in unit of measure. 4 Data published in the FY18 report is updated to reflect updated methodology. 5 Includes composting. 74 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY19 FY18 GRI 400 – SOCIAL TOPICS Employment 401-1 New employee hires and employee turnover Total employees 11,764 9,635 Total number of employees CAE 11,314 9,167 Number of employees (permanent) 1 10,0323 8,0004 Number of employees (temporary) 1 1,282 1,167 Total number of employees in our joint ventures2 450 468 Employees by gender Number of employees (female) 2,408 1,931 Number of employees (male) 9,356 7,704 % of female employees 20% 20% % of male employees 80% 80% Employees covered by collective bargaining agreements Number of employees 2,600 1,700 % of employees 22% 18% Number of non-unionized employees 9,164 7,935 New employee hires Total number of new employee hires 3,667 1,920 New employee hire rate (% of total employees) 31%5 20% 1 Changed methodology by adding two categories. 2 Only for joint ventures that are material. 3 Includes 214 part-time employees 4 Includes 208 part-time employees 5 Increase year over year is mainly due to the onboarding of employees from our acquisitions. 75 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY19 FY18 GRI 400 – SOCIAL TOPICS Employment Age group New employee hires below 30 years old 875 583 % new employee hires below 30 years old 24% 30% New employee hires 30-50 years old 1,624 865 % new employee hires 30-50 years old 44% 45% New employee hires above 50 years old1 1,168 472 % new employee hires above 50 years old1 32% 25% Contractors in instruction roles2 Total number of contractors 1,191 976 Number of contrators at CAE 1,088 889 Number of contrators in our joint ventures 103 87 Employee turnover number 1,029 1,064 Employee turnover rate (% of total employees) 10% 13% Age group Employee turnover below 30 years old 213 213 % employee turnover below 30 years old 14% 20% Employee turnover 30-50 years old 470 516 % employee turnover 30-50 years old 9% 12% Employee turnover above 50 years old 346 335 % employee turnover above 50 years old 9% 11% Gender Employee turnover for women 219 240 % employee turnover for women 10% 13% Employee turnover for men 809 824 % employee turnover for men 10% 10% 1 Above 50 years old category was not included in 2018 report. 2 Change in methodology: only contractors who are in instruction roles are included as they represent a key component of delivering training to our customers. In FY18, all contractors were included regardless of their role. 76 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) indicators GRI standards FY19 FY18 GRI 400 – SOCIAL TOPICS Occupational health and safety 3 most frequent types: 3 most frequent types: Types of injury and rates of injury, occupational diseases, lost days, absenteeism Slips/trips/falls 24% Slips/trips/falls 33% 403-2 and number of work-related fatalities1 Struck by/on 10% Struck by/on 23% In contact with 7% In contact with 20% Incident Frequency Rate (IFR)1 0.54 0.39 Days Lost Rate (DLR)1 2.62 1.35 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)1 0.24 0.16 Near Miss Rate (NMR)1 0.92 1.21 Work-related fatalities 1 1 Diversity and equal opportunity 405-1 Diversity of governance bodies and employees 20% 18% Non-discrimination 406-1 Incidents of discrimination and corrective actions taken page 49 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 45 Public policy 415-1 Political contributions 0 0 Marketing and labelling 417-1 Requirements for product and service information and labelling page 50 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 44 Incidents of non-compliance concerning product and service information and 417-2 0 0 labelling 417-3 Incidents of non-compliance concerning marketing communications 0 0 Customer privacy Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy and losses 418-1 0 0 of customer data Socio-economic compliance 419-1 Non-compliance with laws and regulations related to socio-economic matters 0 0 1 Per 200,000 hours worked 77 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report / Appendix / Non-GRI indicators Non-GRI indicators GRI standards FY19 FY18 ETHICS AND INTEGRITY Non-discrimination Number of foreign agents we hire page 48 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 43 Report on training completion and Code of Business Conduct page 48 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 43, page 45 acknowledgement completion PEOPLE AND FLIGHT SAFETY Flight safety Number of voluntary reports (per 10K flight hours) 39.3 41.01 Number of incidents >$50K in damage (per 10K flight hours) 0.33 0.39 Live flight aviation safety reviews external 10 1 Live flight aviation safety reviews internal (per training location) 13 1 People Number of internships 235 214 Our Professional Women's Network Diversity mentorship program page 45 group has a mentorship program for women. 9 major initiatives Initiatives for talent development page 45 including training sessions % of students hired into a full-time position following a CAE co-op experience 9%2 9%2 INNOVATION AND CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Investments in research & development ($M) 232.1 182.7 Number of patents requested 82 781 Number of patents obtained 39 51 Customer satisfaction: for on-time delivery (RFT on-time), product quality, etc. page 56 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 47 (survey – Civil and D&S) COMMUNITY AND ENVIRONMENT Renewable energy programs and targets pages 58-63 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 50 Charitable donations and sponsorships pages 58-63 FY18 Activity & CSR Report, page 52 1 Data published in the FY18 report is updated to reflect updated methodology. 2 Number of co-op students hired as regular employees vs total number of co-op students during fiscal year 78 Annual Activity and Corporate Social Responsibility Report Fiscal year 2019
