JUNE 2018/ JUNE 2019 C O M M U N IC AT IO N O N PRO G R E S S MESSAGE FROM OUR CEO 11/06/2019 To all our stakeholders, I am pleased to confirm that Fireside Communications Limited reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labor, Environment and Anti-Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our actions to continually improve the integration of the Global Compact and its principles into our business strategy, culture and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Sincerely yours, Rebecca Wanjiku, CEO, Fireside Communications Limited. A PUBLICATION OF FIRESIDE GROUP/2019 A PUBLICATION OF FIRESIDE GROUP/2019 ABOUT US Fireside Ltd. offers a full range of Civil, Telecoms and Electrical Engineering design and Construction services to private enterprises as well as government agencies in Kenya. We offer a full design and build service to ensure compliance with all relevant standards and the latest technologies, whilst meeting and exceeding client expectations. Our project leaders empathetically coordinate diverse specialists and highly qualified engineers to deliver designs that realize our client’s goals. Our success, reputation, accreditations, and affiliations are built on a comprehensive mix of quality, service, and craftsmanship, matched by the continuous development of our skills and our understanding of evolving technologies; thus, we are capable of delivering innovative turnkey solutions to our clients. Fireside is committed to provide deployment, maintenance and management solutions for various technologies in cabled and wireless communications. From structured cabling, Wi-Fi, WiMAX, Microwave, Data center, LAN, and Fiber solutions, we bridge connectivity in Kenya and provide seamless access to telecommunications services for corporate and residential settings. A PUBLICATION OF FIRESIDE GROUP/2019 A PUBLICATION OF FIRESIDE GROUP/2019 OUR TEAM With a group of over 100 employees, Fireside has steadily grown in capacity covering through our operations and we have a vision of even growing our family further and expand our operations to cover all regions in Kenya and beyond. Fireside team is made up of robust, energetic, and hardworking people who aim at achieving a common objective in making a better society. Our engineering unit makes the largest composition with over Fifty percent (52.2%) while the other units including managerial, Administration, support, and marketing unit. having the share of the remaining percentage (47.8%) Fireside has promoted affirmative action in our employment paradigm and presently our team constitutes over thirty percent female employees (31.9%) and we aim for more. Being an engineering firm, the indulgence of women has not been impressive in the past and we therefore through our initiatives encourage more women to join our team especially in the engineering unit. We picture our numbers doubling in the next two or three years to support the business demands and also strengthen our central and regional hubs with more influx of women in engineering. A PUBLICATION OF FIRESIDE GROUP/2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Fireside Communications Limited has been a signatory of the UN Global Compact since 2016. A PUBLICATION OF FIRESIDE GROUP/2019 COP: HUMAN RIGHTS Fireside has taken deliberate action to support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and ensuring that we are not complicit in human rights abuse. In line with the Standard Development Goals of Decent Work and Economic growth, Reduced Inequalities, Gender Equality and Zero Hunger, Fireside Communications Limited has established a work environment that is not only safe for our staff, but also considerate of the needs of our staff at a human level. For example, we provide three meals per day for our staff within our offices. Parents are free to carry their children to work and leave them in our daycare facility within the building, and we also have milk expressing facilities for breastfeeding mothers. Giving back to the community is a core part of what we do at Fireside, and we have transformed many lives through our CSR activities depicted in the photographs below: A PUBLICATION OF FIRESIDE GROUP/2019 Fireside Staff With Kyalo Maseki (Seated). Kyalo Is A Beneficiary Of Fireside’s Cerebral Palsy Wheelchair Donation Drive. Fireside CSR initiatives A PUBLICATION OF FIRESIDE GROUP/2019 Primary And High School Students Attending An Engineering Career Fair Organized By Fireside In 2017 Fireside CSR initiatives Kabete Rehab School Students Get Their Monthly Haircut Courtesy Of Fireside Fireside CSR initiatives A PUBLICATION OF FIRESIDE GROUP/2019 Kabete Rehab School Students(in Green) Compete With Fireside Staff In A Mentorship Sports Session Fireside CSR Initiatives A PUBLICATION OF FIRESIDE GROUP/2019 High School Students Attend Motivational Talk Courtesy Of Fireside Communications Limited Fireside CSR initiatives A PUBLICATION OF FIRESIDE GROUP/2019 2019 Fireside Women In Engineering Students Fireside CSR initiatives A PUBLICATION OF FIRESIDE GROUP/2019 COP: LABOUR Fireside continues to abide by local and international labor laws. Our commitment to upholding the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, eliminating all forms of forced and compulsory labor, upholding the effective abolition of child labor and eliminating discrimination in respect of employment and occupation is demonstrated in the following:  Ensuring that the company does not practice forced labor.  Offering workers well laid out engagement contracts.  Fireside Communications Limited does not confiscate workers’ documents  Ensuring that all staff are hired on the basis of skill and experience. Additionally, all workers are issued proper injury preventive equipment upon signing contracts and are required to be fully kitted whenever undertaking tasks in the field.  Offering continuous training to give workers opportunities to develop themselves professionally.  Establishing well laid out channels for escalating complaints and grievances  In addition, we offer our staff regular teambuilding sessions to help them connect more at a team and take a break from the monotony of work. A PUBLICATION OF FIRESIDE GROUP/2019 Fireside Staff Playing Water Sports In 2019 A PUBLICATION OF FIRESIDE GROUP/2019 COP: ENVIRONMENT Fireside continues to support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, undertaking initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility. We also encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our commitment to saving the environment is demonstrated though the following:  Fireside communications Limited operations are powered by clean energy, both LPG and electricity.  Adhering to the ban on use of plastic bags in Kenya.  Tapping solar energy in the company’s parking area.  Ensuring emergency procedures to prevent and address accidents affecting the environment and human health. A PUBLICATION OF FIRESIDE GROUP/2019 COP: ANTI CORRUPTION Fireside works tirelessly against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The measures we have put in place to fully eliminate corruption from our business include:  Closely monitoring company accounts.  Regular auditing of company accounts and expenditure.  Ensuring accountability for issued petty cash.  Ensuring transparent transactions and deals with business partners.  Collaborating with authorities to open legal proceedings against anyone caught committing corrupt / fraudulent acts. A PUBLICATION OF FIRESIDE GROUP/2019 MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES The above mentioned actions have resulted into the following outcomes:  Gender equality: Our efforts towards empowering women have increased the number of the women in our engineering team, with the number currently standing at 47. These women have taken charge of their economical well being and are sustaining their families in a decent manner.  Reduced inequalities: Our community outreach programs have seen disadvantaged children such as the students at Kabete Rehabilitation School regain lost hope through mentorship, where we show them they can still make decent people out of themselves.  Overall sustainability: Fireside Communications Limited won the 2019 Safaricom award for best partner in sustainability, owing to all the outlined actions in this report which we sometime undertake with out partners such as Safaricom.  Company financial sustainability as a result of financial accountability and rules against corruption.  Environmental sustainability as a result of use and advocacy of clean energy sources in all company undertakings.  Zero incidents of work based injuries as a result of a well structured work environment and provision of safety equipment for our staff. A PUBLICATION OF FIRESIDE GROUP/2019 In April 2019, Fireside emerged Safaricom PLC’s best partner in terms of sustainability. A PUBLICATION OF FIRESIDE GROUP/2019 A PUBLICATION OF FIRESIDE GROUP/2019
