Siren Associates UNGC Communication of Progress April 2019 Contents About Siren 3 Our Organisation 3 Statement by Our Chair of Board of Directors 3 Our Approach 4 Contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals 5 Committed to the Global Compact Principles 6 Human Rights 7 Labour 9 Environment 12 Anti-Corruption 14 For more information on Siren’s involvement in the UN Global Compact, reach us at: @sirenassociates info@sirenassociates.com www.sirenassociates.com Statement by Our Chair of Board of Directors I am pleased to confirm that Siren reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Siren remains a committed partner in the global efforts to realise the international Sustainable Development Goals. In this, Siren’s first-annual Communication on Progress, we outline our goals and policies as they relate to each of the four areas of the Global Compact. We describe the actions we have taken to uphold and promote the ten principles, both within our own business strategy, culture, and daily operations, as well as with our partners, beneficiaries, and the wider community. Siren remains dedicated to further action in relation to the Global Compact and will work steadfastly with both local and international stakeholders in doing so. As part of this commitment, Siren will ensure that this information is shared with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Jonathan McIvor MBE CEO & Chair of Board of Directors April 2019 3 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 About Siren Our Organisation We help develop safe and secure societies where there is equal access to justice and freedom from fear. Specialising in civil policing transformation and broader public sector reform, we empower and build the capabilities of organisations to become more responsive to the needs of communities. We support our clients through the process of strategic change, combining an Organisation Development approach with advanced technology and customised solutions. Our Approach Committed to making a difference, we believe that the development of capabilities cannot be done for organisations it must be done by and in effective partnership with them. As a result, our approach is collaborative, client-centered and holistic. We employ rigorous problem analysis and innovative interventions that are gender and conflict sensitive to drive sustainable change. Working in post-conflict and fragile states, we recognise the value of being flexible, adaptable and responsive to our clients’ changing needs. Our multidisciplinary teams are diverse and highly skilled. We empower, develop and motivate our staff in recognition that it is our people that set us apart. 4 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Contributing to the Sustainable Development Goals We help develop safe and secure societies where there is equal access to justice and freedom from fear. Specialising in civil policing transformation, broader public sector reform, and strengthening civil society in the areas of safety, security and justice, we empower and build the capabilities of organisations to become more responsive to the needs of communities. Realising our vision is therefore inextricably linked to the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), and a number of the goals have been integrated directly within our business model and organisational structure. The SDGs provide us the opportunity to align our individual mission with that of the global community, articulate our priorities with regards to the 17 goals, and reaffirm our commitment to working with our local, regional, and international partners in bringing about a more just, equitable, and safe world. 16. Peace, Justice and Strong Institutions 5. Gender and Equality Promote peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainaAchieve gender equality and empower all women ble development, provide access to justice for all and and girls build effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels We have integrated a gender-sensitive approach within our entire project management cycle. We prioritise genSustainable Development Goal 16 lies at our core as we der-mainstreaming across all of our programs, projects, work with security actors, public sector entities, civil sociand activities, and have implemented gender-specific proety, and donor partners to foster a more inclusive, rightsjects that strengthen women’s participation within public based approach to justice and security. sector security services across the Middle East. Our organisation mission affirms our commitment to embedding SDG 5 within our core business model. 10. Reduced Inequalities 11. Sustainable Cities and Communities Reduce inequality within and among countries Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable Our interventions are based on the conviction that justice and security actors, as well as other public sector entities, Our work contributes towards making cities and human should be accessible to all and non-discriminatory in the settlements more inclusive, safe, and resilient. Working services they deliver. We work with our local partners to with a broad range of actors, including local civil society introduce new systems and processes, regulations, and organisations, community groups, UN agencies, local adaccountability measures that ensure institutions are comministrations, and security institutions, we devise and impliant with international standards prohibiting discriminaplement initiatives that seek to address the root causes of tory practices. Equal access to justice is a core tenant of conflict, reduce violence, and promote safe societies. our approach. 5 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Committed to the Global Compact Principles Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Labour Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. We contribute to the ten principles, both internally and externally, through: Building a Sustainable Business Model We have defined clear policies that align our business practices with the ten principles of the Global Compact. We continue to take concrete action internally to uphold these principles and constantly improve the way we work. We ensure an ethical, environmentally conscious, and rights-based business practice that places our people and their well-being at the centre of what we do. Supporting our Beneficiaries, Partners, and the Community Our mission is centred on building a safer world for all in which governments and institutions are accountable to their citizens and respectful of their rights. We pride ourselves on working with a wide range of stakeholders in the security and development sector, including security actors, public sector institutions, local and international civil society organisations, and donor partners and governments. The Global Compact principles are embedded in all of these relationships. 6 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 His Excellency the British Ambassador to Jordan, Edward Oakden, at the launch of the Jordanian Gendarmerie’s Code of Conduct in March 2017 Human Rights Global Compact Principles Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Our Commitment Our mission contributes directly towards building human rights compliant security and justice institutions. All of our projects contain specific human-rights related components that engage our counterparts on these issues. We are committed to upholding and promoting the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. Our Code of Conduct commits staff to respect all individuals’ rights, inclusive of colleagues, partners, and beneficiaries. Specific policies and processes have been outlined with regards to employees’ duty of care commitments to prevent sexual misconduct, harassment, and violence, protect the rights of the child and prevent child abuse in all of its forms. We employ a conflict sensitive, human rights-based approach to the design of all of its projects and interventions. Conflict assessments attached to each Siren initiative ensure that interventions ‘do no harm’. Human rights protection is embedded within our risk management cycle. 7 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 ‘Siren works on behalf of governments and international organisations expecting us to observe high ethical and humanitarian standards. Our long-term success depends on maintaining the respect and confidence of donors, partners and clients. The obligation to do what is right must be an essential part of our organisational culture and underscore everything we do.’ Siren Code of Conduct Actions Taken Building a Sustainable Siren Business Model • Integrity Manager appointed within Siren, with clear processes defined to facilitate internal complaints and/ or whistleblowing with regards to any misconduct or breach of rights • Siren project team in Lebanon trained on mainstreaming gender rights into project delivery Supporting our Beneficiaries, Partners, and the Community • Ongoing support to the Lebanese Internal Security Forces Human Rights Division in developing capabilities to monitor and address human rights abuses within the organization • Training of trainers in the Lebanese Internal Security Force on community policing, a curriculum that is human-rights mainstreamed throughout; community policing training has also been delivered as part of our Jordan projects • Assistance provided to the ISF in the development of their five-year strategic plan, a key pillar of which is human rights and accountability • Root cause analysis of the drivers of overcrowding and poor detention conditions within the Lebanese detention system Measurement of Outcomes • Zero reports of human rights violations by staff or contractors • The Lebanese Internal Security Forces Human Rights Division has now adopted processes for internal human rights monitoring • Since 2013, have trained over 400 Jordanian police and gendarmerie on community policing 8 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Mixed gender Tactical Medic Training for the Jordanian Gendarmerie, March 2019 Labour Global Compact Principles Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5: the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6: the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Our Committment We are dedicated to abiding by applicable labour laws within the countries that we operate and have aligned our business practice with international best practice. We are committed to the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Our Human Resource Handbook covers all labour-related policies, including employee rights, responsibilities and compensation. Our Code of Conduct further enshrines our commitment to diversity and prohibits any form of discrimination. It also outlines our procedures with regards to duty of care, outlining specific policy measures to protect our staff against any form of harassment and protect our beneficiaries against exploitation or abuse. 9 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 ‘Siren is committed to observing responsible business conduct consistent with applicable laws in the countries we operate and to follow internationally recognised standards. All employees, applicants and service providers associated with our business are offered equal opportunities regardless of gender, gender reassignment, marital status, pregnancy or maternity, sexual orientation, age, religious belief or political opinion, race, ethnic or community background or nationality or disability that does not prohibit performance of essential job functions.’ Siren Human Resource Handbook Actions Taken Building a Sustainable Siren Business Model • Updates to our Human Resource Handbook to include Integrity Management and the appointment of an Integrity Officer to ensure personnel have a reliable, confidential, and independent means for reporting violations, including workplace harassment of any nature • Flexible working schedules that allow our staff to work from home in order to balance work-life commitments and maintain mental health • Week-long pre-deployment training for project personnel that provides our staff with a comprehensive induction to Siren’s policies, as well as equipping them with tools and techniques to interact with our beneficiaries in a conscientious, culturally sensitive, and rights-based manner • Maintaining competitive salaries by bench-marking of new recruit salaries against industry norms Supporting our Beneficiaries, Partners, and the Community • Supporting the Lebanese Internal Security Forces in their efforts to become a more representative, gender-balanced institution • Partnering with the Canadian Embassy in Jordan, we have trained women members of the Kingdom of Jordan’s Gendarmerie • Partnering with UNDP, we trained and mentored eight women (of a total of 17 participants) as part of our Community Ambassador project, providing them with relevant skills and expertise to become leaders in their respective communities • Jointly conducted a research report with a local civil society partner in Lebanon on the root causes of statelessness for Lebanese; have since been working to address these root causes to allow these individuals equal access to the labour market 10 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Measurement of Outcomes • Half of the Board of Directors are women • Diverse project staff: Over half of core project staff are women; over half of core project staff are local (Jordan and Lebanon) • Gender-balanced police training teams in Jordan • Zero incidents of violation of Human Resource Handbook • Lebanon Internal Security Forces have 3.6% female workforce (0% in 2008, when Siren began engagement on this issue) • Training delivered in Jordan has continuously met our target of 15% women as part of each training cohort, with courses often having 20% women (this is despite the fact that women make up only 10% of the Jordanian PSD and 5% of the Gendarmerie, our two main beneficiaries) Staff on Siren’s Police Advisor and Hostile Enviroment Training course practice a safety drill 11 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Environment Global Compact Principles Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our Committment We are committed to the principles enshrined in the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development. We continue to strive towards environmentally conscious, sustainable processes across our operations. Siren operates within countries that often have limited environmental policies and enforcement mechanisms. It is therefore essential that we analyse risks related to possible environmental harms due to our interventions and mitigate these risks accordingly. Working with our partners and beneficiaries, we promote awareness of, and alignment with, international good practice in an effort to influence the degree to which environmentally conscious behaviour is adopted in the communities that we work. 12 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Actions Taken Building a Sustainable Siren Business Model • Recycling program in our Lebanon project office and headquarters • Our core project delivery team in Jordan is now based 100% locally, reducing flight-related emissions • We prioritise the hiring of local staff as a means for reducing the need for flights and reduce our carbon footprint Supporting our Beneficiaries, Partners, and the Community • Introduced automation in a police force within a major city in the Middle East, drastically reducing waste emanating from a paper-based system • Partnered with a local civil society organisation in a campaign to raise environmental awareness in Tripoli, Lebanon • Partnered with the UNDP, Jordanian Rangers (environmental officers), and local youth in an initiative to clean up a local area and raise awareness regarding environmental responsibility • Continued to employ an eco-friendly approach to construction and refurbishment of police stations and police facilities in Lebanon, including: Prioritising the use of recycled materials; ensuring proper disposal of waste materials; installing solar panels as an alternative energy source (where appropriate); using energy-efficient technologies, such as double-glazed windows and LED lighting fixtures; and utilising o-zone-friendly climate control systems Measurement of Outcomes • Reduced the number of flights required for implementing our Jordan project by approximately 50% by moving to a core project delivery team based in country • Over 50% of office waste is recycled in our Lebanon locations • Approximately 80% of materials used in our construction/refurbishment activities in Lebanon come from recycled sources • Furniture procured as part of refurbishment activities in Lebanon has been audited and is compliant with FSC-STD-40-004 (Version 3.0) and FSC-STD-40-005 (Version 2.1) standards • Approximately 60% of waste materials from construction and refurbishment activities in Lebanon is recycled 13 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Anti-Corruption Global Compact Principles Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our Committment Siren exercises a zero-tolerance policy towards corruption. Siren supports the principles enshrined within the UN Convention against Corruption. Our Anti-Bribery policy is compliant with the UK Anti-Bribery Act 2010 and is applicable to ‘Siren staff, to temporary staff, consultants, contractors, agents and subsidiaries acting for, or on behalf of, Siren within the UK and overseas.’ Our Code of Conduct further enshrines this commitment. Siren’s Procurement Policy details procedures to ensure full transparency and prevent corruption in the awarding of Siren contracts. Siren operates in difficult context where accountability measures often remain weak, and is therefore required to maintain detailed financial and procurement records for audit purposes. Siren conducts individual corruption risk assessments for each of its projects. Corruption risk monitoring is integrated into our broader project risk management cycle. 14 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 “Siren is committed to the highest standards of ethical conduct and integrity in its business activities. This policy outlines the organisation’s position on preventing and prohibiting bribery, in accordance with the UK Bribery Act 2010. We will not tolerate any form of bribery by, or of, staff or any person or body acting on Siren´s behalf. Siren is committed to implementing effective measures to prevent, monitor and eliminate bribery.’ Siren Anti-Bribery Policy Actions Taken Building a Sustainable Siren Business Model • Integrated ‘Integrity Management’ within Siren’s management structure, providing a clearer channel for whistleblowing in accordance with UK law • All transactions are managed thorough checks and balances, with checks and controls distributed between project teams and the Board of Directors. Checks and control are the responsibility of project finance officers, project procurement officers, the project director, and ultimately the Chief Financial Officer (CFO) Supporting our Beneficiaries, Partners, and the Community • Technical support provided to the Inspectorate General of the Lebanese Internal Security Forces in order to increase institutional oversight, transparency, and accountability; public complaints mechanism established and internal inspections capacity increased Measurement of Outcomes • ‘Organisational and Integrity Assessment’ approved by the Netherlands Ministry of Foreign Affairs • Selected for the United Kingdom Conflict Security and Stability Framework, which requires compliance with key UK rules regarding value-for-money and transparency • Siren has not been involved in any legal cases regarding bribery or corruption 15 Siren’s Global Compact Communication on Progress 2019 Beirut Headquarters 1146, Bazerkane Street, Beirut Central District, Beirut, Lebanon. +961 81 353525 Amman Office 15 Abdulkareem Mansour Street, Amman, Jordan. +962 0 65925510 Belfast Office (Reigstered Office) 1 Parkmount, Belfast, Northern Ireland, BT27 4AN. +44 0 2892677710 +962 0 65925510 © April 2019 Siren All Rights Reserved
