GLOBAL COMPACT COP 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS PLH ARKITEKTER A/S VERMUNDSGADE 38K 2100 KØBENHAVN Ø WWW.PLH.DK CONTINUED SUPPORT FOR THE UN GLOBAL COMPACT PLH Arkitekter A/S is a multi-disciplinary architectural practice focused on stimulating an interactive and productive working environment for our talented and creative people: architects, interior designers and industrial designers, together with specialists within construction, process planning, analyses, sustainability and communication. PLH works with a broad spectrum of commissions from architecture, urban planning and workplace design to client advisory. The company is often involved in complex, large-scale multi-disciplinary projects that evolve over long time frames and are often associated with a high degree of confidentiality and proper due process. Regardless of the project type, PLH’s commitment to responsible business practices and highest standards of professional integrity is at the foundation of all interactions with clients, collaborators and fellow colleagues. PLH’s business ethics and code of conduct is grounded in 40 years of professional industry experience and the commitment of the leadership team to follow responsible business practices in an ever changing global marketplace. Since 2009, PLH has been a member of the UN Global Compact initiative as part of maintaining and developing our social and environmental responsibility. PLH embraces, supports and enacts, within it's sphere of influence, the Global Compact set of core values in the areas of human rights, labour standards, the environment, and anti-corruption. PLH wishes to continue our participation in the Global Compact and we seek to support the principles as an integral part of our day-to-day operation and organizational culture, and where possible, align leadership strategies to the ten principles. The principles covering the environment are a focus area for PLH where we can have a measurable, positive impact. Søren Mølbak, Director, Architect MAA July 2019 THE 10 PRINCIPLES Human Rights Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2 make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour Principle 3 Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; Principle 4 the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; Principle 5 the effective abolition of child labour; and Principle 6 the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8 undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9 encourage the development and diffusion of environ mentally friendly technologies. Anti-Corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. BUSINESS INTEGRITY AND RESPONSIBILITY Member of DANSKE ARK UN Global Compact Paulette Christophersen Partner and Anders V. PLH is a member of the Danish Association of Sonnichsen Sustainability Manager Architectural Firms (DANSKE ARK), and our operational procedures are based on Danish Legislation and DANSKE ARK’S instructions, Financial Reporting Svenn Gunborg Olsen Chief Financial Officer guidelines and contractual standards, supported by BDO consulting auditors aimed at strengthening the quality level and professionalism of practicing architectural firms, and covering: Legal Accountability and Risk Management Level of professional liability insurance and Søren Mølbak Partner and Director standard contracting agreements General supported by Mazanti-Andersen Korsø Jensen Conditions for Consultancy and Assistance 1989 AdvokatPartnerskab (ABR 18). Quality Assurance Collective bargaining process whereby DANSKE Søren Mølbak Partner and Director ARK negotiates the general agreements on pay and working conditions etc. of the technical staff in the employment of the member firms. Digital Knowledge Management Claus Johannessen Senior Architect, Mathew Fees and standards for architectural work with Brown Constructing architect, Niels Peter individual clients, private client organizations Rosendal Constructing architect, Oskars Lapsa and public authorities. Constructing architect DANSKE ARK also participates in negotiations with public authorities on tax aspects, prices Sustainability PLH Green Team and profit legislation, regulations on competitive Søren Mølbak Partner and Director tendering, liability and insurance matters as Paulette Christophersen Partner, Steen Enrico well as building assignment procedures, quality Andersen Partner and Anders V. Sonnichsen assurance and other terms relating to the Sustainability Manager professional activities of the member firms. Staff Representatives PLH is obliged to respect the basic conventions Mark Hamann Hansen Constructing architect based on national and international legislation MAK and Peter Rebild Architect on human rights, the Danish Consolidation Act Occupational Health & Safety Supervisor Karin no. 68, of January 2005, and our membership of Tranberg Schjerbeck Architect the Danish Association of Architectural Firms. Leadership Responsibility The PLH leadership team members are individually and collectively responsible for “Our business responsibility is ensuring the firm’s adherence to responsible based on high standards of Danish business practices and our Code of Ethics. legislation and our active enTo that end, the following nominated partners, gagement in associations, comdirectors and professional staff have been mittees,conferences and press assigned specific areas of responsibility: debates” WORK ENVIRONMENT, POLICY AND SOCIAL ACTION PLH has a clear and balanced gender prevention of stress. Several of our competences, every employee has a policy where some of our key values are employees have undergone specialised formalized confidential meeting with to embrace diversity of competencies, training through the Psychiatry Fund to the relevant member of the leadership experiences and viewpoints and to be able to advise and guide colleagues team once a year. The purpose is to support a humanistic and collegial work on issues of stress. The PLH leadership, give the employees an opportunity to style in order to add real value to our together with the stress counsellors address issues related to their work business. have prepared an anti-stress policy situation to express their professional guideline that covers both preventative wishes and dreams and to align the actions (behaviours and organisation of wishes of the employee with the overall Actions work), detection of early warning signs direction of the company. We recruit solely on proven and management of stress affected competencies and experiences, not staff. Any stress affected employees will sex, nationality, religion nor age. Staff be offered psychological consultation as Attractive Workplace members are selected for project teams needed. PLH is recognized as a stable and on the basis of relevant qualifications attractive workplace, with many and experience corresponding with employees being a part of the practice the project demands and our overall Employee Involvement for 10-25 years. strategies and goals for meeting the PLH follows the Danish Working According to our latest annual Work clients’ needs. Environment Act and an integrated Assessment carried out in 2019, our part of working at PLH is, involvement staff is very satisfied with the working Stress Prevention and day-to-day dialogue between the environment, also in relation to the split leadership team members and the of sex, nationality and age. We foster an In order to promote well-being at work, employees. To make sure employees open and inclusive culture where racism PLH has in recent years focussed on thrive and develop their skills and or bullying is not tolerated. We believe that responsible design and architecture is based on understanding people's activity and culture WORK ENVIRONMENT, POLICY AND SOCIAL ACTION Number of employees at PLH split on sex and age. PLH is a team of 89 employees in Julne 2019 age 20 to 30 years: 17 pers. age 41 to 50 years: 19 pers. age 31 to 40 years: 30 pers. age 61 to +70 years: 8 pers. age 51 to 60 years: 15 pers. Continued Focus on the together to improve quality of life The interest groups range widely and Working Environment through design. This creates a diverse new ones are added continuously. Thus, working environment where multiple the PLH Cycling Team was followed by Our procedures have proven effective languages and cultures meet. PLH Runners and PLH Yoga in 2017. and PLH wishes to continue to invest in the working environment in order to remain an attractive, healthy and Social Engagement Lunchtime productive office retaining and Great value is put into maintaining and PLH has a healthy lunch scheme as a attracting the best. The priority of a strengthening the social interactions way to encourage employees to stay responsible work environment and between colleagues through multiple at the office and have lunch with their recognition of human diversity is a events and interest groups. co-workers hereby strengthening significant value for the office’s ability Events range from educational lectures social ties. The lunch scheme also to evolve in tune with the changing and study trips to social events such focuses on supporting small local demands, challenges and tendencies of as the annual summer party, clay businesses through a ongoing rotation our industry. pigeon shooting, canoe trips, vine of the lunch suppliers. Additionally all tasting, fishing trips, snorkling, golf suppliers are chosen based on a focus Celebrating Diversity tournaments, theatre outings and an on ecological products, fish once a week annual PLH football tournament with and always a vegetarian alternative. One of the building blocks of the PLH teams from more than 15 different Approx. 1/3 of the employee choose the family is our celebration of diversity. architectural and engineering vegetarian dish. The office is home to colleagues from around the world who are working companies. Our purpose is to improve the quality of people’s life through design. This could be at home, at work, at school, in the city, in nature, at the station anywhere people gather in a space or use objects of design OUR PURPOSE IS TO IMPROVE QUALITY OF LIFE THROUGH DESIGN Environmental Challenges Promoting Awareness balance of the possible solutions. PLH’s main focus in connection to PLH supports a considered approach to The focus points could be the following: the principles of UN Global Compact environmental challenges by promoting Buildings have both an activ and a is directed towards environmental our own and others awareness of passive energy balance, that very much challenges and possibilities. PLH has the impacts on the environment and depends on the building energy design. a responsibility to create holistic surroundings. We expect our staff to be This must be considred from an early sustainable and humanistic solutions to conscious of the consequences of their start, to ensure the total energy goal the greatest extent that it can influence actions concerning the environment, can be achieved. project outcomes. whether it is “locally” at the office or Materials and holistic costs are “globally” with a client. compares for the primary materials, Improving Quality of Life different structures and technical Through Design Sustainability solutions. We are committed to reviewing To optimize the implimentation of Flexibility and design for disassembly how our activities can contribute to sustainability, our sustainability leader must be considered, in order to increase the reduction of CO² emissions and uses a defined process tool. the possibility, that the build structure minimize the planet’s consumption of may last longer than the initial purpose This tool operates i several stages, to fossil resources. it is designed for. ensure that the intentions, that are However, sustainability is not only a desided early in the proces, are followed Maintenance and cleaning is a major question of energy – social well-being throught to the build project. The focus expence in the total costs in a 50 years and cultural behavior are aspects is the five criterias of DGNB: Process, timespan. So the design must strive to that we consider just as vital a part of environment, economy, technical and optimize the daily use and save money. designing sustainable buildings. site. The accomondation of social quality is Our mission and purpose is to improve This requires both that the possibilities vital. This is both functional, thermal quality of life through design and on site are logged and that the clients comfort, optimal light, views and the value of our work is found where priorities are integrated. orientation, access to green, low toxic the built environment becomes a emissions, safety ect. This is where Workshops are held with multi better place for people – whether people thrive. diciplinary specialist teams, tennants, it’s minimizing energy consumption, facility managers and other relevant All this and more is woven into the improving indoor climate or providing persons, to discuss the actual solutions. fabric of the early project and the structures that resolve social challenges This is done in order to find the best coals are kept in focus all throught the and promote well being. development onto the finished building. LOCAL INITIATIVES GLOBAL IMPACT Environmentally Sustainable Internal Task Force phase, we’ve completed the first Design The office is revitalizing the internal ever certification of an existing office building in Denmark. By focusing attention and knowledge task-force working with initiatives and sharing on environmentally sustainable approaches for internal development, An essential approach in all our work design (ESD) parameters, the practice including; training, debate and is the integration of hard factors such has been able to inform clients of knowledge sharing, study trips, as geometries, orientation, location of possibilities and advantages, and advise lectures, workshops etc. The aim of the windows, choice of materials, emission them about ESD options and systems, task-force is to create ownership of the rates, engineering systems and lighting, that can become an investment in sustainable development across the with soft factors related to user operational savings. entire office and create an environment comfort and welfare. Our significant competencies within the where challenging the status quo is the norm. area have enabled the office to respond Our Office to and challenge the expectations PLH is working on a targeted effort to of our increasingly environmentally DGNB Certification minimize the environmental load of the conscious investors and clients. We are continuously having employees daily running of our own office and to partake in the certification training create a healthy and safe workplace. Local Resources from the Green Building Council Resource consumption (power, HVAC, Denmark. DGNB Denmark is a water) as well as the waste of office Central to sustainable design is using europeancertification system, adapted supplies and paper is continually being local resources such as materials and for Danish conditions, to make reduced or recycled. labour. sustainability in buildings measurable. We are conscious of the environmental Other local resources such as wind for It is the most advanced sustainable impact of transportation to/from electricity, sun for energy, sea water for evaluation standard in Europe. meetings, and use office bikes for cooling, rainwater for recycling and the We have also been part of a DGNBmeetings held within a 5 km radius of underground for geothermal potentialdevelopment team, drawing up a the office. Our other initiatives in this are also important factors to consider. new certification tool for existing area include widespread use of teleoffice buildings. As part of the pilot conferences and tele-meetings. “As architects, our area of expertise within sustainable design, is optimizing the passive characteristics in building designs by selecting durable and low impact materials, facilitating a multi diciplinary design team with early influence in the design process and promoting that all participants understand and take part in bringing the goals from early idea to final building.” ANDERS V. SONNICHSEN, SUSTAINABILITY MANAGER PLH ARKITEKTER PLH OFFICE PREMISES REDESIGNING A FORMER FACTORY BUILDING We have transformed and redesigned a dynamic effect, and exciting new representatives of the Danish building our own office building contributing to vantage points. industry evaluated the 6 projects and the social task of updating the existing voted for the best project. building stock. Our office building was once a factory in the city of Showcasing the Industrial Copenhagen now it's transformed Past Preserving History and Spirit into a new workspace for PLH based on The original crane structures and The committee described our project synergies from inside to outside. elements such as steel trusses and with these words – ‘The PLH office has beams are exposed as a dramatic taken a dose of their own medicine and reminiscence of the buildings industrial transformed an old factory building to The Refurbishment past. The cranes are now parked in each their new studio. The refurbishment is a The conversion project involved end of the studio where they create a beautiful example of how to modernize refurbishment of the existing building, ‘roof’ that defines the café at one end an old building while preserving its adding a mezzanine along one side, as and team space at the other. history and spirit.’ Chairman of the a huge ‘piece of furniture’ providing 40 Nomination Committee and former City extra workspaces upstairs and diverse Architect, Gøsta Knudsen, said: “The six ‘laboratory spaces’ below for meetings, Nominated for nominated projects are all performed model-making, brainstorming and The 'RENOVER' Award at the highest professional level while product research. The interior is defined Our office renovation was one of six showcasing the width of renovation. by its spaciousness, with a ceiling height projects to be nominated to become We have projects that intelligently of 6.5 meters, and the tall, narrow Denmark's best renovation in 2014. and artistically interact with their industrial windows. The verticality of the Initially, 165 projects were set to the surroundings, projects with enormously space Renovation Award ‘RENOVER prisen’ ambitious energy solutions and projects is underlined through the rhythmic in March 2014 and in June 2014 the that completely rethinks the buildings repetition of columns and windows, and field was reduced to only 6 nominated function without compromising the the inserted mezzanine level creates projects. An electoral college of 67 heritage.“ It was important for us to preserve and showcase the history and spirit of the building to create an authentic atmosphere. We now have a spacious studio with distinct character and both employees and visitors enjoy coming here and complement our beautiful office. PAULETTE CHRISTOPHERSEN, PARTNER AND LEAD WORKPLACE DESIGNER, PLH ARKITEKTER ANTI-CORRUPTION, LABOUR AND HUMAN RIGHTS Anti-Corruption Danish legislation. Being a member of of building materials respect the DANSKE ARK The Danish Association protection of internationally claimed According to 'The Corruption of Architectural Firms, PLH has to human rights and are not complicit in Perceptions Index' Denmark has been follow DANSKE ARK’S instructions, human rights abuses. We make sure the least corrupted country in the world guidelines and contractual standards we only do business with companies for 5 years (2011-2016) and again in and we are obliged to follow Danish and suppliers that respect the rights of 2018. Although bribery and corruption legislation as well as respecting national their workers, take care of their security are not a common phenomenon in our and international legislation on human and do not use child labour. It's part of culture, we are still very aware of the rights conventions. our normal procedures to use certified possibility of nepotism, exchanges of materials and to state in tenders that favours, unofficial agreements between we do not accept materials produced companies etc. Therefore, we aim for Suppliers and Business and manufactured with the assistance clarity in all our business agreements. Partners of child labour. Where PLH can make the greatest All the above, anti-corruption, labour Ensuring Human Rights and difference with regards to human and human rights are criterias that are Labour Rights rights and labour rights, is when we do evaluated in our DGNB-certifications. business with companies and suppliers Therefore they are naturally evaluated Human rights and labour rights are from other countries. When possible, in our certified projects. very well protected in Denmark and in we always make sure manufacturers SUSTAINABLE SOLUTIONS AND DESIGNS # CASES General Approach to and technologies to the local climate is proposed with working spaces Sustainable Solutions at conditions, inspired by local traditions. arranged along the perimeter, adjacent PLH PLH integrates this in developing to breakout spaces around a light open projects with the central aim to central atrium. The new building reuses PLH’s knowledge about sustainability improve the environment, generating the distinctive filleted curve geometry comes from both our overall energy and add value to the human and a similar palette of materials experience, gained by many certified everyday life. chosen white balconies, distinctive projects and furthered by hireing natural timber with concrete columns. specialists. For this, Anders V. This maintains a common architectural Sonnichsen was hired in early 2019, to Sustainable buildings aesthetic in DSV’s buildings and further the implementation for DGNB in Over the past years, PLH qualified to reinforces a singular brand identity. our projects, and to increase the offices participate in many competitions, most The DSV Warsaw building is designed broader awareness of energy design, of which included sustainability as with emphasis on encouraging a social sustainable materials end the process, criteria in the weighted scoring system. and vibrant working environment. by which sustainability ins implimented In 2012, PLH won the competition Outwardly, the building has a distinctive in both the projects as well as internally, for a new headquarters for the metal fin facade that reduces direct the way the office is driven. transportation and logistics company sunlight. Anders has taken the task to both DSV with 750 employees. The building prospect calls for a building educate his colleagues and engage Since then the office has designed a that is certified according to BREEAM directly in all our projects, to ensure the number of buildings that have been, or “Very Good”. PLH focuses on multiple process is focused sustainability. are to be, certified. Some are therefore elements through the holistic approach. still in the design or completion phase: Elements such as; energy efficiency with Everyday Sustainable a compact building envelope, external Designing at PLH Completed: solar shading, highly insulated façades, Apart from specific project examples, BREEAM 'Very Good': DSV, Warszawa a visual connection through the open it is important to note that on a DGNB Gold: Rigspolitiet (Ejby) and Alfa atrium, good daylight conditions, daily basis, the staff at PLH is making Laval (Aalborg) easily divided office areas for dual informed and conscious decisions tenancy arrangements and promoting To be compleeted: impacting on the environment when reductions in transport burdens. they use passive design parameters, DGNB Gold: Nykredit (Cph.), DFDS (Cph.) select and specify materials, finishes, and Norreport Hotel (Cph.) and City Hall (Hoje Taastrup) DGNB Certification furniture and fixtures. Through oneon-one or group activities, our staff BREEAM: DSV Warszawa PLH continues to partake in the is continually updated on new and development of sustainability in the Competition entries: emerging products, techniques or building industry. One of the ways has manufacturers that can strengthen our DGNB Gold: FL Smidt (Valby), LEO been as part of the DGNB-development ESD approach. Pharma (Ballerup), DSB maintenance team, as stated earlier, drawing up a garages (Cph. + Vejle) new certification tool for existing office And more buildings. During the pilot phase, PLH Products and Techniques has completed the first ever DGNB to Reduce Environmental certification of an existing office Impact BREEAM Certification building in Denmark. PLH put effort into the specification, As a direct result of the DSV HQ in The focus of the DGNB certification for use and development of new products Denmark, PLH is almost finished with existing office buildings is to reveal the and techniques that reduce the impact a new DSV office building in Warsaw unresolved potential of our existing on the environment. As stated earlier, which builds upon key ideas developed building stock on optimizing resources it is a question of using local resources in the successful project at Hedehusene, and supporting the green change in and adapt the construction methods Denmark. A compact office building society. SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY REVITALIZATION # CASE HUNOSØGÅRD Social Sustainability at PLH combine the design of the physical Reversing the Depopulation realm with design of the social world – At PLH we understand social The island of Møn, as many other areas this could be infrastructure to support sustainability as a process for creating in the outskirts of Denmark, suffers social and cultural life, social amenities, sustainable, successful places that from increasing depopulation with a systems for citizen engagement and promote well being and improve decrease in commercial activities as a spaces for people and places to evolve. the quality of peoples’ lives by consequence. The project to develop understanding what people need from Hunosøgård opens up the estate to the places they live and work. This New Local Gathering Point the public and the local community by means that when we design with social creating a cultural center and farmers The aim of the conversion and sustainability in mind, we aim to market where locals can sell their expansion of the mansion of foods and products to hotel guests and Hunosøgård is not only to strengthen tourists in the area – and where cultural “Our mission is to improve the and increase the number of visitors and activities such as exhibitions by local quality of people's life through hotel-guests coming to enjoy the unique artists and outdoor activities can take design. That's why it's especially nature – but also to make Hunosøgård place. important for us to be part of a new local gathering point marking projects like Hunosøgård that the start of a revitalization of the entire not only improve the everyday community. This is achieved partly by Increasing Local Activities experience for the immediate users the 'dark sky'-principle, where no lamp The new Hunosøgård thus helps but also help create success and lights are on at night, so visitors can revitalize the community by increasing better conditions for people in the enjoy the unpolluted darkness. cultural and commercial activities. entire community “ SØREN MØLBAK PARTNER, DIRECTOR AND LEAD DESIGNER PLH ARKITEKTER BREEAM CERTIFIED SUSTAINABILITY OFFICE # CASE DSV, WARSZAWA Certified Sustainability The windows have 3-layered low energy At project start local amphibia habitats glass with varying properties of heat were registered, and temporarily This project focuses on at broad loss and solar gain, depending on orienrelocated. They were later brought back spectrum of sustainability criterias. The tation. to the site, when the building project project was from the start required The design process has optimized an was finished. to be BREEAM certiifed. It is slmos complete, and the score has been reduced the thickness of the floors, to calvulated to reach the level: Very good. increase the glass area and therefore Social Sustainability at PLH the level of natural light. The building is designed af a compact The building promotes values uncomvolume, to minimize de external surAll light sources are LED and changes mon in Poland, with a social vibrant face, and hereby reducin both heat loss light temperature during the day, to work environment with a flat hierand the use of materials match the employees biorythms. The arcy, by informal meeting cafées, light is therefore colder in the morning quiet rooms, spacious lunch area ect. Due to the compact volume of the and grows warmer towards the Significantly, the openness of the building, it is shaped with at large glazes afternoon. atrium, with the central staircase, proatrium with automatic sunscreens. This room supplies the building from the It is closly locatedto public transport motes the informal meeting, with break inside, with both light, great orientation 40 % of the site is designed as either area and good visual contact across the and solar heating in the winter. green roof or recreational park areas building. Further more, the facade is designed surrounding the building. Each floor has Also a fitness room and a large bicycle with fixed solar shading and automatic integrated terrrasses. parking area in the basement, intented sun screens, to reduce overheating. All plants in the gardens are native to to promote a healthy lifte style of the the area, to preserve the local fauna. employees. “This building introduces new CECILIE STARUP, office standards for Poland. The LEAD ARCHITECT building is bright, welcoming PLH ARKITEKTER and very comfortable. Also the building performs well in the sustainability certification DGNB CERTIFIED SUSTAINABILITY OFFICE # CASE ALFA LAVAL, AALBORG The integration at the site straightforward building where all visual contact across the various floors, workplaces are equal. Flow and flexibut also provides a naturally hybrid Alfa Laval’s major role in the maritime bility are the key themes in the layout ventilated central space. branch, with the production of comdesign, with an openness that invites ponents to the shipping industry for employees to move around, and creates example, has inspired the design of a workplace that is easy to adapt when DGNB design the building. The long, white horinew needs arise. The building is designed to achieve a zontal bands in the façade provide There is great variety in informal and the DGNB Gold standard, by focusing on uninterrupted views over the water formal meeting rooms and places the five main quality criterias: Process, and give the feeling of a ship’s sunwhere people can gather to support environment, economy, social and deck, together with the “bridges” that the activities and working patterns of site. Therefore the design focus on all overview all of the building’s interior. the various departments. Additionally, aspects. This includes solutions such as The site was formerly home to Aalborg there are lounge areas where you can a compact volume with a low thermal Wharf which has inspired the naming hold meetings with external guests. cunductivity, responsible materials of meeting rooms after the vessels that selections, good indoor climate, were built there. Like many other PLH office buildings, acoustic dampening carpets and this building is also designed around ceilings, automatic sun screens, good a large atrium, that both brings light Social sustainability daylight quality, visual connection to and spaciousness into the building. suroundings, a flexible column structure The new office brings employees The open atrium is both an asset as an allowing for future changes and many together in a bright, friendly and aestethic social space, that provides other sustainable solutions. “The atrium connects the employees. Together with the carefully designed floor plans, the natural light, comfort level and views, all make the building a great place to SØREN MØLBAK, PARTNER, be. Further more, the building is minutely DIRECTOR AND LEAD DESIGNER designed to have a low environmental impact. PLH ARKITEKTER ENERGY EFFICIENCY & SUSTAINABILITY # CASE K29 In the first year after completion the PLH designs with ‘the planet’ in mind it Less Need for Power Related building K29 has been awarded 5 titles. often means investing in local, sustainable to Cooling and Ventilation One prize was given in late 2016 by The materials and labour force and designThe façade is an advanced double skin Lithuanian Ministry of Environment for the ing structures that promote sustainable construction with energy glass and an aumost sustainable building in the category behaviour. When we design for ‘people’ tomated solar control system. The building innovative buildings. it means investing in an attractive and has a hybrid ventilation and cooling system healthy workplace ensuring increased with natural ventilation of office spaces The K29 business center is a major, new user satisfaction and well-being. And with high-sitting openable windows on the landmark in Vilnius built from all natural when we design with ‘profit’ in mind it inner façade and through the atrium skyand mostly local, eco-friendly materials means designing structures that add lights as well as ventilation on each floor making it the most eco-friendly building in value for our clients as well as the users of following the newest guidelines. Lithuania to date. K29 sets the standards the new structures. for a healthy and attractive workplace Local Resources in Lithuania. The building is situated on Optimized Energy Savings Central to the sustainable design paramKonstitucijos Prospektas (Constitution AvK29 is equipped with the newest eters of PLH is using local resources and enue) creating a transition area between a building management system optimizing adapting the building complex to the local large park area to the north of Vilnius and energy savings. It has an efficient water climate conditions. In the building of K29 the city’s international business area in the management system and the lighting local materials, local manufacturers and east. design is created with the newest and local contractors have been used to the most energy efficient components. All benefit of the environment, the local comHolistic Design Approach with meeting rooms, ancillary spaces, toilets munity and the economy of the project. ‘People’, ‘Profit’ and ‘Planet’ in etc. are equipped with light sensors and Mind the lighting design as well as the natural Through a successful integrated design light control system has been designed process K29 has been developed and to give the users a maximum feeling of designed with the three objectives ‘peowellbeing. ple’, ‘profit’ and ‘planet’ in mind. When DESIGNED FOR PEOPLE # CASE K29 A Building Designed for PeoAcoustics Design ple The acoustic design has had a strong Designing for people and improving the focus on creating the best auditory quality of life for the users is part of the environment for the users in all areas of overall PLH-approach – and it has been for the building. Besides the ceiling tiles and many years. PLH was the first architecturcarpets, specially designed core cladding al company in Denmark to design workand balcony frontages are important places focusing on learning environments elements of the acoustic control. and how the architecture can strengthen the integration and knowledge sharing Enhanced Physical Working between different business areas of a Environment single company. Design elements like double facades, an optimal location on the site and a Maximum Daylight Access maximum utilization of daylight are all The oval shape of the building with the elements that enhance the physical work central atrium and a sloping roof gives openvironment. K29 is the first atrium office timal conditions for daylight for all users. building in Lithuania offering a variety Because of the sloping roof, light flows in of shared settings in a pleasant indoor to the atrium most of the day – and users climate all year around – and tenant close to the windows of the inner atrium feedback shows an increased workers can look beyond the atrium itself having satisfaction and productivity. “We are very proud that K29 visual contact with the cityscape beyond recently was awarded best office the building. The building thus ensures building in The Baltics. K29 was maximum wellbeing and daylight access awarded because the building having no dark areas. creates increased worker satisfaction and productivity, improved health, greater flexibility and enhanced energy and environmental performance of the workplace STEEN ENRICO ANDERSEN PARTNER AND LEAD DESIGNER PLH ARKITEKTER SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY WORKPLACE # CASE PHARMACOSMOS Workplace design we also create settings for our clients feel, open office with views, natural At PLH workplace we develop to fulfil their dream of helping people daylight and high quality ergonomic environments for people and around the world. furniture aligns the Pharmacosmos organisations to thrive. This is done from new UK office with the company’s the inside out with a focus on the long Pharmacosmos UK Office strong Danish roots. Here, the Danish term perspective to both solutions and One example of this work is the culture of dining together is given a overall design. The ability of the physical new UK office for Pharmacosmos. special place in the new office, with its framework to adjust and respond to Pharmacosmos is a global specialist informal collaboration lounge, complete future changes in an organisation’s in iron therapy and they develop, with cafe, long team table and terraced needs is a significant success criterion. manufacture and market medicines for seating. This space is the first area As per our holistic approach to the treatment of iron deficiency. you meet on arrival to the office and architecture, human needs and functions as a meeting point throughout patterns of use are integrated into the The Scandinavian Feel the day for specialists in the field and interpretation of organizational and real Throughout the design, patient stories those concentrating on projects in the estate strategies to achieve sustainable are integrated in the daily experience office. The new office supports the workplace environments. Not only does of the office alongside the emphasis company’s commitment to help people PLH bring the humanistic approach on team spirit. The welcoming, by being people driven, committed to of Scandinavian design to the world, Scandinavian inspired design with quality, and innovating for better lives. an “inviting, natural and friendly” “We aspire to develop a workspace that on its own ignites desire and ambition to improve care for people living with iron deficiency. A workspace created in the belief that its design and functionality is an extension of our company: our aspiration, our values and our culture.” ANDREAS SIDELMANN CHRISTENSEN, MANAGING DIRECTOR UK/IE PHARMACOSMOS SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY BETTER QUALITY OF LIFE # CASE FIXER ROOMS HALMTORVET “I have to put myself in the place of the users to create an optimal framework for their living and working conditions. This case has been very interesting because the living conditions of drug abusers are so extreme. And it has been inspiring to experience the people who – on a daily basis – are fighting for dignity and decent lives for drug abusers. RIKKE HAUGAARD SEJERSEN, LEADING ARCHITECT PLH ARKITEKTER A New Injecting Center related deaths and overdoses by and that the majority will use the center in Copenhagen assisting with supervision of and on a daily basis. PLH has transformed a former counselling from medical staff that can storage building in the central part of offer first aid as well as a chance to rest Cooperation, Engagement Copenhagen into a medically supervised after drug intake, acute nursing and and Involvement injecting center. The center opened in counselling on other health services Authorities, politicians and locals pay 2016. It is located at Halmtorvet – a very and treatments. This saves lives and great attention to the new center mixed neighbourhood populated by creates a better relationships with drug and the impact it will have on daily artists, creative businesses, restaurants, users and improves the chances for the life in the neighbourhood. Because of galleries but also an area frequented municipality, to connect them to other the special nature of the project it’s by drug abusers and afflicted by drug services and treatments. founded on cooperation, engagement related problems and crime. The and involvement between different injecting center is an initiative aimed to Architecture Creating interested parties such as health improve the conditions for the abusers, Stability, Security and Safety professionals, the local community, the but also at diminishing the related The users of the center need a safe local police, the Meatpacking District problems and the discomfort and safety, and welcoming place where they facility department and the client – the related to drug-issues, for the majority of encounter respect and tolerance. The Municipality of Copenhagen. All parties the people living in the neighbourhood, character of the spaces must therefore are part of a Building Committee where thus creating a better coexistence. give a sense of calmness and discretion the entire socio-cultural and health without an institutional touch, so the spectrum is represented. PLH has carried A Better Life for Drug users experience stability and security. out an intensive and structured process Users and Reduced Safety is a key issue for both staff and with the Building Committee and the Inconveniences for the drug users. Nudging through design building’s space program has been Community and communication makes it possible clarified and adjusted in accordance with The center is open 24/7 and designed to affect user behaviour in a positive the economy. Being able to decode all to facilitate the intake of drugs while direction, preventing conflicts and issues, suggesting the right solutions staffed by health professionals. The ensuring visual contact with other staff and navigate an area of great public purpose is to give drug users a better members. It’s estimated that approx. and political attention is imperative to a life and diminish the number of drug 500-1000 drug users live in Copenhagen project like this. THE ENVIRONMENT & IMPROVED INFRASTRUCTURE # CASE RAIL BALTICA, RIGA Creating an Infrastructural behind. Geometric features, symmetry Heart The Station Building and repetition are qualities that enhance PLH has been announced the winner of The focal point of the plan is the iconic way finding and maintain orientation in the open International sketch design station building that creates a strong visual the building landscape. The generous competition ‘Rail Baltica’ arranged by The identity in the cityscape strengthening space, reminiscent of ecclesiastical European Railroad Lines, Ltd. The purpose the sense of Riga as a metropolis. The architecture, creates moments of great of the competition is to develop the central inspiration for the design is the archetypal wonder as travellers enters the building – a multi-modal public transport hub in the form of historic central stations worldwide memorable experience and a recognizable Latvian capital Riga, and to construct – The Arch. point of arrival and departure. the Rail Baltica railway bridge over The Daugava River. The Rail Baltica project is The station building stands as a new Bridge & Railway part of the European transport network. landmark with eye-catching canopies The plan contains two new tracks that run resembling arched fern leaves – aspiring parallel on the south side of the existing “Our proposal delivers to the qualities of the Art nouveau period. tracks amplifying the clear signage of the a coherent, smooth and The sloping roof canopies let light flow railway in the cityscape and across the living infrastructural hub easily and evenly throughout the building, river. The bridge is designed with a light that connects the city and creating a concourse space with an and floating expression. To maintain the strengthens the existing open and airy atmosphere. To the North relation between the new and the old, identity of Riga”. side the canopy lifts allows a unique the bridge has a varying cross section that undisturbed view over the historic city emerges on the underside of the bridge, STEEN ENRICO ANDERSEN creating a strong sense of relation to the with a rolling, wavy line that refers to large PARTNER AND LEAD DESIGNER city you have just arrived in, or are leaving arch construction of the old bridge. PLH ARKITEKTER THE ENVIRONMENT & IMPROVED INFRASTRUCTURE # CASE RAIL BALTICA, RIGA The new bridge is designed with integrated challenges by creating a better micro bicycle and pedestrian path that creates climate in the city, improving air quality, vaults – opposed to the vertical elements a better connection along the rails and thermal comfort, biodiversity, storm water of the city towers. across the Daugava. management and preventing urban heat The entire project serves multiple functions island effect. as an infrastructural heart that connects Green Metropolis the regional with the local, where one can One objective of the design is to create Connecting the City seamlessly change between modes of a denser city with defined squares and The full project comprising the bridge, transport, train, to bus, car, bike, and as a urban places to frame an active city life the overpass and the station, is planned public space, an urban living room for both for inhabitants, commuters and visitors as one coherent infrastructural element recreation and commercial activities. alike – thereby strengthening the sense with a design-language that belongs to of Riga as a metropolis. An increase in the language of bridges, as a low scale, The green rampart, the water, the historic the amount of green in the city creates continuous waving series of arches and city and the market are all elements that better urban conditions and adds sensory contribute to the strong identity of Riga. experiences and an aesthetic dimension “The central station, the By taking on a holistic approach to traffic to strengthen the feeling of affiliation connected station area, and the and urban space development we have with the city. The new sequences of green adjacent infrastructure hold great removed barriers and prioritized public urban spaces will also act as a new chapter potential to be much more than transport, pedestrians and cyclist to create in the development of the city with great just infrastructure – becoming an a more liveable and sustainable city. respect for the existing city and its cultural important city hub with a strong heritage. At the same time the added urban visual identity in the cityscape STEEN ENRICO ANDERSEN, nature has the power to remedy climate in a modern sustainable urban PARTNER AND LEAD DESIGNER development”. PLH ARKITEKTER SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY WORKPLACE # CASE SIVANTOS Sivantos headquarters in Singapore inclusive manner that ensures employees sculptural ‘sound wall’ encases the arrival is a collaboration between Danish embrace, utilise and understand their new and reception area – establishing a strong architecture practice PLH Arkitekter as workplace environment. Sivantos’ desire and immediate wow factor to anybody the concept designer, and local interior to strengthen its identity has resulted in who visits. The visual elements work design company Geyer Design for design a new headquarters that represents a aesthetically and acoustically towards development and delivery. The leading powerful manifestation of the company’s transforming sound waves into physical hearing aid company Sivantos relocated vision to invent the future of better form and bringing sound to life visually for its global headquarters and its Singapore hearing and understanding. PLH’s concept an emotional and uplifting experience. It is operations, representing a critical moment for Sivantos is called “Connected by here that global and local visitors want to to change culture and establish a renewed Sound”, hereby the design is a physical be photographed with the Sivantos logo as image and identity. The outcome is a manifestation of the experience and a backdrop. sound-inspired workplace that fosters connective potential of sound. The collaboration, agility, accountability and workplace design and spatial experience Hubs as Sound spaces an entrepreneurial spirit. It is a place that draw on two main themes “sound unites Drawing People Together employees are proud of, and that gives us” and “sound as a celebration of global Hubs are centrally located around the floors visitors a memorable experience. diversity”. Subsequently, form, light, creating spaces for collaboration, focus, colour and materiality are integrated to contemplation and breakout. In connection Connected by Sound bring visitors and employees together in is a series of team support functions such The facility is intuitively designed, across spaces that are rich in sensory experience. as phone booths, small meeting rooms, 3 very large floor plates, and comprises Upon entering the head quarter, it pantries, print/storage rooms and various research & development (R & D), becomes clear that sound is the focal point break-out spaces with diverse seating manufacturing, global departments and of this organization. modes that encourage team building, South East Asia office. Effective branding exchange of expert knowledge and experience is integrated into both the Bringing Sound to Life collaboration. visitor and employee flow around the Visually workplace, and it has been developed in an Inspired by sound waves, an exciting SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY WORKPLACE # CASE SIVANTOS Easy accessibility and close proximity of the city’ and ‘sound of celebration’ are modular and respond to each team’s to all desk areas means all functions are creating different soundscapes within individual needs but also share similar equally distributed through the floors. the office. The combination of materials, design elements creating a unified look The hubs act as attractive destinations colour and lighting in each hub emphasize throughout, with a balance of privacy and within the workplace, each with their own the variations and nuances of the sounds team spirit. sound concept based on the diversity and that we hear in nature, the city and when contrasts of ‘sound of nature’, ‘sound we celebrate. Environmental Materials The linoleum we have used was possibly “The new headquarters has Team Neighbourhoods the most environmental flooring choice so completely transformed the culture The private work areas are grouped into that’s a big plus – 97% raw material + 43% of working here at Sivantos, neighbourhoods that can accommodate recycled, this was a big win to convince making the interaction between a variety of individual and group work the client to go for something like this different departments and teams processes with each department over stone, ceramic tiles etc. The carpet is much stronger. The collaboration having its own home base. The desks also a Green product. The acoustic timber hubs provide a platform for cladding should also be Green certified. spontaneous meetings and brainstorm sessions improving productivity immensely, and at the SIVANTOS SENIOR, same time giving the opportunity to VICE PRESIDENT – HR unwind while still at work.” NICOLAI R. JENSEN SOCIAL SUSTAINABILITY WORKPLACE # CASE MAERSK A Connecting Multi-user with its rounded corners, which create Sustainability Building lightness, transparency and a comfortable, The Danish building authorities’ energy Maersk’s new domicile at Amerika Plads functional flow. The interior expression regulations are among the strictest is a multi-user building for 800 staff from mirrors the soft exterior shape with in the world, by having increased the Maersk. The building marks its presence dynamic and varying spatial experiences. requirements by 25 % three times since with a striking curved corner towards the The focus has been to promote the welfare 2008. The building is designed with a busy Kalkbrænderihavnsgade, and likewise of the employees through the layout of holistic approach, which in sustainable towards the inner square behind. Thus the building. Across the 6 floors open terms gives a cheaper, greener and creating a welcoming meeting with its spaces meanders to create room for cafés, healthier operational building. The urban context where residential, office, breakand meeting places near the stairs sustainable aspects include a compact retail and restaurant activities blend and office spaces in the periphery of the building mass, daylight through the big together. building. The ground floor is disposed with atrium, visual connection throughout a reception, meeting rooms and a canteen. the building, optimized floor plans and Building Concept The proceeding floors are arranged with circulation as well as being flexible and The building is a carefully designed object associated communal facilities. Changing enabling departments to expand more with a clear and simple modern expression. rooms and technical spaces can be found in freely. The roughly quadratic footprint is distinct the basement. Compact Building Visual Connection Circulation Flexibility Reduced facade area Creates a visible Main staircase in atrium High degree of flexibility More energy efficient connection Circulation without ‘dead between departments, Supports ‘one company’ ends’ which are able to expand in Universal contact with Only three cores > good two directions and around atrium orientation / way finding corners. ENVIRONMENTALLY FRIENDLY TECHNOLOGY # CASE BREATHE 55 Recycling of Energy to Better Indoor Air Quality automatically increases the flow. Improve Air Quality in Older and Easier Life for Allergy Energy Efficient Buildings Sufferers Technologies The existing building stock represent a The unit is easily applicable and The project was initially sponsored by tremendous energy consumption and adaptable to different wall thickness’s. the Innovation Fund (Fornyelsesfonden) there is a great potential for reducing It ensures basic ventilation of individual and one version of the unit is now the total energy consumption in rooms with high heat recovery sponsored by the Market Maturation refurbishments of older buildings. efficiency transforming the energy to Fund (Markedsmodningsfonden). fresh air entering the room. It is also A slightly different version of the possible to incorporate filters that make unit better suited for kitchens and Recycling 4/5 of the Energy life easier for allergy sufferers and the bathrooms is sponsored by the Danish Otherwise Lost unit improves indoor air quality. Public Service Agency 'Elforsk' which PLH has developed a ventilation unit supports research in and development called Breathe 55, that can recycle 4/5 of energy efficient technologies. of the energy in the otherwise lost Operates Automatically 70 units have been tested in a residential heat, which makes the unit an obvious The unit operates automatically area in Kokkedal. The test results have technical device to use in connection depending on the indoor climate. been analysed and incorporated into the with the renovation of older buildings. With more people and higher levels of final design of the unit which has now CO2 or humidity in the room, the unit been put into production. PRODUCT DESIGN LONGEVITY & ENERGY SAVINGS # CASES PLH has put great initiatives in product awarded the international product specifically developed to bring a homely design that bears modern marks and design award “iF Design Award”. atmosphere into the work spaces. It aims at long lasting validity. This is, has a unique LED-shielding so the light among other designs, shown in the does not dazzle or distract the user. PlanSign series, which was designed Lighting that Saves Energy LumiStone is designed for long life in 2004 and gained a Cradle to Cradle PLH design team developed a new cycling and has a lifespan of approx 17 Certification in 2014. series of light fittings for energy years by usage of 8 hours a day and saving lighting. These innovative light all materials can be reused by a simple fixtures are produced in collaboration separation of the fixtures parts. 'PlanSign Series' Cradle to with, and for, major international light Cradle manufacturing companies. The sign is made of 5 mm aluminium, 'LumiLine' in a very flexible design, that allows 'LumiStone' Reusable, Long In 2013, the LED technology and the it to be combined in countless ways Lifespan, High Efficiency cone-shaped apertures from LumiStone and in many different sizes for indoor In April 2012 Philips Lighting launched were transferred unchanged into a and outdoor use. The sign is equipped LumiStone a new LED fixature recessed ceiling fixture, called LumiLine. with the patented magnetic locking designed by PLH (Henning Solfeldt Design kinship with LumiStone is clear system that ensures that it is easy and design specialist) as the first suspended even though LumiLine is a flat, oval simple to maintain. PlanSign is the LED fixture that meets current luminaire. LumiLine was developed only sign system in the world that is requirements for office lighting. for DSV’s new headquarters, where Cradle to Cradle certified. In 2014, the LumiStone gives a luminous efficiency the building’s rounded volumes manufacturer DanSign met higher exceeding 100 lm / W, which is 30-40% called for a ceiling fixture in a similar environmental standards and increased higher than T5 luminaires often used friendly expression. The fitting was their certification level from Basic for offices. The fixture is elegant, subsequently also used throughout Alfa to Bronze. PlanSign was previously evocative and energy efficient, and is Laval’s new office in Aalborg. “I develop products with common sense in mind. Firstly, the product should be able to get dismantled into individual components when its lifetime has come to an end. Secondly, the materials or components should be reusable. Thirdly, the product should have as low an energy consumption as possible“ HENNING SOLFELDT PRODUCT DESIGN SPECIALIST PLH ARKITEKTER PLH GLOBAL COMPACT AMBITION 2019/2020 PLH is proud to be a member of Global sustainable working environment not Compact as an integral part of our day Compact. In the year ahead we will because we see more colleagues with to day actions and creative processes. continue to seek opportunities to stress related sick leave, but because We will continue to design sustainable support and enact the 10 principles. we want to keep it that way solutions and structures that support and promote sustainable behavior – In particular, we aim to show built We will continue our membership and continue to promote sustainable works that demonstrate more of DANSKE ARK, continue to follow solutions to our clients. extensive and measurable outcomes in DANSKE ARK’S instructions, guidelines the area of environment. and contractual standards. PLH will Our central purpose is to improve continue to follow Danish legislation on the quality of peoples’ lives and we labour standards and will continue to will continue to design with the 3 Human Rights dissociate ourselves from all forms of objectives ‘People’, ‘Profit’ and ‘Planet’ discrimination. (A triple bottom line) in mind. The We will continue our membership triple bottom line-approach ensures of DANSKE ARK, continue to follow In addition, we will continue to sustainable design that also betters DANSKE ARK’S instructions, guidelines invest in the working environment the lives of the users while at the same and contractual standards. PLH will making PLH Arkitekter an attractive time improving conditions for the continue to follow Danish legislation workplace retaining and attracting client. as well as respecting national and the best. Upholding a humanistic and international legislation and human collegial working style, high employee We will aim at creating sustainable, rights conventions. involvement, stress prevention successful places that promote and creating a responsible working wellbeing and improve the quality of In addition we will continue to environment where human diversity peoples’ lives by understanding what demand that collaborators, business is recognized, will continue to be people need from the places they live partners, suppliers and whoever we very significant factors for the office. and work. have business dealings with both Furthermore, we will continue to in Denmark and abroad will respect recruit solely on proven competencies Through research, innovation and national and international legislation and experiences not regarding cooperation with manufactures, and human rights conventions. gender, nationality, religion, age or institutions and clients we will other discriminating criteria. continually strive to develop and diffuse sustainable solutions, Labour We will also continue to demand that environmentally friendly technologies collaborators, business partners, and new sustainable structures that The 2019 Work Place Assessment suppliers and others we have business underpin and promote environmentally showed that we are on the right track dealings with, will respect and uphold responsible behavior. with 95% of the employees wanting the freedom of association, recognize to recommend the work environment the right to collective bargaining, in PLH to friends or acquaintances. support the elimination of all forms Anti-Corruption We appreciate their trust, but do not of forced and compulsory labour rest on the laurels. This year, as a and child labour and support the We will continue to work against concrete investment in our physical elimination of discrimination in respect corruption in all its forms and avoid working environment we are updating of employment and occupation. nepotism, exchanges of favors, the studio with particular focus on unofficial agreements between improving the indoor climate and companies and other forms of bribery expanding the collaborative spaces. We Environment aiming for clarity in all our business also introduce a “PLH Mental Health agreements. Day” for all PLH staff focusing on how PLH will continue to support the to support a mentally and culturally principles 7, 8 and 9 of The UN Global
