SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 1 TABLE OF CONTENTS INTRODUCTION 3 Message from the CEO 4 ABOUT BROADBAND COMMUNICATION NETWORKS 7 Vision 8 Business motto 8 Mission 8 Core Values 9 Our Products and services 11 Sustainability Pillars 11 PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS 12 General 13 Key revenues by segment 13 Environmental 15 Social 16 OUR MATERIAL MATTERS 17 Human Rights 18 Labour 18 Environment 19 Anticorruption 19 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PERFORMANCE 20 Human Rights 21 Labour 27 Environment 30 Anticorruption 32 Community Engagement 34 Social Responsibility Policy 34 OUR SUSTAINABILITY PROJECTION IN YEAR 2020 36 ABBREVIATIONS AND ACRONYMS 39 BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 2 INTRODUCTION This report presents the progress we have made in achieving our goals and be sustainable in future. It has been developed to provide summarized information on the sustainability performance of Broadband Communication Network. The report highlights our key material matters under the ten principles of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and provides insight into our approach in addressing these matters. It covers the period July 2018 – June 2019 and forms our third Communication on Progress Report to the UN Global Compact. BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 3 MESSAGE FROM THE Chief Executive Officer BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 4 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO substantial scope reduction with our primary customer. The main reason for “Our Organization’s objective is to provide loss of business is the demand for more Products, Services and Solutions that discounts and pressure from new entrants contribute to sustainability for our to lower prices yet our costs are customers, our Country and the world at increasing. large. Our organization’s sustainability is hinged Indeed, our sustainability vision is to provide on six pillars that include: Customer Focus, products, services and solutions that Products and Services Excellence, Our contribute to the success of our own human Resource, Innovation, customers, and the quality of life of each Governance, Health Safety and person affected by our actions. Environment. These pillars are also aligned with the UNGC requirements. we The foundation of this vision is our continued have policies that cover Human commitment to managing our operations Resource, Health, Safety, Environment responsibly and ethically. We are and Business Ethics among others. dedicated to add value to our customers’ technology needs. Human Rights Welcome to our Communication on Our organization is committed to Progress Report. “ continue respecting the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights In this annual sustainability report, we and do not tolerate human rights abuse describe our actions to continually improve of any form. We are ready to report any the integration of the Global Compact and person involved in human rights abuses if its principles into our business strategy, it ever happens in our operation. In the culture and daily operations. We strive at all past three years we had zero human right times to ensure adherence to these violation. principles. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our Labour Standards primary channels of communication. We are committed to ensure that, in our Our organization mission is, to be the recruitment and work sub-contracting; preferred provider of innovative and we do not employ children, discriminate superior technology solutions and services in in employment, advocate for forced East & Central Africa. We continue to labour, block employees from having deliver Technology Solutions addressing; collective bargaining among other Telecom, Utilities, Broadcasting, UN bodies international labour standards. and large businesses in the region. Indeed, we are pretty much a one Stop shop for ICT The Environment in the region. Our activities have the capacity to In general, last year has been a good degrade the environment. We however year for Broadband. However, the last believe in ensuring we protect the two years we faced challenges of environment so that we leave the earth if BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 5 possible better than we found it. we concerned. We continue training our believe we are among the 1st Telecom senior and middle management staff on Company in Kenya to have an active Code of Ethics for Business in Kenya and Health, Safety and Environment (HSE) above all, our staff has signed the code policy. We are totally compliant as far as of conduct handbook HSE is concerned and in accordance with the best practice in environmental We require all our employees to adhere conservation requirements. to administration requirements, to the letter and spirit, in order to avoid our staff must read, understand and sign opportunities for corruption. To further our HSE handbook before they can be eradicate corruption, we have allowed to go to the field. Additionally, requested our suppliers to register with before any field task is executed our staff UNGC and in particular sign the Code of and subcontractors must have signed and Ethics for business in Kenya. I am approved job hazard analysis (JHA) we also pleased to report that 14 suppliers have have all required Health and Safety (PPE) already registered and other 10 suppliers tools for our staff are in the processes of registering with UNGC. We commit to continue to train Our organization has invested in energy all staff to ensure they adhere to the 10 efficient solutions that enable us and our UNGC principals. Indeed, we look customers to go green. Initiatives include; forward to a world where corruption is Sale of LED lighting solutions, Solar, hybrid totally eradicated. solutions and efficient cooling solutions for data centers and telecom application. All Conclusion these solutions reduce the carbon foot print for our customers. We will continue investing In conclusion, I take this opportunity to in green energy solutions for telecom, thank my team for the effort so far. I homes and grid connection into the future. believe that there is a lot of room to be covered and we are committed and Anti-Corruption willing to go that extra mile. I however believe that we need each and every Corruption remains a key challenge in Corporate, Small and Medium our operation. This is a key issue especially when dealing with Enterprises, Government to follow suit in order to achieve the desired global government officers and some goals. My commitment is that we will customers. This is especially true when ensure we do our part and look forward getting development approvals and to reporting on our progress next year. licenses in our operations among others. This often causes work to delay resulting “Yes, we can” in our organization incurring undue losses and poor performance appraisal by our customers. As the CEO of the company I have ensured that my management and staff have, zero Bernard G. Wahome tolerance to corruption in all forms Founder and Chief Executive Officer BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 6 ABOUT BROADBAND COMMUNICATION NETWORK BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 7 ABOUT BROADBAND COMMUNICATION NETWORK Broadband Communication Network is a Technology Organization dedicated to provide end to end Network Products and Solutions for: • Network Operators, • Communication Regulators, • Broadcasting Houses, • Internet Service Providers (ISPs) • Utilities, Governments, • UN bodies and • Large business organizations in East & Central Africa. The company covers the full ICT life cycle through three main business divisions, each headed by a General Manager. These three divisions are: • Projects Implementation which includes physical network planning, deployment, and optimization. • Maintenance and Support (Managed Services) for ICT Network • Network Solutions includes End to End 2G, 3G and 4G Mobile Broadband Network, Quality of service monitoring system (QSMS), Conformance Testing, Network Monitoring, Performance Management, Telecom Power and Green Energy among others. We have headquarters in Nairobi, Kenya and have implemented large Telecom Network Projects across East & Central Africa, including Cameroon, Rwanda, Burundi, Ethiopia, Tanzania, Congo B, Gabon, Congo, Zambia and Sudan besides many in Kenya. To achieve our objectives, we have partnered with major global tier 1 manufacturers to deliver the desired solutions to our Customers. Our partners include Rohde & Schwarz, Nokia, Infinera, Calix, Aviat, Emerson (Vertiv), Viavi and Netscout among others Vision Business motto: Mission To be the model of excellence in delivering Dedicated to add value To be the preferred superior technology to your technology needs provider of innovative solutions and services in and superior technology Africa. solutions and Services BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 8 Core Values • Honesty • Hard work • Integrity • Maintenance of good health • Sincerity • Safety and wellbeing • Superior quality • Protection of the environment • Competence • Respect of our internal and external customers • Timely • Superior customer satisfaction Country of Origin Contribution to the (SDGs) Our work contributes directly to the following SDGs: BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 9 Our Products and Services BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 10 Our Products and Services: • Network Implementation • Network Maintenance • Network Solutions • Green Energy Solutions Our Sustainability Pillars Customer Focus Product and Service Excellence Health Safety and Environment Corporate Governance Innovation Our Human resource BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 11 BROADBAND COMMUNICATION NETWORK PERFORMANCE HIGHLIGHTS BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 12 Performance for The Last Three Years FY19 YEAR UNDER REVIEW BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 13 Our company has recorded increased efficiency in diesel management by lowering the amount diesel consumed per Network site. Achievement was realized through integration of power hybrid solutions and quality maintenance procedures in line our ISO quality maintenance manual. The overall effect of excellence in operations is sustained improvement in network uptime (network availability). Reduced site maintenance scope Greener Environment: Efficiency in site maintenance leading to diminished Improved network uptime for MNO diesel consumption networks MNO sites: Reduction Diesel supplied by 22% Network uptime MNO Networks Network infrastructure construction and Implementation Our contribution to the infrastructure over the last 3 years Reduction in MNO site Diesel Consumption by 22% Scope evolution: MNO KE networks diminishing The entry into the Kenyan market has seen MNOs sell their Cell site Towers to Tower companies. This has resulted in reduced scope for MNO managed service partners from 2017. The entrance of American Tower and Eaton Towers in 2017 and 2018 has seen a decline in the Network site build number of Sites under Broadband maintenance BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 14 Environmental We have installed 2 trial sites for Safaricom with Solar hybrid Green products Roof/ Solar Products Wind Energy LED Lighting Products 2019 sold 800 LED bulbs Products Solar Umbrella Hybrid Solar System BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 15 Social Number of employees Employee diversity by position Average years of Age Employee Diversity (M/F) FEMALE MALE Total No. 29 Total No. 111 Increased from 13% in FY18 Droped from 87% in FY18 to 21% in FY19 to 79% in FY19 Employee training spend KES 1,923,420/= Hours on employee training Hrs 4,631 CSR initiatives spend KES 1,175,300/= Employee volunteering hours Hrs 500 BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 16 OUR MATERIAL MATTERS A sustainability issue is considered material if it could substantively affect the organization’s ability to create value in the short, medium, or long term. Material matters in this report have been developed under the four key themes of the UN Global Compact namely; 1. Human Rights, 2. Labour 3. Environment 4. Anti-corruption. Material matters are determined by considering the sustainability impacts and opportunities of the company, stakeholder concerns, and assessments of critical issues within the operating environment. These themes reflect key relationships, spheres of influence, footprints or impacts of our operations, stakeholder concerns and our operating context. CEO addressing the staff on SDG Principles BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 17 Human Rights Human rights are rights inherent to all human beings, whatever their nationality, place of residence, sex, national or ethnic origin, color, religion, language, or any other status. All human beings are equally entitled to human rights without discrimination. These rights are all interrelated, interdependent and indivisible. Material matters as relates to human rights and business in Kenya are hardly documented. The Kenya National Commission on Human Rights (KNCHR) highlights issues for businesses including workplace rights, local communities/business relations, human rights, and sustainable land use, human rights and sustainable environment and human rights and smalland medium-sized enterprises. The Commission also noted that manufacturing and agricultural companies are more prone to human rights challenges. Although we operate in the service arena that is hardly considered in respect to matters of human rights, the company believes human rights as being important especially concerning employees. Fundamental human rights issues of concern to the company include health and safety of employees, sexual harassment and management of grievances. Labour Labour relations and labor rights remain a highly emotive subject in Kenya. In 20182019, the national government has faced key labor challenges with major employee segments including teachers, university lecturers, nurses, and doctors. In terms of child labor, A report by the US Department of State last year (2018) classified Kenya as a source, transit and destination country for men, women, and children subjected to labour and sex trafficking. Freedom of association is enshrined in Bill of Rights under Chapter 4 of the Constitution of Kenya 2010 which states that (1) Every person has the right to freedom of association, which includes the right to form, join or participate in the activities of an association of any kind; and (2) A person shall not be compelled to join an association of any kind. Association through trade unions is also catered for in the Labour Relations Act (2007). Also, the country has several labor-related laws that support freedom of association and prohibit all forms of forced and compulsory labor, infringements of employee rights, and protection of employees. As an employer, Broadband considers labor relations as a critical facet of the longterm sustainability. Observance of labor legislation and consistent engagement of employees is regarded as an essential part of sound business practice by the company. Also, the company has identified unique features of its labor performance that require additional attention and management Communication Networks COP BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 18 Environment Article 42 of the Constitution of Kenya Anticorruption (2010) states that every person has the right to a clean and healthy environment. These Corruption in Kenya has been laws reinforce the provision of the key characterized as endemic and environmental legislation, the systemic covering the entire swath of Environmental Management and petty to grand corruption. The Coordination Act (EMCA), 1999 which Business Anti-Corruption portal states states that every person in Kenya is entitled that “one-third of all firms regularly to a clean and healthy environment and experience extortion and have to must safeguard and enhance it. Despite make facilitation payments and give these robust provisions, Kenya faces severe gifts to carry out basic business environmental challenges, including operations such as obtaining deforestation, soil erosion, desertification, operating licenses, construction water shortage, and degraded water permits and utility connections.” The quality, flooding, poaching, and domestic private sector has been and industrial pollution. characterized as being both a perpetrator and a victim of corruption Given this context, it is imperatives for in the country. According to 2019 companies in the region to embrace IGAD Meeting, Corruption was singled sound environmental practices. out as main challenge in fighting Increasingly, stakeholders are demanding transnational crime. Transparency that companies be more proactive in their international 2019 corruption environmental practices. For example, in perception index ranked Kenya at early 2018, the national government issued 144 out of 180 countries. a ban on the use, manufacture, and importation of all plastic bags used for Given this challenging environment commercial and household packaging on for business, anti-corruption measures environmental grounds. 2019, NEMA has become a relevant component for shut down 12 companies for directing their companies that seek to operate untreated industrial discharge into rivers ethically and responsibly. Broadband and streams within Nairobi. 24 companies is particularly vulnerable to this have also been given improvement orders context due to its operations as a to put their houses in order before their business to business service provider companies are shut. in a highly competitive sector. Also, it’s business dealings with the Broadband, therefore, considers the government and participation in natural environment as a critical material competitive bidding creates a concern requiring the requisite policies facilitative environment for and procedures. We have on board the corruption. The company, therefore, HSE policy that drives the organization to considers corruption as a critical protect the environment. challenge. BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 19 Our Sustainability Performance This section looks at Broadband Communication Network sustainability performance by focusing on the four core themes (Human Rights, Labour, Environment and AntiCorruption) and ten principles of the UN Global Compact. We have prepared this information by presenting three key facets of our sustainability performance model. Firstly, we have provided insights on our understanding of the core sustainability issues and why we believe it is important to our business. We realize that different businesses have different explanations of the terms used by the UN Global Compact. We therefore want to highlight our understanding of the core themes and the necessity for our engagement in each of these themes. Secondly, we have highlighted our policy position on each of the themes. This is in recognition of the need for companies to develop internal policy commitments in respect to each of the core themes of the UN Global Compact. Policy statements and policy highlights are provided to underscore the seriousness with which we take each of the core themes. BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 20 Without policies, implementation tends to be ad-hoc and guided by personal vision of those charged with implementing. By developing and publicizing our policies, we intend to ensure that our stakeholders understand our position and approach on diverse issues. Finally, we have provided insight on some of the activities we have undertaken to implement our policies. We appreciate that policies that are not implemented are simply “wish lists”. Instead, we want to show our commitment through specific and targeted actions that seek to address the sustainability agendas incorporated in the Compact. This provides our core measurement of our sustainability performance in 2019 through qualitative narrative and quantitative data (where applicable). We believe that this three-part design provides holistic and logical insight on our sustainability performance in the course of the year. Human Rights Principle 1: Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Our understanding We understand human rights as universal and minimum standards aimed at securing dignity and equality for all human beings. In this regard, we endeavor to assess and determine any human rights risks that may occur due to our operations and activities. Our intention is to ensure we respect human rights and avoid any infringements. We have placed our emphasis on issues that present key human rights risks and report on them accordingly. Our policy Our company takes cognizance of the importance of adhering to sound human rights practices in our business undertakings. The company has developed several human rights related policies to underpin its commitment to observing, protecting and respecting human rights. Among these policies are BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 21 Health and safety policy • Provide of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) to employees and ensuring properly used. • Reduce the losses caused by consequences of occupational diseases, accidents and improving the general environment. Broadband has put several strategies in place to attain the objectives of the health and safety policy. These include: • Providing suitable working tools and protective equipment • Liaising and adhering to relevant government and regulatory authorities to ensure compliance to health and safety standards • Sensitizing staff through continuous training and updating all policies and procedures on safety, health and environment practices. • Providing and maintain plant systems and procedures of work This policy seeks to comply with the that are safe and without risks to Occupational Safety and Health Act, 2007 health. (OSHA) and all other relevant legal requirements. Through the policy, the • Undertaking of Job hazard analysis company commits to: (JHA) before executing any task • Comply with all relevant statutory The policy sets out clear responsibilities requirements and quality standards. for the Managing Director, General • Ensure each employee is given Managers, Heads of Departments and information, instruction and training employees on issues of health and necessary for safe performance of safety, ensuring that overall responsibility work. is vested in the top leadership of the • Protect health and safety of all company. It also provides for the employees. establishment of Health and Safety • Adequately enable employees raise Committees, Environmental Health and issues of the health and safety Safety (EHS) trainings and EHS guidelines. through health and safety committees. A set of EHS rules have been developed with specific emphasis to the following • Ensure assessment of risks on safety concern health and safety at workplace and taking necessary action. BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 22 Health and safety Toolbox/JHA meeting Sexual harassment policy The Company has developed a sexual harassment policy that seeks to ensure that all employees are protected from sexual harassment. Sexual harassment is defined as “unwelcome and unreciprocated sexual advances, requests for sexual favours, either verbal or physical conduct of a sexual nature that results in the individual feeling threatened or compromised in any way. The policy recognizes instances of sexual harassment as occurring if the employer of that employee or a representative of that employer or a co-worker; • Uses language whether written or spoken of a sexual nature • Shows physical behaviour of a sexual nature which directly or indirectly subjects the employee to behaviour that is unwelcome or offensive to that employee that by its nature has a detrimental effect on the employee’s employment, job performance or job satisfaction. • Uses visual material of sexual nature • Directly or indirectly requests that employee for sexual intercourse, sexual contact or any other form of sexual activity that contains an implied or express, promise of preferential treatment in employment, threat of determined treatment in employment; or threat about the present or future employment status of the employee. BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 23 Examples of sexual harassment covered by the policy include verbal, unwanted propositions, language of a suggestive or explicit nature, jokes of a suggestive or explicit nature, questions or comments of a personal nature, pin-ups, offensive publications, unsolicited and unwanted gifts and staring/leering. Complaint and grievance policy This policy is designed to provide guidelines and procedure to ensure workplace disciplinary, complaints and grievance issues that affect the company’s performance are received and appropriately dealt with in a timely manner for the mutual interest of both the company and the employee. It provides for grievances to be handled and settled near the point of origin and as soon as possible with the immediate manager in the first instance. It also provides clear timelines for addressing grievances. All work-related complaints and grievances should be reported within three working days from the date of occurrence of the incidence and hearing held within seven working days after the reporting date and feedback given within the next three working days after the hearing. A clearly defined grievance mechanism is in place ensuring confidentiality and non-victimization of those who highlight grievances. Our performance Health and safety are a critical concern of our organization. This is because our work entails various forms of health and safety risks that need constant vigilance and adherence to our safety policy. Among the critical issues include safety concerns for persons working at height, handling of electrical appliances and electricity, driving including long distance and night driving and proper use of Personal Protective Equipment (PPE). We currently have HSE Manager and assistant and field team leaders are HSE supervisors responsible for their teams Managing safety concerns at our client’s sites is a key consideration. This work includes many hazardous tasks and conditions such as working with height, excavation, noise, dust, power tools and equipment. The most common fatalities are caused by the fatal four: falls, struck by object, electrocutions and caughtin/between. We have developed clear procedures for ensuring safety within sites based on the tasks at hand and risks associated with these tasks. In general, we ensure that all sites are well secured and a safety induction is conducted before commencement of work. Where necessary, safety signage is also erected on site. BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 24 Working at height is acknowledged as one of the most dangerous activities in the construction, maintenance and facilities management scope of work. Amongst many hazards and associated risks, working at height exposes workers to the risk of falls from height, and others being hit by objects that may fall from height. Working at height is a predominant aspect of our work since we provide support to telecommunication companies by building and maintaining their infrastructure. Construction, equipping and maintenance of this infrastructure and subsequent maintenance creates the need for working at height. In this respect, we have developed a clear set of practices including compulsory use of protective equipment like harnesses, specific requirements on the type of harnesses that can be used and clear guidelines on working positions when working at height. In addition, all employees involved in working at height are certified for this type of work and undergo site induction meeting before each assignment. Certification is renewed annually with refresher courses undertaken after every three years. Personal Protective Equipment (PPE) are an essential part of our safety practice and are provided to all personnel as required. Use of PPE is compulsory based on task and site requirements. Employees have been trained in the proper use of PPE to ensure that they accrue the safety benefits intended from the use of these equipment. On site, an induction process is conducted at the commencement of tasks in which PPE usage is covered among key induction facts. Where necessary, all persons on a site including visitors, suppliers and inspectors are required to observe PPE requirements for them to access the site. Other considerations that are essential for safe practices include safety procedures around site construction, excavation and working with electricity. We have ensured that our employees are appropriately qualified for these functions and also invested in their skills around safety practices. In addition, our assignments call for driving in various forms of terrains, for diverse distances and at different hours, since we also provide emergency support to telecommunication companies. This creates several forms of driving and road related risks. To address this issue, we have developed a comprehensive procedure for each journey which includes pre-journey assessment of all vehicles based on a clear assessment template. The subsequent vehicle inspection report must be completed and submitted. In addition, journey planning is undertaken to determine safety risks and mitigation needed for each journey. Drivers are expected to make journey breaks as a key part of safe driving. At a company level, all drivers undergo defensive driving courses as a prerequisite for working in that role. We also ensure the safety of our personnel who work in areas that are prone to insecurity or during night hours. BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 25 Our overall safety performance for the last three year 2017,2018 and 2019 is as shown below: Health and Safety Training and development topics in 2018-2019 were as follows: Training Attendees No. OSH Awareness Training All Employees 140 Fire Marshals Nominated Fire Marshals 23 Occupation Safety & Health Training Health and Safety Champions 28 Health and Safety Committee All H&S Representatives’ 20 Training First Aider All Nominated First Aiders 28 Working at Heights All Riggers/ Persons who work at height 16 Defensive Driving Training All drivers and persons authorized to drive 18 HSE Internal Audit Training Health and Safety Champions 15 Stress Management All employees 140 HIV/AIDS All employees 140 Civil Engineering and HSE Training Civil Engineer 1 HSE Supervision Training Supervisors 10 BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 26 Our policy Labour The Human Resource Manual sets out Principle 3: Businesses should uphold the company’s comprehensive the freedom of association and the approach to the management of effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; human capital to ensure achievement of complete and appropriate Principle 4: the elimination of all forms of communication, records and controls forced and compulsory labour; with an objective of attracting, Principle 5: the effective abolition of recruiting and retaining of competent child labour; and staff that meet both the company and Principle 6: the elimination of individual goals. The Manual caters for a discrimination in respect of employment wide variety of labour related issues and occupation. including freedom of association, nonOur understanding discrimination, child labour and forced We are committed to respecting and compulsory labour. international and local legislation on d) Freedom of association labour relations and practices. Several Employees of the company are international and national policies, permitted to form or join any trade union treaties, regulations and legislation of their choice. This is in adherence with provide an overarching framework for local legislation and best labour sound labour practices. Key legislation practice. No restrictions or requirements in Kenya include the Employment Act, have been put in place to prevent or Labour Institutions Act, Labour Relations prohibit employees from collective Act, Occupational Safety and Health engagements. Act and Work Injury Benefits Act. These laws and the Constitution of Kenya b) Child labour (2010) provide for key labour rights The company has a child labour policy including freedom of association, that acknowledges the existence of prohibition of forced and compulsory child labour and the need to address it labour and discrimination in respect to proactively. The company has employment and occupation. assessed its risks in regards to child In respect to child labour, Section 10 of labour and determined that the the Children Act 2001 (Chapter 141) highest risks may be attributed to our states that all children must be suppliers. However, Broadband does protected from economic exploitation not accept child labour, and works that would have a detrimental effect on actively against it. The company their wellbeing or access to education. recognizes that the complexity of the Furthermore, Part VII of the Employment child labour issue requires a consistent, Act 2007 sets out the standards for the long-term effort to create sustainable protection of children in the workplace and broad-based solutions in order to and prohibits employment of children reach its goal; that no products under the age of 13. delivered to us are produced by child labour BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 27 General principle and provisions applicable in the country of production. Our company does not accept child • Suppliers are obliged to take the labour and it supports the United Nations appropriate measures to ensure (U.N.) Convention on the Rights of the that no child labour occurs at Child (1989) and has developed its child suppliers’ and their sublabour policy based on this Convention, contractors’ places of production. which stipulates: • If child labour is found in any • “All actions concerning the child place of production, our shall take full account of his or her company will require the supplier best interests.” Article 3. to implement a corrective action • “The right of the child to be plan. If corrective action is not protected from economic implemented within the agreed exploitation and from performing time-frame, or if repeated any work that is likely to be violations occur, we will terminate hazardous or to interfere with the all business with the supplier child’s education, or to be harmful concerned. The corrective action to the child’s health or physical, plan shall take the child’s best mental, spiritual, moral or social interests into consideration. development”. Article 32.1. • The supplier shall effectively communicate to all its subIn addition, the policy is based on the contractors, as well as to its own International Labour Organisation (ILO) co-workers, the content of Minimum Age Convention no. 138 (1973) Broadband Communication and incorporates the ILO Convention on Networks No Child Labour Policy, the Worst Forms of Child Labour no. 182 and ensure that all measures (1999). required are implemented accordingly. The policy also covers issues of young workers, labour, monitoring and We have written to our suppliers and remediation. In terms of implementation, requested them not to engage child the policy provides as follows: labour in any of our projects. Additionally, when vetting our suppliers, • All actions to avoid child labour they have to declare that they do not shall be implemented by taking engage child labour. the child’s best interests into account. • All our suppliers shall ecognize the U.N. Convention on the Rights of the Child, and that the suppliers comply with all relevant national and international laws, regulations BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 28 c) HIV/AIDS Policy The objective of this policy is to reduce the impact of HIV/AIDS on infected and affected parties. The policy prohibits HIV testing as a prerequisite for recruitment, access to training or promotion. It also provides for the promotion and facilitation of Voluntary Counselling and Testing (VCT) for all employees. The policy also provides for: • Confidentiality in handling of information pertaining to infected and affected employees • Non-discrimination under any and all circumstances • Continuation of employment as long as the employee is able to perform in accordance to the job requirements. • Training and awareness on HIV/AIDS for employees d) Non-discrimination Broadband Communication Networks is an equal opportunity employer committed to the elimination of discrimination of any nature during the recruitment and selection process and in general employment practices. Broadband Communication Networks guarantees equality in employment opportunities based on the following grounds: Race, Colour, language, religion, political or other opinion, nationality, ethnic or social origin, disability, and marital status or HIV status. Our performance The company is committed to the best interest of employees through observation of national legislation and ethical business practices. In 2016-2017, there were no incidences of child labour in the direct work force. In addition, we continued with our staff engagements through monthly General Managers’ and weekly departmental meetings. These engagements provide employees with opportunities to raise issues of concern in the workplace. We maintain an open-door policy for employees allowing them to address concerns and grievances to managers of their choice. Training Attendees No. Stress Management All employees 140 Human Resource Management Managers 3 HIV/AIDS Awareness All employees 140 Performance Appraisal Training Managers 2 Smart Solution Installation Power Engineer 1 Quality management induction All employees 140 Lead Auditor Training Quality Manager 2 BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 29 We also engaged in an employee of the year awards, as a key effort to recognize and motivate staff. Performance is measured using the balanced score card which covers four pillars, namely Finance, Customer, Internal Processes and Learning & Growth Environment Principle 7: Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; Principle 8: undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and Principle 9: encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Our understanding The natural environment is a key resource for posterity that provides resources for business today. We believe in environmental stewardship that enables us to responsibly use and protect the natural environment in the course of doing our business. Our policy The company’s environmental policy states that it shall conduct its business in a manner that is compatible with the balanced environmental and economic need of the environment it operates in. it also indicates that the company will engage in continuous efforts to improve the environment. Our performance Our work has several direct impacts on the natural environment. We have therefore developed specific procedures for addressing these impacts mostly aimed at avoiding or mitigating the impacts. Before embarking on construction activities, we undertake an environmental impact assessment to assess the environmental and social consequences (positive and negative) of the proposed project prior to the decision to move forward with the proposed action. The EIA involves environmental studies and stakeholder engagement to ensure that environmental and social data is generated to inform the project plan. The deployment function of our work entails construction and development of physical infrastructure for our clients. This results into activities such as excavation, site development and construction that create environmental impacts. For example, bush and landscape clearance, excavation and other site disturbances can create adverse conditions. These include soil erosion, silty storm water runoff, site flooding, BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 30 soil dumping and polluted soils. We undertake mitigation efforts in this effect including disposal of soil to designated dumping areas, clearance of all construction sites from materials used during the construction and general cleaning of sites. Additionally, we dispose waste oil from our maintenance services through a professional and registered disposal company. Waste oil is particularly pollutive and needs specialized handling. Other forms of waste are disposed through an authorised waste disposal company. Apart from the impact of our work, we have proactively engaged in improving the natural environment through the provision of green technology products and services. We have partnered with world renowned green energy products manufacturers to assist our clients reduce their dependence on diesel generated electricity. This includes providing micro and macro solar power systems and wind turbines and associated technology. We also provide LED lighting which consumes 70% less energy on average as compared to traditional lighting technologies, lasting up to 10 times longer, contains no toxic materials and are 100% recyclable. In 20182019 we sold 8,300 LED products. LED lights enabling up to 90% energy saving Tangaza College Solar Heater Cumulatively sold over last 3 year 24,000 Led Bulbs BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 31 Anticorruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Our understanding Ethical practices remain a key driver for long term value creation and business sustainability. We believe in doing business in a way that is above reproach, ensuring that we adhere to legal requirements and ethical consideration. We realize that our business context is plagued with ethical challenges affecting business and society in general. Ethics is therefore championed from the top management and all employees are expected to adhere to the highest ethical standards. Our policy It is the policy of the Company to conduct its business activities in all sectors we operate in with honesty, integrity and adhering to the moral, ethical and legal standards of the sector and country. Our ethical principles 1. All employees shall at all times uphold the Company vision, mission and core values. 2. All employees are required to behave in a responsible manner to both the external and internal customers. 3. All employees must adhere to the laid down rules and regulations that exist and as amended from time to time. 4. Employees must be courteous to customers both internal and external giving correct and timely information regarding the goods and services offered by the Company in performance of their duties. All communication from the customer must be dealt with expeditiously and courteously to a logical conclusion. 5. All employees must accept accountability for their actions, decisions and appreciate positive criticism 6. Employees should encourage and challenge others when they behave in unethical ways, report any nonconformity to rules and regulations. However, employees should not suppress unnecessarily any positive and constructive contributions for the betterment of the Company 7. Employees must never accept/ solicit gifts/ rewards/ bribes from customers, suppliers, officials or any other stakeholder, before, during or after performance of duty. BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 32 8. All employees shall obey lawful and proper instructions issued to them for the efficient performance of their duties. 9. Employees shall not disclose confidential information to any unauthorized persons neither extract or destroy any official records 10. All employees shall: • Recognize the rights of all persons • Demonstrate Company core values • Treat others fairly. Our performance From 2016, we embarked on developing the knowledge and skills of our employees on issues of ethical business and anti-corruption. During the course of the year, we utilised our monthly employee engagement forums as key discussion points to engage on ethical business. We have trained employees (including General Managers and departmental heads); 6 and 4 under 2016_2017, and 2017_2018 respectively who attended two-day training on ethical business organized by the UN Global Compact – Kenya Chapter. Our Managing Director is the ethics champion in the company and consistently engages employees on issues of ethical business and anti-corruption. Employees understand that there is a zero-tolerance policy on corruption issues within the company as championed by the top leadership. Together we can stop corruption!! BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 33 Our Team at 2019 Beyond Zero Marathon Community Engagement Our understanding Societal challenges are importance business imperatives that can be addressed by companies through the way we do business or using voluntary engagement initiatives. We believe in supporting community initiatives through financial and nonfinancial contributions to participate in the communal efforts that aim at uplifting the lives of ordinary citizens. We are cognisant of the extensive societal problems prevailing in our business context and choose to participate strategically and judiciously in those initiatives that provide exemplary results and impacts to society. Social Responsibility policy Social responsibility refers to the activities and associated responsibilities that Broadband Communication Networks holds where an impact on society and the BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 34 environment may occur. This includes issues relating to the environment, human rights, labour practices, organisational governance, fair business practices, community involvement and social development, and consumer issues. This includes the ability of Broadband Communication Networks to reach agreement on activities that are either “right” or “wrong” and to be held accountable for activities over which it has control. Broadband Communication Networks intends for its actions to be consistent with the interests of society and sustainable development, based on sound ethical behaviour, in compliance with applicable laws and governmental regulations and be integrated into the ongoing organization activities. Sustainable Development Policy Broadband Communication Networks will ensure sustainable development (i.e. development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs) through the adoption of acceptable balances between the priorities of economic development, social progress and environmental protection. The company is committed to maintaining the state of the environment where social and economic goals ensure the achievement of improved quality of life whilst avoiding a scenario whereby its actions may cause environmental issues that could undermine or threaten human survival. Broadband Communication Networks endeavors to have its actions to be consistent with the interests of society and sustainable development based on sound ethical behavior. This is in compliance with applicable laws and governmental regulations and all are integrated into the ongoing organization activities OUR CONTRIBUTION TO THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS End poverty in all its forms everywhere Our contribution: • Over the last 3 years we have constructed 199 Network sites. FY1778 sites, FY18 -47 Sites and FY19-74 • Our company minimum wage for all our employees is KSh 25,000.00 compared to the minimum wage rate of Ksh13,572.00 BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 35 Ensure healthy lives and promote well-being for all at all ages. Our contribution: • we have been sponsoring Diabetes Initiative and Beyond Zero campaign. • We undertake mitigation efforts including disposal of soil to designated dumping areas, clearance of all construction sites from materials used during the construction and general cleaning of sites. • We use authorized disposal companies for waste management. • In creating a safe working environment, the company recently appointed a H&S Officer who will assist the H&S Manager. We are committed to Ensure a safe and healthy working environment for our workers, customers and the company at large Ensure women and girls get equal access to education, health care, decent work, and representation in economic decision-making processes will fuel sustainable economies and benefit societies and humanity at large. Our contribution: • We have increased female employees from 13% to 21% compared to last year. • We have provided maternity cover for our female • Due to increment in female employment, we have provided them with lactation room • Increased female leadership from 3 to 5 Ensure access to affordable, reliable, sustainable and modern energy for all. Our contribution: • Sale of LED lighting solutions (>24,000 bulbs), Solar, hybrid solutions (2 for Safaricom) and efficient cooling solutions for data centers (2 for Safaricom) and telecom application. All these solutions reduce the carbon foot print for our customers. We will continue investing in green energy solutions for telecom, homes and grid connection into the future • Reduction in MNO site Diesel Supply and Consumption by 22% BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 36 Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all. Our contribution: • we have effective health and safety systems in place • Our employees least living wage is KSh 25,000.00, which is considerably higher than the defined minimum wage KSh 13,572.00 • Build resilient infrastructure, promote inclusive and sustainable industrialization and foster innovation. Our contribution: Delivering connectivity and innovative products and services that will provide unmatched solutions to meet the needs of Kenyans. BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 37 Our Projection for the Year 2020 In 2020, we intend to undertake the following activities in response to our sustainability performance 1. In the FY2019/20 we plan to move to construction and commissioning of data centers for Fiber and Network Operators of which will increase our portfolio in the industry 2. Strengthen Health, Safety & Environmental culture in the organization and OSHA 45000 certification 3. Increase business in green energy solutions and ensure we acquire ISO 14000 certification. 4. Train more staff on ethical business 5. Plant trees to impact climate change 6. Continuous training on Health, Safety and Wellbeing of employees BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 38 Abbreviations and Acronyms CEO Chief Executive Officer COP Communication on Progress CSR Corporate Social Responsibility EHS Environmental Health and Safety EIA Environmental Impact Assessment EMCA Environmental Management Coordination Act FY Financial Year HSE Health, Safety and Environment ICT Information and Communication Technologies ILO International Labour Organization ISO International Organization for Standardization ISPs Internet Service Providers KE Kenya LED Light Emitting Diodes LTFIR Labour Time Frequency Injury Rate MNO Mobile Network Operator OSHA Occupational Safety and Health Act PPE Personal Protective Equipment PWC PriceWaterhouseCoopers UN United Nations UNGC United Nations Global Compact BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 39 Dedicated to add value to your technology needs Kalson Towers, 2nd Floor, Opposite MP Shah Hospital | P.O. Box 10840-00400 Nairobi, Kenya Tel: 254-020-3746669, 254-020-3746897 or 254-722-354426 | Fax: 254-020-3743798 Email: info@broadcom.co.ke | http: www.broadcom.co.ke BROADBAND SUSTAINABILITY REPORT 2019 40
