Sustainability Reporting Suite 2019 All of Deuxs’s 2019 sustainability reporting combined into one document. Dexus 2019 Sustainability Reporting Suite Combined PDF Document This PDF document combines all of Dexus’s 2019 sustainability reporting documents into a single PDF. Please refer to the table of contents below. Page numbers in the table refer to the pages of the combined PDF, which are provided to assist with searching the document using a PDF reader. Individual documents display original page numbers, they have not been repaginated. Table of contents Pages in this PDF Dexus 2019 Sustainability Comprehensive sustainability reporting that 3 – 58 Performance Pack supports the results outlined in the 2019 Annual Report Dexus 2019 Sustainability Comprehensive disclosure of sustainability/ESG 59 – 100 Data Supplement datasets aligned with reporting frameworks including the GRI Standards Dexus 2019 Disclosures on Detailed descriptions of Dexus’s approach to 101 – 162 Management Approach managing material issues, aligned with the GRI Standards reporting framework Dexus 2019 GRI Index Content index supporting the alignment of the 163 – 180 Dexus 2019 Annual Reporting Suite with the GRI Standards 2019 PwC Sustainability The Assurance Statement, and associated 181 – 188 Assurance Opinion and reporting criteria documents related to the limited Criteria assurance over select environmental and social data metrics Dexus 2019 Sustainability Reporting Compendium Sustainability Performance Pack 2019 Comprehensive sustainability reporting that supports the results outlined in the 2019 Annual Report In this report Sustainability at Dexus 3 Sustained Value 7 Leading Cities 13 Thriving People 20 Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities 27 Enriched Environment 38 2019 Annual Reporting Suite Dexus presents its 2019 Annual Reporting Suite for the year ended 30 June 2019 available at www.dexus.com/investor-centre 2019 Annual Report Annual 2019 Annual Results Results An integrated Presentation Presentation summary of the 2019 A summary of value created across Dexus’s operational Dexus’s key resources and financial and the Consolidated performance. Financial report. A summary of Dexus’s operational and financial performance. 2019 Financial 2019 Property Financial Statements Statements Synopsis 2019 The Financial Statements An overview of for Dexus Industrial Dexus’s property Trust, Dexus Office Trust portfolio. and Dexus Operations Trust, which should be The Financial Statements for Dexus Industrial Trust, Dexus Office Trust and Dexus Operations Trust. read in conjunction with the 2019 Annual Report. Sustainability 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Performance Pack 2019 Comprehensive sustainability reporting that supports the results outlined in the 2019 Comprehensive sustainability reporting that supports the results outlined in the 2019 Annual Report Annual Report. The 2019 Annual Reporting Suite is available in hard copy by email request to ir@dexus.com or by calling +61 1800 819 675. 1 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack About Dexus Dexus is a Top 50 entity by market Overview capitalisation listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (trading code: DXS) and is supported by more than 26,000 investors from 19 countries. With 35 years of expertise in property, investment, development and asset management, we have a proven track record in managing capital and risk to deliver superior risk-adjusted returns for our investors. We invest only in Australia, and directly own $15.6 billion of office and industrial 31.8bn properties. We manage a further $16.2 billion of office, retail, industrial and healthcare properties for our third party capital partners. The group’s circa $9.3 billion development and concept pipeline provides the opportunity to grow both portfolios and enhance future returns. $ We consider sustainability to be an integral part of our business with the objectives of Total funds under leading cities, future-enabled customers, strong communities, thriving people and an enriched environment supporting our overarching goal of delivering sustained value. management We believe the strength and quality of our relationships will always be central to our success and we are deeply committed to working with our customers to provide 157 spaces that engage and inspire. Our Properties Purpose Dexus’s purpose is an affirmation of our reason for being in business and supports our strategy and business model. It is the driving force behind our brand and 4.7m square metres desired culture. across the group Who we are Why we come to work $ 14bn We are a passionate and agile team We create spaces where people thrive who want to make a difference What we believe in How we behave and Market capitalisation We are here to create value for: what we value as at 30 June 2019 –– Our customers –– Openness and trust –– Our investors –– Empowerment –– Our communities –– Integrity –– Our people Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 2 Sustainability at Dexus Dexus’s sustainability reporting provides a comprehensive overview of our sustainability performance from 1 July 2018 through to 30 June 2019 (FY19). This year we aligned our 2019 Annual Report with the record of disclosure of our Sustainability Approach, performance recommendations of the International Integrated Reporting and impact to stakeholders. The Sustainability Performance Pack Council <IR> Framework and published an integrated report also reports on progress against key commitments and defines that recognises the importance of our properties, our people, new commitments for each of our Sustainability Approach our business relationships, and the natural environment as key objectives. capital inputs for delivering sustained financial performance. The The Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack is supported by: value creation diagram below integrates the objectives of our Sustainability Approach (sustained value, leading cities, thriving –– Dexus 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement people, future enabled customers, strong communities, and Comprehensive disclosure of sustainability/ESG datasets enriched environment) as key outcomes of our business model, aligned with reporting frameworks including the GRI illustrating how these objectives relate to the key resources used Standards. to drive value creation. –– Dexus 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach Detailed descriptions of Dexus’s approach to managing The Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack expands material issues, aligned with the GRI Standards reporting on the performance highlights within the Annual Report, and framework. provides further insight into how we use sustainability as a lens to integrate environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues into –– Dexus 2019 Corporate Governance Statement our business model. Dexus’s corporate governance framework, reconciled against the principles of the ASX Corporate Governance Principles Investor engagement and feedback has revealed a strong and Recommendations – Third Edition. preference for sustainability reporting that articulates how our Sustainability Approach delivers long-term value, by using We continue to engage with stakeholders on the effectiveness consistent and comparable metrics appropriate for our industry. of our reporting, with a view to continued enhancement of how Our 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack continues our track we report on our economic, social and environmental impact. Key resources Key business activities Value created SUSTAINED FINANCIAL VALUE LEADING PROPERTIES CITIES MANAGING DEVELOPING OUR PEOPLE AND BUSINESS THRIVING CAPABILITIES MODEL PEOPLE FUTURE ENABLED CUSTOMERS TRANSACTING AND STRONG CUSTOMERS AND COMMUNITIES COMMUNITIES ENRICHED ENVIRONMENT ENVIRONMENT 3 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Sustainability at Dexus Dexus applies the materiality definitions from the Integrated We have created a matrix to assist in prioritising the top 20 Reporting Framework and the GRI Standards, which consider material issues as the basis for ongoing disclosure. The matrix material issues to be those that are of high importance to our shows the importance that Dexus and its stakeholders place on stakeholders and that affect the organisation’s ability to create these top 20 material issues in relation to their impact on our Overview value over the short, medium and long term. ability to create value. This year, we undertook a materiality assessment to identify These material issues inform the topic areas that we focus key topics that impact our ability to create value for our on in our reporting and are a major consideration in the stakeholders. We included issues that linked to strategy, development of our evolving Sustainability Approach. governance, performance or opportunities. We considered Dexus’s 2019 GRI Index maps the location of disclosures within what was important to key stakeholders and what Dexus can the Dexus 2019 Annual Reporting Suite that address these have a material impact upon. material issues using relevant GRI Standards indicators. Dexus’s top 20 material issues matrix1 IMPORTANCE TO DEXUS STAKEHOLDERS Corporate Energy governance efficiency & transparency Economic performance Health, safety and Climate change security Water use impacts Importance to Dexus stakeholders Market Economic volatility impact on local Supply chain communities Inclusion & Risk & crisis management diversity management Customer Customer attraction Emissions engagement & retention Human rights Talent attraction & retention Equal remuneration Human capital development Waste management Biodiversity IMPORTANCE TO BUSINESS Importance to Dexus 1. Each of the listed material issues are considered of high importance to Dexus stakeholders and to Dexus’s business. Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 4 Sustainability at Dexus Materiality assessment process 20112011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 Materiality Management Materiality Management Management Materiality Management Management Management Materiality Assessment review assessment review review assessment review review review assessment In FY19, Dexus completed a materiality assessment, in collaboration with an external consulting firm, that followed the four-stage process described in the table below. We have historically completed a materiality assessment with an external consulting firm every four years, with a management review completed in the intervening years. 1. Identify & align 2. Engage 3. Prioritise 4. Disclose Research existing and Engage with key stakeholders Engage with topic experts We have aligned our emerging material issues to identify issues that are across Dexus to assign an materiality process with relevant to our business, as considered important to the appropriate level of priority the GRI Standards to ensure identified by: group. This included issues on the relative materiality of our Annual Reporting Suite –– Local and international relating to GRI Standards the issues, prioritising them discloses our approach best practice topics as well as other based on their significance to material issues and stakeholder issues. and likely impact to Dexus performance in a consistent –– Investment bodies and our stakeholders. and comparable way. –– Sustainability benchmarking tools –– Industry associations Managing risk A prudent and robust approach to risk management is an essential part of Dexus’s ongoing success. There are various risks that could impact the execution of Dexus’s strategy and outlook, and the nature and potential impact of these risks can change over time. Dexus actively reviews and manages risks faced by the group over the short, medium and long term, overseen by the Board Risk Committee. For further information on Dexus’s risk management framework refer to the 2019 Annual Report and the 2019 Corporate Governance Statement. Boundary terms In this 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack: –– ‘Dexus’, ‘the group’, ‘Dexus group portfolio’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to Dexus comprising the ASX listed entity (DXS) and the Third Party Funds Management business, unless otherwise stated –– ‘Dexus portfolio’ relates specifically to the portfolio of properties in the ASX listed entity –– ‘Funds management portfolio’ relates to properties managed by Dexus on behalf of third party clients –– ‘Third party capital partners’ refers to the investors, partners, and clients in our funds management portfolio Any reference in this report to a ‘year’ relates to the financial year ended 30 June 2019. All dollar figures are expressed in Australian dollars unless otherwise stated. Independent assurance In addition to auditing the Financial Statements, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) provides limited assurance over select environmental and social data metrics within the 2019 Dexus Annual Reporting Suite. Limited assurance has been obtained for the 12 months to 30 June 2019. The Assurance Statement, and associated reporting criteria documents are available within Dexus’s online sustainability reporting library. 5 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Sustainability at Dexus Dexus’s Sustainability Approach Dexus’s Sustainability Approach incorporates the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) ‘six principles’ relating to responsible Sustained investment and active property management. The approach is Value aligned with our corporate strategy by supporting the creation Overview of sustained value through integration of material ESG issues into our business model. Leading Our Sustainability Approach is the lens that we use to effectively Enriched Dexus Cities manage emerging ESG risks and secure long-term value creation opportunities. It incorporates five objectives which Environment Sustainability collectively direct our focus towards addressing the issues Approach considered to be most material for our stakeholders. Aligning with global goals As a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC), we are Future Enabled Thriving Customers and Strong People committed to upholding the UNGC’s ten principles and also Communities support broader UN objectives such as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). The UNGC’s ten principles are derived from: –– The Universal Declaration of Human Rights –– The International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work –– The Rio Declaration on Environment and Development –– The United Nations Convention Against Corruption The SDGs are a set of 17 universal goals applicable to all countries at all stages of development. They lay out a path to 2030 to end extreme poverty, fight inequality and injustice, protect the planet, and provide a framework for global and local sustainable development efforts. Through continued integration of our Sustainability Approach into the business, we can have a positive impact on the SDGs identified below. We integrate our Sustainability Approach into the business to effectively manage emerging ESG risks and secure long-term value creation opportunities. Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 6 Sustained Value Creating long-term value by integrating environmental, social and governance issues into our business model ECONOMIC PERFORMANCE Our capacity to sustain CORPORATE GOVERNANCE financial performance depends on how we create value through our key resources 5.0% SUSTAINABLE INVESTMENT and is supported by strong corporate governance. Growth in Dexus’s strategy is to deliver superior –– Leading Cities – Focusing on distribution risk-adjusted returns for investors from maintaining and developing a high quality real estate in Australia’s major high-quality property portfolio that per security cities. Continued execution of our strategy contributes to economic prosperity over time requires effective deployment and sustainable urban development 5.5% of our key resources and relationships, across Australia’s key cities including: –– Thriving People – An engaged and –– Financial The pool of funds available capable workforce with high levels to us for deployment, which includes of personal fulfillment and satisfaction, debt and equity funding, as well as who are motivated to deliver on Growth in profits retained from our property our strategy Adjusted Funds from management, development and –– Future Enabled Customers and Strong Operations (AFFO) trading activities Communities – Satisfied and successful customers, prosperous and strong per security –– Manufactured – Our properties, which are central to our capacity to create communities, and capable suppliers 10.1 with whom we enjoy productive and % value as a real estate company enduring relationships –– Human – The knowledge, expertise and performance of our people –– Enriched Environment – An efficient and resilient portfolio that minimises –– Social and relationship – our environmental footprint, helping us Return on The relationships we nurture with to mitigate climate risk and prepare our customers, local communities for the future contributed and suppliers The approach and performance equity –– Natural – The natural resources we use such as energy, water and materials disclosed in each section of this Sustainability Performance Pack The objectives of our Sustainability ultimately supports our creation of Approach are aligned with our key sustained value. The Sustained Value resources and relationships: section of this report focuses on: –– Sustained Value – Delivering –– Summarising the financial results long-term financial performance across our key earnings drivers We drive sustained supported by active capital management, strong corporate –– Advances in corporate value creation governance over the past year governance, and the achievements through effective of our other Sustainability –– Our positioning as a Approach objectives sustainable investment integration of our of choice Sustainability Approach into our strategy and operations 7 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Sustained Value Delivering FY19 Sustained Value commitments Commitment Status FY19 Achievements Investors Deliver circa 5% growth in Delivered 5.0% growth in distribution per security, distribution per security ✔ declaring 50.2 cents per security for FY19 (FY18: 47.8 cents per security) Office and Maintain office Achieved 98% and 97% occupancy in our office and Industrial and industrial occupancy >95% ✔ industrial portfolios respectively as at FY19 Target like-for-like income growth Delivered 3.4% like-for-like income growth in office and in office of 4-5% and industrial of 8% in industrial 2.5-3.5% revised to circa 3% and ✔ Sustained Value circa 8% respectively in May 2019 Manage capital expenditure down Reduced total capital expenditure to $164.3 million to $155-165 million ✔ (FY18: $167.8 million) Selective forward leasing to Office portfolio FY20 lease expiry reduced to 6.9% at manage expiry risk ✔ 30 June 2019, down from 11.7% at 30 June 2018 Capture upside in Sydney market Leased 98,898 square metres in the Sydney CBD office ✔ market achieving +24% releasing spreads Development Complete the development of Completed 100 Mount Street development in May 2019 100 Mount Street, North Sydney with 96% of space committed at 30 June 2019 and ✔ achieving an unlevered IRR of 39.6% Advance and de-risk leasing of Leasing risk was reduced across all key office key projects in the development development projects with: pipeline and activate new –– 100 Mount Street, North Sydney reaching practical opportunities completion with 96% of space committed, up from 63% at FY18 –– 240 St Georges Terrace, Perth with 93% of space committed, up from 51% at FY18 –– 180 Flinders Street, Melbourne with 81% of space committed, up from 39% at FY18. ✔ New opportunities acquired or activated include: –– A fund-through development of a premium grade office tower, hotel and retail precinct at 80 Collins Street, Melbourne which was announced in May 2019 –– Securing a prime office development site at 52 & 60 Collins Street, Melbourne –– Commencing a city retail redevelopment at MLC Centre, Sydney –– Activating two industrial development projects at Truganina in Victoria Third Party Continue to drive strong Unlisted funds continued to achieve strong Funds performance across all unlisted performance against their investment objectives Management funds and partnerships, while Dexus Wholesale Property Fund (DWPF) continued to progressing the launch of new outperform its benchmark over all time periods unlisted funds or partnerships ✔ Established a new circa $2 billion1 unlisted trust that invests in Australian logistics properties Attracted 12 new investors across four managed funds. Key ✔ achieved → progressed 1. On completion. Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 8 Sustained Value Commitment Status FY19 Achievements Trading Target trading profits of Delivered $34.7 million of trading profits net of tax, $35-40 million net of tax, with achieving the FY19 target the range tightened to circa ✔ $35 million in May 2019, and advance future opportunities Capital Focus on preserving our debt Debt duration remained high at 6.7 years at Management duration and continue to seek 30 June 2019 further debt diversification options Further diversified funding sources through the issue ✔ of $425 million of Exchangeable Notes to fund the acquisition of a further 25% interest in the MLC Centre, Sydney Key ✔ achieved → progressed Creating spaces where people thrive We recognise that our capacity to create value for our investors ultimately depends on how we create value for a broader array of FY20 commitments stakeholders, including: –– Circa 5.0% growth in distribution per security –– our customers, who lease space from us based on how well we are able to meet their needs and foster their success –– Increase WALE and maximise AFFO in our office portfolio –– our employees, who work for us because they are engaged, healthy, and provided with fulfilling career opportunities –– Maximise synergies across our industrial and retail customer base –– the communities in and around our properties, who impact our capacity to create value by welcoming our presence in their –– Maintain a strong balance sheet local area and further diversify debt –– broader society, who judge us on whether we have a positive or negative impact on societal issues such as climate change and human rights. The Dexus Purpose Our new purpose statement, developed by our people and approved by our Board over the past year, articulates how we leverage our business model to meet the needs of our many stakeholders. Our purpose states that: –– We are a passionate and agile team who want to make a difference – defining key traits of our workforce and confirming that we want to enhance those around us through our work –– We create spaces where people thrive – directing us to think about what our stakeholders need to ‘thrive’ when we go about managing our portfolio and our workspace –– We are here to create value for customers, investors, communities and our people – solidifying the importance of value creation for the broad stakeholder base that interacts with our business –– Our values are openness and trust, empowerment, and integrity – confirming the traits we look for to embed ethics and responsibility across our organisation. More information on the development of our purpose is provided on page 21. 9 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Sustained Value Focus on corporate governance Our new Governance team From ship to shop shelf: Dexus’s integrated retail and industrial offer In February 2019, we established an internal governance team led by a new position, the Head of Governance. We also split Dexus has integrated its retail and industrial teams into one our Risk and Compliance team into a separate Risk Team and division to support its customers’ activities through different Compliance Team, with a dedicated Head of Risk and Head of stages of their supply chains. The integration was a response Compliance. The Head of Governance, Head of Risk, and Head to the growing operational synergies between retail and of Compliance all report directly to the General Counsel. Each of industrial property sectors, as circa 50% of Dexus’s industrial these business heads also have direct reporting lines to the CEO customers are also retail customers in its shopping centres. and the Chairman of the Board, enabling them to raise issues to The integration has allowed Dexus to better understand CEO and Board levels promptly when required. global megatrends, address the growing e-commerce The new Governance team is responsible for: economy and meet customers’ expectations in an increasingly –– Company secretariat functions across the group urbanised world. The new ‘ship to shop shelf’ offering supports Sustained Value customers throughout their logistics journey, providing them –– Establishment and implementation of key governance policies with the capacity to move products from air or sea ports to –– Internal Audit function their end users or retail outlets via their warehouse space. –– Investigating disclosures made by whistleblowers With customer experience at the core of Dexus’s business, We reviewed our governance frameworks against the ASX the alliance will provide its customers with a fully integrated Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations (Fourth property experience from ship to shop shelf, supporting them Edition), published in February 2019. Our new purpose statement through their entire property journey. articulates the ‘why’ behind our business and defines the values that underpin our purpose, as stated in the recommendations. Our review found that we are already compliant with the vast majority of recommendations, including new additions such as guidance to recognise and disclose climate risk, as well as to set gender diversity targets for our Board. Key ESG policy reviews All key policies are reviewed annually. Over the past year, we updated several policies that support our approach to ESG issues, including: –– Inclusion and Diversity Policy – updated to include a Board Inclusion and Diversity Policy and explain the practices that support inclusion and diversity across our business –– Human Rights Policy – updated to recognise human rights as defined by international law, and explain our approach to upholding human rights across our operations and our supply chain –– Environment Policy – updated to include commitments that support our net zero emissions by 2030 target, and to specify key activities for environmental sustainability that are applicable to property operations, transactions and developments, as well as to environmental performance across our value chain –– Sustainable Procurement Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct – updated to acknowledge the inclusion of upstream and downstream operations in our net zero emissions by 2030 target, and to direct suppliers to manage their people ethically, in line with our commitment to the UN Global Compact Recognising the opportunity to learn from the recent inquiries into corporate culture across Australian financial services companies, we initiated a risk culture review of our organisation, as detailed on page 22. Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 10 Sustained Value Spotlight on modern slavery Dexus’s modern slavery governance In November 2018, the Australian Government passed the Modern framework Slavery Act 2018 (the Act). The Act sets out a public reporting In FY19 we set up an internal modern slavery working group, requirement, applicable to entities generating $100 million or as well as subgroups focused on operational procurement, more annual revenue, to report on modern slavery risks present development procurement, corporate procurement, and in the entity’s operations and supply chains, as well as actions communications. The working group is led by the Executive taken to address these risks and assess the effectiveness of their General Manager, Investor Relations, Communications and actions. The Act came into effect on 1 January 2019, and we are Sustainability, and reports to the Board Risk Committee. obligated to issue our first modern slavery statement after the close of FY20. The working group assisted in the revision of our Human Rights Policy and identified areas of focus for the subgroups, such as: Over the course of FY19, we have made progress to better understand the modern slavery risks in our operations and supply –– Reviewing contractual documentation and returnable chain, as well as enhance how we can mitigate these risks. Three schedules to include requirements related to modern slavery key initiatives from FY19 that support our approach to modern –– Considering supplier evaluation criteria and enhancing slavery include: understanding of potential monitoring approaches 1. Signing up to the United Nations Global Compact –– Mapping supply chains to understand supplier obligations under the Act and assisting suppliers to prepare for the Act 2. Setting up internal modern slavery working groups –– Preparing communications to employees, customers, and 3. Collaborating  with the Property Council of Australia (PCA) communities about the Act, and training to be provided to on an industry-wide supplier due diligence tool. employees about how to respond to potential occurrences of modern slavery if identified. Dexus joins the UN Global Compact For more information on how we are engaging our supply chain In February 2019, we joined the UN Global Compact, which on modern slavery risks, please see page 37. commits businesses to upholding universal principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our PCA industry-wide supplier due diligence tool membership in the UN Global Compact signals our commitment We continued our collaboration with industry peers via the PCA to responsible business practices and enables us to benefit from to co-create and pilot a common modern slavery due diligence support and learning opportunities provided by the Compact. questionnaire for suppliers. The questionnaire is designed to assist The UN Global Compact also encourages businesses to consider suppliers to provide relevant information to procuring companies how their business can contribute to broader global objectives like Dexus that support our modern slavery reporting obligations. such as the UN Sustainable Development Goals. We will continue to progress our modern slavery risk management As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we are required to efforts in FY20 by engaging with suppliers to establish appropriate submit an annual Communication on Progress that describes policies and procedures, and effective reporting back to Dexus practical actions taken to implement the ten principles across on modern slavery practices, instances and affirmative actions. human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. Our We will also deploy the PCA’s supplier due diligence tool across 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack, Data Supplement, and current suppliers to gather company information on their labour Disclosures on Management Approach collectively serve as our management practices. Through these activities Dexus will collect Communication on Progress. consistent information for analysis to enhance benchmarking and prioritise further engagement. 11 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Sustained Value Positioning Dexus as a sustainable Investor engagement on ESG investment of choice We work with ESG rating providers to ensure that their clients have the most accurate and up-to-date information on our Dexus recognises the growing interest from the global investment sustainability performance, and welcome direct engagement community in responsible investment, sustainable investment, from our investors on ESG issues. Issues discussed with key and impact investment. We engage with our investors and investors during FY19 included: prospective investors on how we leverage sustainability as a means of managing emerging risks and unlocking long-term –– Continuing our focus on climate risk and enhancing value creation opportunities. our reporting in accordance with the recommendations of the Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures We participate in several investor ESG surveys for the purposes (page 47) of benchmarking our sustainability performance, communicating our sustainability credentials and understanding how we can –– Preparing for the Australian Modern Slavery Act (page 11) continuously enhance our Sustainability Approach. –– Our approach to executive remuneration (2019 Remuneration Report, pages 68-91 of Dexus’s 2019 Annual Report). Our FY19 results across key investor ESG surveys are provided in Sustained Value the table below, which demonstrate our strong positioning across Our strong sustainability credentials have earned Dexus a place these leading benchmarks. on ESG-focused investable indices in FY19, including: –– MSCI ACWI Climate Change Index, which considers companies’ integration of risks and opportunities associated with the transition to a lower carbon economy –– S&P/ASX 200 ESG Index, which bases membership on strong performance in the SAM Corporate Sustainability Assessment (Dow Jones Sustainability Index). Sustainability benchmark FY19 Performance summary In 2019, PRI awarded Dexus: –– ‘­A+’ perfect score across the Strategy and Governance module, as well as for our approach to responsible investment across our Direct Property portfolio. –– Dexus Office Trust achieved 1st place among Australian listed office funds, and placed 6th globally among over 870 participants across all asset classes ­ exus Wholesale Property Fund (DWPF) was named Sector Leader, achieving 1st place for –– D unlisted Diversified (Office/Retail) funds in Australia Sector Leader 2018 ­ oth entities maintained their 5 Green Star status recognising best practice at setting –– B management strategy and policy and achieving successful outcomes through implementation. –– D ­ exus was awarded ‘Leadership A-’ status in 2018, which is among the top 4% of scores for Australian companies asked to respond to CDP. –– ­Dexus retained its position in the 2018 DJSI World, Asia Pacific and Australian indices –– D ­ exus was awarded a Gold Class Sustainability Award in the RobecoSAM 2019 Sustainability Yearbook. Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 12 Leading Cities Contributing to economic prosperity and sustainable urban development across Australia’s key cities SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT ECONOMIC IMPACT OF DEVELOPMENT Dexus’s capacity to create value is tightly linked to 98% Dexus office the overall growth and portfolio occupancy STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT prosperity of the cities where we operate. 52,815 Dexus office sqm One of the key megatrends impacting our business model is the continued growth of cities and urbanisation. There is a mutual relationship between these growth drivers and the development leasing role that Dexus can, and does, play in shaping our cities for the future as desirable places to live, work and play. This is consistent with our strategy which is centred on delivering $ 7.1bn superior returns from high quality real estate located in Australia’s major cities. The Leading Cities objective of our Sustainability Approach involves developing world-class office properties that deliver customer-focused, sustainable workplaces and which enhance the amenity and vibrancy of central business districts (CBDs). Group development The location of our properties across key Australian CBDs means that their function is pipeline closely linked to the broader services, infrastructure and amenity provided by the city as a whole. For this reason, our success is tightly linked to the success of Australia’s major cities. Cities deliver economic prosperity through enhancing opportunities for collaboration Circa 2.2bn and supporting the exchange of knowledge and ideas. We contribute to this prosperity through the delivery and management of world class properties that attract high calibre customers whose businesses support local, regional and national economies. We expand $ our reach and engage local communities through collaboration with authorities and industry associations, and work together with peers and other stakeholders to share Future concept insights and lift urban development standards. development More information on our approach to delivering our Leading Cities objective is opportunities provided in our 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach. $ 1.6bn Gross value added1 We contribute to the long-term (GVA) to the viability of cities by integrating Australian economy sustainable outcomes into our 10,149 developments. 1. Total Gross Value Added (GVA) includes estimated direct GVA and indirect GVA Construction jobs to the economy generated by developments completed in FY19 and currently underway. Source: REMPLAN; Dexus. supported2 2. Total construction jobs include direct and indirect employment supported by developments completed in FY19 and currently underway. Source: REMPLAN; Dexus. 13 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Leading Cities Delivering FY19 Leading Cities commitments Commitment Status FY19 Achievements Collaborate with stakeholders to invest in the cities of Contributed to sustainable urbanisation through the future by unlocking potential value and enabling the activation of six sites within the existing portfolio sustainable urbanisation through the activation of six including 360 Collins Street, Melbourne, 105 Phillip Street, sites within the existing portfolio from 2017-2022 ✔ Parramatta, Raphael Place at One Farrer Place, Sydney, 321 Kent Street, Sydney, 44 Market Street, Sydney and 100 Mount Street, North Sydney. Contribute to the creation of cities of the future Progressed the planning and development of four through the development of four precincts that are city-shaping precincts including Waterfront Precinct in defined by human activity, comfort and culture, with Brisbane, St Leonards Health Precinct in Sydney, Henry people connecting to each other and to place → Deane Place, Central in Sydney and 140 George Street in Parramatta. Key ✔ achieved → progressed Helping to shape leading cities FY20 commitments Leading Cities At Dexus, we believe that our properties serve as important community precincts that enhance urban amenity, and that our developments can demonstrate highly sustainable outcomes. –– Maintain Dexus office portfolio occupancy at or above 95% In May 2019, our newest office development at 100 Mount Street in North Sydney was completed, providing a showcase for smart –– Create city retail precincts that improve the building technology and setting a new benchmark for office amenity and vibrancy of our CBDs in the North Sydney CBD. 100 Mount Street was recognised as –– Contribute to economic growth through the the Best Commercial High-rise Development in Australia at the generation of employment and contribution International Property awards 2019-2020. to GVA from development projects 100 Mount Street is an exemplar of sustainable design with leading design and innovation features including: –– Highly transparent closed cavity facade with automated blind system to reduce glare while maximising natural light and visibility –– Low energy, healthy and flexible active chilled beam air conditioning system –– Occupancy sensors that enable operational and environmental efficiencies through automation and data analytics. Marking a significant milestone, the development of our premium industrial estate at Quarry, Greystanes was completed, delivering a key economic hub to Western Sydney. The completion of Quarry, Greystanes has delivered the most significant industrial estate developed in the expanding Greater Western Sydney area in recent years, attracting a diverse community of high calibre customers across a range of sectors, and providing employment for around 3,000 people. Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 14 Leading Cities Quarry, Greystanes delivers a premium industrial estate to Western Sydney Quarry, Greystanes (Quarry) is the most significant industrial estate developed in the expanding Greater Western Sydney area in recent years. Dexus and its third party capital partners acquired the 70-hectare site over two tranches in 2007 and 2014 and have delivered more than 310,000 square metres of premium warehouse space and 30,000 square metres of high-quality office space. Dexus worked alongside its customers to deliver highly efficient, state-of-the-art facilities to meet their specific requirements. 100 Mount Street delivers With a focus on sustainability, facilities in the a new landmark for North Sydney estate feature: After years of limited supply, 100 Mount Street (100 Mount) has kicked off the –– Capacity for rooftop solar PV panels, next wave of quality office accommodation coming online in North Sydney, achieving energy and operational cost supporting the revitalisation of the North Sydney CBD. savings through renewables –– Harvested rainwater from rooftops 100 Mount is a landmark 35-level premium office tower spanning approximately combined with highly efficient water 41,900 square metres. Occupying one of the best locations in North Sydney, fixtures in bathrooms and irrigation the site is set to benefit from proximity to the new North Sydney Metro Station currently under construction. –– Intelligent LED lighting with sensors combined with motion and smart The development was acquired by Dexus (50%) and DWPF (50%) in April 2016 daylight harvesting at a time when there was a lack of quality space available in the North Sydney –– Translucent roofs and wall sheeting office market. During the period of construction, Dexus secured 12 new customers for improved natural daylight linked to including NBN Co, taking leased space to 96% at practical completion in May 2019. smart lighting Dexus created significant value at 100 Mount Street, at a total cost, including acquisition and construction costs, of $466 million. Contributing to leading cities More than 30 high calibre customers The property was valued at $764 million (100% interest) as at 30 June 2019 across a range of sectors are located at based on a capitalisation rate of 4.88% and has delivered an annualised Quarry including Bunnings Trade, Toshiba, unlevered internal rate of return (IRR) of 39.6% to 30 June 2019, above the target HelloFresh, Symbion, Beaumont Tiles and development IRR of 12–14%. Coco Republic, providing employment for Contributing to leading cities around 3,000 people. 100 Mount is an iconic centre for commerce in North Sydney’s growing CBD Quarry has established a key economic hub that sets a new benchmark for workplace design, sustainability features and for Greater Western Sydney, supporting public amenity. more than 1,400 construction jobs and contributing approximately $240 million in The office tower adopts smart building technology solutions designed to GVA during construction. promote connectivity, comfort and convenience for the building’s occupants including: –– The ability to ‘plug and play’ technology as it becomes available without impacting on operations –– Leading full cellular coverage throughout the building and an upgrade path to the impending 5G standard –– High performance, free WiFi in common and public spaces –– A turnkey network-as-a-service solution enabling new customers to gain connectivity and leverage the substantial IT infrastructure embedded in the building from their first day of occupation At the ground level, the lobby comes to life with digital artwork by internationally renowned photographer, Tamara Dean. The development offers new dining and retail experiences and a pedestrian pathway bisects the site to connect the building to nearby public transport. An exemplar of sustainable design, 100 Mount is targeting 5 Star Green Star Design & As Built and 5 star NABERS Energy ratings. The International WELL Building Institute™ has awarded 100 Mount the WELL Core & Shell Gold Precertification. This new development supported more than 1,800 construction jobs and contributed approximately $300 million in GVA during construction. 15 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Leading Cities Creating leading city precincts At several locations across our portfolio, we have identified opportunities to go beyond the building envelope to create world-class urban precincts. In FY19, we progressed several precinct opportunities, including: –– Waterfront Precinct Masterplan, Brisbane – a major redevelopment of the Eagle Street Pier creating a precinct with an alternative masterplan under review –– St Leonards Health Precinct (12 Frederick Street), St Leonards (Stage 2) – a world-class precinct, combining clinical care, research facilities, a medi-hotel and key worker housing that will expand the existing medical precinct –– Henry Deane Place, Sydney – revitalising Sydney’s Central Station through the redevelopment of the Lee Street properties in partnership with Frasers Property Australia into a large scale mixed-use development 5 Martin Place, Sydney wins again –– 140 George Street, Parramatta – a prime grade office development During the year 5 Martin Place, Sydney received in the heart of the Parramatta central business district, providing an an Award of Merit at the UNESCO Asia-Pacific innovative workplace environment and superior wellness offering, Awards for Cultural Heritage Conservation. complemented by an enhanced public domain The award recognises the property’s revitalisation as Premium office while refurbishing One Farrer Place, Sydney its period features and preserving its historic character. We also continued to enhance our existing portfolio through new Leading Cities city retail developments that delight our customers and welcome visitors. In FY19, we progressed a new dining precinct at One Farrer Place in Sydney. Raphael Place is a historic courtyard between One Farrer Place and a row of heritage-listed terraces along Raphael Lane. Raphael Place will feature new food and beverage offerings, communal seating and a newly installed glazed awning over the courtyard. The courtyard showcases the site’s rich history and will be combined with a contemporary dining experience for our customers at Raising the benchmark One Farrer and the surrounding community. for our industry 44 Market Street, Sydney At IBCon 2019, Dexus was globally recognised for leveraging technology to improve efficiencies We also progressed our lobby activation project at 44 Market Street, and deliver superior customer service. Dexus was Sydney. The project will reinvigorate the ground floor and mezzanine awarded the ‘Digie’ award for the Most Intelligent areas of the property, activating street frontages and improving Office Portfolio, recognised for: amenity for customers and the community. On completion, the property will offer additional retail, food and beverage options, as well –– Being an early pioneer in adopting a customer as a new pocket park for customers and the surrounding community centric approach through the creation of Dexus to enjoy. Place, proving that focus on experience would generate a measurable return on investment MLC Centre, Sydney –– Continually testing and implementing best of breed, cybersecure, smart building access The acquisition of the remaining 50% interest in MLC Centre, Sydney control and management solutions in both new (25% Dexus, 25% DWPF) enabled the commencement of the precinct and existing properties project to transform the site into a true mixed-use destination. The MLC Centre precinct will be transformed into a vibrant community –– Creating an elite partnership with Yardi, offering retail, dining and cultural spaces in the heart of the Sydney effectively leveraging all modules of the Yardi CBD. The project will deliver new and improved retail space across four suite to maximise enterprise benefits levels and also includes plans to reactivate the Theatre Royal, with Dexus reaching agreement with the NSW Government, paving the way for a private theatre operator to run the theatre. Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 16 Leading Cities City activations and events NRL in Brisbane We play a role in enhancing the vibrancy of cities by participating in and hosting events and festivals at our properties across our portfolio. At Eagle Street Pier in Brisbane, retailers and visitors enjoyed National Rugby League (NRL) Magic, a weekend of events including big screen showings of NRL matches, face painting, balloon artists, and magicians. National television show, The Today Show, provided national coverage for both NRL and Mother’s Day audiences. The activation provided enjoyment for visitors, increased visitation for our retailers, and resulted in marketing value over $220,000 with a reach of over 1.5 million people. Vivid Sydney In May–June 2019, our Sydney properties once again contributed to the success of the Vivid Sydney festivals with custom installations and light shows. At our Gateway Sydney city retail precinct, we installed an interactive display called The Harp of The City. At Australia Square, lights installed at the top of the property played a role in the larger city-wide effect called City Sparkle. Christmas in Perth Our buildings as public Kings Square in Perth took part in the City of Perth’s Christmas Lights exhibition spaces Trail by activating available space with an illuminated Christmas window display, showcasing Santa’s Secret Elves and their headquarters. The In late 2018 we hosted an exclusive exhibition, Kings Square precinct also featured a Christmas Constellation make up BLUE: Metamorphosis – Layered Reflections, of over 20,000 shimmering panels. Expressions of A Life Reinvented at Australia Square, MLC Centre and One Farrer Place in Sydney. The exhibit featured more than 30 of renowned artist Mellessa Raymond’s works, and turned the lobbies of these three office towers into immersive art experiences for customers and visitors. During the year, Australia Square also hosted In Bloom: a photographic lightbox installation of spring flowers by internationally acclaimed photographer, director and artist Alina Gozin’a. The installation engaged customers and visitors through an immersive experience, with one lucky individual winning a piece of Alina Gozin’a’s artwork via a business card draw on the last day of the exhibition. Attractions like BLUE:Metamorphosis and In Bloom contribute to the vibrancy of our cities and provide an extra dimension to our properties where customers and visitors can socialise and enjoy cultural experiences. Our properties are more than just workspaces, they are community hubs where people come together to meet, eat, play and learn. 17 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Leading Cities Partnerships for sustainable development 100 Harris Street goes for Dexus helps shape sustainable urban development through Better Buildings Cup active engagement on sustainability issues with local Dexus has selected its office property at 100 Harris government and business groups. Street in Pyrmont, Sydney to participate in the BBP’s Better Buildings Cup, a year-long challenge Better Buildings Partnership that commenced in May 2019. The challenge is a Dexus is a founding member of the Sydney-based Better collaboration between Dexus and its customers at Buildings Partnership (BBP) that brings together property 100 Harris Street to become the happiest, healthiest managers to collaborate on improving environmental and most sustainable workplace in Australia. performance and value chain relationships. The challenge takes place over a 12-month period, We continued to support BBP initiatives and collaborate on with 14 buildings across Australia (each owned developing industry leading guidance. We are in the third year by a different property company) accepting this of implementing the BBP’s ‘strip out’ waste guidelines within year’s challenge. tenancy de-fit projects. Dexus’s goal is to consistently meet an Over the next year, Dexus will work with customers 80% waste recovery rate and has made significant progress at 100 Harris Street on initiatives aimed at reducing towards this, achieving our goal across 19 of 31 projects to emissions and improving wellbeing. One of the date (refer to page 44 for more on our approach to waste initiatives implemented early on is the planting management). Our office property at 100 Harris Street, Pyrmont of herbs and vegetables around the property for is also participating in the BBP’s Better Buildings Cup, which customers to nurture and pick to ‘spice up their lunch’. involves collaboration with our customers to reduce emissions Over the course of the challenge, customers will enjoy and improve wellbeing. other activities including charity bake sales and recycling initiatives. Partnering on climate change 100 Harris Street is a natural fit for the challenge Leading Cities Dexus is a member of the Investor Group on Climate Change as it recently installed 606 rooftop solar (IGCC) and supports its vision for a climate resilient net zero photovoltaic (PV) panels which generate energy emissions economy by 2050. Our people supported the aims to power the base building services, including of the IGCC through participation in several working groups, lobby lighting, lifts and air-conditioning. The new including its Physical Risk and Resilience working group, Transition solar array will generate up to 250,000 kilowatt to Zero Carbon working group, and Transparency and Thought hours of energy per year. The solar panels will also Leadership working group. contribute to a higher NABERS Energy rating, which As part of our continued support for a net zero emissions future, provides independent verification of the property’s we signed up to the World Green Building Council’s Net Zero sustainability credentials and enhances its appeal Carbon Buildings Commitment and became members of the to carbon-conscious customers. Climate Group’s EP100 campaign to enhance energy productivity. The Enriched Environment section on pages 38-53 provides more detail on our emissions reduction activities and net zero emissions target. We trial and provide feedback on building rating tools that support the elevation of standards and performance for our industry. In FY19 we continued to pilot the use of NABERS Waste and NABERS Indoor Environment ratings at select sites across our portfolio (refer to pages 44-45). We also participated in the Green Building Council of Australia’s Green Star Future Focus workshops, aimed at reshaping the Green Star rating system to lift the benchmark for sustainable outcomes in the built environment. Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 18 Leading Cities Lending our voice to issues affecting our cities Across Dexus, passionate people contribute their time to collaborate with industry groups at both national and regional levels, contributing to public policy debate on issues that impact the future prosperity, liveability, connectivity and resilience of our cities. We actively engage with the Property Council of Australia (PCA) through group initiatives and regular advocacy. Dexus’s Chief Executive and Executive Director continued his role as a member of the Property Male Champions of Change, an initiative to drive greater gender equality in the property industry and increase the number of women in leadership roles. We take an active role in property industry advocacy, with 35 Dexus team members represented across PCA committees, roundtables and working groups contributing to discussions on topics such as social and environmental sustainability, diversity, and future directions. Our people have also given presentations and participated on panels focused on raising the benchmark for sustainable development and corporate action on sustainability, such as: –– Operational Excellence Conference 2018 (July 2018, Sydney) –– Flexible Working Summit 2018 (December 2018, Sydney) –– Green Building Council of Australia TRANSFORM (March 2019, Sydney) –– Property Council of Australia Victoria Diversity Forum (May 2019, Melbourne) –– Property Council of Australia Future Cities Summit (May 2019, Sydney) –– Australian Energy Storage Conference (June 2019, Sydney). Our workspace insights hub, Prism at www.dexus.com continued to engage customers, providing insights on trending topics impacting Australian workplaces. Over the past year, we published 47 articles which were viewed over 29,000 times. 19 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Thriving People Creating value by inspiring, engaging and developing our people EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT Our people and capabilities PROFESSIONAL DEVELOPMENT are central to how Dexus creates value. We focus on INCLUSION AND DIVERSITY building and sustaining an engaged, high-performing EMPLOYEE HEALTH AND WELLBEING workforce that delivers BUSINESS EXCELLENCE on Dexus’s strategy and embraces our values. 539 Total Dexus Our Thriving People objective reflects the efforts, capabilities, and enthusiasm of our employees people to deliver on Dexus’s strategy. Our people act as brand custodians and support (FY18: 448) sustained performance. They are passionate, agile and engaged in the purpose and direction of Dexus. Our people tell us they are inspired and motivated to create spaces +40 where people thrive. Thriving People We understand that diversity brings broad perspectives that lead to better decision-making, and enables us to access the widest pool of available talent. Our inclusion and diversity strategy focuses on attracting and retaining the diverse workforce required to succeed in today’s ever-changing business environment. Employee Net We believe that investing in the development of our people and capabilities will create Promoter Score meaningful, fulfilling work for our teams and support the culture required for achieving sustained results. Our leaders set the tone from the top, by focusing on inclusive leadership that brings the best out of their teams. Another factor contributing to enhanced performance is a safe and healthy work environment. Our employee health and wellbeing programs reflect the understanding that health is a state of physical, mental and social wellbeing. Our people constantly challenge whether there are better ways of working and are 37 % Females in senior encouraged to action their ideas to achieve business excellence. We reinforce and and executive sustain best practices when it comes to managing risk and embedding a strong risk culture. We believe our strong risk culture is a strength at Dexus, leading to better management roles decision making and fair and ethical outcomes for customers and stakeholders. (FY18: 34%) More information on our approach to delivering our Thriving People objective is provided in our 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach. 27% Available roles filled by internal applicants By investing in our people, who in turn invest their time, energy and passion into Dexus, we are creating a culture that delivers sustained value for our investors and other stakeholders. Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 20 Thriving People Delivering FY19 Thriving People commitments Commitment Status FY19 Achievements Continue to build a constructive Achieved an employee Net Promoter Score of +40, demonstrating a and diverse culture and progress strong workplace culture that is well regarded by Dexus’s people. towards our gender diversity target of ✔ Made progress against the gender diversity target, achieving 37% female 40F:40M:20(any) by FY21. representation across senior and executive management roles (FY18: 34%). Build workforce capability to deliver our Delivered a comprehensive leadership training program, equipping ✔ strategy today and in the future. leaders with the skills required to manage high-performing teams. Key ✔ achieved → progressed Employee engagement Our people are passionate, agile and engaged in the purpose and direction of Dexus. Our purpose, outlined on page 2, was an initiative incubated by our people. Consultations with our FY20 commitments employees revealed a strong desire to articulate a purpose –– Maintain employee Net Promoter Score that reflected how we work and why people come to work at at or above +40 Dexus. Our purpose was developed by a cross-organisation –– Place internal candidates in more than 20% working group through a series of employee workshops, senior of available roles management discussions and input from customer-facing teams –– Progress toward 40:40:20 gender mix in on what would resonate for our customers. senior and executive management roles Our people told us that they come to work to drive positive by FY21 (40% female, 40% male, 20% any change, which is why the purpose defines our people as a gender) passionate and agile team who want to make a difference. –– Expand rollout of inclusive leadership Moreover, our purpose states that our people come to work to training to all people managers create spaces where people thrive, recognising how our work –– Maintain parental leave return rate can shape the lives of others in and around our properties. The above 80% concept of impacting others flows through to the statement that we create value for our customers, investors, communities and –– Maintain recognition as an Employer of our people. This recognises that our business depends on strong Choice for Gender Equality relationships with these stakeholders and the reputation that we have for impacting them positively. Finally, our purpose confirms the values that underpin our culture, being openness and trust, empowerment and integrity. Insights from our people This year, we updated the way we track employee engagement and are now using an employee Net Promoter Score (NPS), Other positive insights from our FY19 pulse surveys included: which replaces the employee engagement score as our main –– Our people feel a strong sense of ownership in the work they engagement metric. The NPS scale ranges from -100 to +100, deliver (88%) and our latest employee NPS was +40. We have set an FY20 commitment to maintain our employee NPS at or above +40. –– Managers do a good job of communicating the reasoning behind important changes (84%) To support the tracking of employee NPS, we are now –– Our people feel included at Dexus (86%) undertaking at least two pulse surveys annually, instead of a large employee engagement survey once every two years. Each –– We have a culture of openness and trust (83%) survey tracks employee engagement through a standard set of Our pulse surveys also helped us understand areas for NPS questions, and contains additional questions designed to improvement, including our change management approach, gather employee feedback on a range of topics. In FY19 we ran communicating employee benefits and broadening the focus on three pulse surveys, which focused on: culture in induction programs. These and other insights from our –– Inclusion, diversity and flexibility pulse surveys will remain a focus into the future. –– Change management and ways of working –– Employee wellbeing and understanding of sustainability 21 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Thriving People Culture Investing in our current and future talent We believe our culture is a strength at Dexus, leading to better We continue to focus on internal career planning, development decision making and fair and ethical outcomes for customers and new opportunities for our people. Over the past year, we and stakeholders. Our employee surveys also tell us that most placed internal candidates in 27% of available roles. Over the of our people feel that management creates an environment of course of FY19, we delivered several learning and development openness and trust. We continue to work with our people and programs aimed at enhancing the business skills across our introduce systems to reinforce and sustain best practices when it workforce: comes to managing risk and embedding a strong risk culture. –– Personal Presence – focused on pitching and presentation Against the backdrop of the findings of the Australian skills, understanding behavioural signals, and delivering Government’s Royal Commission into governance practices, we a personal value proposition to customers and key engaged an independent advisory firm specialising in risk culture stakeholders to undertake a review of our risk culture and how that relates to –– Successful Project Delivery – focused on project decision making across Dexus. The review will identify future management concepts, key project delivery tools and focus areas to further strengthen our culture. change management. Flexibility We also supported 37 employees to complete industry specific training held by the Property Council of Australia (PCA). Dexus’s All People Flex policy empowers our people to work flexibly to achieve work-life balance. 82% (81% males and We recognise the value of mentoring and hands-on project 83% females) of our employees participate in either formal or work for upskilling our people. Over the past year our people informal flexible working practices. Outside the All People Flex served as sponsors, mentors, and mentees within the framework, Dexus also offers flexible working arrangements for PCA’s Women in Property program, designed to champion employees who require more fixed working schedules. In FY19, women in the property industry and provide networking and 36% of employees indicated that they took advantage of a development opportunities. formal flexible working arrangement. To help support continuous improvement, we launched the Business Excellence Champions program, which will equip Professional development selected employees across all levels with the skills required to We continue to believe that investments in our people and drive efficiency, eliminate waste, and deliver sustained value for capabilities will create meaningful workplaces for our teams and the group into the future (explained further on page 26). enable the right culture and behaviours to deliver sustainable The Dexus Graduate Program offers young professionals a results. It also helps meet our employees’ expectations for range of tailored opportunities across our business and enables growth by equipping them with the skills required to develop and Dexus to tap into emerging talent and fresh perspectives. advance their careers. In FY19 we selected five new graduates out of a broad and talented pool of applicants to join Dexus’s 2019 Graduate Thriving People Program. Formal flexible work arrangements Informal flexible working arrangements 102 126 82% of employees work flexibly FY19 75 75 52 51 52 51 43 26 38 Work from home 38 as required 56% 11 16 7 9 9 Flexible/non-standard working hours 26% FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Do not use informal Male Female flexible working 18% Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 22 Thriving People Leadership and management development Developing our leaders and people managers is crucial for setting the right tone from the top. Capable leaders and managers are able to set strategy, inspire their teams, and embed reliable performance management that supports sustained value creation. During the year we delivered Management Essentials to people managers who were new to their role or new to Dexus. The program provides practical tools for day to day management practice that drives strategic direction and communicates clear expectations and outcomes. It encourages a flexible leadership style that can accelerate team effectiveness through change. Our senior management and executive staff completed training programs appropriate to their roles. A select number of senior managers continued in the Dexus Leadership Academy, which focused on the role that culture, purpose and strategy plays in our organisation. The program is customised to focus on personal development areas identified through completion of a Building inclusive leadership Leadership Styles Inventory (LSI). In FY20, upon completion of the Leadership Academy, participants will complete the LSI again Dexus fosters inclusive leadership, to understand the impact of the training and potential value underpinned by the understanding that created for their teams and for Dexus. diversity in backgrounds, abilities and skills can drive performance and enhance the Select senior management and executive team members quality of decision-making. completed training focused on leading change and supporting high performing teams. The Leading Change program was During the year, Dexus rolled out its Inclusive developed to reinforce the role of our leaders in guiding the Leadership Program to members of its organisation through change and to assist them to work through leadership team. the complexity of change management. The Leading Change The program encouraged participants to program is timely because of the increasing pace of change in consider the following questions when building our external environment, and the corresponding need for us to their inclusive leadership brand: continuously enhance our ways of working. –– How can my leadership positively influence Retention and succession diversity and inclusion in my team and across Dexus? We know that our people are more likely to be motivated and –– How can I maximise the potential of all my apply their skills when we meet their expectations for growth and team members? career opportunities. Securing opportunities for our people helps to meet these expectations and benefit the business by retaining –– How do I leverage diversity to drive employee knowledge and capability. business growth and build deep customer relationships? Over the past year, 27% of all available roles were filled by internal candidates. We have committed to maintaining this To answer these questions, the program focus by targeting greater than 20% of available roles filled by helped participants understand the link internal applicants in FY20. between inclusiveness, psychological safety, innovation and business growth. Our voluntary turnover rate was 14%, and we achieved our parental leave retention rate target with a return to work rate of It aimed to build the confidence and 93% (target 80%). capabilities of Dexus’s leaders to role model inclusive leadership values, processes and behaviours in team management and Key retention metrics FY18 FY19 hiring decisions. Roles filled with internal 32% 27% To help integrate the program into their candidates day-to-day activities, participating leaders developed an inclusive leadership action plan Voluntary turnover rate 15% 14% and were provided with coaching to assist Parental leave retention rate 90% 93% with execution. Comprehensive disclosure of employee metrics is provided in the 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement. 23 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Thriving People Inclusion and Diversity Inclusion and diversity beyond gender Our focus on inclusion and diversity is a critical component Over the past year we supported our broader diversity efforts by of our strategic objective of Thriving People. This year, we learning more about the demographic makeup of our people. published a new, Board-approved, Inclusion and Diversity Policy We found that 22% of our people identify primarily with a that reinforces our commitment by specifying how we foster culture other than Australian, and that 21% were born overseas. inclusion and diversity on the Dexus Board and throughout We remain focused on supporting the cultural inclusion of our our organisation. workforce and other demographics that reflect our customers and communities. Gender diversity In FY19 we addressed cultural inclusion through: – Partnering with CareerTrackers to provide internship opportunities for Indigenous Australians – Declaring our commitment to the Veterans Employment Commitment to support and progress Australian veterans returning to the workforce – Celebrating National Aborigines and Islanders Day Over the past year, we continued our focus on gender equality, Observance Committee (NAIDOC) Week and incorporating earning an Employer of Choice for Gender Equality citation Indigenous protocols at key events by the Workplace Gender Equality Agency for the second – Celebrating Harmony Day at our corporate offices to consecutive year. recognise diversity and inclusion across our workforce We made progress towards our gender diversity target of 40% Our employee surveys found that the vast majority of our LGBTI+1 female representation in senior and executive management employees feel included at work. Over the past year we sought roles by 2021, with 37% female representation at these levels at to further our efforts by joining Pride in Diversity to access best 30 June 2019 (up from 34% at 30 June 2018). practice expertise regarding LGBTI+ inclusion. We intend to More broadly, our people continued to participate in the benchmark our efforts in this space by making a submission to PCA’s Women in Property program described on page 22. the Australian Workplace Equality Index in 2020. We also participated in the Girls in Property initiative to Refer to our Sustainability Data Supplement for additional raise awareness among high school students about career breakdowns of diversity across our workforce. paths in the property industry and encourage greater female participation. We ensured equal representation of Dexus Employee health and wellbeing males and females across PCA committees. Our FY19 Group Scorecard targeted health and safety as a priority through a commitment to maintain a safety culture 74% 71% 68% 66% 63% 40% across our business. Our goal is a ‘no harm’, safe work Thriving People environment with zero fatalities, and in FY19 we recorded zero fatalities and no lost time injuries. Throughout the year we continued to successfully implement 20% our work health and safety system, which is certified under OHSAS 18001. Led by our Work Health Safety and Environment Committee, 26% 29% 32% 34% 37% 40% Dexus achieved an average safety audit score of 98% across our corporate and management workspaces. We also continued our FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY21 diversity goal regular employee Safety Awards to recognise employees that Female senior and executive managers demonstrate a commitment to safety. Male senior and executive managers Enhancing employee wellbeing We have an opportunity to provide a workplace that enhances We also participated in several initiatives over the year to physical health and mental wellbeing for the benefit of our show our support for gender equality and raise awareness individual employees and Dexus more broadly. A healthy and of gender-based issues. In November 2018, we supported flourishing workforce is more motivated and engaged, takes fewer the UN Women National Committee Australia campaign days off work and is more capable of sustaining performance in (branded as UNiTE) to raise awareness of gender-based the long term. violence, with activations in the foyers of our offices across A cornerstone of our approach to employee health and wellbeing Australia. During International Women’s Day, we asked our is Wellbeing Month, which was held in May 2019. During Wellbeing people to make pledges to work towards gender equality by Month, we connect our people across Australia through our building a safe, healthy and diverse workplace as part of the Wellbeing Communities with a range of offerings to enhance their #balanceforbetter campaign. mental, physical, social and financial wellbeing. 1. LGBTI+ stands for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender and intersex, with the ‘+’ intended to encapsulate the total diversity of sexual orientations and gender identities. Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 24 w Thriving People Our approach to employee health and wellbeing extends beyond Wellbeing Month through the ongoing activities of our wellbeing communities: Give, Grow and Thrive. Key activities of our Give wellbeing community in FY19 included: –– Hosting Biggest Morning Tea events in our offices across Australia, raising funds for Cancer Council –– Arranging monthly blood donations through Bloodbank Recognising our safety superstars –– Hosting a Dexus bake-off event to support an Dexus employee safety awards are presented executive’s fundraising efforts for OzHarvest’s monthly to employees who have acted as a shining CEO Cookoff example of Dexus’s commitment to workplace health and safety. Key activities of our Grow wellbeing community in FY19 included: –– First Aid Training made available to any employees, One of the standout recipients in FY19 was Dexus not just to appointed first aid officers Operations Manager, Dan McLindon. –– Inviting all of our benefits partners and members of Dan was recognised with a safety award for going our People and Communities team to a Benefits Expo beyond expectations to make sure that contractors to communicate the benefits available to our people are aware of Dexus’s policy requirements. He has championed a collaborative approach, featuring Key activities of our Thrive wellbeing community in FY19 included: training sessions and informational meetings with –– Organising a program of mindfulness sessions centre staff, supervisors and security. over eight weeks, covering topics such as When asked to provide advice and tips for the high-performance habits, coping with stress, and rest of the business, Dan emphasised the learning emotional agility and longevity opportunities that come from a safety focus: “You –– Delivering our annual whole-of-company can always learn something new, and in retail I conference which brought together over have learnt that every day and every situation is 430 employees to celebrate the year with their colleagues different. We have to adapt and continually learn.” Other safety awards given during the year recognised employees who ensured a safe and positive visitor experience, as well as employees who lent a helping hand to those in need in their local communities. Creating a workplace where our people thrive – Wellbeing Month As part of a commitment to creating spaces where people thrive, Dexus’s commitment to employee health and wellbeing extends Dexus designed a suite of benefits and programs focused on beyond the activities of Wellbeing Month, with a variety of enhancing employee wellbeing. A highlight of Dexus’s offering ongoing initiatives available including: included Wellbeing Month, which featured a range of activities –– a monthly Wellbeing subsidy to put towards wellbeing designed to enhance physical and mental health. activities such as gym memberships, massages or hobbies Wellbeing Month was held in May 2019 across Dexus offices –– Dexus Days – five additional days of annual leave intended to around the country. Activities were organised by Dexus’s Thrive, help balance work and life Grow and Give Communities and supported by weekly social –– Onsite health and fitness classes – a range of boot camps, events aimed at promoting a positive workplace culture. yoga and Pilates classes –– Discounted membership to gyms, nutritional programs and The month attracted high participation rates in activities health consultations including: –– 201 flu vaccines Dexus understands the importance of supporting health and –– 73 skin cancer checks wellbeing for our people and how it translates to performance and will continue to invest in programs that bring out the best in –– 164 massages our people. –– 38 posture checks –– 65 employees participating in mindfulness training –– 18 employees completing first aid training 25 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Thriving People Building business excellence We ensure our people are supported by effective processes and systems so they can do their best work and are empowered to make continuous improvements to their day-to-day activities. Supported by our Business Excellence team, our people made many enhancements to our ways of working in FY19, including: –– Organising and standardising how business outcomes are achieved, clarifying expectations and roles via establishment of The Hive, a best practice repository containing over 600 standard operating procedures –– Increasing performance and quality through implementing over 30 improvements submitted to our ideas and innovation repository, The Funnel, delivering capacity savings estimated at 24 hours per week –– Supporting innovation and bringing ideas to reality through launching the Slingshot innovation forum, which defined an innovation toolkit and funded five ideas for concept development and trial –– Enhancing risk mitigation and controls by identifying 13 process champions and coaching them to map over 70 processes –– Better understanding customer pain points and prioritising improvement efforts by defining customer journey maps A key focus of the Business Excellence team is ensuring that Dexus Business Excellence business problem solving and continuous improvement skills are disseminated throughout the business. In FY19, over 100 Champions program employees were trained in business improvement and project In order for Dexus to stay ahead of the curve management. We also launched our Business Excellence in today’s fast-changing environment, its Champions program which involves equipping select staff with people need to continuously assess business a deeper understanding of business problem solving skills. operations and be empowered to implement enhancements that they identify. Thriving People Dexus designed the Business Excellence Champions program to equip select staff with the skills necessary to lead change across the business. A select number of employees are taking part in the first wave of the program, which will run through to October 2019. The Dexus Business Excellence Champions program borrows from Lean Six Sigma principles and involves project teams tackling real-world challenges that the business is facing. Some of the challenges under consideration include optimising information access, improving forecasting processes, and enhancing internal data validation procedures. The method underlying the program encourages teams to clearly define the business problem, understand customers’ expectations and drive solutions to solve for root cause. Dexus will have the new Dexus Business Excellence Champions embedded throughout the business by the end of 2019, helping to solidify a culture of constructive challenge and continuous improvement. Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 26 Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities Building constructive, enduring relationships with our customers, communities and suppliers to create value CUSTOMER EXPERIENCE Dexus’s capacity to create COMMUNITY CONTRIBUTION value depends on how well we support customer success, the SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT strength of local communities and the capabilities of our suppliers. Our Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities objective recognises the importance of building mutually beneficial partnerships with +46 Customer Net our customers, communities and suppliers. Promoter Score We understand the influence of high-performing workspaces on employee productivity and business success. We focus on maintaining high levels of (FY18: +32) customer satisfaction by listening to our customers and understanding their needs. We aim to meet these needs by providing advanced products and services that enable our customers to succeed today and into the future. The relationships we build with local communities are critical, as these > 4,700 communities visit our properties and deliver the activity and vibrancy that makes them leading destinations. We support our retail centres to act as community hubs, providing the gathering space essential for community cohesion and wellbeing. Our success would not be possible without the support of our many customers suppliers, including groups such as operational contractors, construction workers, and providers of office equipment. We partner with our suppliers to achieve operational efficiencies, enhance customer amenity and deliver strong sustainability performance. We prioritise worker health and safety and assist our suppliers to manage more complex risks in our supply chain. >$ 1.2m More information on our approach to customer engagement and experience, community contribution, and supply chain management is provided in our 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach. value of community contribution Our objective is to deliver the best customer experience in Australian real estate. >$ 550m spent with operational suppliers 27 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities Delivering FY19 Future Enabled Customers commitments Commitment Status FY19 Achievements Expand our customer offering to include Increased the availability of the Divvy parking solution and expanded products and services that enable our the reach of Dexus building portals to over 53,000 users (FY18: >35,000). ✔ customers to respond to the dynamically evolving workplace. Extend partnerships with 25 wellness Extended the Wellplace offering to include 28 wellness partnerships, providers within Wellplace, which ✔ providing our customers the opportunity to offer their employees valued customers of all sizes can access. health and wellbeing services. Deploy more than 15 smart technologies Implemented 24 smart technologies at 100 Mount Street, North Sydney, within the 100 Mount Street, North with 14 operational at 30 June 2019 and the remainder to be operational Sydney development to deliver a better in FY20. ✔ customer experience, optimise workforce productivity and wellbeing and improve the property’s sustainability performance. Key ✔ achieved → progressed Customer engagement and experience FY20 commitments We know that our customers are more likely to be satisfied when –– Maintain a customer Net Promoter Score we listen to their concerns and address their needs. We design above +40 workspaces with customer productivity in mind, and offer a –– Maintain a customer satisfaction score range of supporting products and services curated to lift the above 8 out of 10 performance and wellbeing of our diverse customer base. –– Implement a new workplace consulting Office and industrial portfolios offer to help our customers to leverage their premises for business success We completed our annual customer survey in June 2019 to –– Strengthen customer communities through collect feedback and insights for enhancing the customer a program of activations within the foyers experience across our office and industrial portfolios. Our of our office properties customer Net Promoter Score (NPS) increased to +46, and our overall satisfaction score remained above target at 8.6/10 (target 8.0/10). We were pleased to see that 50% of respondents said they were ‘highly likely’ to renew their lease (up from 43% in 2018 and 28% in 2013). We are proud of the strong increase in our customer NPS, and Future Enabled have revised our target to maintain customer NPS at +40 or higher in FY20. Based on the survey results, this increase can be Customers and attributed to: –– Enhancing our partnerships with external property Strong Communities management service providers to provide consistency across customer touchpoints –– Reducing operational issues by improving Dexus Response Centre (DRC) and lease administration processes, and leveraging DRC data to drive better resolutions of issues and requests –– Executing action plans for each property management team based on feedback about what our customers need and when they need it. Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 28 Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities Net Promoter Score (NPS) Enhancing customer satisfaction Scale from -100 to +100 +46 through partner alignment +35 Over the past year we also enhanced how we +31 +33 collaborate with our portfolio-wide external service +28 providers, CBRE (for facilities management) and Equiem (for concierge and customer experience). We understand that consistency in service delivery leads to stronger customer outcomes. To enhance consistency across our portfolio, we delivered FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Office training across Dexus, Equiem, and CBRE property +45 management teams that focused on the Dexus customer promise and its application. Property teams +30 were briefed on prior years’ customer survey feedback +28 and developed action plans for enhancing customer experience. We also delivered Dexus induction +6 training for new starters at CBRE and Equiem who -7 were assigned to our portfolio. The results of the FY19 customer survey indicate that service delivery has FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 improved, evidenced by the increase of customer Industrial satisfaction with property management to 8.6/10 (up from 8.3/10 in FY18). Customer satisfaction Scale from 1 to 10 8.3 8.6 8.0 8.1 8.0 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Office 8.3 8.6 8.1 7.4 7.6 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Industrial Retail portfolio In FY19 we completed a survey1 of retailers across our retail portfolio for the first time. The results were generally positive, with an overall retailer NPS of +28 and a 79% satisfaction with centre management teams. Retailers told us that they are pleased with centre presentation and that their centres are nice environments for them to work in. Some issues mentioned by retailers related to day-to-day operations as well as themes such as security. These issues are +28 79% an ongoing focus for our business, such as our partnerships with local authorities and youth organisations designed to mitigate safety risks at our centres. Our retailers identified an opportunity for more centre-driven community events, which aligns well with our existing strategy to leverage our centres as forms of community contribution. For more information on our community Portfolio Retailer satisfaction with contribution refer to page 31. Net Promoter Score retail centre 1. The survey was delivered across ten shopping centres: Beenleigh, management Shepparton, QV, Galleria, Tweed, Smithfield, Deepwater, Willows, teams Plumpton, and Gateway. Carillon and Eagle Street Pier were not included because they were under development at the time of the survey. 29 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities The Dexus experience This year we evolved the Dexus experience (refer to page 57, 2019 Annual Report) our suite of customer benefits which includes access to a range of products and services designed to make our customers’ work lives easier, healthier and more enjoyable. Our offering recognises the power of buildings to positively impact the lives of people, and that we have a role to play in helping people Launching our smart building blueprint interact more authentically, collaborate more constructively, Technology is changing the way our customers work, and perform better and be more fulfilled. The Dexus experience is an we continue to advance the infrastructure and services important contributor to customer satisfaction, demonstrated by across our portfolio to meet their evolving needs. We aim the annual customer survey feedback on how customers are using to provide flexible, future-proofed workspaces that meet features such as end-of-trip facilities and enjoying offerings such as productivity needs and minimise hassle. Wellplace. Over the past year, we launched our smart building Building on the momentum of customer satisfaction with our blueprint at 100 Mount Street, North Sydney, where we offering, we expanded the availability of popular services such have implemented a suite of technologies designed to as Divvy. We have also increased customer use of our building deliver a better customer experience, optimise workforce portals to over 53,000 users (>35,000 in FY18), which help to engage productivity and wellbeing, and enhance the property’s building communities and develop customer awareness of the sustainability performance. Dexus experience. 100 Mount includes over 20 smart technologies selected In FY19 we extended our Wellplace offering to include 28 wellness to optimise the customer experience, such as: partners. These partners provide our customers with easy and discounted access to fitness memberships, physiotherapy –– Occupancy sensors to deliver operational efficiencies appointments, and nutritional programs. for cleaning, climate control, elevators, and meeting rooms, as well as enhancing security and safety Our customer experience offering helped earn Dexus 43rd position –– Availability (on an opt-in basis) of touchless on the 2018 Australian Financial Review’s Most Innovative Companies fingerprint readers, eliminating the need for individual List. Other factors contributing to Dexus’s innovation recognition access cards include our customer-centric and research-led approach, incorporating feedback from customers, employees and the broader –– Enhanced visitor management through enabling mobile market. invitations and access cards that eliminate the need to check in with property concierge Engaging our customers on sustainability –– Network as a Service technology solutions that enable customers to opt-in to the specific technology We launched a new sustainability page on each of our building requirements that they need for their business portals, aligning with both our customer promise and our Sustainability Approach objective of Enriched Environment. The sustainability pages encourage customer uptake of sustainability practices by highlighting initiatives to minimise waste and increasing awareness of customer sustainability objectives. We work closely with customers to improve their sustainability awareness and performance. We have embedded ‘green leasing’ within our precedent lease and encourage customers to collaborate The next evolution of our with us on integrating sustainability within their properties. Future Enabled customer offering In FY19, 90% of new customer leases included a green lease clause. Across our customer community, we provide products Customers and Green lease take up across new leases and services to satisfy a strong desire to improve their workforce engagement and productivity. To Strong Communities 1.0 100% 100% further entrench our unique customer offer, we have 92% acquired the Australian operations of Six Ideas, 0.8 a strategic workplace and change management consulting service. 62% Six Ideas by Dexus will utilise expertise to tackle 0.6 50% complex problems arising from continual change around the way we work. Senior practitioners with 0.4 international experience will work alongside our customers to create environments that support organisational and cultural innovation, while 0.2 maximising the potential of change events. 0% This service complements our in-house Project 0.0 Delivery Group which provides project management FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 and capital works delivery for office fit-outs. Office Industrial Retail We are now able to provide an end-to-end service that will help our customers to leverage their premises for business success. Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 30 Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities Delivering FY19 Strong Communities commitments Commitment Status FY19 Achievements Collaborate with a community partner to Established a partnership with the Cancer Council to provide our provide a holistic approach to creating building communities simple and easy access to resources, support ✔ healthy, enriched and productive services, research and volunteer opportunities that support customers’ customers and building communities health and wellbeing. Streamline our community fundraising Offered customers the opportunity to choose a charity to receive funds approach, providing our customers the raised across the office community. Charities are supported across ✔ opportunity to input into the allocation of key pillars of children’s hospitals, health, animals, the homeless and the funds raised environment. Key ✔ achieved → progressed FY20 commitments –– Support the communities in which we operate through contributions valued at more than $1,000,000 –– Expand industry partnership initiatives that actively promote Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) to girls –– Identify a new community partnership aligned to the interests of our people and customers Community contribution We continue to support the communities in which we operate. In FY19 we contributed over $1.2 million to the community through employee volunteering programs, in-kind support and corporate donations. Big Change for Small Change For the second consecutive year, Dexus has raised funds for children’s hospitals around Australia, through a national community campaign hosted across its retail centres, this year raising $51,000. Throughout August 2018, ten Dexus shopping centres $1,205,035 nationally hosted a one-day community event that collected a gold coin donation upon entry to FY19 community the centre. All funds raised within the centres were contribution donated to the local hospital in their trade area to support a range of paediatric service and children’s health care initiatives, such as the revitalisation of a children’s garden at Mount Druitt Hospital, New South Wales through to the purchase of new medical In kind support 66% equipment for the children’s ward at GV Health In kind support 66% Direct and indirect Hospital, Shepparton, Victoria. corporate donations 22% Direct and indirect corporate donations 22% Employee volunteering activities 12% Employee volunteering activities 12% 31 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities Leveraging our retail portfolio for social impact Our enduring support for local causes helps Dexus build strong bonds with the communities where we operate. The importance of our relationships with local communities is especially strong across our retail portfolio, where the success of our retail centres is strongly linked with the prosperity and wellbeing of their local communities. Willows steps in to help Townsville Over the course of FY19, our retail portfolio contributed over flood recovery $600,000 in the form of charitable donations, partnerships, Willows Shopping Centre (Willows) was pivotal in sponsorships, volunteering and provision of space. Our landmark the flood recovery operation in Townsville, bolstering community donations program, Big Change for Small Change, community resilience and strengthening engagement raised over $51,000 for children’s hospitals through events across with retailers and customers at the retail centre. ten Dexus shopping centres. Our retail centres also play a role in community cohesion and In late January 2019, a one in 500 hundred-year resilience, above and beyond providing vital services and monsoon caused catastrophic flooding in Townsville, acting as community hubs. In January 2019, Willows Shopping resulting in the city remaining at a stand still for a Centre in Townsville stepped in to support the Townsville flood two-week period. recovery effort. Located in the heart of Townsville, Willows continued to trade throughout the period on all days except Evolving our approach for social impact one, maintaining continuity of access to services through our retail centres and products required by the community during this difficult time. Based on learnings from portfolio-wide initiatives such as Big Change for Small Change, we are implementing a new Retailer engagement was paramount throughout the approach to community contribution at our retail centres. flooding and recovery, with the Centre Management From FY20, our retail centre teams will align their community team engaging in twice-daily direct conversations contribution efforts with local partnerships that satisfy a critical with major tenants and providing updates to retailers need for their local customer base. and other key stakeholders every few hours. Willows Centre teams have enthusiastically initiated their local digital channels provided customers with vital campaigns for the year to come, all aligned under the collective information on available food stocks and retailer banner of Don’t Go Without, which encourages our teams to ask: opening hours. –– Which groups within our respective communities are most In conjunction with Townsville City Council and in need? Townsville Enterprise, Willows pledged $10,000 –– Where can we make a visible difference? worth of centre gift cards to GIVIT’s Queensland Flood Appeal. Examples of campaigns to feature this coming year include: Dexus-managed retail centres serve as important –– Targeting homelessness at our Melbourne city retail centres, hubs in their communities. The contribution of through charity partner 300 Blankets Willows to the flood recovery effort demonstrated –– Targeting domestic violence at Willows Shopping Centre in how the centre and its management can support Townsville, through charity partner The Women’s Centre community resilience. –– Helping women returning to work at Carillon City in Perth, through charity partner Dress for Success Future Enabled –– Targeting food insecurity at Deepwater Plaza on Sydney’s Central Coast, through charity partner Mary Mac’s Place Customers and –– Targeting youth mental health at Smithfield Shopping Centre, through charity partner Smithfield State High School. Reward Your Local School We look forward to reporting on how this locally-driven Throughout May 2019, Beenleigh Marketplace, Strong Communities approach will inspire our people and our retailers to come Queensland ran a community campaign designed to together and deliver positive social impact through our retail support local schools. centres across Australia. Shoppers were invited to shop and support the local school of their choice, and the school with the most votes received the highest cash grant. The six participating schools all received a share in the $6,000 worth of cash grants. Schools used the donations to purchase resources including books, digital assets and sporting equipment. Rewarding local schools is a great way for Dexus’s locally-managed shopping centres to build stronger community connections. Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 32 Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities Delivering community impact across In August 2018 we celebrated our annual Dexus Diamond Week, with employees across the country lending a hand to sell raffle Dexus operations tickets for our main charity, the Sydney Children’s Hospital During the year we extended our impact by supporting Foundation, or spending time supporting community groups and charities and community groups through volunteering, monetary charities of their choice. donations, and providing Dexus spaces for activations. Our Over 50 of our employees volunteered to sell raffle tickets in strategy for community contribution encourages us to support our office lobbies, raising thousands for the Sydney Children’s the issues that matter most to our local communities, including: Hospital Foundation. Funds raised went towards the Foundation’s –– Supporting children’s health through a major partnership with Fellowship Program which is crucial to the development and Sydney Children’s Hospital, where we support training and success of children’s medical care. fellowship programs in addition to regular fundraising drives Furthermore, select staff who had worked on whole-of-company such as our Christmas auction initiatives such as Program One and our Wellbeing Communities –– Combating cancer through a $200,000 agreement with were rewarded with tickets to the Sydney Children’s Hospital the Cancer Council allowing them the use of our assets and Foundation premier fundraising Diamond Event. Dexus was a through the celebration of Cancer Council fundraising efforts major partner of the event, contributing to the $750,000 total at our offices (Daffodil Day, Australia’s Biggest Morning Tea) funds raised on the evening. –– Raising awareness of homelessness through the Property Industry Foundation’s StreetSLEEP campaign, where we Employee volunteering hosted a cohort of volunteers who raised funds by sleeping Each year we enable our people to support local communities rough at 130 Harris Street and causes through the provision of one day’s paid –– Eliminating hunger through employee food donations to volunteering leave. Foodbank during Wellbeing Month, and through customer In FY19 our people volunteered a total of 1,711 hours using food donations in Brisbane for the “12 Days of Christmas Dexus volunteering leave to support causes of their choosing. Foodbank Can Drive” A standout event was a Landcare activity where our people –– Fighting food waste through the provision of OzHarvest juice worked with the Friends of Lane Cove National Park to hand machines in our properties, offering freshly made orange juice weed, plant, and mulch the Tunk’s Hill area of the park. from oranges that would have otherwise been discarded –– Rehousing rescued pets through RSPCA, who visited the lobbies of our office properties with pets ready to find their new forever homes. Community investment statistics Dexus community contribution since FY09 00,000 $1,200,000 00,000 $1,000,000 00000 $800,000 00000 $600,000 00000 $400,000 00000 $200,000 0 $0 FY09 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 $9.1m cumulative support 33 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities Leveraging our portfolio for STEM education An industry partnership initiative that actively promoted Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM) to girls through experiencing a live build at Dexus’s 100 Mount Street, North Sydney (100 Mount) has encouraged girls to consider a career in property. STEM industries are vital to Australia’s economic growth however women are significantly under-represented in STEM education, comprising just 16% of those with STEM qualifications. STEM+ is a partnership initiative of Dexus, 100 Mount’s builder Laing O’Rourke, and project delivery partners Rider Levett Bucknall and Savills. The program immersed students from the local girls’ secondary school, Monte Sant’ Angelo Mercy College into the construction and engineering industry. The program’s modules aligned with the construction of 100 Mount, a premium office tower that was completed in May 2019. The modules included content such as innovative technologies and sustainability in construction, involving onsite participation and engagement throughout the year via Google Classroom. More than 60 girls across years 8 to 12 participated in the two-year program, involving direct interactions with the industry partners. Students were provided key insights into STEM careers that were not typical science-based careers including digital engineering, construction, research and development, law, quantity surveying, commerce, property management, human resources and marketing. As a result of the program, there were fundamental changes to the students’ school subject selections and university pathways, with 25% of 2018 graduates pursuing science related careers. STEM+ demonstrates Dexus’s commitment to leverage its development projects for social impact, with students realising a pathway into an industry that they never thought was possible. STEM+ students have been offered work experience places with Dexus and Laing O’Rourke. They have the opportunity to continue to participate in the program throughout their tertiary studies and a graduate position will also be Future Enabled offered. “This program has had a palpable, culture shift with regards to women in the Customers and construction and property industry – when they could see it, they could be it.” Nicole Christensen, Strong Communities Principal of Monte Sant’ Angelo Mercy This program has had a palpable, culture shift with regards to women in the construction and property industry – when they could see it, they could be it. Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 34 Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities Supply chain management Delivering FY19 Supply Chain commitments Commitment Status FY19 Achievements Collaborate on an industry-wide → Developed a supply chain due diligence tool to enhance the approach to assessing supply chain identification and assessment of modern slavery risks in partnership sustainability, and conduct due diligence with 14 members of the Property Council of Australia, (PCA). in alignment with modern slavery reporting requirements Key ✔ achieved → progressed Our capacity to create value depends on strong working relationships with capable suppliers of products and services. Our supply chain also extends our economic impact, through our procurement spend and associated job creation. Over the course of FY19, we spent over $550 million on operational procurement, with the largest non-statutory expenditures FY20 commitments associated with cleaning, energy and capital works at our –– Implement the PCA’s modern slavery due properties. Refer to the 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement for a diligence tool and target engagement on further breakdown of our spend by supplier category. modern slavery with at least 100 suppliers Procurement overview We aspire to maintain an efficient procurement process operating under sound governance that achieves the best value for money and delivers on our financial and sustainability objectives. In FY19 we reviewed our security service providers across our office and industrial portfolios. Through a new tender process, we engaged a single service provider with a view to achieve a consistent service across the country focused on delivery of customer satisfaction and strong technical capability. Other highlights included focusing on customer safety by partnering with a fire services training company to deliver fire warden training to customers across our office and industrial properties. Managing energy costs and emissions Energy procurement is a priority because of our objectives to manage energy costs and achieve our group target of net zero emissions by 2030. We continued our progressive electricity purchasing structure for NSW, ACT and Victorian properties, to provide flexibility in timing of electricity purchases and access favourable market pricing. The progressive purchasing structure enables us to capitalise on opportunities to add value through active management of costs that are essential to portfolio function. During the year we also secured a unique supply-linked off-site renewable Energy Supply Agreement (ESA) that provides Dexus with electricity at attractive rates, delivers long-term supply security, and reduces exposure to price volatility especially for our NSW properties. For more information on the ESA refer to page 40. 35 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities Supplier engagement We engage with our suppliers to track performance and encourage best practice approaches to employment practices, social outcomes and environmental objectives. Throughout FY19 we continued to engage with suppliers via regular meetings and reporting and conducted over 1,100 inspections or spot checks to review service delivery, monitor performance against contract deliverables and key performance indicators. Procurement and supply chain monitoring FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Critical suppliers1 131 113 111 96 Critical suppliers % of operational spend (%) 37 42 45 38 Supplier Net Promoter Score – – +67 +66 Supplier assessment and monitoring Supplier engagement assessment response rate (%) – 38 35 68 Assessment coverage of operational spend (%) 19 14 26 38 Contractor monitoring spot checks conducted 44 919 1,190 1,163 Contractor monitoring coverage of operational spend (%) 13 36 39 41 1. Dexus defines a critical supplier as one whose services are required daily for the normal operation of a property. Critical suppliers are retained on a centralised Preferred Supplier List. During the year we engaged our key suppliers with a Our relationship with suppliers sustainability self-assessment that asked for feedback on their relationship with Dexus as well as information on their approach We seek to form close, long-lasting relationships with to modern slavery, such as: suppliers who have proven track records to drive efficiency and consistency across our portfolio. Our supplier assessment –– Whether they are obligated to report on modern slavery revealed that 86% of respondents have been suppliers to Dexus under the Modern Slavery Act 2018 for more than five years. These long-term relationships help align –– Whether they maintain policies and procedures to uphold our business interests and present a greater opportunity for us to human rights embed our Sustainability Approach with suppliers. –– How well they understand their supply chain Supplier satisfaction with Dexus remains high, with 92% of –– Their exposure to known risk areas such as the use of migrant respondents indicating they are ‘satisfied’ or ‘very satisfied’ with or casual workers and the sourcing of materials from countries their relationship with us. Our suppliers told us they enjoy good with poor human rights records working relationships with Dexus personnel defined by strong communication and continuous dialogue. They mentioned that Dexus approaches business in a more efficient and trustworthy way compared with peers. Areas of improvement mentioned by our suppliers include the cost and time associated with payment arrangements as well as ensuring continuity of relationships at times when we initiate changes to the way we operate. Future Enabled Length of supplier relationship Supplier satisfaction rating of our relationship Customers and Strong Communities 64% 86% Very satisfied Length of supplier relationship 5+ years 28% Satisfied 13% 1–4 years Neutral Unsatisfied 1% <1 year Very unsatisfied 0 50 100 0 50 100 Percentage of respondents Percentage of respondents 2019 survey 2018 survey 2017 survey 2019 survey 2018 survey 2017 survey Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 36 Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities Readiness for the Australian Modern Collaborating with our suppliers on Slavery Act modern slavery During the year, the Australian Government passed the Our supplier sustainability self-assessment is one of several Modern Slavery Act 2018 (the Act), which subsequently came ways in which we are working with our suppliers to address into effect on 1 January 2019. Together with other businesses modern slavery risk. During the year, our internal modern slavery generating over $100 million in revenue, Dexus will be required to working group (introduced on page 11) reviewed our approach publish a modern slavery statement to disclose to addressing human rights risk in our supply chain and –– modern slavery risks present in our operations and supply maintained workstreams focused on engaging with operational, chain, development and corporate suppliers. –– actions undertaken to address these risks, and Our focus on operational and development suppliers has involved reviewing contractual documentation and returnable –– how we are assessing the effectiveness of our actions. schedules to ensure our commitment to addressing modern Our first modern slavery statement prepared under the Act is slavery is clearly articulated. We reviewed supplier evaluation required to be published after the close of FY20, and no later criteria and our approach to monitoring suppliers during our than December 2020. engagement with them. For several years, we have worked to understand the risk of Our focus with corporate suppliers has been to enhance our human rights impacts, including modern slavery, in our supply mapping of our corporate supply chain to identify potential chain. In FY19 we updated our Human Rights Policy to confirm areas of elevated risk. Several of our largest corporate suppliers our intent to uphold internationally-recognised human rights are either obligated to report under the Act or have been in our operations and our supply chain, and to provide further reporting on modern slavery for several years under similar information on how we implement our approach. We also legislation in other countries where they operate. We have met became a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact to with these corporate suppliers to understand the modern slavery further signal our commitment to responsible business practices issues they have identified in their supply chains and build (for more information on our commitment to the UN Global collaborations to support our reporting obligations. Compact, see page 11). The 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach contain further detail on our approach to supply chain management, including Understanding modern slavery risk across our our approach to assessing human rights and modern slavery risk. supply chain Enhancing due diligence with an industry In our 2019 supplier sustainability self-assessment, we asked our suppliers to provide information on their understanding approach of modern slavery and their approach to addressing modern Since early 2018, Dexus has been one of 15 members of the slavery risk in their operations and their supply chains. PCA who have been working together on a common modern Almost three-quarters of respondents (73%) have at least a slavery due diligence questionnaire for our suppliers. A common general understanding of modern slavery risk in their supply approach will reduce the reporting burden on our suppliers and chain, with one-quarter of respondents having completed reduce compliance costs for Dexus and other pilot organisations. an internal or third-party risk assessment. Over one-quarter During the year, we continued to work with our peers to refine the of respondents (29%) are obligated under either Australian due diligence questionnaire and prepare for implementation. The or New South Wales legislation to provide their own public questionnaire is expected to be implemented in early FY20, and reporting on modern slavery. we will request our suppliers to use the questionnaire to provide Nearly half of respondents (48%) had commenced mapping their us with information on their labour management practices. Other supply chain, and generally considered that modern slavery was focus areas in FY20 include providing training to our employees more likely to occur in international supply chains rather than in about modern slavery as well as enhancing our communications Australian supply chains or in their own operations. We identified within our properties to provide awareness for potentially through the assessment that pockets of our supply chain have a impacted individuals to raise concerns through a whistleblowing high dependence on types of labour with elevated risk factors for hotline and contact. modern slavery. For example, 22% of respondents indicated that at least half of their workforce consisted of contract workers. The assessment also asked for information on our suppliers’ ‘country of origin’ and identified a minor number of suppliers that have disclosed that they operate in, or that procure products and services, from countries with poor human rights policies or track record. 37 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Enriched Environment An efficient and resilient portfolio that minimises our environmental footprint and mitigates environmental risk. ENERGY AND EMISSIONS WATER AND WASTE MANAGEMENT Dexus’s capacity BUILDING CERTIFICATIONS to create value depends on efficient 950,351sqm BIODIVERSITY use of natural capital of office space rated and resilience to 5 star NABERS Energy CLIMATE RESILIENCE environmental risks. or above In a changing climate, developing and managing resilient properties means understanding how to reduce their impact on the natural environment and leave a positive legacy. Buildings account for nearly one-quarter of Australia’s greenhouse gas emissions, which provides both a challenge and an 12.4 Reduction in % opportunity for us to lower our carbon footprint and reduce operating costs through energy efficiency. We also actively manage water and waste through like-for-like emissions building optimisation, and customer engagement and awareness programs. since FY15 We recognise the risks and opportunities that climate change presents for our business. Dexus is acting to better understand, prepare for, and respond to acute physical risks such as damage from extreme weather, and chronic risks 10.9% such as heat stress that adversely impact property function and occupant wellbeing. We seek to maximise the wellbeing of customers and occupants and sustain the reliable operation of our properties by factoring climate resilience into property management and decision making. We have committed to achieve net zero emissions by 2030, an ambition Reduction in that has been verified as consistent with the effort required to limit global like-for-like energy temperature increases to below 1.5°C. Ongoing emissions reduction activities consumption help futureproof our operations from risks associated with future carbon pricing, and demonstrate that emissions reductions need not come at the expense of since FY15 business success. More information on our approach to managing environmental issues, including resource efficiency and climate change, is provided in our 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach. Enriched Environment Our net zero emissions target is aligned with the global ambitions of the UN Paris Agreement. Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 38 Enriched Environment Delivering FY19 Enriched Environment commitments Commitment Status FY19 achievements Deliver 1,000,000sqm of office property to → Delivered 950,351 square metres of office space to a minimum 5 star a minimum 5 star NABERS Energy rating NABERS Energy rating and 757,423 square metres of office space to a and 4 star NABERS Water rating by 2020 minimum 4 star NABERS Water rating. Reduce energy consumption and ✔ Achieved 10.9% reduction in energy consumption and 12.4% reduction emissions across the group by a further in Scope 1 and Scope 2 greenhouse gas emissions against FY15 10% by 2020 using the FY15 baseline like-for-like baseline. including exploring opportunities for Secured an Energy Supply Agreement to source renewable energy to renewables support the base building services of 40 properties across our NSW portfolio. Consistently demonstrate a resource → Recorded an average resource recovery rate of 61% across 31 de-fit recovery rate of 80% from de-fitting projects in FY19, with 19 of these projects achieving a resource recovery vacant space by 2020, actively rate of over 80%. identifying charities and markets for re-use and increasing waste diversion from landfill Key ✔ achieved → progressed FY20 commitments –– Deliver 1,000,000 square metres to a 45.6 % minimum 5 star NABERS Energy rating and 4 star NABERS Water rating across the group’s office portfolio by 2020 –– Establish new 2025 energy and emissions reduction in group reduction targets as part of our pathway to office emissions net zero emissions by 2030 intensity since FY08 –– Consistently demonstrate a resource recovery rate of 80% across de-fit projects by 2020, contributing to the diversion of waste from landfill 22.0% reduction in group office water intensity since FY08 >$136m saved through enhanced portfolio energy efficiency since FY08 39 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Enriched Environment Energy and emissions Ramping up renewable energy It’s been an active year since we announced our 2030 net zero emissions goal across the group’s managed portfolio. Electricity is our main source of emissions, and we intend to reach our goal through improving energy efficiency and increasing the uptake of on-site and off-site renewables. By 2030, if not earlier, Dexus intends to source 100% of its electricity needs from on-site and off-site renewable energy sources. As a major first step, this year we secured a seven-year renewable Energy Supply Agreement (ESA) to power the base building services for over 40 properties across our managed New South Wales property portfolio. This arrangement is one of the first supply-linked deals for an Australian property landlord and satisfies the demand from both customers and investors for more environmentally responsible energy. From January 2020, 50% of the electricity under the ESA will be Solar benefits Dexus and sourced from a portfolio of wind and solar renewable energy its office customers projects, and the agreement includes flexibility to increase the renewable portion to 100% over the term to meet our 2030 100 Harris Street in Pyrmont has had an goal. The ESA provides Dexus with electricity at attractive rates, interesting history dating back to the late provides long-term supply security, reduces exposure to price 1890s when it served as one of Sydney’s volatility, and provides an effective price-hedge against future original woolsheds. cost increases. The heritage building was redeveloped Across the Dexus retail and industrial portfolios there is into high quality office space in 2017 and significant opportunity to install solar Photovoltaics (PV) to following Dexus’s acquisition of the property, generate electricity on-site to unlock additional financial value the building has been taken to the next level and accommodate increasing demands from customers for through the installation of 606 rooftop solar renewable energy. PV panels. We continued momentum on increasing on-site generation of When Dexus acquired the heritage building, renewable energy using solar PV systems, installing an additional it identified that the property was well 1 MW of solar generation capacity across the portfolio through suited for solar panels due to its distinctive FY19, with a further 1.89 MW under contract or in progress. sawtooth roof which was a typical design of The solar capacity installed to date and investigations focused manufacturing properties of its time. on our industrial portfolio from part of a broader groupwide onsite solar renewables program. During FY19 we conducted The solar PV panels have the capacity to an Expression of Interest (EOI) campaign to engage with solar generate up to 250,000 kilowatt hours of providers to explore their current capabilities and various energy per year which contributes to powering financial models on offer to identify pathways that achieve best the base building services. The investment has outcomes across key areas of property income, asset valuation, a payback period of around five years and market risk, customer satisfaction, site feasibility/suitability, will contribute to increasing the property’s program management and environmental impacts. NABERS Energy rating. Following on from the EOI process, in FY20 we will partner with This solar PV system at 100 Harris Street also preferred solar providers and embark on a programmatic rollout contributes to Dexus’s target of net zero of solar PV across existing and new industrial properties. This emissions across its managed portfolio by will involve progressively reviewing rooftop structural integrity, 2030, with Dexus progressing plans to rollout network connection availability and customer appetite for additional onsite renewable projects across cost-effective electricity, in preparation for installation at its property portfolio. feasible properties. Enriched Environment Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 40 Enriched Environment Setting a certified science-based target In FY19 Dexus enhanced its net zero emissions ambition by certifying its emissions reduction target with the Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). The Science Based Target Initiative is a joint initiative by CDP, the United Nations Global Compact, the World Resources Institute and WWF, which aims to help businesses pursue bolder solutions to address climate change. Targets adopted by companies to reduce greenhouse gas emissions are considered science-based if they are in line with what the latest climate science says is necessary to meet the goals of the Paris Agreement – to limit global warming to well-below 2°C above pre-industrial levels and pursue efforts to limit warming to 1.5°C. Supporting a carbon neutral The SBTi has certified that Dexus’s scope 1 and 2 target is Dexus workspace aligned with a 1.5°C trajectory, which represents their highest level of ambition. Looking beyond our own emissions, the target As a signatory to Australia’s carbon neutral also commits us to reducing absolute scope 3 emissions by 25% program, Dexus offsets greenhouse gas emissions by 2030 (FY18 baseline), to be achieved through engagement associated with management activities conducted with customers about improving energy efficiency and reducing offsite to facilitate day to day property operation emissions within their occupied space. including leasing, property management, property finance, investor relations, legal, governance and Further, in December 2018 Dexus pledged to support the World sustainability functions. Green Building Council’s Net Zero Carbon Buildings Commitment and become a member of The Climate Group’s EP100 campaign Dexus has committed to offsetting the carbon which recognises the importance of building energy efficiency emissions from its corporate operations, and in FY19 in improving energy productivity. Our pathway to deliver these retired certified offsets equivalent to 3,725 tonnes outcomes includes initiatives such as Dexus’s ESA, onsite solar CO2-e to achieve carbon neutrality. Employees renewable program and continued investment in energy helped select local and international community efficiency. Over the last 12 years we have doubled both energy projects that Dexus would support to offset its and emissions productivity, achieving 2.12 times the economic emissions. These included: output per energy consumed and 2.20 times the economic output per direct carbon emissions in FY19 when compared WA Yarra Yarra Biodiversity: The Yarra Yarra with FY08. Biodiversity Corridor is located 400km north of Perth and features diverse ancient landscapes. Over 90% of the region had been cleared for agriculture, and this program aims to reconnect the remnant vegetation sites and link 12 nature reserves across a vast tract of land. Trees and shrubs are planted to help establish habitat to protect and recover endangered and declining woodland and fauna. Rimba Raya Biodiversity Reserve: Rimba Raya is the largest project in the world focused on reducing emissions from deforestation and forest degradation (the UN-REDD+ program). This project is in place to preserve more than 91,000 hectares of tropical peat swampland in Borneo. The area is rich with flora and fauna, including the endangered Bornean orangutan. Rimba Raya also develops programs in surrounding villages to improve the lives of the locals, supporting their education, employment and a positive future. Improved Kitchen Regimes: The Improved Kitchen Regimes project is a global initiative involving the distribution of improved cook stoves and safe water technologies into communities. In addition to reducing deforestation through less wood use for cooking, the stoves reduce incidences of illness related to indoor air pollution, smoke inhalation and consumption of unsafe drinking water. The project also creates employment opportunities for indigenous communities. 41 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Enriched Environment Progress toward energy targets Since FY15, we have been working toward a 10% reduction in both energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions across our like-for-like managed portfolio by FY20. We are pleased to have met this target one year earlier than anticipated, having achieved a 10.9% reduction in energy consumption and a 12.4% reduction in scope 1 and 2 emissions by the end of FY19. 360 Collins Street, Melbourne We continued to progress toward our FY20 target of 1,000,000 square metres of office space rated to 5 star NABERS Energy or improves its resource efficiency higher, achieving 950,351sqm of office space at or above 5 star Dexus manages 360 Collins Street in Melbourne at the end of FY19. Examples of initiatives contributing to the on behalf of owner, Dexus Wholesale Property enhanced energy efficiency of our portfolio include: Fund (DWPF). Over the past two years, Dexus –– Building management system upgrades has significantly improved the building’s energy efficiency and NABERS Energy rating. To drive –– Expanded use of virtual metering and fault detection resource efficiency, Dexus identified and platforms implemented early detection of faults through –– Plant and equipment optimisation works, including chiller data analytics, building management system (BMS) upgrades, to improve operational efficiency tuning, and infrastructure upgrades in the common –– Lighting retrofits to utilise LED technology areas such as LED lighting. The property’s energy intensity improved by 43% over two years, with In FY20 we will set new interim targets for 2025 that will contribute overall energy use reducing despite an increase in to our overarching ambition of net zero emissions by 2030. occupancy. The strong performance contributed to its 4.5 star NABERS Energy rating in FY19, up from Progress towards 1,000,000 square metres at 3 stars in FY17. 5 star NABERS Energy by 2020 950,351 1,000,000 Building management upgrades 892,323 enhance 101 George Street, 707,430 634,594 Parramatta 568,172 sqm Building management systems (BMS) monitor and control the large energy consuming equipment within a building, such as HVAC (heating, ventilation, air conditioning), lighting, and fire and security systems. Sub-optimal building management systems can result in inefficient FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 operations, impacting a property’s energy and Target water performance. 5 star 5.5 star Dexus invested in a BMS upgrade at 101 George Street in Parramatta to rectify programming that was causing excessive energy use and reactive maintenance work. Across the three months following the upgrade, electricity consumption reduced by on average 30% and water consumption reduced 14%. The works helped sustain the property’s strong 5.5 star NABERS Energy rating, and lifted its NABERS Water rating from 3.5 star to 4 star. Dexus continues to maintain ongoing systems tuning and BMS maintenance as an important component of its approach to resource efficiency. Enriched Environment Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 42 Enriched Environment Water and waste management Making progress on water efficiency In FY19 we increased the net lettable area of properties across our managed portfolio rated 4 star NABERS Water or higher to 757,423 square metres, reversing a trend that had been declining in previous years. This improved position reflects concerted efforts across a range of Initiatives including targeted water audits that identified key opportunities for improvement, such as chiller, toilet flush and tap aeration efficiencies that have been implemented. Enhancements were introduced to improve fault and leak detection analytics at connected properties, leveraging additional water submetering and enhanced alerts, that enabled site teams to respond to issues more quickly. We are mindful of the challenge to achieve our 4 star NABERS Water target of 1,000,000 square metres by the end of FY20. Progress toward the target has been counterbalanced by adverse impacts on water efficiency from hot weather, extended operating hours, increased occupant density and installation of new end-of-trip facilities. We are pleased with the additional 140,000 square metres of properties that have achieved our 4 star NABERS Water goal over the last 12 months. We will continue to drive water efficiency measures in collaboration with customers into FY20 and beyond via upgrading bathroom fixtures and fittings, deploying meters, and improving fault detection to resolve water leaks, and optimising Reducing water use at cooling tower water efficiency. Australia Square Progress towards 1,000,000 square metres at A collaborative focus on water efficiency 4 star NABERS Water by 2020 across property stakeholders at Australia Square in Sydney has resulted in an 1,000,000 improvement in the property’s NABERS Water rating, despite a recent expansion to the 753,639 757,423 end-of-trip facilities. As manager of the 695,331 property, Dexus set out to improve water 615,884 615,074 efficiency through engaging the facility sqm manager, service contractors and customers in the tower to focus on water wastage. Key initiatives included: –– Conducting monthly building performance meetings to review current water usage FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY20 consumption and trends, and put forward Target 4 star ideas for improvement 4.5 star or higher –– Installing additional submetering that allowed for adjustments to toilet flush valves, resulting in 3–4 litres saved per pan Adding value through customer engagement per flush With most of Australia’s eastern states in drought, we have a –– Replacing the aerators on hand basin responsibility and an opportunity to make a difference in our taps which has reduced the overall water workplaces. We are engaging with our customers to promote consumption from these fixtures ways to assist Dexus through their consumption habits to –– Introducing water plaque signage to save water. remind customers to be conscious of Over the past year we have rolled out a customer engagement their water use and the importance of program to promote water conservation techniques to customers minimising water use in our properties. In bathrooms and end-of-trip facilities across –– Increasing the awareness and reporting our office portfolio, we installed water plaques at sinks, toilets of leaks and drips with security, cleaners, and showers to educate customers on opportunities to conserve and building occupants. water through reporting leaks, using half flush where possible, and minimising wastage. As a result, the NABERS Water rating at Australia Square increased from 3.5 star to 4 star. Dexus is applying a similar program of initiatives across its portfolio to assist in achieving its target of having 1,000,000 square metres of office space with a minimum 4 star NABERS Water rating. 43 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Enriched Environment Focusing on operational waste Adding value through de-fit recycling and reuse In FY19, we progressed several initiatives focused on enhancing Outside of day-to-day property operations, we focus on the operational waste management of our portfolio. Dexus’s minimising waste through our target to consistently demonstrate standing goal is to reach 65% waste diversion from landfill across 80% diversion rates from tenancy de-fits. In FY19, 19 of the the group’s office portfolio. In FY19 we achieved 42% diversion 31 monitored de-fit projects achieved a diversion rate of 80% or across office properties and 35% diversion across retail properties. higher, including projects with tight deadlines that make diversion We identified that the removal of individual under desk bins rates more challenging to achieve. The combined diversion rate in favour of centralised bin systems for each tenancy to be an across all 31 projects was 61% with over 1,700 tonnes of materials effective way to enhance diversion rates and reduce waste being reused, recycled or recovered, including: stream contamination in office properties. This year we continued –– 319 tonnes of metal to progressively remove them in collaboration with customers –– 240 tonnes of hardfill and cleaning contractors. –– 105 tonnes of e-waste Customer education is also important for embedding the positive –– 141 tonnes of furniture behaviour change required to sustain strong waste management outcomes. In FY19, we hosted “lunch and learn” sessions on –– 129 tonnes of glass sustainable waste management and promoted the availability –– 79 tonnes of carpets of specialised e-waste, coffee cups and organic collection Over the past year, 2 Dawn Fraser Avenue in Sydney Olympic services available to customers within their tenancies or via Park demonstrated significant diversion outcomes from its building management. building-wide de-fit project. The project team maintained a To enhance our approach to waste management even further, strong focus on recycling and reuse, which led to the project we have supported the development of the new NABERS Waste achieving over 99% diversion. rating tool by piloting NABERS Waste ratings at nine office Contributing to the high diversion outcome was over 63 tonnes properties in FY19 and we are committed to conducting NABERS of Interface carpet tiles covering 15,940 square metres, that Waste ratings across the whole office portfolio in FY20. From were recycled through their recycling program. In addition to those rated thus far, 1 Bligh Street in Sydney has recorded the reusing the tiles for new carpet materials, Interface innovated highest rating, achieving 4.5 star and setting a benchmark across to reduce the embodied carbon of the project by offsetting the portfolio. This strong performance at 1 Bligh Street is the result the associated 185 tonnes in lifecycle carbon emissions of the of several success factors including: replacement carpet. –– Promotion of four separate waste streams: paper and In addition, all metals, e-waste, hardfill and glass materials cardboard; mixed recycling; organic waste; and general waste were recycled. –– Specialised recycling programs focused on coffee cups and The project team also successfully overcame a common e-waste recycling for customers challenge in maximising diversion rates for these projects, by –– Data on waste quantities is collected across each tenancy finding a recipient to make use of the stripped-out furniture items with feedback provided to engage customers on their waste once they become available. performance and improve their practices The contractors identified the opportunity to work with Encounter First, a group supporting Papua New Guinea communities, to transport four tonnes of furniture to Papua New Guinan schools. Broadening the waste recycling streams on offer For many people, coffee is a daily ritual that can have the unintended consequence of adding cups and lids to a property’s waste stream. These items can be challenging to recycle. To help reduce the waste footprint of coffee drinkers, Dexus partnered with coffee cup recycling program, Simply Cups Australia, to introduce the program at eleven properties and tenancies including Dexus’s Sydney office at Australia Square. Dexus has collected and recycled over 170,000 coffee cups through the Enriched Simply Cups initiative, including 1,730 cups at 5 Martin Place, Sydney in April 2019 alone and close to 65,000 cups in total at 385 Bourke Street in Environment Melbourne. In the two years since it began operating, Simply Cups has collected over five million cups and diverted them from landfill. Simply Cups’ processing facility in Moama, New South Wales, takes used cups where they are upcycled into higher value products such as carpark bumpers and bike lane separators. Dexus is pleased to have secured the opportunity to expand recycling options for customers across its office properties and will continue to explore additional locations where it can implement Simply Cups in the future. Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 44 Enriched Environment Building certifications National Australian Built Environment Rating System (NABERS) Green Star certifications Dexus has a well-established NABERS program to benchmark Dexus adopts the Green Building Council of Australia’s Green energy and water performance nationally, using a rating scale Star rating tools to guide the integration of environmental from 1 to 6 stars. In FY19, Dexus’s group office portfolio achieved and social aspects within development projects and to an average 5.0 star NABERS Energy rating (FY18: 4.9 star) and an independently verify each project’s sustainability credentials in average 3.5 star NABERS Water rating (FY18: 3.6 Star). The uplift construction and operation. in energy performance follows further streamlining of cloudDuring the year, the recent development of 105 Phillip Street, based fault detection analytics software combined with ongoing Parramatta was certified to 6 Star Green Star Design (Office v3). investments in plant and equipment upgrades (refer to the case Other development projects progressed in FY19 and seeking study of 360 Collins Street, Melbourne on page 42). Green Star accreditation include: Improving water efficiency remains a challenge, as factors such –– Dexus’s latest flagship office tower at 100 Mount Street, North as hot weather, higher occupancy density and new end-of-trip Sydney passed design review stage and is on track to achieve facilities have generally placed upward pressure on water use. a 5 Star Green Star Design & As Built rating Despite these challenges, during the year 16 office properties –– Construction commenced on the North Shore Heath Hub, recorded at least half star improvements to their NABERS Water a specialised mixed-use medical hub co-located with Royal rating, including Australia Square Tower in Sydney (refer to the North Shore and North Shore Private Hospitals in St Leonards case study on page 43). NSW. The project is registered for Green Star and is targeting The Dexus-managed group retail portfolio achieved an average a 5 Star Green Star Design & As Built rating 3.8 star NABERS Energy rating (FY18: 3.4 star) and an average –– Registered Flinders Gate – 180 Flinders Street in Melbourne 3.5 star NABERS Water rating (FY18: 3.5 star). Willows Shopping and 12 Creek Street (The Annex) in Brisbane for Green Star Centre in Townsville was a leading performer, improving its Design & As Built ratings energy performance based on strong engagement from the centre management team to realise energy savings from We apply the Green Star Performance rating tool to benchmark upgrades to the air conditioning system completed as part of the operational performance of the group’s office and retail the centre’s expansion in 2018. portfolios across a broad range of measures relating to energy, water, indoor environment, building management, transport, materials, land use and ecology, and innovation. NABERS portfolio In FY19 Dexus achieved a 4 Star Green Star Performance portfolio average rating across 76 office and retail properties, which included achieving a 5 Star average performance rating across its office Portfolio Energy Water portfolio, representing ‘Australian Excellence’. Within this year’s rating, we were recognised for innovation in leadership, strategy Group Office portfolio 5.0 3.5 and actions towards decarbonising our properties by targeting Dexus portfolio 5.0 3.6 net zero emissions, as well as our work to enhance climate resilience. The portfolio Green Star Performance ratings help us Dexus Office Partnership 4.9 3.7 communicate the sustainability credentials of our properties to Funds management portfolio 4.9 3.5 customers and investors, and provide valuable feedback to set further improvement goals. Dexus Wholesale Property Fund 4.8 3.2 Group Retail portfolio1 3.8 3.5 Dexus Wholesale Property Fund1 4.0 3.8 Funds management portfolio 1 3.9 3.6 1. Dexus managed properties only. NABERS Indoor Environment A healthy indoor environmental quality positively impacts occupant health and wellbeing, and ultimately on customer productivity and satisfaction. Going beyond our regular audit of indoor air quality, in FY19 we completed NABERS Indoor Environment (NABERS IE) ratings across 31 properties. NABERS IE ratings measure acoustic quality, lighting quality, temperature and thermal comfort as well as indoor air quality of a property. Certified NABERS IE ratings allow us to benchmark performance and enhance management of indoor environmental quality for our customers. 45 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Enriched Environment Biodiversity Our approach to climate-related issues Dexus aims to deliver a positive impact on biodiversity through This section describes how we manage climate-related risks and enhancing and managing biodiversity outcomes across opportunities, with reference to the recommendations of the Task properties that we develop and operate. Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Over the past year, we have applied geographic information Townsville’s 1 in 100 year floodwater event in February 2019 system (GIS) spatial mapping tools to understand the proximity highlights the impact that mother nature can have on our of our properties in relation to globally significant biodiversity. communities. Maintaining and enhancing property resilience We have also applied the Ecological Value tool within the Green is a key focus for Dexus, to mitigate environment and Star Performance rating scheme to understand biodiversity value climate-related impacts. at our properties, which we reassess every three years when recertifying our portfolio. We continue to enhance our understanding of physical risks to properties and communities, and the impacts to people and Much of our portfolio exists in highly urbanised areas that businesses from climate-related shocks and stresses. We also generally has not retained its prior biodiversity value. However, continue to grow our understanding of the complex nature the opportunity exists to make a positive impact at new of transitional risks and their associated impacts on financial developments and existing properties where changes in land use performance, business strategy and investment decision-making. occur. For example, many of our industrial properties are situated in urban fringe areas where conserving remaining biodiversity is Governance an important concern. In these areas, our development teams collaborate with local authorities and other stakeholders to The Dexus Board oversees all strategic risks including climate deliver positive biodiversity outcomes. change risk, with the Board Risk Committee overseeing the Within Dexus’s new industrial development precinct at Ravenhall Group’s enterprise risk management practices. as well as work in Victoria, we have committed to conserving large tracts of high health and safety, and environmental management. As a quality vegetation on the site, and securing for conservation in strategic risk, climate change is discussed in detail on an annual perpetuity an additional 32 hectares off site, that is home to an basis. Each year and as needed, the Board approves the group’s endangered grassland community. The land to be conserved sustainability commitments. also supports endangered species such as the Striped Legless The Sustainability team, led by the Executive General Manager, Lizard. Together, the retention of high-quality vegetation on Investor Relations, Communications and Sustainability, and the site, mitigation of the loss of vegetation during construction, Senior Manager, Group Sustainability and Energy leads the and conservation of ecologically significant land off site, will group’s management response, reporting and presenting on a contribute to a positive biodiversity impact at Ravenhall. quarterly basis to the Board Risk Committee on progress against targets and to the Board as key topics emerge. In FY19, the team reported on progress against its climate resilience roadmap (mitigation, adaptation, and influencing value chain). As part of this, the Board Risk Committee has reviewed Dexus’s 2030 net zero strategy from proposal to adoption. The strategy and associated targets were endorsed by the Board. Recognising the importance of managing ESG issues, the Board is currently finalising plans to establish a new Board Committee in FY20 known as the Board ESG Committee. It is anticipated that the Board ESG Committee will oversee the implementation of the group’s Sustainability Approach and work closely with the Board Risk Committee in overseeing the management of ESG issues, including climate-related risks and opportunities. Enriched Environment Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 46 Enriched Environment Strategy Dexus considers climate related risks and opportunities across the following time horizons: –– ­Short term (0–2 years in line with 2020 goals) –– ­Medium term (2–7 years in line with interim targets towards 2030, and Capex planning) –– ­Long term (7–15 years in line with 2030 net zero emissions target) time horizons. As the nature and impact of transitional risks continues to evolve, Dexus leverages the following activities to gather data and insights to inform investment decision-making: –– O­ ur in-house research team tracks economic conditions, correlates market risks and forecasts real estate market performance in all major commercial, retail and industrial property markets nationwide to identify immediate operational risks, and longer-term megatrends that influence the development of strategy, portfolio planning and new products and services –– W­ e collaborate with peers and with industry associations to undertake work and share knowledge on climate change risk and adaptation –– ­We engage with customers and conduct social demographic studies across retail properties –– ­We work with subject matter experts to maintain an up-to-date view. Climate-related issues are considered as one of several factors within annual asset and property management activities including financial budgeting for capital and operating expenditure, risk-based engineering assessments, managing insurance policies and claims. Financial planning is conducted across short and medium time horizons. Scenario analysis To date, Dexus has applied climate scenarios to inform decision-making as follows: Scenario Application RCP8.5 from the 2014 IPCC1 report using Assess property physical risk exposure to identify likely high impact climate-related 2030 and 2070-time horizons outcomes, including the magnitude and specific locations where they are likely to occur. The outcomes inform Dexus’s acquisition strategy and physical property risk management activities. Science-Based Target initiative (SBTi) Climate scenario analysis outcomes used to inform energy use and price modelling sectoral decarbonisation trajectory out to 2030 with comparison against sector decarbonisation required consistent with using IEA2 2°C scenario (IEA 2DS:2012) 2 degrees warming against pre-industrial levels. In FY18, this analysis has been used to develop our 2030 net zero emissions target in line with science-based outcomes to avoid serious climate-change effects. 1. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (http://www.ipcc.ch/) 2. International Energy Agency (http://www.iea.org) We have used scenario analysis to understand physical risk exposure and to develop our 2030 net zero emissions target. We plan to further integrate scenario analysis into annual business stress testing across longer-term time horizons beyond the current 3 to 5-year horizon. Expanding our use of scenario analysis will enhance our understanding of transition risks (e.g. carbon pricing, increased building efficiency standards) and links to financial impacts. Our newly established cross-business TCFD working group will leverage existing and future scenario analyses to: –– coordinate action on climate-related risks and opportunities –– build a collective understanding of Dexus’s resilience to climate-related issues –– raise awareness of the importance of climate-related issues across Dexus’s operations and portfolio Our goal is to continue to enhance our disclosure of financial impacts beyond those expressed in our 2019 CDP submission, and in line with published TCFD guidance. 47 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Enriched Environment Climate related issues and financial impact Time Risk horizon Financial impact How Dexus is equipped to manage and monitor risk Policy and legal Short to Enhanced emissionsIn-house Sustainability team monitors existing and compliance and potential medium reporting obligations emerging legislation and embeds compliance into daily for emissions taxes/tariffs term may lead to increased processes. on energy compliance costs through Dexus develops and manages its portfolio to maximise new or higher taxes energy efficiency via continuous improvement design and operational targets, that drive ongoing energy efficiency programs. Property physical risk Short Increased insurance Dexus has assessed its portfolio for climate-related risk exposure via increased to long premiums and potential exposure and climate change impacts are reduced severity of extreme term with for reduced availability through careful portfolio construction combined with risk weather events such as predicted of insurance on assets in evaluation and associated adaptation planning within its cyclones and floods increase in “high-risk” locations certified Environmental Management System. frequency Dexus actively manages climate exposure risk for wind and flooding to mitigate against higher insurance deductibles imposed by insurers for specific properties located in Far North Queensland due to their inherent risk exposure. Changing investor Medium Reduced ability to attract Dexus systematically identifies, quantifies and responds behaviour to divest out term and retain investors and to ESG issues within strategic decision making and of businesses that exhibit raise new capital operations, to deliver sustained investor returns. high carbon intensity Reduced access to debt Dexus is a signatory to the UN Global Compact (UNGC) and/or do not articulate or finance arrangements and Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) and has a clear strategy for or lead to less favourable integrated these principles. Dexus conducts ESG due addressing climate interest rates or debt diligence for property transactions, applies technology change risks terms and operational expertise to reduce resource use and greenhouse gas emissions, and partners with like-minded suppliers. Changing customer Medium Reduced customer Dexus focuses on operational efficiency by setting expectations for minimum term demand would lead continuous improvement targets and continues to invest property performance to increased vacancy, capital expenditure into its properties to maximise lower rental income, and property energy efficiency and reduce emissions. property devaluation Dexus analyses and responds to consumer trends through market research, focusing on customer needs and issues to provide service excellence. Rising mean Medium to Increased operating Advanced building management systems, supported temperatures and long term and maintenance costs by virtual engineer analytics monitor building comfort heat stress to maintain indoor conditions and the indoor environment. temperature to meet Dexus installs standby generators to maintain energy occupants’ comfort security for use during blackouts. requirements to maintain health and wellbeing Enriched Environment Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 48 Enriched Environment Time Opportunity horizon Financial impact How Dexus is equipped to manage and monitor opportunity Availability of incentives Short term Additional revenues Dexus participates in the NSW Energy Savings Scheme through access to new and generates Energy Savings Certificates (ESCs) and emerging markets following successful implementation of prior projects. In to offset project capital FY19 Dexus created 6,932 ESCs. costs Changing investor Medium Better competitive Dexus is a signatory to the UNGC and the PRI and has behaviour term position to reflect shifting integrated these principles throughout the group. consumer preferences, Dexus has been recognised globally as a leader resulting in attracting and by inclusion on various indices including Dow Jones retaining capital Sustainability Index, FTSE4Good Index, MSCI and CDP Climate Change questionnaire. Dexus leverages its demonstrated reputation for prudent capital management as a responsible investor to raise additional capital and attract new investment partners. Changing customer Short to Better competitive Dexus effectively manages energy use to reduce tenant behaviour towards more medium position to reflect shifting outgoings and attract customers. Dexus benchmarks its efficient properties term consumer preferences, managed office and retail properties using NABERS3 and is resulting higher targeting 1,000,000 square metres of 5 star rated NABERS occupancy and rental properties by 2020. returns Dexus benefits from changing consumer behaviour, including government and some private sector customers that now require a minimum level of energy efficiency in their office tenancies, and typically require their properties to achieve 4.5-star NABERS Energy ratings or higher. Access to new market Short to Opportunity to leverage Dexus is exploring opportunities to self-generate and offer revenue opportunities medium Australia’s electricity electricity to customers or lease the available roof space term grid transformation and across its managed industrial portfolio to third party solar increases in distributed energy companies on a large scale. electricity generation by new market operators 3. National Australian Built Environment Rating System, administered by the NSW Office of Environment and Heritage. 49 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Enriched Environment Risk management Adapting to climate-related risks In FY19 we refreshed our portfolio-wide climate risk assessment Climate-related risks are assessed in accordance with Dexus’s and integrated resilience into Dexus’s Environmental standard framework for managing risks. At a group level each key Management System, building on previous assessments strategic risk, including climate change risk, is discussed in detail completed in 2011 and 2015. Our climate risk assessment on an annual basis. method involves: Dexus’s climate resilience strategy responds to the physical and 1. Portfolio-wide climate exposure and vulnerability assessment transitional risks identified through scenario analysis and involves: (completed in FY19): 1. Mitigating our impact through decarbonisation, energy  pplied current climate data and future climate – A efficiency and renewable energy. projections to identify hotspots for climate issues, both 2.  Adapting to physical and transitional risks relevant to our acute (storms, heatwave) and chronic (rainfall, heat stress) properties, people and operations, and leveraging climate and surveyed site operations teams to understand their change-related opportunities. property’s vulnerability to those risks and hazards 3. Influencing our value chain by engaging customers, tenants – Integrated climate resilience within Dexus’s Environmental and suppliers to reduce climate impacts. Management Manual, to establish an ongoing context and framework, and codify the process for portfolio level and Mitigating climate impacts asset level risk assessment adaptation planning Dexus reviews the sustainability risks of a potential acquisition Property-level adaptation planning (underway in FY20): 2.  before purchase through a rigorous due diligence process Leveraging the portfolio-level learnings to assess in more focusing on environmental performance, climate change-related detail operational resilience plans for priority assets, through physical risk exposure, and building upgrade and improvement Dexus’s Environmental Management System, and furthering plans, with associated costs to implement upgrades in line with our understanding of financial impacts of climate risk the group’s 5 star NABERS Energy rating target. The outcomes may affect procurement decisions and determine the investment Influencing our value chain strategy for the asset, both in the short and long term. Throughout the year Dexus has engaged with suppliers, investors For properties under management, environmental performance and industry peers to discuss our progress and programs towards and reducing resource consumption is critical and this is climate resilience. We collaborated extensively with Red Energy measured, monitored and managed to meet environmental to develop the ESA discussed on page 40, and openly shared performance targets. Impacts to customers from rising our journey with key customers, investors, and peers at forums occupancy costs due to energy-related outgoings are also a such as the Green Building Council of Australia’s TRANSFORM key influence of the group’s resilience strategy. We have applied conference. We advocated for increased adoption of renewable regression analysis techniques to review the impact of chronic energy and efficiency by committing to the World Green Building temperature rise on energy consumption using current building Council’s EP100 initiative, as well as engaging directly with energy performance against key influencing variables including investors on this issue. forecast ambient temperatures, building occupancy and Refer to the 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach for operating hours. We also continued to monitor the state of the information on governance, risk management framework and energy market within our forward energy purchasing strategy, processes, and emissions reduction activities. and considered energy efficiency improvement opportunities with asset-level strategic improvement plans. Metrics and targets Dexus is committed to operational efficiency across the property portfolio to deliver savings in resource consumption and associated greenhouse gas emissions, and to meet current and future environmental targets. Our goal is to achieve net zero emissions by 2030 through improving energy efficiency and increasing renewables. Dexus monitors and reports on absolute greenhouse gas emissions, like-for-like emissions and emissions intensity for all properties under operational control. We report using both location-based and market-based emissions accounting approaches, the former satisfying our regulatory reporting and the latter taking into account voluntary reductions achieved through use of emission-free GreenPower. Enriched Pages 51-52 contain a summary of the group managed portfolio environmental inventory, and the 2019 Sustainability Environment Data Supplement provides comprehensive disclosure of Dexus environmental metrics and year-on-year performance. Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 50 Enriched Environment Summary of environmental accounts The following tables provide the environmental inventory and consumption/emissions intensities for the group managed portfolio on an operational control basis. Further environmental accounts are contained within the 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement. Group managed portfolio – environmental inventory Absolute Like-for-like 12 month Metric Base year FY17 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 change Energy Consumption (MWh) NonDiesel 266 1,540 1,342 1,770 1,129 1,468 30.0% renewable Natural Gas 33,272 51,130 45,929 37,457 33,250 32,525 -2.2% energy Electricity – grid-purchases accounted 155,523 143,786 150,038 145,721 118,391 115,822 -2.2% using average grid emission factors Renewable Electricity – GreenPower purchases 15,306 5,424 3,364 5,275 3,062 4,539 48.2% energy accounted using source-based emission factor supported by an energy attribute certificate Solar energy 0 276 292 292 292 292 0.2% Total energy consumption (MWh) 204,367 202,155 200,965 190,516 156,124 154,646 -0.9% Proportion of energy consumption from renewable 7.5% 2.8% 1.8% 2.9% 2.1% 3.1% sources (%) Water (kL or cubic metres) Potable water from water authorities 1,499,044 1,806,128 1,858,668 1,815,826 1,512,354 1,548,321 2.4% Recycled water recovery 8,015 10,568 4,964 10,568 4,964 -53.0% Total water consumption including recycled water 1,499,044 1,814,143 1,869,236 1,820,791 1,522,922 1,553,285 2.0% Proportion of water consumption from recycled 0.4% 0.6% 0.3% 0.7% 0.3% sources (%) Waste and recycling (tonnes) Waste to landfill 4,475 9,468 10,451 9,721 7,968 7,777 -2.4% Recycled waste 4,118 7,014 7,002 6,327 5,816 5,187 -10.8% Total waste 8,593 16,482 17,453 16,048 13,785 12,964 -6.0% Diversion from landfill (%) 47.9% 42.6% 40.1% 39.4% 42.2% 40.0% -5.2% Waste data coverage across office and retail 74% 98% 99% 100% 100% 100% 0.0% properties Greenhouse gas emissions (t CO2-e) Scope 1 6,226 19,688 18,919 17,596 15,107 15,463 2.4% Scope 2 location-based 151,951 128,883 131,158 126,941 103,857 102,043 -1.7% Total Scope 1 & 2 location-based GHG emissions 158,176 148,571 150,077 144,538 118,965 117,505 -1.2% Scope 2 adjustment due to GreenPower purchases -13,801 -5,006 -2,819 -4,426 -2,569 -3,822 48.8% Total Scope 1 & 2 market-based GHG emissions 144,376 143,564 147,258 140,112 116,396 113,683 -2.3% Scope 3 location-based GHG emissions 27,630 36,728 37,452 34,938 29,950 28,685 -4.2% Scope 3 adjustment due to GreenPower purchases -2,580 -617 -402 -529 -366 -455 24.5% Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 location-based GHG emissions 185,807 185,298 187,529 179,476 148,915 146,191 -1.8% Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 market-based GHG emissions 169,425 179,675 184,307 174,521 145,980 141,913 -2.8% Voluntary offsetting Voluntary offsets surrendered by Dexus 0 -3,000 -3,000 -3,725 -3,000 -3,725 Total net greenhouse gas emissions 169,425 176,675 181,307 170,796 142,980 138,188 -3.4% Lettable area under operational control (square metres) Office 938,304 1,595,564 1,647,185 1,651,876 1,381,608 1,381,465 0.0% Retail 292,161 296,386 323,780 304,513 217,674 216,977 -0.3% Industrial 926,859 1,079,053 1,072,881 1,136,658 1,035,480 1,034,710 -0.1% 51 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Enriched Environment Group managed portfolio – Consumption, emissions and waste on an intensity basis Managed portfolio Like-for-like Base 12 month Metric year1 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 change Group Energy consumption (MJ/sqm) 597 344 331 336 330 329 -0.1% Office Water consumption (L/sqm) 895 684 699 697 717 719 0.2% portfolio Scope 1 & 2 emissions (kgCO2-e/sqm) 131 73 71 71 71 71 -0.9% Waste diversion from landfill 51% 2 48% 45% 42% 44% 42% -5.8% Group Energy consumption (MJ/sqm) 489 552 505 370 422 394 -6.6% Retail Water consumption (L/sqm) 1,267 1,354 1,309 1,099 1,136 1,103 -2.9% portfolio Scope 1 & 2 emissions (kgCO2-e/sqm) 94 100 92 76 81 77 -5.2% Waste diversion from landfill 30%2 33% 33% 35% 38% 37% -2.7% Group Energy consumption (MJ/sqm) 33.4 11.9 11.9 12.4 11.7 12.8 9.5% Industrial Water consumption (L/sqm) 312 290 264 290 265 305 15.3% portfolio Scope 1 & 2 emissions (kgCO2-e/sqm) 8.4 2.5 2.4 2.6 2.4 2.7 11.9% 1. Base year is FY08, unless otherwise indicated 2. Base year is FY12 Office 895 131 697 597 71 336 43.7% energy intensity reduction 45.6% emissions intensity reduction 22.1% water intensity reduction FY08 FY19 FY08 FY19 Energy intensity (MJ/sqm) Water use intensity (L/sqm) Retail GHG emissions intensity (kg CO2-e/sqm) 489 1,267 1,099 94 370 76 24.3% energy intensity reduction 18.8% emissions intensity reduction 13.3% water intensity reduction FY08 FY19 FY08 FY19 Energy intensity (MJ/sqm) Water use intensity (L/sqm) Industrial 8.4 GHG emissions intensity (kg CO2-e/sqm) 312 895 1300 131 290 Enriched 33.4 697 Environment 597 71 12.4 336 2.6 62.8% energy intensity reduction 43.7% energy intensity reduction 68.6% emissions intensity reduction 7.0% 7% water waterintensity intensityreduction reduction 45.6% emissions intensity reduction 22.1% water intensity reduction FY08 FY19 FY08 FY19 FY08 FY19 FY08 FY19 Energy intensity (MJ/sqm) Water use intensity (L/sqm) Energy intensity (MJ/sqm) Water use intensity (L/sqm) GHG emissions intensity (kg CO -e/sqm) GHG emissions intensity (kg CO22-e/sqm) Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack 52 Enriched Environment Glossary Acronym Definition BBP Better Buildings Partnership (www.betterbuildingspartnership.com.au) CBD Central business district CFCs Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are nontoxic, non-flammable chemicals containing atoms of carbon, chlorine, and fluorine. CFCs are believed to be a major cause of stratospheric ozone depletion ESA Energy Supply Agreement ESG Environmental, social and governance GBCA Green Building Council of Australia (www.gbca.org.au) GHG Greenhouse gas emissions, measured in tonnes of carbon dioxide equivalent (t. CO2-e) GreenPower Emission-free electricity sourced via a certified GreenPower Product (www.greenpower.gov.au) Green Star An internationally-recognised sustainability rating system, administered by the GBCA, to evaluate and benchmark sustainability impact across nine categories for buildings during design, construction and in operation. GRESB Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (www.gresb.org) HCFCs Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) are compounds containing carbon, hydrogen, chlorine and fluorine. Industry and the scientific community view certain chemicals within this class of compounds as acceptable temporary alternatives to CFCs. The HCFCs have shorter atmospheric lifetimes than CFCs and deliver less reactive chlorine to the stratosphere where the ozone layer is found NABERS National Australian Built Environment Rating System (www.nabers.gov.au) NPS Net Promoter Score – an index used as a proxy to measure satisfaction on a scale of -100 to +100 PCA Property Council of Australia (www.propertycouncil.com.au) PRI Principles for Responsible Investment – a United Nations-supported network of investor signatories encouraging the incorporation of ESG factors into investment decisions (www.unpri.org) SDGs Sustainable Development Goals – 17 goals adopted by all United Nations Member States in 2015 as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development (sustainabledevelopment.un.org/sdgs) SIP Strategic Improvement Plan, prepared by Dexus that captures energy, water and waste improvement opportunities and forecasts a pathway towards resource efficiency targets TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure – a working group that has developed a set of recommendations for voluntary, consistent climate-related financial risk disclosures for use by companies in providing information to investors, lenders, insurers, and other stakeholders (www.fsb-tcfd.org) UNGC United Nations Global Compact – a voluntary corporate sustainability initiative that seeks to align strategies and operations with universal principles on human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption (www.unglobalcompact.org) Resource consumption methodology The resource consumption data is derived from office, industrial and retail properties under the operational control of Dexus for part or all of the 12 months ending 30 June 2019 with the inclusion of Dexus corporate tenancies. Dexus has applied the principles contained within the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) Act 2007 and its associated guidelines to determine the operational control of its properties across Australia and New Zealand. Dexus has operational control of a facility if it has the authority to introduce and implement any or all of the operating, health and safety and environmental policies for the facility. Dexus excludes energy consumption from tenant spaces where the tenant receives separately metered energy invoices and excludes whole facilities where they are leased to a single tenant occupying the entire premises. Dexus also included water usage from nine current and eight previously managed industrial properties where water is purchased by Dexus and consumed by customers and Dexus for property maintenance, e.g. landscaping. Refer to the Dexus 2019 Assurance Criteria for further details including the list of consumption and emission sources, and references for factors that have been applied. The 2019 Assurance Criteria is available within Dexus’s sustainability reporting library. Like-for-like data has been based on a portfolio whereby operational control and data for energy and water was available for the full 24-month like-for-like period. Dexus has reviewed its environmental dataset to fully align with NGER by adding minor source items and confirming calculation methods and factors. Non-material historical figures have been applied to all years since the 2008 base year and have been restated for consistency. Prior years’ data has been updated to reflect current information where applicable resulting in minor restatements. Repetition only occurs when there is an overlap of reporting periods. There may be small discrepancies in the totals in some tables due to rounding. 53 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Boundary terms In this 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack: –– ‘Dexus’, ‘the group’, ‘Dexus group portfolio’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to Dexus comprising the ASX listed entity (DXS) and the Third Party Funds Management business, unless otherwise stated –– ‘Dexus portfolio’ relates specifically to the portfolio of properties in the ASX listed entity –– ‘Funds management portfolio’ relates to properties managed by Dexus on behalf of third party clients –– ‘Third party capital partners’ refers to the investors, partners, and clients in our funds management portfolio Any reference in this report to a ‘year’ relates to the financial year ended 30 June 2019. All dollar figures are expressed in Australian dollars unless otherwise stated. Independent assurance In addition to auditing the Financial Statements, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) provides limited assurance over select environmental and social data metrics within the 2019 Dexus annual reporting suite. Limited assurance has been obtained for the 12 months to 30 June 2019. The Assurance Statement, and associated reporting criteria documents are available within Dexus’s online sustainability reporting library. 54 Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack Sustainability Data Supplement 2019 Comprehensive disclosure of sustainability/ESG datasets aligned with reporting frameworks including the GRI Standards Introduction The Dexus 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement discloses comprehensive performance metrics for the FY19 financial year (1 July 2018 – 30 June 2019). The Sustainability Data Supplement supports Dexus’s Annual Reporting Suite, and should be read with reference to: 2019 Annual Report – An integrated summary of the value created across Dexus’s key resources and the Consolidated Financial Report. 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack – Comprehensive sustainability reporting that supports the results outlined in the 2019 Annual Report. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach – Detailed descriptions of Dexus’s approach to managing material issues, aligned with the GRI Standards reporting framework. 2019 Corporate Governance Statement – Dexus’s corporate governance framework, reconciled against the principles of the ASX Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations – Third Edition. 2019 GRI Index – An index describing the location of GRI Standards indicators disclosed across the Dexus 2019 Annual Reporting Suite, aligned with the GRI Standards ‘Core’ guidelines. Contents The Sustainability Data Supplement is organised with reference to Dexus’s Sustainability Approach objectives. Section and contents Page Sustained Value 2 Financial highlights Capital management Thriving People 7 Workforce statistics Inclusion and diversity Leave and absenteeism Work, health and safety Recruitment Retention Training and development Workforce costs and remuneration Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities 18 Customer experience Community contribution Supply chain Enriched Environment 21 Environmental inventories (energy, emissions, water, waste) for Dexus group managed portfolio, Dexus (DXS) portfolio and selected third party fund portfolios NABERS ratings Progress against targets Boundary terms and independent assurance In this Sustainability Data Supplement: ‘Dexus’, ‘the group’, ‘Dexus group portfolio’, ‘we’, ‘us’ and ‘our’ refer to Dexus comprising the ASX listed entity (DXS) and the Third Party Funds Management business, unless otherwise stated ‘Dexus portfolio’ relates specifically to the portfolio of properties in the ASX listed entity ‘Funds management portfolio’ relates to properties managed by Dexus on behalf of third party clients Any reference in this report to a ‘year’ relates to the financial year ended 30 June 2019. All dollar figures are expressed in Australian dollars unless otherwise stated. In addition to auditing the Financial Statements, PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) provides limited assurance over select environmental and social data metrics within the Dexus 2019 Annual Reporting Suite. Limited assurance has been obtained for the 12 months to 30 June 2019. The Assurance Statement, and associated reporting criteria documents are available within Dexus’s online sustainability reporting library. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 1 Sustained Value The Sustained Value section of this Sustainability Data Supplement supports the performance reporting within Dexus’s 2019 Annual Report. Financial highlights Key metrics FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Net profit after tax ($m) 618.7 1,259.8 1,264.2 1,728.9 1,281.0 Adjusted Funds From Operations ($m) 369.8 413.9 439.7 485.5 517.2 Adjusted Funds From Operations (cents per security) 40.4 42.7 45.4 47.7 50.3 Adjusted Funds From Operations per security growth (%) 9.3 6.0 4.5 5.1 5.5 Funds From Operations ($m) 544.5 610.8 617.7 653.3 681.5 Funds From Operations (cents per security) 59.52 63.1 63.8 64.2 66.3 Distribution (cents per security) 41.04 43.51 45.47 47.8 50.2 Return on Equity (%) 11.5 19.3 18.2 19.8 13.9 Return on Contributed Equity (%) n/a n/a 7.6 7.6 10.1 1 NTA per security ($) 6.68 7.53 8.45 9.64 10.48 Gearing (%)2 28.5 30.7 26.73 24.1 24.0 Duration of debt (years) 5.7 5.5 5.64 7.0 6.7 Total security holder return (%) 15.8 30.3 10.1 7.5 39.4 1. Dexus completed a one-for-six Security consolidation in November 2014. 2. Adjusted for cash and debt in equity accounted investments. 3. Pro forma gearing is adjusted for post balance dates acquisitions. Actual gearing (look-through) was 22.1%. 4. Includes $60 million of Medium Term Notes issued in July 2017 and three bank facilities for $325 million that commenced in July 2017. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 2 Total Security holder return (TSR) 45% 39.4% Dexus 40% 35% S&P/ASX 200 30% Property Accumulation Index 25% 19.3% 20.0% 20% 18.2% 17.4% 13.6% 14.0% 15% 10% 8.1% 5% 0% 1 Year 3 Years 5 Years 10 Years Annual compound returns. Source: UBS Australia for year to 30 June 2019. Total return of Dexus securities The chart below illustrates Dexus’s performance against the S&P/ASX 200 Property Accumulation Index since listing in 2004. 500 Dexus Total Return S&P/ASX 200 Property Accumulation Index 450 400 350 300 250 200 150 100 50 Sep-04 Mar-05 Sep-05 Mar-06 Sep-06 Mar-07 Sep-07 Mar-08 Sep-08 Mar-09 Sep-09 Mar-10 Sep-10 Mar-11 Sep-11 Mar-12 Sep-12 Mar-13 Sep-13 Mar-14 Sep-14 Mar-15 Sep-15 Mar-16 Sep-16 Mar-17 Sep-17 Mar-18 Sep-18 Mar-19 Source: UBS Australia for the year to 30 June 2019. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 3 Dexus portfolio snapshot Key metrics FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Portfolio value ($A) Dexus portfolio $9.5bn $11.0bn $12.2bn $13.3bn $15.6bn Office $7.8bn $9.2bn $10.2bn $11.0bn $13.2bn Industrial $1.7bn $1.8bn $2.0bn $2.2bn $2.3bn Healthcare $0.1bn $0.1bn Net lettable area Dexus portfolio 2,697,990 2,842,797 2,866,358 2,869,403 3,045,759 (sqm) Office 1,403,255 1,566,111 1,581,646 1,495,238 1,546,264 Industrial 1,294,735 1,276,685 1,284,712 1,322,557 1,447,539 Healthcare 51,608 51,956 Funds From Office $533.3m $567.2m $567.4m $603.8m $610.5m Operations1 Industrial $112.3m $106.1m $114.8m $132.7m $137.3m Like-for-like income Office 0.2% 1.0% 2.6% 4.5% 3.4% growth Industrial 0.7% (7.1%) 3.6% 3.0% 8.0%2 Occupancy Dexus portfolio (by income) Office 95.3% 96.3% 97.2% 96.0% 98.0% Industrial 92.4% 90.4% 96.5% 98.3% 97.0% Occupancy Dexus portfolio (by area) Office 95.5% 96.3% 97.0% 95.7% 97.8% Industrial 91.7% 89.3% 96.6% 98.8% 98.8% Lease duration Dexus portfolio (by income) Office 4.3 years 4.7 years 4.8 years 4.6 years 4.4 years Industrial 4.0 years 4.1 years 5.1 years 4.8 years 4.7 years Weighted average Dexus portfolio 6.88% 6.33% 5.95% 5.52% 5.26% capitalisation rate Office 6.71% 6.16% 5.78% 5.37% 5.15% Industrial 7.77% 7.38% 6.88% 6.40% 5.92% 1-year total return Office 9.6% 16.0% 14.1% 16.9% 10.6% Industrial 11.3% 16.0% 12.6% 13.6% 12.9% 1. On 1 July 2014, the group adopted the Property Council of Australia definition of FFO. The Directors consider FFO to be a measure that reflects the underlying performance of the group. FFO comprises net profit/loss after tax attributable to stapled security holders calculated in accordance with Australian Accounting Standards and adjusted for: property revaluations, impairments, derivative and FX mark-to-market impacts, fair value movements of interest bearing liabilities, amortisation of tenant incentives, gain/loss on sale of certain assets, straight line rent adjustments, deferred tax expense/benefit, rental guarantees, coupon income and distribution income net of funding costs. 2. Excluding one-off income is 2.5%. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 4 Capital management Key metrics FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 1 Cost of debt 5.2% 4.8% 4.1% 4.2% 4.0% Duration of debt 5.7 years 5.5 years 5.6 years2 7.0 years 6.7 years Hedged debt3 76% 71% 65% 71% 74% Gearing4 28.5% 30.7% 26.7%5 24.1% 24.0% Headroom (approximately)6 $0.8bn $0.4bn $1.1bn $0.9bn $1.0bn S&P/Moody’s credit rating A-/A3 A-/A3 A-/A3 A-/A3 A-/A3 1. Weighted average across the period, inclusive of fees and margins on a drawn basis. 2. Includes $60 million of Medium Term Notes issued in July 2017 and three bank facilities for $325 million that commenced in July 2017. 3. Average for the year (including caps). Average for the year (excluding caps) was 55% for the 12 months to 30 June 2019. 4. Adjusted for cash and debt in equity accounted investments. 5. Pro forma gearing is adjusted for post balance date acquisitions. Actual gearing (look-through) was 22.1%. 6. Undrawn facilities plus cash. Excluding forward start commitments. Debt maturity profile1 $m 1,000 900 800 700 600 500 400 300 200 100 FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 FY25 FY26 FY27 FY28 FY29 FY30 FY31 FY32 FY33 FY34 FY35 FY36 FY37 FY38 FY39 DCM CPA MTN Bank HWPF Bank 1. Includes $425 million Exchangeable Notes based on investor put date in FY24. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 5 Diversified mix of debt Interest rate hedging maturity profile1 3,500 4.0% Exchangeable Notes 9% 3,000 3.5% 144A 7% Bank 2,500 3.0% Facilities 36% 2,000 2.5% 1,500 2.0% 1,000 500 1.5% USPP 34% 1.0% Commercial FY20 FY21 FY22 FY23 FY24 Paper 2% Interest Rate Swaps Interest Rate Caps MTN 12% Net fixed debt Weighted Average Hedge Rate (excl margin) 1. Average amount hedged for the period Debt facilities1 Facility limit (A$m) Drawn (A$m) Maturity dates Currency Bilateral bank debt 440 70 FY20 A$ 160 140 FY21 A$ 250 78 FY22 A$ 200 157 FY23 A$ 350 115 FY24 A$ 300 150 FY25 A$ Commercial paper2 100 100 FY23 A$ Medium term notes 160 160 FY23 A$ 185 185 FY26 A$ 130 130 FY27 A$ 30 30 FY39 A$ US senior notes (144A)3 305 305 FY21 US$ US senior notes (USPP)3 Series 1 291 291 Jul-23 Jul-28 US$ Series 2 225 225 Feb-24 Feb-27 US$ Series 3 286 286 Dec-24 Dec-26 US$ Series 4 (A$) 100 100 Jun-28 A$ Series 5 503 503 Nov-29 Nov-32 US$ Series 5 (A$) 150 150 Nov-29 Nov-32 A$ Series 6 (A$) 75 75 Oct-38 A$ Exchangeable Notes 425 425 FY244 A$ Subtotal 4,665 3,675 Currency translation and fair value adjustments 440 440 Deferred borrowing costs (18) (18) Exchangeable Notes adjustments (30) (30) Total interest bearing liabilities 5,057 4,067 Bank guarantees utilised (69) Cash 30 Headroom including cash 951 1. Does not include debt facilities in equity accounted investments: $74.8 million (December 2019), $1.2 million (January 2020), $201.6 million (August 2020), $42.8 million (August 2022), $11.5 million (December 2022). 2. Maturity date of commercial paper standby facility. 3. 144A and USPP amount shown at the cross-currency swap contract rate. 4. Based on investor put date in FY24. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 6 Thriving People The people data in this section supports the performance reporting in the 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack. For background on the management frameworks and procedures related to our workforce please refer to the 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach. Workforce statistics FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Metric M F M F M F M F M F By employment type (FTEs) Permanent full-time1 176.0 181.0 207.0 216.0 148.4 124.2 75.0 172.3 181.0 180.9 Fixed term full-time1 13.0 14.0 11.0 27.0 Permanent part-time1 0.0 26.8 0.0 31.3 0.0 23.9 0.7 26.2 1.0 27.8 1 Fixed term part-time 0.0 2.0 0.0 4.8 Contractor 11.2 14.4 7.0 5.8 1.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 Casual 3.0 8.9 4.8 7.4 5.0 8.0 5.8 8.4 7.6 12.2 Total workforce by gender 162.6 171.4 187.5 211.7 188.0 216.7 194.8 232.2 225.6 291.3 Total workforce 334.0 399.2 404.7 427.0 516.9 Contingent workers2 49.0 54.4 Workforce by location (%) NSW 41 37 39 40 38 40 38 42 36 46 QLD 3 7 4 6 4 7 4 5 4 4 VIC 4 7 4 7 3 6 3 6 3 5 WA 1 0 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1 1. From FY18, Dexus separates reporting of permanent and fixed-term employees. 2. Contractors, agency temps or consultants that performed work on a time and materials basis (e.g. a project with a defined beginning and end date). 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 7 Engagement and flexible working Metric FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Employee engagement1 Survey participation rate (%) 83 70 70 82 75 Engagement rate2 (%) 87 84 84 87 812 Employee Net Promoter Score3 +40 Flexible working M F M F M F M F M F No. of flexible work arrangements4 9 52 9 43 11 51 16 75 38 102 1. Engagement information is sourced directly from internal employee pulse surveys administered during the year. Dexus completes at least two pulse surveys every year. The figures reported above are sourced from the latest employee survey administered prior to year-end. 2. In FY19, Dexus began delivering employee engagement surveys at least twice annually, instead of a larger survey once every two years. Engagement scores reported in FY19 are thus not directly comparable to previous years and should not be considered indicative of a trend. 3. Based on a scale of -100 to +100 4. The number of flexible work arrangements reported include formal agreements where employees have indicated that they work part-time, work remotely or flexibly according to an agreed schedule, job share, receive extended leave without pay for a period greater than one month, or purchase additional annual leave. Informal flexible work arrangements where employees work remotely or vary their hours of work on an ad hoc basis are not included. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 8 Inclusion and diversity Gender diversity Gender diversity in the workforce FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Dexus workforce by gender % % % % % Female employees (FTE) 171.4 51 211.7 53 216.7 54 232.2 54 291.3 56 Male employees (FTE) 162.6 49 187.5 47 188.0 46 194.8 46 225.6 44 Total employees (FTE) 334.0 399.2 404.7 427.0 516.9 Female employees (headcount) 249 56 310 58 Male employees (headcount) 199 44 229 42 Total employees (headcount) 448 539 Gender diversity in management1,2 % % % % % Females in senior management (FTE) 27.7 26 31.9 29 35.2 32 39.3 34 47.7 36 Males in senior management (FTE) 79.2 74 78.0 71 76.0 68 77.8 66 83.8 64 Total employees in senior management team (FTE) 106.9 109.9 111.2 117.1 131.5 Females in senior management (headcount) 41 34 50 37 Males in senior management (headcount) 78 66 84 63 Total employees in senior management team (headcount) 119 134 Females in executive team (headcount) 2 25 Males in executive team (headcount) 6 75 Total employees in executive team (headcount) 8 Females in all management (headcount) 76 40 Males in all management (headcount) 112 60 Total employees at all management levels 188 Board gender diversity % % % % % Percentage of female Non-Executive Directors 43 50 43 43 43 Percentage of male Non-Executive Directors 57 50 57 57 57 1. Prior to FY19, Dexus reported on gender diversity in senior management based on FTE. From FY19, Dexus reports on gender diversity across a broader range of management levels based on headcount, and will no longer provide reporting on gender diversity using FTE. The use of headcount is consistent with the standards used by the Australian Government Workplace Gender Equality Agency and with other diversity metrics reported by Dexus. 2. FY19 data on gender diversity in senior management has been independently assured. Commentary and methodology All people data is taken from each year’s headcount report as at 30 June, produced by Dexus People & Communities. ‘Senior management’ includes executive management and senior management positions within the Dexus workforce. Executive management and senior management positions include Dexus employees whose role is mapped to one of the following four occupational categories: ‘CEO/head of business’, ‘KMP (key management personnel)’, ‘other executives/general managers’, and ‘senior managers’, as outlined within worker classification guidance Standardised occupational categories of managers: February 2018 published by the Australian Government’s Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA). ‘Non-Executive Directors’ are independent directors of DXFM and does not include the CEO who is counted in the senior management team for the purposes of workforce reporting. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 9 Cultural Diversity Main cultural/ethnic identity FY19 % of survey respondents Australian 68.6 South East Asian 6.4 United Kingdom 5.4 New Zealander 5.1 Western European 4.0 Other ethnicity not listed 3.0 Eastern European 1.9 North Asian 1.3 North American/Canadian 0.8 Middle Eastern 0.8 South African 0.8 African 0.5 South American 0.5 Pacific Islander 0.3 Maori 0.3 Commentary Data is sourced from Dexus’s September 2018 internal employee Pulse survey, which asked employees “How would you describe your own MAIN identity in cultural/ethnic terms?” Of the 441 employees asked to respond to the survey, 349 (79%) of employees provided a response to this question (excluding employees who selected “Prefer not to say”). 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 10 Country of origin Country/region of birth FY19 % of survey respondents Australia 71.4 United Kingdom, Channel Islands and Isle of Man 5.1 New Zealand 4.3 Other country not listed, please specify 4.1 Chinese Asia (includes Mongolia) 1.9 Maritime South-East Asia 1.6 Western Europe 1.4 Southern and East Africa 1.4 Southern Asia 1.1 Eastern Europe 0.8 South Eastern Europe 0.5 Northern America 0.5 Ireland 0.5 South America 0.3 North Africa 0.3 Middle East 0.3 Melanesia 0.3 Mainland South-East Asia 0.3 Commentary Data is sourced from Dexus’s September 2018 internal employee Pulse survey, which asked employees “Which country were you born in?” Of the 441 employees asked to respond to the survey, 355 (80%) of employees provided a response to this question (excluding employees who selected “Prefer not to say”). Age diversity Employee age range FY18 FY19 % by headcount M F M F Under 30 years old by gender 7 12 6 15 Under 30 years old all employees 18 21 30 to 50 years old by gender 31 36 30 37 30 to 50 years old all employees 68 66 Over 50 years old by gender 8 6 7 6 Over 50 years old all employees 14 13 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 11 Leave and absenteeism Metric FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Leave days taken (days) Annual leave 4,696 5,594 6,679 6,447 6,976 Long service leave 98 133 165 140 108 Parental leave unpaid 1,396 789 1,012 686 771 Parental leave paid 355 383 632 1,148 1,317 Sick and carers’ leave 1,135 1,194 1,234 1,197 1,327 ‘Dexus days’ 0 0 0 1,552 1,571 Leave without pay 325 353 391 256 296 Other leave 521 732 710 438 205 Absenteeism Absentee Rate (sick days lost per FTE)1 3.4 3.0 3.0 2.8 2.6 1. FY19 data independently assured. Commentary and methodology Leave data is gathered for each reporting period from payroll system records. The data is consolidated into the categories displayed in the report as follows: ­ Annual leave: Annual leave only ­ Long service leave: Long service leave only ­ Parental leave unpaid: Parental leave unpaid only ­ Parental leave paid: Primary and non-primary paid parental leave ­ Sick and carers’ leave: Sick leave, carers’ leave only ­ Dexus Days: additional annual leave ­ Leave without pay: Leave without pay only ­ Other leave: Study leave, volunteer leave, jury duty, special bereavement or compassionate leave, and purchased leave Definitions Absentee Rate (AR) – the number of personal leave days per full time equivalent workers employed is calculated as follows: 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑜𝑜𝑓𝑓 𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆𝑆 𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎𝑎 𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶𝐶 𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 𝐴𝐴𝐴𝐴 = 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓 𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡 𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒 𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 12 Work Health and Safety Metric FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Employee WH&S incidents Workplace injuries (No lost-time injuries/diseases) 0 7 8 18 19 Lost-time injuries/diseases 1 3 3 1 0 Occupational diseases 0 0 0 0 0 Fatalities 0 0 0 0 0 Lost Time Injury Incidence Rate (LTIIR) 0.30 0.75 0.74 0.23 0 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR)1 1.64 4.12 4.06 1.28 0 Occupational disease rate (occurrences per million hours worked) 0 0 0 0 0 Lost day rate (days lost per million hours worked) 3.28 39.83 181.53 7.7 0 Employee relations matters Fraud, bribery and corruption 0 Discrimination 0 Privacy 0 Other Whistleblower matters 1 Other Employee Code of Conduct breaches 0 Employee relations matters 2 6 0 1 1. FY19 data independently assured. Commentary and methodology Work health and safety (WH&S) incidents account for all recorded incidents pertaining to Dexus employees and includes contractors employed directly by Dexus. The whistleblower matter raised in FY19 was investigated as per our Whistleblower Policy and found not to be a breach of legislation, regulation or Dexus policy. Dexus assessed 100% of its own operations for human rights issues. The system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics include Australian Standard 1885.1 1990, Workplace injury and disease recording standard as well as definitions within disclosure 403-2 from GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2016, from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. Prior to FY19, employee relations matters were reported collectively as per the ‘employee relations matters’ row at the bottom of the table. There is no reporting for employee relations matters in FY19 because the matters are now reported according to the more detailed categories provided. Definitions No lost-time injuries/diseases – Those occurrences which were not lost-time injuries/diseases and for which first aid and/or medical treatment was administered Lost-time injuries/diseases – Those occurrences that resulted in a fatality, permanent disability or time lost from work of one day/shift or more and is recorded via a WorkCover claim Occupational disease – A disease arising from the work situation or activity (such as stress or regular exposure to harmful chemicals), or from a work-related injury Fatalities – Fatalities that occur as a result of an injury or disease occurrence Lost Time Injury Incidence Rate (LTIIR) – The number of occurrences of injury/disease for each one hundred full time equivalent employees is calculated as follows: 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙 𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡 𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖/𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿 = × 100 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓𝑓 𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡 𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒 𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒𝑒 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 13 Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) – The number of occurrences of injury or disease for each one million hours worked is calculated as follows: 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙 𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡 𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖/𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿 = × 1,000,000 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 ℎ𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤 Occupational disease rate (ODR) – The number of occurrences of occupational diseases for each one million hours worked is calculated as follows: 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂𝑂 = × 1,000,000 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 ℎ𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑤𝑤𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 Lost day rate (LDR) – The number of days lost to injuries/diseases for each one million hours worked is calculated as follows: 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙𝑙 𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 𝑡𝑡𝑡𝑡 𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖𝑖/𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑𝑑 𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿𝐿 = × 1,000,000 𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛𝑛 𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 ℎ𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜𝑜 𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤𝑤 Where: Number of hours worked in the period – Refers to the total scheduled number of hours worked by all Dexus employees as recorded at 30 June of each year. Dexus offers employees flexible work arrangements and staff are employed under individual contracts that stipulate 1824 hours per annum (equal to 240 days x 7.6 hours) for each full-time employee. As Dexus does not track employee working hours and staff do not engage in overtime or shift work, Dexus has defined the ‘number of hours worked’ as 1824 hours per annum per full-time employee. Number of workers – Is defined as the number of workers who were employed by Dexus as recorded at 30 June 2019. Headcount data for the purpose of these statistics represents the active Dexus workforce and is based on the metric ‘Total Headcount (ongoing)’ as defined by the Australian Public Service Commission (https://www.apsc.gov.au/appendix-commonworkforce-metrics), as the number of ongoing employees directly employed by Dexus at the point in time described above.. Number of full time equivalent employees (FTEs) – Is defined as the number of workers who were employed by Dexus as recorded at 30 June 2019. Persons who were absent from work on extended paid or unpaid leave as recorded at 30 June 2019 are excluded from this calculation. FTE data for the purpose of these statistics represents the active Dexus workforce, and is based on the metric ‘Total FTE’ as defined by the Australian Public Service Commission (https://www.apsc.gov.au/appendix-common-workforce-metrics), as the number of full-time equivalent employees directly employed by the organisation at a point in time where part-time employees are converted to full-time equivalent based on the hours they work as a proportion of the hours for a full-time employee. Recruitment FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Metric M F M F M F M F M F Recruitment Total number of new hires 49 72 54 104 47 67 64 127 108 173 Collective bargaining arrangements Percentage of total employees eligible for 100% 100% 100% 100% 100% collective bargaining agreements Number of employees employed under 0 0 0 0 0 collective bargaining agreements Percentage of total employees covered by 0% 0% 0% 0% 0% collective bargaining agreements Dexus does not have any collective agreements as all employees are employed under individual contracts which comply with the National Employment Standards (NES). All employees are covered by an Award or NES. These awards or standards clearly indicate the all employees are free to associate. Dexus places its employees on an individual agreement, which cannot under legislation, remove any rights an employee has under an award for NES. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 14 Retention FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Metric M F M F M F M F M F Voluntary turnover rate (%) Executive management 10 0 0 0 8 0 17 0 0 0 Senior management 6 4 8 17 3 3 3 8 13 9 Middle management 10 8 12 14 22 19 21 41 7 12 Professional/technical 18 11 15 12 11 2 22 15 19 16 Administration/operations 17 15 20 14 40 32 4 18 11 20 Total voluntary turnover by gender 10 10 11 14 13 12 13 16 14 15 Total voluntary turnover 10 12 12 15 14 All turnover (%) All turnover by gender 19 23 All turnover 21 Parental leave and retention rates (%) Employees entitled to take parental leave1 187.5 211.7 188.0 216.7 181.8 216.2 218 276 Employees that took parental leave in reporting 3.0 4.0 6.0 8.6 7.0 14.0 5 23 year1 Returned to work in reporting year after parental 8.0 12.0 10.0 6.0 6.4 7.0 12.0 5 21 leave1 Return to work rate 100 91 100 94 100 86 100 91 Parental leave retention rate after 6 months 100 100 100 100 Parental leave retention rate after 12 months 100 91 100 88 100 92 100 100 Parental leave retention rate after 18 months 100 100 100 100 1. From FY19, Dexus reports parental leave and retention rates are based on headcount, prior years are based on FTE. Commentary and methodology The turnover calculation is a count of voluntary departures divided by the count of employees as at 30 June in each year. All relevant headcount data is taken from the headcount reports produced by Dexus People & Culture at 30 June each year. The employee count reflects the total number of people employed by Dexus and accounts for circumstances such as flexible work arrangements and inactive employees on parental leave that are counted in full as departures. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 15 Training and development FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 M F M F M F M F M F Training hours by work category Executive management 1,154 174 235 95 474 94 689 222 644 145 Senior management 3,119 1,362 1,558 822 1,923 1,230 1,785 984 1,891 1,205 Middle management 1,217 2,195 1,297 1,245 664 433 582 462 582 550 Professional/technical 907 1,431 824 1,921 1,899 3,703 856 1,727 1,404 2,590 Administration/operations 208 883 218 613 408 1,107 263 438 308 1059 Total 6,604 6,045 4,132 4,696 5,367 6,566 4,175 3,833 4,829 5,547 Average training hours by work category Executive management 102 12 39.5 47.1 57.4 110.9 53.7 48.3 Senior management 47 12 30.1 37.0 27.1 26.4 26.3 18.7 Middle management 38 11 36.9 27.8 24.3 29.2 20.8 22.5 Professional/technical 27 9 26.4 33.7 12.2 13.6 16.1 16.8 Administration/operations 17 6 18.4 19.8 11.4 8.7 11.5 16.4 Average training hours by gender 28.5 30.3 21.4 16.5 21.4 19.0 Hours of internal and external training Internal 4,261 4,577 6,588 2,312 3,760 External 4,761 1,155 2,609 1,898 2,389 Hours of compliance training 3,626 3,097 2,736 3,798 4,228 Performance reviews Performance reviews performed (%) 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 100 During the year, all employees received communication and completed training about policies and procedures related to fraud, anti-corruption and human rights. Employees are required to declare their compliance with Dexus's Code of Conduct on an annual basis. Anti-corruption policies and procedures are included as part of this compliance. Compliance training is compulsory for every employee. Commentary and methodology Training data is taken from the training database at the end of each reporting year. Data is categorised and consolidated to provide training hours completed for each category. Data includes compliance training covering Human Rights issues as well as the Dexus Code of Conduct which addresses discrimination, harassment and bullying. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 16 Remuneration ratios FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Gender pay ratio (base salary) by employee M F M F M F M F M F band Executive management 1.3 1.0 1.3 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.1 1.0 Senior management 1.1 1.0 1.2 1.0 1.2 1.0 1.2 1.0 1.0 1.0 Middle management 1.1 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.1 1.0 1.0 1.0 Professional/technical 1.1 1.0 1.2 1.0 1.2 1.0 1.1 1.0 1.1 1.0 Administration/operations 0.9 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.1 1.0 1.2 1.0 1 CEO/Employee compensation ratio Ratio of the CEO total annual compensation to the 31.2:1 36.3:1 median employee total annual compensation Ratio of the percentage increase in CEO total 3.3:1 14:-22 annual compensation to the percentage increase in median employee total annual compensation 1. Material references Disclosure 102-39 from GRI 102: General disclosures 2016. Source: Global Reporting Initiative (www.globalreporting.org) 2. In FY19, the large increase in total number of employees resulted in an overall decrease to median employee total annual compensation based on FY18. This results in a ratio with a negative denominator that cannot be reduced further. Commentary and methodology Salary represents an employee’s package including fixed cash and superannuation. Category ratios are calculated by taking the average male salary and comparing it to the average female salary. Location ratios are calculated by taking the average male salary and comparing it to the average female salary, where number of employees is 10 or more, according to the employee's physical work location. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 17 Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities These customer experience, community contribution and supply chain management data tables support the performance reporting within Dexus’s 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack. For background on our management frameworks and procedures for customer experience, community contribution and supply chain, please refer to the 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach. Customer experience FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Surveyed overall satisfaction with Property Manager (score out of 10) Office 8.0 8.1 8.0 8.3 8.6 Industrial 7.4 7.6 8.1 8.3 8.6 Overall average 7.9 8.0 8.0 8.3 8.6 Target 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.0 8.3 Net Promoter Score (score between -100 and +100) Office +28 +35 +31 +33 +46 Industrial -7 +6 +30 +28 +45 Combined +23 +28 +31 +32 +46 Survey participation rate (%) Office 33 41 45 46 48 Industrial 15 28 27 45 46 Overall average 28 37 41 46 48 Green leases Take-up of green leases within new lease agreements (%) FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Office 82 91 90 97 92 Industrial 45 57 55 68 62 Retail 98 95 88 100 100 Total portfolio 77 88 84 91 90 Commentary Dexus has incorporated a standard green lease clause into new leases across the portfolio and monitors the take-up of this clause by customers across each portfolio. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 18 Community contribution Volunteering and donations FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Value donated or raised Corporate donations ($) 241,053 180,842 214,052 296,078 263,118 Employee volunteering activities ($) 65,806 89,779 75,191 74,858 147,189 In-kind support ($) 712,295 532,646 437,258 626,596 794,729 Total ($) 1,019,154 803,268 726,501 997,532 1,205,035 Hours volunteered Dexus volunteering program (hours) 792 1,049 853 878 1,711 Commentary and methodology Charitable donations: Activities comprise: ­ Financial contributions to nominated charities ­ Direct financial contributions to nominated charities and not-for-profit organisations plus proceeds from fundraising events held by charitable organisations within Dexus-managed buildings and shopping centres ­ Community sponsorships, advertising and promotions ­ A dollar-for-dollar matching program ­ The value of goods purchased for charity events and appeals In-kind support: Dexus offers in-kind support to not-for-profit organisations or community groups to support their cause/fundraising activities and includes the provision of goods or services and the value of space provided in the building at no charge. Volunteering: Employee volunteering activities include: ­ Volunteering leave taken in company time by Dexus employees to undertake community work ­ Participation on charity committees/boards where the individual is acting in the capacity as a Dexus employee Volunteer hours are calculated as the total full time equivalent hours worked by employees in nominated community and charitable activities, capped at 7.6 hours per employee which is equivalent to Dexus’s volunteering leave entitlement. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 19 Supply chain Procurement and supply chain monitoring FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Critical suppliers 131 113 111 96 Critical suppliers % of operational spend 37 42 45 38 Supplier Net Promoter Score1 +67 +66 Supplier assessment and monitoring Supplier engagement assessment response rate (%) 22 38 35 68 Assessment coverage of operational spend (%) 19 14 26 38 Contractor monitoring spot checks conducted 442 919 1,190 1,163 Contractor monitoring coverage of operational spend (%) 132 36 39 41 1. Net Promoter Score is based on a range of -100 to +100. 2. Tracking commenced during reporting year. Commentary and methodology Dexus defines a critical supplier as one whose services are required daily for the normal operation of a building. Critical suppliers are retained on a centralised Preferred Supplier List. Operational procurement spend breakdown % Environmental and social risk rating (key risks) Statutory fees and levies 22% Very low High Capital Works 22% (safety, product country of origin human rights, product recyclability, worker skill levels, appropriate wages and benefits, subcontracting) High Cleaning 10% (appropriate wages and benefits, migrant labour, safe handling of chemicals, waste environmental impacts) Medium Energy 9% (greenhouse gas emissions, land degradation, price and supply reliability) Maintenance & other property expenses 5% Low Medium Mechanical & vertical transport 5% (safety, working in confined spaces, accreditation systems) Medium Security 5% (safety, worker skill levels, public relations) Management expenses 4% Very low External facilities managers 4% Very low Marketing and leasing 4% Low Electrical, fire protection and plumbing 3% Low Legal, insurance and compliance 2% Low High Façade 2% (product country of origin human rights, product recyclability, worker skill levels, appropriate wages and benefits, safety) Water 2% Medium Commentary and methodology Operational spend data is collected from Dexus’s financial system and assigned to a spend category based on the supplier name and the code attributed to the spend item. Risk ratings are based on a periodic group-wide supply chain sustainability risk assessment that identifies and categorises the environmental risks relevant to our geographical operations and the types of products and services we procure. For more information on our approach to supply chain management please refer to the 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach. Numbers do not add to 100 because of rounding. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 20 Enriched Environment The environmental data in this section supports the performance reporting in the 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack. For background on the management frameworks and procedures that support our environmental performance refer to the 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach. Glossary Acronym Definition CFCs Chlorofluorocarbons (CFCs) are nontoxic, non-flammable chemicals containing atoms of carbon, chlorine, and fluorine. CFCs are believed to be a major cause of stratospheric ozone depletion GBCA Green Building Council of Australia (new.gbca.org.au) GHG Greenhouse gas emissions, measured in equivalent tonnes of carbon dioxide (t CO2-e) GHG Protocol The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard – guidance on accounting and reporting greenhouse gas emissions (ghgprotocol.org) Greenhouse Gas Guidance on accounting and reporting scope 2 emissions (ghgprotocol.org/scope_2_guidance) Protocol: Scope 2 Guidance GreenPower Emission-free electricity sourced via a certified GreenPower Product (www.greenpower.gov.au) Green Star An environmental rating tool, administered by the GBCA for commercial design and construction, used to evaluate a building’s impact against eight categories HCFCs Hydrochlorofluorocarbons (HCFCs) are compounds containing carbon, hydrogen, chlorine and fluorine. Industry and the scientific community view certain chemicals within this class of compounds as acceptable temporary alternatives to chlorofluorocarbons. The HCFCs have shorter atmospheric lifetimes than CFCs and deliver less reactive chlorine to the stratosphere where the ozone layer is found NABERS National Australian Built Environment Rating System (www.nabers.gov.au) SIP Strategic Improvement Plan, prepared by Dexus that capture energy, water and waste improvement opportunities and forecast a pathway towards resource efficiency targets TCFD Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosure – a working group that has developed a set of recommendations for voluntary, consistent climate-related financial risk disclosures for use by companies in providing information to investors, lenders, insurers, and other stakeholders (www.fsbtcfd.org) Resource consumption methodology The resource consumption data is derived from office, industrial and retail properties under the operational control of Dexus for part or all of the 12 months ending 30 June 2019 with the inclusion of Dexus corporate tenancies. Dexus has applied the principles contained within the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (NGER) Act 2007 and its associated guidelines to determine the operational control of its properties across Australia and New Zealand. Dexus has operational control of a facility if it has the authority to introduce and implement any or all of the operating, health and safety and environmental policies for the facility. Dexus excludes energy consumption from tenant spaces where the tenant receives separately metered energy invoices and excludes whole facilities where they are leased to a single tenant occupying the entire premises. Dexus also included water usage from nine current and eight previously managed industrial properties where water is purchased by Dexus and consumed by customers and Dexus for property maintenance, e.g. landscaping. Refer to the Dexus 2019 Assurance Criteria for further details including the list of consumption and emission sources, and references for factors that have been applied. The 2019 Assurance Criteria is available in the sustainability reporting library. Like-for-like data has been based on a portfolio whereby operational control and data for energy and water was available for the full 24-month like-for-like period. Dexus has reviewed its environmental dataset to fully align with NGER by adding minor source items and confirming calculation methods and factors. Non-material historical figures have been applied to all years since the 2008 base year and have been restated for consistency. Prior years’ data has been updated to reflect current information where applicable resulting in minor restatements. Repetition only occurs when there is an overlap of reporting periods. There may be small discrepancies in the totals in some tables due to rounding. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 21 Group managed portfolio environmental inventory Metric Base year1 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Greenhouse gas emissions (t CO2-e) – Group managed portfolio Scope 1 6,226 15,881 17,680 19,688 18,919 17,596 Scope 2 (location-based) 151,951 137,785 136,789 128,883 131,158 126,941 Subtotal Scope 1 & 2 158,176 153,666 154,469 148,571 150,077 144,538 Scope 3 – property portfolio 27,630 33,520 34,389 34,859 35,593 32,603 Scope 3 – corporate operations -1,452 1,906 1,869 1,859 2,335 Total Scopes 1, 2 & 3 4 185,807 188,638 190,764 185,298 187,529 179,476 Energy and water consumption Total net energy consumption (GJ) 4 735,723 730,059 755,788 727,759 723,475 685,856 Total net energy consumption (MWh) 204,367 202,794 209,941 202,155 200,965 190,516 Water consumption (kL) 4 1,499,044 1,705,457 1,760,370 1,814,143 1,869,236 1,820,791 Waste and recycling Waste to Landfill (tonnes) 4,475 8,109 8,083 9,468 10,451 9,721 2 Recycling (tonnes) 4,118 7,104 6,546 7,014 7,002 6,327 Total Waste (tonnes)2,4 8,593 15,214 14,629 16,482 17,453 16,048 Waste data coverage across portfolio3 74% 93% 95% 98% 99% 100% 1. FY08 represents the group’s base year for energy, water and greenhouse gas emissions. FY12 represents the group’s base year for waste diversion from landfill. 2. Excludes secure paper. 3. Coverage by net lettable area across office and retail portfolio, excludes industrial properties as Dexus does not manage waste. 4. FY19 data independently assured. FY19 primary energy use by FY19 greenhouse gas emissions by source (MWh) source (location-based) Solar Energy Natural Gas Diesel 0.15% 19.7% 9% :Energy 0.9% transmission Electricity & distribution GreenPower 71% 2.8% Electricity 1.0% :Water & Scope 3 wastewater 190,516 19% 7.8% :Waste & Scope 2 179,476 Megawatt71% recycling hours tonnes 1.3% :Corporate (MWh) Scope 1 travel & 10% consumables 3.9% :Natural Gas 0.2% :Diesel Electricity Grid 5.7% Purchases Refrigerants 76.5% The inventory above represents the group’s managed portfolio on an operational control basis. Emissions calculations follow a ‘location-based’ approach, which involves accounting for electricity purchases using published average grid emission factors, as defined within The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Scope 2 Guidance. Nominated data metrics have undergone independent assurance as indicated in table footnotes. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 22 Group managed portfolio Consumption/emissions on an intensity basis Managed portfolio Like-for-like2 12 month Metric Base year1 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 change Group Energy consumption (MJ/sqm) 597 344 331 336 330 329 -0.1% Office portfolio Water consumption (L/sqm) 895 684 699 697 717 719 0.2% Scope 1 & 2 emissions (kgCO2-e/sqm) 131 73 71 71 71 71 -0.9% Waste diversion from landfill (%) 51% 48% 45% 42% 44% 42% -5.8% Group Energy consumption (MJ/sqm) 489 552 505 370 422 394 -6.6% Retail portfolio Water consumption (L/sqm) 1,267 1,354 1,309 1,099 1,136 1,103 -2.9% Scope 1 & 2 emissions (kgCO2-e/sqm) 94 100 92 76 81 77 -5.2% Waste diversion from landfill (%) 30% 33% 33% 35% 38% 37% -2.7% Group Energy consumption (MJ/sqm) 33.4 11.9 11.9 12.4 11.7 12.8 9.5% Industrial portfolio Water consumption (L/sqm) 312 290 264 290 265 305 15.3% Scope 1 & 2 emissions (kgCO2-e/sqm) 8.4 2.5 2.4 2.6 2.4 2.7 11.9% 1. FY08 represents the group’s base year for energy, water and greenhouse gas emissions. FY12 represents the group’s base year for waste diversion from landfill. 2. Properties under management for FY17 and FY18 periods. GHG emissions intensity (kg CO2-e/sqm) | Energy intensity (MJ/sqm) | Water intensity (L/sqm) 131 895 697 597 71 Office 336 43.7% energy intensity reduction 45.6% emissions intensity reduction 22.1% water intensity reduction FY08 FY19 FY08 FY19 489 1,267 1,099 370 94 Retail 76 24.3% energy intensity reduction 18.8% emissions intensity reduction 13.3% water intensity reduction FY08 FY19 FY08 FY19 8.4 312 290 33.4 Industrial 12.4 62.8% energy intensity reduction 2.6 68.6% emissions intensity reduction 7.0% water intensity reduction FY08 FY19 FY08 FY19 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 23 Group managed portfolio – Market-based emissions inventory In conjunction with Dexus’s target to achieve net zero greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 2030, Dexus is adopting market-based emissions accounting. Taking into account direct (Scope 1) and indirect (Scopes 2 and 3) operational emission sources, Dexus will continue to use published factors, including NGER and Australia’s National Greenhouse Accounts to determine its ongoing emissions footprint, in accordance with the GHG Protocol. Dexus will take into account purchases of renewable energy through direct Power Purchase Agreements or through GreenPower, in accordance with the market-based approach to Scope 2 accounting defined within the GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance. Dexus’s goal incorporates Scope 3 emission sources where Dexus controls the emissions outcome, including upstream energy-related emissions and emissions resulting from waste from operations and water & wastewater use. On the pathway to net zero, Dexus will only use certified carbon offsets where all efforts to avoid, reduce and re-source emissions related activities have been exhausted, or should the need to accelerate the transition across all emissions sources arise. Metric FY08 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Grid-purchased electricity Electricity – grid-purchases accounted using average grid GJ 559,884 506,789 532,072 517,629 540,139 524,597 emission factors MWh 155,523 140,775 147,798 143,786 150,038 145,721 Electricity – GreenPower purchases accounted using GJ 55,103 40,110 26,847 19,525 12,111 18,990 source-based emission factor supported by an energy attribute certificate MWh 15,306 11,142 7,457 5,424 3,364 5,275 Total grid-purchased electricity GJ 614,987 546,899 558,919 537,154 552,250 543,587 MWh 170,830 151,916 155,255 149,209 153,403 150,996 Market-based GHG emissions (t CO2-e) Scope 1 GHG emissions (t CO2-e) 6,226 15,881 17,680 19,688 18,919 17,596 Scope 2 market-based GHG emissions (t CO2-e), 138,150 127,467 129,802 123,876 128,339 122,516 comprising: Electricity – grid-purchases accounted using average 138,150 127,467 129,802 123,876 128,339 122,516 grid emission factors Electricity – GreenPower purchases accounted using source-based emission factor supported by an energy 0 0 0 0 0 0 attribute certificate Scope 3 GHG emissions (t CO2-e) 27,630 33,540 35,377 36,111 37,050 34,409 Scope 1, 2 & 3 market-based GHG emissions (t CO2-e) 172,006 176,888 182,859 179,675 184,307 174,521 Voluntary offsetting Voluntary offsets surrendered by Dexus1 0 2,700 2,700 3,000 3,000 3,725 Net GHG emissions (t CO2-e) 172,006 174,188 180,159 176,675 181,307 170,796 1. Offsets comprise eligible offset units, each relating to 1 tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent, recognised under Australia’s Carbon Neutral Offset Standard. The inventory above represents the group’s managed portfolio on an operational control basis. Emissions calculations follow a ‘market-based’ approach which involves accounting separately for electricity purchases using a source-based emission factor supported by an ‘energy attribute certificate’, and separately for electricity purchases using published average grid emission factors, as defined within The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Scope 2 Guidance. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 24 Dexus corporate operations Voluntary greenhouse gas abatement Dexus is a signatory to Australia’s Carbon Neutral Program which is administered by the Federal Department of the Environment. An emissions inventory is developed annually in line with the program’s National Carbon Offset Standard (NCOS) across Dexus’s Corporate Operations. In 2011 Dexus was the first real estate investment trust in Australia to achieve a carbon neutral certification for our head office. Since then, the reporting boundary has been expanded across Corporate Operations, including: Dexus office tenancies for Sydney, Brisbane and Melbourne, and proportion of base building services attributable to those tenancies Corporate travel and employee commuting for all staff employed directly by Dexus nationally The group has offset: Direct emissions from refrigeration and electricity usage Indirect tenancy-related emissions including waste and recycling, office paper use and stationary, water & wastewater, telecommunications, IT equipment and data warehousing, and catering Indirect employee-related emissions including corporate air travel, car mileage claimed for national employees, taxi travel, hire cars and employee commuting Metric FY151 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Greenhouse gas emissions (t CO2-e) Scope 1 1 1 1 1 0 Scope 2 284 248 266 311 379 Scope 3 comprising the following: 2,330 2,312 2,246 2,269 2,794 tenancies and base building energy/refrigerants 431 390 365 389 443 office paper use and waste 25 24 18 19 19 corporate travel 1,040 927 898 1,039 1,095 employee commuting 420 501 507 561 528 IT, catering, accommodation, water use 414 471 458 261 709 Avoided emissions from renewable energy purchased by Dexus -16 0 -2 0 -4 Avoided emissions from carbon neutral products purchased by Dexus 0 0 0 -6 -6 Total emissions (scopes 1, 2 & 3) 2,599 2,561 2,512 2,575 3,164 Voluntary carbon abatement (t CO2-e) Carbon offsets purchased and retired by Dexus 2,700 2,700 2,700 3,000 3,725 1. 2015: Boundary expanded to include Brisbane Office and additional scope 3 sources. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 25 NABERS ratings – Office portfolio NABERS portfolio average2 Like-for-like basis1 Absolute basis1 FY10 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Dexus portfolio NABERS Energy 3.2 3.6 3.9 4.7 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.8 4.9 5.1 NABERS Energy performance 2.8 3 3.5 4.2 4.4 4.4 4.5 4.5 4.7 4.9 NABERS Water 2.6 3.1 3.3 3.5 3.5 3.8 3.7 3.6 3.6 3.5 Dexus Office Partnership NABERS Energy 4.8 4.8 4.9 4.9 4.9 NABERS Energy performance 4.7 4.7 4.7 4.8 4.7 NABERS Water 3.9 3.9 3.9 3.7 3.7 Funds Management portfolio NABERS Energy 3.3 3.9 4 4.1 4.5 4.7 4.8 4.9 4.9 4.9 NABERS Energy performance 2.8 3.3 3.7 3.7 4.2 4.4 4.4 4.6 4.7 4.7 NABERS Water 2.5 2.7 3 3.2 3.3 3.6 3.6 3.7 3.6 3.5 Dexus Wholesale Property Fund NABERS Energy 2.6 3.3 3.9 3.8 4.2 4.5 4.6 4.8 4.8 4.8 NABERS Energy performance 2 2.9 3.6 3.4 4 4.1 4.2 4.5 4.6 4.7 NABERS Water 2 1.9 3 3 3 3.2 3.3 3.3 3.3 3.2 Dexus group office portfolio NABERS Energy 3.3 3.7 3.9 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.8 4.8 4.9 5.0 NABERS Energy performance 2.8 3.1 3.5 4 4.3 4.4 4.5 4.6 4.7 4.8 NABERS Water 2.4 3 3.2 3.4 3.5 3.7 3.7 3.6 3.6 3.5 1. Dexus commenced reporting our NABERS portfolio on an absolute basis from FY14. 2. As at 30 June each year. NABERS ratings – Retail portfolio NABERS portfolio average1 FY11 FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Dexus Wholesale Property Fund – managed portfolio NABERS Energy 2 2.5 2.5 3.5 3.9 3.4 3.1 3.5 4.0 NABERS Water 3.5 4 4 4.2 4.1 4.2 3.2 3.5 3.8 Funds Management portfolio – managed portfolio NABERS Energy 3.1 3.9 3.9 3.7 3.9 3.6 3.3 3.5 3.9 NABERS Water 3.2 3.7 4.4 4.1 4.1 4.1 3.5 3.5 3.6 1. As at 30 June each year. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 26 Progress against commitments and performance targets Progress: Group’s FY20 5 star NABERS commitment In FY15, Dexus committed to deliver by 2020: 1,000,000 square metres of office space rated at least 5 star NABERS Energy rating 1,000,000 square metres of office space rated at least 4 star NABERS Water rating The table below reports on performance against the five year target, which is reported in absolute terms on a like-for-like basis against the FY15 baseline. NABERS metrics FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Change against FY15 baseline Rated at 5 star NABERS energy or higher (sqm) 597,320 707,432 634,594 892,393 950,351 353,031 Progress against NABERS energy target 60% 71% 63% 89% 95% 35% Rated at 4 star NABERS water or higher (sqm) 770,270 706,963 615,884 615,074 757,423 -12,847 Progress against NABERS water target 77% 71% 62% 62% 76% -1% Progress: Group’s FY20 10% energy reduction commitment In FY15, Dexus committed to reduce energy consumption and emissions across the group by a further 10% by 2020 using the FY15 baseline including exploring opportunities for renewables. The table below reports on performance against the five year target, which is reported in absolute terms on a like-for-like basis against the FY15 baseline. Dexus achieved a 10.9% reduction in like-for-like energy consumption and a 12.4% reduction in like-for-like Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions in FY19, one year earlier than the FY20 target, and has retired this commitment. Metric FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Change against FY15 baseline Energy consumption (GJ) 522,781 521,662 494,255 479,492 465,638 -10.9% Energy consumption (MWh) 145,217 144,906 137,293 133,192 129,344 -10.9% Scope 1 and 2 greenhouse gas emissions (t CO2-e) 112,553 109,415 104,080 101,633 98,604 -12.4% Commentary The FY15 like-for-like boundary includes all properties under operational control that were within the reporting boundary for a continuous period between 1 July 2014 and 30 June 2019, and excludes properties acquired, divested and those where their net lettable area (NLA) has increased or decreased by 15% or more in the reporting year when measured against FY15. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 27 Progress: Achieve net zero emissions by 2030 across managed portfolio In FY18, Dexus committed to achieve net zero emissions across its managed portfolio by 2030, as part of its New Energy, New Opportunities strategy. The table below reports on Dexus’s total Scope 1, 2 and 3 (market-based) emissions, voluntary abatement, and total net greenhouse gas emissions since FY18. Net zero by 2030 progress (t CO2-e) FY18 FY19 FY30 target Total Scope 1 & 2 market-based GHG emissions 147,258 140,112 Scope 3 market-based GHG emissions 37,050 34,409 Voluntary abatement via Certified Offsets -3,000 -3,725 Total net greenhouse gas emissions 181,307 170,796 0 Progress: Scope 1 and 2 science-based target, 70% reduction by 2030 against FY18 baseline In FY19, Dexus received certification from the Science Based Targets initiative that its Scope 1 and 2 target of a 70% reduction by 2030 (FY18 baseline) is aligned with the ambitions of the UN Paris Agreement. Dexus’s science-based target is part of Dexus’s pathway to achieve net zero emissions by 2030. Scope 1 & 2 science-based target progress FY18 FY19 FY30 target Dexus Scope 1 emissions (t CO2-e) 18,919 17,596 Dexus Scope 2 market-based emissions (t CO2-e) 128,339 122,516 Dexus Scope 1 & 2 market-based emissions (t CO2-e) 147,258 140,112 44,396 Net lettable area (sqm) 3,051,721 3,101,390 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 28 Voluntary greenhouse gas abatement Metric FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Low carbon energy (MWh) Volume of GreenPower procured/committed 11,142 7,457 5,424 3,364 5,275 Electricity generated from solar energy 106 183 276 292 292 Electricity generated from cogeneration 2,027 2,008 2,205 1,354 909 Electricity from renewable & low carbon sources (MWh) 13,275 9,648 7,904 5,009 6,476 Emissions abatement from renewable sources (t CO2-e) GreenPower purchases (Scope 2 & 3) 11,750 7,905 5,623 3,221 4,955 Electricity from solar energy (Scope 2 & 3) 105 169 240 250 245 Emissions abatement from low carbon sources (t CO2-e) Avoided grid-purchased electricity emissions (Scope 2 & 3) 2,680 2,704 2,929 2,090 1,327 Natural gas emissions for generation (Scope 2 & 3) -1,870 -1,781 -1,757 -1,042 -750 Net abatement (Scope 2 & 3) 810 923 1,172 1,048 577 Total emissions abatement from use of electricity from 12,666 8,997 7,035 4,519 5,777 renewable & low carbon sources (t.CO2-e) % of group emissions that have been abated 6.3% 4.5% 3.7% 2.4% 3.1% Energy Savings Scheme Energy Savings Certificates (ESCs) FY12 FY13 FY14 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 ESCs created1 8,608 17,004 42,814 22,303 33,796 4,599 11,915 6,932 1 ESCs traded 0 0 32,446 58,093 15,934 18,052 16,514 0 1. Includes 25,389 ESCs transferred to Dexus for properties acquired within the Dexus Office Partnership in April 2014. Dexus creates Energy Savings Certificates (ESCs) through participation in the NSW Energy Savings Scheme (ESS) for improvements in base building energy efficiency. The NSW Government scheme is administered by the NSW Independent Pricing and Regulatory Tribunal. ESCs are earned for each demonstrated tonne of carbon dioxide saved. Each ESC is equivalent to 1 tonne of carbon dioxide equivalent (t CO2-e). 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 29 Dexus group portfolio Environmental metrics Energy consumption and production by source Energy FY081 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Energy consumption (MWh) Non-renewable Diesel 266 866 1,514 1,540 1,342 1,770 Natural Gas 33,272 49,905 52,989 51,130 45,929 37,457 Electricity – grid-purchases 155,523 140,775 147,798 143,786 150,038 145,721 Renewable Electricity – GreenPower purchases 15,306 11,142 7,457 5,424 3,364 5,275 Solar energy 0 106 183 276 292 292 Electricity consumed from on-site thermal and solar 106 2,480 2,796 3,096 2,182 1,909 generation Total non-renewable energy consumption 189,061 191,546 202,301 196,456 197,309 184,948 Total energy consumption 204,474 205,274 212,738 205,251 203,148 192,424 Energy production (MWh) Electricity produced from thermal and solar generation for 106 2,480 2,796 3,096 2,182 1,909 on-site use Electricity generated and exported off site 0 0 0 0 0 0 Total energy production 106 2,480 2,796 3,096 2,182 1,909 Net energy consumption (MWh) Total net energy consumption 204,367 202,794 209,941 202,155 200,965 190,516 Proportion of group energy consumption from renewable 7.5% 5.5% 3.6% 2.8% 1.8% 2.9% sources (%) 1. FY08 represents the group’s base year. Net energy consumption comprises energy that is consumed within properties as measured at the property boundary and excludes energy produced or consumed within a property through energy transformations such as cogeneration. Net energy consumption excludes energy that is purchased by Dexus and on-sold to customers. Dexus does not consume or export steam, heating or cooling from/to district thermal sources. Water consumption by source Water consumption (kL or cubic metres) FY081 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Office 839,884 980,722 1,073,496 1,091,949 1,151,697 1,151,463 Retail 370,229 393,995 378,637 401,340 423,834 334,727 Industrial 288,931 326,871 297,949 312,839 283,138 329,636 Total potable water consumption (kL) 1,499,044 1,701,588 1,750,082 1,806,128 1,858,668 1,815,826 Recycled water recovery 3,869 10,288 8,015 10,568 4,964 Total water consumption including recycled 1,499,044 1,705,457 1,760,370 1,814,143 1,869,236 1,820,791 water (kL) Proportion of water use from recycled sources 0.0% 0.2% 0.6% 0.4% 0.6% 0.3% (%) 1. FY08 represents the group’s base year. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 30 Reported water consumption comprises potable water purchased from local water utilities, plus on-site water treatment to recycle water at 1 Bligh Street Sydney, 123 Albert Street Brisbane and 145 Ann Street Brisbane, in which greywater is collected from the building’s showers and hand basins and recycled in a treatment plant for reuse in within the building and for irrigation. Dexus does not consume fresh surface water. Dexus consumes an immaterial amount of bore water at Willows Shopping Centre from a rechargeable source which is not included in the figures for water consumption. Waste and recycling from property operations by stream FY19 waste stream (tonnes) Office Retail Dexus managed waste collection Cardboard 1,592 1,484 Sent to Environment Protection Agency (EPA) licensed receiving facilities that process into raw materials for new products or Paper 771 0 packaging or on transferred to waste to energy recovery facilities for combustion. Comingle 1,352 573 Organics and used cooking oil 437 40 Sent to EarthPower or similar receiving facility for conversion to green energy and nutrient-rich fertiliser. Energy is produced through the burning of bio gasses that are produced by the bacteria that digest the organic waste. The digested organic component can then be processed into a fertiliser pellet. E-waste 78 0 Collected by MRI and sent to their handling facilities for structured disassembly with recovery rate of over 96%. Waste to landfill 5,741 3,980 Sent directly to landfill or to receiving stations that may process the waste within a bio-reactor to produce energy, conduct downstream material separation and recycling and/or on transferred to waste to energy recovery facilities for combustion. Total waste & recycling (tonnes) 9,971 6,077 Tenant managed waste collection outside Dexus’s waste reporting boundary Secure paper 76 0 In FY19 there were no significant spills of waste or hazardous materials. There was no solid or liquid waste (deemed hazardous under the Basel Convention Annex) transported locally from one location to another for treatment. FY19 Operational waste by stream (tonnes) FY19 Operational waste by stream (tonnes) Office Retail Organics Waste to 3% landfill 66% Cooking oil & Grease 1% Waste to landfill Paper 58% 8% Waste diversion: 42% Waste diversion: 35% Landfill: 5,741t Landfill: 3,980t Organics 1% Recycling: 4,229t Comingle, Recycling: 2,097t glass & Cooking oil & plastics Grease 13% 0% E-waste Comingle, glass 0.8% & plastics 9% Cardboard 16% Cardboard 24% 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 31 Emissions of ozone depleting substances FY08 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Emissions of ozone depleting substances (t CFC-11e) n/a 0.9 0.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 Dexus does not produce CFCs, HCFCs, halon or methyl bromide. Minor amounts of gases are used in air conditioning units across properties under management. Ozone-depleting substances are being phased out as required. Greenhouse gas emissions by gas type Greenhouse gas emissions (t CO2-e) FY08 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Direct greenhouse gas emissions Carbon Dioxide (CO2) 6,207 9,414 10,186 9,849 8,836 7,376 Methane (CH4) 12 18 20 19 17 14 Nitrous Oxide (N2O) 7 6 7 7 6 5 Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) 0 6,443 7,467 9,814 10,059 10,200 Sulphur Hexafluoride (SF6) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Perfluorocarbon (PFC) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Nitrogen Trifluoride (NF3) 0 0 0 0 0 0 Scope 1 GHG emissions 6,226 15,881 17,680 19,688 18,919 17,596 Indirect greenhouse gas emissions Scope 2 GHG emissions 151,951 137,785 136,789 128,883 131,158 126,941 Scope 3 GHG emissions 27,630 34,972 36,295 36,728 37,452 34,938 Dexus has determined its emissions resulting from the common greenhouse gases reported under the Kyoto Protocol, being carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), nitrous oxide (N2O), hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs), perfluorocarbons (PFCs), sulphur hexafluoride (SF6) and Nitrogen Trifluoride (NF3). Emissions are aggregated into carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2-e) using factors called global warming potentials (GWPs). Greenhouse gas emissions by source Greenhouse gas emissions (t CO2-e) FY08 FY15 FY16 FY17 FY18 FY19 Diesel 67 217 383 389 339 447 Natural Gas 6,159 9,222 9,830 9,485 8,520 6,949 Refrigerants 0 6,443 7,467 9,814 10,059 10,200 Electricity – location-based 151,951 137,785 136,789 128,883 131,158 126,941 Total Scope 1 & 2 GHG emissions 158,176 153,666 154,469 148,571 150,077 144,538 Energy transmission and distribution 26,304 21,195 20,269 19,503 19,035 16,775 Waste to landfill 0 8,920 10,508 11,362 12,541 11,665 Recycled waste 0 2,640 2,527 2,791 2,783 2,402 Water & wastewater 1,326 765 1,084 1,203 1,233 1,761 Corporate sources 0 1,452 1,906 1,869 1,859 2,335 Total Scope 3 GHG emissions 27,630 34,972 36,295 36,728 37,452 34,938 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 32 Dexus (DXS) portfolio – Environmental metrics Dexus portfolio – Absolute and like-for-like inventories Absolute Like-for-like2 12 month Metric Base year1 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 change Energy consumption (MWh) Diesel 182 581 574 733 435 534 22.7% Non-renewable Natural Gas 23,211 25,183 20,917 16,396 13,952 13,291 -4.7% energy Electricity – grid-purchases 83,016 62,674 65,636 62,116 50,280 48,627 -3.3% Electricity – GreenPower purchases 2,105 2,398 1,738 2,708 1,622 2,184 34.6% Renewable energy Solar Energy 0 136 151 151 151 151 -0.1% Total non-renewable energy consumption 106,409 88,438 87,128 79,246 64,667 62,452 -3.4% Total energy consumption 108,514 90,972 89,016 82,105 66,439 64,786 -2.5% Percent energy use from renewable sources 1.9% 2.8% 2.1% 3.5% 2.7% 3.6% Water (kL or cubic metres) Potable water from water authorities 737,147 853,797 840,448 801,059 691,044 704,513 1.9% Recycled water recovery 0 2,733 4,491 1,884 4,491 1,884 -58.0% Total water consumption incl. recycled water 737,147 856,530 844,939 802,943 695,535 706,398 1.6% Percent water use from recycled sources) 0.0% 0.3% 0.5% 0.2% 0.6% 0.3% Waste and recycling (tonnes) Waste to landfill 1,513 3,242 3,729 3,160 2,755 2,590 -6.0% Recycled waste 1,665 2,699 2,732 2,315 2,180 1,861 -14.6% Total waste 3,178 5,941 6,461 5,475 4,935 4,451 -9.8% Diversion from landfill 52.4% 45.4% 42.3% 42.3% 44.2% 41.8% -5.3% Percent waste data coverage (office & retail) 69% 99% 100% 100% 100% 100% 0.0% Greenhouse gas emissions (t CO2-e) Scope 1 4,335 8,876 8,125 7,310 6,175 6,201 0.4% Scope 2 – location based 78,702 55,690 56,897 53,890 43,704 42,492 -2.8% Total Scope 1 & 2 location-based GHG emissions 83,037 64,566 65,021 61,200 49,879 48,693 -2.4% Scope 2 adjustment due to GreenPower purchases -1,971 -2,227 -1,446 -2,232 -1,350 -1,802 33.5% Total Scope 1 & 2 market-based GHG emissions 81,066 62,340 63,575 58,968 48,529 46,891 -3.4% Scope 3 location-based GHG emissions 14,614 14,106 14,524 12,637 11,296 10,338 -8.5% Scope 3 adjustment due to GreenPower purchases -346 -272 -208 -272 -195 -219 12.7% Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 location-based GHG emissions 97,651 78,672 79,545 73,838 61,175 59,031 -3.5% Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 market-based GHG emissions 95,334 76,173 77,890 71,334 59,630 57,010 -4.4% Equity-accounted lettable area under operational control (annual weighted average square metres) Office 528,437 816,042 840,382 829,686 662,179 662,476 0.0% Retail 9,459 22,589 24,048 20,423 18,753 18,722 -0.2% Industrial 646,721 610,600 602,637 581,944 566,588 505,737 -10.7% Energy and emissions productivity (market-based) Revenue ($m) 702 1,119 1,126 1,125 Energy productivity ($m revenue per GJ consumed) 1,798 3,417 3,512 3,804 2.12x energy productivity Scope 1 & 2 emissions productivity ($m revenue/t.CO2-e) 8,662 17,953 17,705 19,070 2.20x emissions productivity Scope 1, 2 & 3 emissions productivity ($m revenue/t.CO2-e) 7,366 14,693 14,451 15,764 2.14x emissions productivity 1. FY08 is the base year for energy, water and greenhouse gas emissions. FY12 is the base year for waste diversion from landfill. 2. Properties under management for FY18 and FY19 periods. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 33 Dexus portfolio Consumption/emissions on an intensity basis Whole portfolio Like-for-like2 12 month Metric Base year 1 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 change Office portfolio Energy consumption (MJ/sqm) 609 345 328 329 325 319 -1.7% Water consumption (L/sqm) 859 666 674 654 694 691 -0.5% Scope 1 & 2 emissions (kgCO2-e/sqm) 134 71 69 69 69 67 -2.0% Waste diversion from landfill 52% 49% 44% 42% 44% 41% -7.1% Retail portfolio Energy consumption (MJ/sqm) 4,905 1,583 1,457 673 798 735 -8.0% Water consumption (L/sqm) 8,536 2,994 2,798 1,562 1,784 1,704 -4.5% Scope 1 & 2 emissions (kgCO2-e/sqm) 712 218 204 115 134 126 -6.2% Waste diversion from landfill n/a 33% 33% 45% 43% 45% 3.2% Industrial Energy consumption (MJ/sqm) 34.7 16.2 16.0 15.1 16.0 15.8 -1.4% portfolio Water consumption (L/sqm) 313 398 343 389 350 425 21.6% Scope 1 & 2 emissions (kgCO2-e/sqm) 8.7 3.3 3.2 3.1 3.3 3.2 2.9% 1. FY08 is the base year for energy, water and greenhouse gas emissions. FY12 is the base year for waste diversion from landfill. 2. Properties under management for FY18 and FY19 periods. GHG emissions intensity (kg CO2-e/sqm) | Energy intensity (MJ/sqm) | Water intensity (L/sqm) 609 859 654 134 329 Office 69 46.0% energy intensity reduction 23.9% water intensity reduction 48.6% emissions intensity reduction FY08 FY19 FY08 FY19 8,536 712 4,905 Retail 1,562 115 86.3% energy intensity reduction 83.8% emissions intensity reduction 673 81.7% water intensity reduction FY08 FY19 FY08 FY19 8.7 389 313 34.7 Industrial 15.1 3.1 56.4% energy intensity reduction 63.8% emissions intensity reduction 24.4% water intensity increase FY08 FY19 FY08 FY19 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 34 Funds Management portfolio – Environmental metrics Funds Management portfolio– Absolute and like-for-like inventories Absolute Like-for-like2 12 month Metric Base year1 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 change Energy consumption (MWh) Diesel 42 599 534 569 502 515 2.7% Nonrenewable Natural Gas 4,856 13,241 12,290 12,579 11,708 11,655 -0.5% energy Electricity – grid-purchases 44,112 56,948 57,531 58,007 47,133 46,892 -0.5% Renewable Electricity – GreenPower purchases 614 1,824 1,038 1,782 958 1,668 74.1% energy Solar Energy 0 121 121 120 121 120 -1.1% Total energy consumption (MWh) 49,624 72,734 71,515 73,057 60,422 60,850 0.7% Percent energy use from renewable sources 1.2% 2.7% 1.6% 2.6% 1.8% 2.9% Water (kL or cubic metres) Potable water from water authorities 458,758 703,767 749,166 768,271 623,934 644,215 3.3% Recycled water recovery 0 2,733 4,491 1,884 4,491 1,884 -58.0% Total water consumption incl. recycled water 458,758 706,500 753,657 770,155 628,425 646,099 2.8% Percent water use from recycled sources 0.0% 0.4% 0.6% 0.2% 0.7% 0.3% Waste and recycling (tonnes) Waste to landfill 2,872 4,540 4,843 4,956 3,991 3,964 -0.7% Recycled waste 1,494 2,833 2,771 2,592 2,449 2,178 -11.1% Total waste 4,366 7,373 7,614 7,549 6,440 6,142 -4.6% Diversion from landfill 34.2% 38.4% 36.4% 34.3% 38.0% 35.5% -6.8% Percent waste data coverage (office & retail) 88% 96% 98% 100% 100% 100% 0.0% Greenhouse gas emissions (t CO2-e) Scope 1 908 6,167 6,193 6,604 5,543 5,829 5.2% Scope 2 – location based 42,298 49,873 49,505 50,393 41,272 41,315 0.1% Total Scope 1 & 2 location-based GHG emissions 43,205 56,040 55,698 56,997 46,816 47,145 0.7% Scope 2 adjustment due to GreenPower purchases -627 -1,604 -876 -1,514 -810 -1,421 75.4% Total Scope 1 & 2 market-based GHG emissions 42,578 54,436 54,821 55,483 46,005 45,724 -0.6% Scope 3 location-based GHG emissions 7,146 14,892 14,696 14,497 12,119 11,671 -3.7% Scope 3 adjustment due to GreenPower purchases -95 -214 -124 -179 -114 -168 47.1% Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 location-based GHG emissions 50,352 70,932 70,393 71,494 58,935 58,816 -0.2% Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 market-based GHG emissions 49,630 69,114 69,393 69,800 58,010 57,227 -1.3% Equity-accounted lettable area under operational control (annual weighted average square metres) Office 212,653 519,945 524,126 536,093 494,977 493,830 -0.2% Retail 193,886 243,976 268,957 256,000 174,068 173,566 -0.3% Industrial 210,164 468,453 470,244 554,714 468,891 528,973 12.8% 1. FY08 is the base year for energy, water and greenhouse gas emissions. FY12 is the base year for waste diversion from landfill. 2. Properties under management for FY18 and FY19 periods. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 35 Funds Management portfolio Consumption/emissions on an intensity basis Whole portfolio Like-for-like2 12 month Metric Base year1 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 change Office Energy consumption (MJ/sqm) 516 335 322 335 324 330 1.8% portfolio Water consumption (L/sqm) 982 712 737 745 748 755 0.9% Scope 1 & 2 emissions (kgCO2-e/sqm) 122 70 69 71 70 71 1.5% Waste diversion from landfill 43% 45% 43% 42% 42% 41% -3.7% Retail Energy consumption (MJ/sqm) 352 347 318 305 310 292 -5.6% portfolio Water consumption (L/sqm) 1,038 1,080 1,065 1,039 1,020 982 -3.7% Scope 1 & 2 emissions (kgCO2-e/sqm) 88 77 70 69 66 63 -4.4% Waste diversion from landfill 30% 32% 32% 29% 34% 31% -8.2% Industrial Energy consumption (MJ/sqm) 3.5 6.4 6.5 9.6 6.5 10.0 53.4% portfolio Water consumption (L/sqm) 231 149 162 186 162 191 17.6% Scope 1 & 2 emissions (kgCO2-e/sqm) 0.9 1.4 1.5 2.1 1.5 2.1 44.2% 1. FY08 is the base year for energy, water and greenhouse gas emissions. FY12 is the base year for waste diversion from landfill. 2. Properties under management for FY18 and FY19 periods. GHG emissions intensity (kg CO2-e/sqm) | Energy intensity (MJ/sqm) | Water intensity (L/sqm) 122 982 516 745 335 Office 71 35.0% energy intensity reduction 41.6% emissions intensity reduction 24.2% water intensity reduction FY08 FY19 FY08 FY19 352 1,038 1,039 305 88 69 Retail 13.4% energy intensity reduction 21.7% emissions intensity reduction .0% water intensity increase FY08 FY19 FY08 FY19 231 9.6 186 Industrial 2.1 0.9 3.5 173.7% energy intensity increase 125.8% emissions intensity increase 19.4% water intensity reduction FY08 FY19 FY08 FY19 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 36 Dexus Wholesale Property Fund portfolio – Environmental metrics Dexus Wholesale Property Fund – Absolute and like-for-like inventories Absolute Like-for-like2 12 month Metric Base year1 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 change Energy consumption (MWh) Diesel 0 444 351 329 341 301 -11.9% Non-renewable Natural Gas 3,379 5,194 4,512 5,079 4,308 4,641 7.7% energy Electricity – grid-purchases 20,212 32,046 32,416 34,284 26,329 26,683 1.3% Electricity – GreenPower purchases 465 780 205 516 152 467 207.8% Renewable energy Solar Energy 0 117 116 114 116 114 -1.6% Total energy consumption (MWh) 24,056 38,581 37,600 40,323 31,246 32,207 3.1% Percent energy use from renewable sources 1.9% 2.3% 0.9% 1.6% 0.9% 1.8% Water (kL or cubic metres) Potable water from water authorities 217,760 405,412 438,236 434,988 363,587 364,587 0.3% Recycled water recovery 0 2,548 1,586 1,196 1,586 1,196 -24.6% Total water consumption incl. recycled water 217,760 407,960 439,822 436,184 365,173 365,783 0.2% Percent water use from recycled sources 0.0% 0.6% 0.4% 0.3% 0.4% 0.3% Waste and recycling (tonnes) Waste to landfill 1,068 2,447 2,687 2,626 2,200 1,990 -9.6% Recycled waste 563 1,327 1,292 1,213 1,116 942 -15.5% Total waste 1,632 3,774 3,979 3,839 3,316 2,932 -11.6% Diversion from landfill 34.5% 35.2% 32.5% 31.6% 33.7% 32.1% -4.5% Percent waste data coverage (office & retail) 79% 93% 96% 100% 100% 100% 0.0% Greenhouse gas emissions (t CO2-e) Scope 1 624 2,713 2,784 3,245 2,464 2,811 14.1% Scope 2 – location based 20,901 27,523 27,258 29,010 22,354 22,821 2.1% Total Scope 1 & 2 location-based GHG emissions 21,526 30,235 30,042 32,255 24,818 25,632 3.3% Scope 2 adjustment due to GreenPower purchases -494 -704 -181 -459 -137 -419 205.7% Total Scope 1 & 2 market-based GHG emissions 21,032 29,531 29,860 31,796 24,681 25,213 2.2% Scope 3 location-based GHG emissions 3,301 10,214 10,003 10,482 8,515 8,647 1.5% Scope 3 adjustment due to GreenPower purchases -69 -90 -24 -50 -17 -46 163.1% Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 location-based GHG emissions 24,827 40,449 40,044 42,737 33,334 34,279 2.8% Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 market-based GHG emissions 24,263 39,656 39,839 42,228 33,179 33,814 1.9% Equity-accounted lettable area under operational control (annual weighted average square metres) Office 107,188 263,133 268,439 283,221 260,921 259,792 -0.4% Retail 62,978 133,099 149,562 136,061 88,631 88,011 -0.7% Industrial 85,343 305,361 305,969 325,984 305,969 306,353 0.1% 1. FY08 is the base year for energy, water and greenhouse gas emissions. FY12 is the base year for waste diversion from landfill. 2. Properties under management for FY18 and FY19 periods. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 37 Dexus Wholesale Property Fund Consumption/emissions on an intensity basis Whole portfolio Like-for-like2 12 month Metric Base year 1 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 change Office portfolio Energy consumption (MJ/sqm) 590 349 329 350 325 342 5.2% Water consumption (L/sqm) 1,184 789 857 870 843 864 2.5% Scope 1 & 2 emissions (kgCO2-e/sqm) 147 75 72 76 72 75 4.8% Waste diversion from landfill 42% 45% 42% 42% 42% 42% -1.6% Retail portfolio Energy consumption (MJ/sqm) 365 335 295 307 282 261 -7.5% Water consumption (L/sqm) 1,085 1,084 1,029 951 1,007 934 -7.2% Scope 1 & 2 emissions (kgCO2-e/sqm) 91 76 67 72 62 59 -5.0% Waste diversion from landfill 27% 27% 27% 25% 28% 26% -6.9% Industrial portfolio Energy consumption (MJ/sqm) 3.6 8.3 9.0 13.0 9.0 13.9 54.3% Water consumption (L/sqm) 264 175 178 182 178 189 6.3% Scope 1 & 2 emissions (kgCO2-e/sqm) 0.9 1.7 2.0 2.9 2.0 3.0 51.1% 1. FY08 is the base year for energy, water and greenhouse gas emissions. FY12 is the base year for waste diversion from landfill. 2. Properties under management for FY18 and FY19 periods. GHG emissions intensity (kg CO2-e/sqm) | Energy intensity (MJ/sqm) | Water intensity (L/sqm) 147 1,184 590 870 350 Office 76 40.7% energy intensity reduction 48.0% emissions intensity reduction 26.5% water intensity reduction FY08 FY19 FY08 FY19 365 307 91 951 Retail 72 1,085 15.8% energy intensity reduction 21.4% emissions intensity reduction 12.3% water intensity reduction FY08 FY19 FY08 FY19 263.9% energy intensity increase 228.6% emissions intensity increase 264 13.0 182 Industrial 2.9 0.9 3.6 31.1% water intensity reduction FY08 FY19 FY08 FY19 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 38 Dexus Office Trust portfolio – Environmental metrics Dexus Office Trust – Absolute and like-for-like inventories Absolute Like-for-like2 Metric Base 12 month year1 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 change Energy consumption (MWh) Diesel 182 535 508 681 369 482 30.6% Nonrenewable Natural Gas 16,506 18,078 16,908 12,791 11,235 10,877 -3.2% energy Electricity – grid-purchases 50,842 47,328 50,227 46,254 38,156 35,798 -6.2% Renewable Electricity – GreenPower purchases 1,599 2,262 1,376 2,469 1,260 1,944 54.3% energy Solar Energy 0 136 151 151 151 151 -0.1% Total energy consumption (MWh) 69,130 68,339 69,169 62,345 51,171 49,251 -3.8% Percent energy use from renewable sources 2.3% 3.5% 2.2% 4.2% 2.8% 4.3% Water (kL or cubic metres) Potable water from water authorities 387,939 505,470 526,613 463,740 409,452 393,566 -3.9% Recycled water recovery 0 2,733 4,491 1,884 4,491 1,884 -58.0% Total water consumption incl. recycled water 387,939 508,203 531,104 465,624 413,943 395,450 -4.5% Percent water use from recycled sources 0.0% 0.5% 0.8% 0.4% 1.1% 0.5% Waste and recycling (tonnes) Waste to landfill 965 2,744 3,213 2,668 2,371 2,207 -6.9% Recycled waste 1,166 2,266 2,344 1,932 1,874 1,536 -18.0% Total waste 2,131 5,011 5,556 4,600 4,245 3,743 -11.8% Diversion from landfill (%) 54.7% 45.2% 42.2% 42.0% 44.1% 41.0% -7.0% Percent waste data coverage (office & retail) 58% 98% 100% 100% 100% 100% 0.0% Greenhouse gas emissions (t CO2-e) Scope 1 3,096 6,961 6,824 5,907 5,257 5,159 -1.9% Scope 2 – location based 48,686 42,264 43,581 40,425 33,270 31,618 -5.0% Total Scope 1 & 2 location-based GHG emissions 51,782 49,226 50,406 46,332 38,526 36,777 -4.5% Scope 2 adjustment due to GreenPower purchases -1,502 -2,087 -1,146 -2,036 -1,049 -1,606 53.0% Total Scope 1 & 2 market-based GHG emissions 50,281 47,139 49,260 44,296 37,477 35,171 -6.2% Scope 3 location-based GHG emissions 8,589 12,902 13,441 12,112 10,869 10,347 -4.8% Scope 3 adjustment due to GreenPower purchases -262 -258 -165 -248 -151 -195 29.2% Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 location-based GHG emissions 60,371 62,128 63,846 58,445 49,395 47,124 -4.6% Total Scope 1, 2 & 3 market-based GHG emissions 58,607 59,784 62,535 56,161 48,195 45,323 -6.0% Equity-accounted lettable area under operational control (annual weighted average square metres) Office 345,258 639,784 664,444 643,655 531,160 512,659 -3.5% Retail 9,459 22,589 24,048 20,423 18,753 18,722 -0.2% 1. FY08 is the base year for energy, water and greenhouse gas emissions. FY12 is the base year for waste diversion from landfill. 2. Properties under management for FY18 and FY19 periods. 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 39 Dexus Office Trust Consumption/emissions on an intensity basis Whole portfolio Like-for-like2 12 month Metric Base year1 FY17 FY18 FY19 FY18 FY19 change Office Energy consumption (MJ/sqm) 586 329 322 327 319 319 0.1% portfolio Water consumption (L/sqm) 890 684 691 671 708 705 -0.3% Scope 1 & 2 emissions (kgCO2-e/sqm) 130 69 68 68 68 67 -1.0% Waste diversion from landfill 55% 49% 45% 41% 44% 40% -9.6% Retail Energy consumption (MJ/sqm) 4,905 1,583 1,457 673 798 735 -8.0% portfolio Water consumption (L/sqm) 8,536 2,994 2,798 1,562 1,784 1,704 -4.5% Scope 1 & 2 emissions (kgCO2-e/sqm) 712 218 204 115 134 126 -6.2% Waste diversion from landfill n/a 33% 34% 45% 44% 45% 3.2% 1. FY08 is the base year for energy, water and greenhouse gas emissions. FY12 is the base year for waste diversion from landfill. 2. Properties under management for FY18 and FY19 periods. GHG emissions intensity (kg CO2-e/sqm) | Energy intensity (MJ/sqm) | Water intensity (L/sqm) 130 890 586 671 68 Office 327 44.2% energy intensity reduction 47.6% emissions intensity reduction 24.6% water intensity reduction FY08 FY19 FY08 FY19 8,536 712 4,905 Retail 115 86.3% energy intensity reduction 1,562 83.8% emissions intensity reduction 673 81.7% water intensity reduction FY08 FY19 FY08 FY19 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement | dexus.com 40 de>cus Disclosures on Management Approach 2019 Detailed description of Dexus’s approach to managing material issues, aligned with the GRI Standards reporting framework Introduction The Dexus 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach, or DMA series, explains how Dexus manages the economic, environmental and social impacts related to its business. This DMA series supports Dexus’s disclosure against the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards, which prescribes organisations to disclose details of their approaches to managing material topics identified through the materiality process. The DMA series should be read in conjunction with our performance reporting contained in the following disclosures: 2019 Annual Report – An integrated summary of the value created across Dexus’s key resources and the Consolidated Financial report 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack – Comprehensive sustainability reporting that supports the results outlined in the 2019 Annual Report 2019 Sustainability Data Supplement – Comprehensive disclosure of sustainability/ESG datasets aligned with reporting frameworks including the GRI Standards 2019 Corporate Governance Statement – Dexus’s corporate governance framework, reconciled against the principles of the ASX Corporate Governance Principles and Recommendations – Third Edition Contents We have structured the Dexus 2019 DMA series to align with Dexus’s value creation outcomes as reported in our 2019 Annual Report. The value creation outcomes are also the objectives of Dexus’s Sustainability Approach. Value creation outcome Disclosure on Management Approach Sustained Value Page 4 Leading Cities Page 14 Thriving People Page 24 Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities Page 33 including Supply Chain Page 40 Enriched Environment Page 49 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 1 14 August 2019 Management approach by material issue The table below provides a reference for where our approach to managing material issues is provided across the Dexus 2019 DMA series. Please refer to the 2019 GRI Index for a comprehensive reference of content related to material issues across Dexus’s Annual Reporting Suite. Material issue Disclosure on Management Approach Issue Sustained Thriving Future Enriched boundary Leading Cities Value People Enabled Environment Customers and Strong Communities All properties within the Biodiversity Dexus group portfolio All properties Climate change within the impacts Dexus group portfolio Corporate Dexus governance and platform transparency Customers occupying Customer properties attraction and within the retention Dexus group portfolio Customers occupying Customer properties engagement within the Dexus group portfolio All properties Economic impact within the on local Dexus group communities portfolio Dexus portfolio Refer to Economic owned and Dexus 2019 performance managed by Annual Report DXS Security holders All properties within the Emissions Dexus group portfolio All properties within the Energy efficiency Dexus group portfolio Equal Dexus remuneration employees All persons occupying or Health, safety and visiting Dexus security managed properties Human capital Dexus development employees Dexus employees, Human rights suppliers and customers 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 2 Material issue Disclosure on Management Approach Issue Sustained Leading Cities Thriving Future Enriched boundary Value People Enabled Environment Customers and Strong Communities Inclusion and Dexus diversity employees All properties Refer to within the Market volatility Dexus 2019 Dexus group Annual Report portfolio Risk and crisis Dexus management platform Suppliers to Dexus across Supply chain all properties management within the Dexus group portfolio Talent attraction Dexus and retention employees All properties Waste within the management Dexus group portfolio All properties within the Water use Dexus group portfolio Dexus Sustainability Approach Dexus’s Sustainability Approach is aligned with our corporate strategy by supporting the creation of sustained value by integrating material environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues into our business model. We integrate our Sustainability Approach into the business to effectively manage emerging ESG risks and secure long-term value creation opportunities. The approach incorporates five objectives which collectively direct our sustainability focus towards addressing the issues considered to be most material for our stakeholders. As a signatory to the United Nations-supported Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), the Dexus Sustainability Approach also incorporates the PRI’s ‘six principles’ relating to responsible investment and active property management. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 3 1 Sustained Value Disclosure on Management Approach Creating sustained value through effective management of environmental, social and governance issues. Dexus’s Sustainability Approach is the lens that we use to identify, prioritise and address the environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues that matter most to our stakeholders. The key objectives of our Sustainability Approach (Leading Cities, Thriving People, Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities, and Enriched Environment) set out priorities and approaches to managing stakeholder issues that collectively support the overarching objective of Sustained Value creation. The disclosures across each key objective area support the objective of sustained value, while the Sustained Value section of our Disclosures on Management Approach focuses on corporate governance and risk management. The section supports the disclosures within the Annual Report on material issues of market volatility and economic performance. Dexus aspires to the highest standards of corporate governance and has embedded policies and procedures to enhance corporate performance and protect the interests of key stakeholders. Good governance is about doing the right thing complying with laws, managing risk, upholding human rights, building honest relationships and being transparent. We are committed to an open and transparent workplace that is free from corruption, anti-competitive behaviour, bribery and discrimination. Our governance approach aims to: Maintain the health and safety of our employees, customers and visitors Maintain a working environment free of harassment, bullying and discrimination Uphold labour standards and respect human rights Continually comply with relevant laws, regulations and industry best practice Create a workplace culture of diversity and work-life balance Manage environmental, financial and social risk. 1.1 Corporate governance framework Our corporate governance approach supports the group’s strategic objectives. The group’s governance structure ensures accountability and a balance of authority by clearly defining the roles and responsibilities of the Board and executive management. This enables the Board to provide strategic guidance while exercising effective oversight. The table on the next page provides an overview of Dexus’s corporate governance. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 4 Corporate governance Dexus Board Responsibility for ensuring effective corporate governance and risk management, and for ensuring that Dexus meets its fiduciary and statutory obligations to its investors. Board Committees Audit Committee | Nominations Committee | People and Remuneration Committee | Risk Committee Group Management Committee Ultimate responsibility for ensuring statutory, legal and regulatory compliance, including ongoing compliance with Dexus policies and procedures. Group Risk Committee Oversight of Dexus’s risk management, compliance management, sustainability and internal audit programs. Risk team Compliance team Governance team Sustainability team Responsibilities include: Responsibilities include: Responsibilities include: Responsibilities include: Assessing strategic and Providing training on Company secretarial Identifying and operational risks relevant compliance functions across the overseeing activity to Providing advice on risk matters group manage environmental, mitigation plans Conducting monitoring Establishment and social and governance and preventative review implementation of key (ESG) risks across the Drafting and delivering risk policies and procedures to avert or governance policies organisation procedures detect incidents of nonInternal Audit function Driving excellence in compliance asset performance Implementing the Work Investigating Health Safety (WHS) Reviewing and whistleblower matters including achievement analysing compliance against environmental management system and significant and overseeing audits issues and exceptions targets customer complaints of compliance with the including remediation Reporting progress Supporting Dexus system plans against ESG targets group boards and Providing training on Reporting to committees to ensure and identifying areas for management (including provision of adequate improvement relevant risk matters GMC, Board Risk information to execute Committee and the their responsibilities Group Risk Committee) on compliance incidents and initiatives within Dexus Liaising with regulators Management frameworks Risk Management Framework Compliance Management Sustainability Approach Framework Industry engagement Conflicts of interest Resource efficiency Risk analysis Continuous disclosure reporting Climate change Workplace health and safety Compliance monitoring Human rights Audit and assurance Anti-money laundering policies Inclusion and diversity Investment due diligence Fraud, Corruption and Bribery Employee engagement and Business continuity planning, (Prevention and Awareness) development crisis management and disaster Policy Customer experience recovery testing Information technology and Community contribution Accept and investigate whistle cyber security Sustainable development blower disclosures Complaints Stakeholder engagement Embargoed contractors Board governance Supply chain management Internal audit Reporting and transparency Management reporting | ASX disclosure | Performance disclosure Regulatory reporting | Sustainability reporting Board and management committees Dexus Funds Management Limited (DXFM) is the Responsible Entity of each of the four trusts that comprise Dexus. DXFM, along with other responsible entities in the group, is also responsible for management of the group’s third party capital partner or investment funds. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 5 The Board implements a corporate governance framework that applies to all DXFM schemes, the Dexus Wholesale Property Fund (DWPF), the Healthcare Wholesale Property Fund (HWPF), capital partner investments and mandates. To assist stakeholders in accessing key documents outlining our approach to corporate governance, we maintain a Corporate Governance section on our website www.dexus.com/corporategovernance. We publish a Corporate Governance Statement that presents our governance framework against the ASX Corporate Governance Principles & Recommendations Third Edition (ASX Principles) and discloses how we continue to meet each of the ASX Principles during the financial year. While the framework adopted by Dexus meets the requirements of the ASX Principles, it also addresses additional aspects of governance which the Board considers important. We recommend that this Disclosure of Management Approach be read in conjunction with Dexus’s Corporate Governance Statement. Refer to our website for publicly available policies. The table below describes the committees with a focus on governance, risk management and monitoring. Committee Governance role Dexus Board The Board sets the tone, culture and objectives of risk and compliance management at Dexus. It sets the corporate standard, establishes effective governance, oversees business performance and provides ultimate accountability for the group. The Board implements a corporate governance framework that applies to the investments of Dexus and its funds, mandates and capital partners. Board Risk Committee Responsible for overseeing group risk management, including implementation and management of sustainability practices and initiatives throughout Dexus, as well as overseeing WHS, risk, compliance and internal audit. The Board Risk Committee reports directly to the Board. Group Management Committee Oversees business operations including its management of compliance, risk, (GMC) governance and sustainability. The GMC comprises the executive team and reports directly to the Dexus Board. Property Executive Committee Chaired by the Chief Executive Officer (CEO), PEC members include the Chief (PEC) Investment Officer (CIO), Chief Financial Officer (CFO) and Executive General Managers overseeing operational and strategic objectives concerning: Property Performance Development and Trading Customer and Innovation PEC oversees sustainability initiatives and reports to the GMC. Group Risk Committee Oversees compliance, internal audit, risk and sustainability initiatives and reports to the Board Risk Committee. It assures the Board and the Board Risk Committee that major business risks have been identified and assessed, and effective plans are in place to mitigate the risks. Investment Committee Reviews and endorses all major investment proposals (including acquisitions, divestments, developments and major capital works) concerning Dexus and each of our third party capital partners. Corporate Responsibility, Oversees the development and implementation of corporate responsibility Inclusion and Diversity policies and practices that support Dexus's business strategy, and responds to Committee (CRID) emerging corporate responsibility issues within the built environment. The Committee is chaired by the CEO. Modern Slavery Working Group Oversees implementation of initiatives to enhance Dexus’s capacity to identify, assess and respond to risks of modern slavery in its operations and supply chain. Oversees measurement of effectiveness, public reporting, training and communication regarding modern slavery. Chaired by the Executive General Manager, Investor Relations, Communications and Sustainability, and reports to the Board Risk Committee. 1.2 Management practices We have developed a Compliance Management Framework and a Risk Management Framework outlining how we identify and address compliance and risk management. The third arm of our responsible investment approach is our Sustainability Approach which integrates sustainability throughout the group’s operations. These frameworks support the development and implementation of compliance, risk management and corporate governance procedures across the business. The programs allocate the responsibilities of Dexus employees to identify and minimise risk. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 6 The management frameworks support customers, third party capital partners, people development, supplier partnerships and engagement within communities. The frameworks are reviewed on an annual basis to ensure they remain current and adequately address the risks inherent in managing the business. Compliance Management Framework Compliance is a vital component of our corporate governance and assists in: Building trust with investors and clients Protecting our brand and reputation Promoting our values Demonstrating to stakeholders a commitment to doing the right thing Complying with laws, regulations and industry standards Dexus’s Compliance Management satisfies the requirements of the International Standard for Compliance Management Systems – ISO 19600. Activities conducted within the framework comply with the relevant legislation and regulations including the Corporations Act, Privacy Act, Competition & Consumer Act, Tax & Stamp Duty legislation, Retail Leases Act, Real Estate Licensing Acts, Environmental Acts and Regulations, and Anti-Money Laundering & Counter Terrorism Financing Act. We promote a culture of compliance through a framework in which all employees contribute and participate. The Compliance team oversees the compliance management framework while the entire business is responsible for ensuring that their business procedures adhere to Dexus’s policies. The framework: Acknowledges our commitment to compliance, good governance, ethical behaviour and continuous improvement Focuses on protecting the interests of investors, mandate clients, third party capital partners and employees Ensures that our financial services and products are provided honestly, fairly and efficiently Seeks to prevent, identify and quickly respond to breaches of applicable laws, industry codes and standards and business rules 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 7 Activities within the Compliance Management Framework include: Activity Description Legislative and regulatory Identifying and assessing changes in compliance requirements due to laws or change regulations, contractual requirements, security market requirements, fiduciary requirements and best practice Employee training Identifying appropriate compliance training, delivering and facilitating compliance training sessions Compliance monitoring and Monitoring processes and procedures to ensure that business units are operating reporting in accordance with legal and internal requirements Handling exceptions and Identifying, managing, reporting and overseeing the resolution of compliance incidents of non-compliance incidents Handling complaints Overseeing the effectiveness of processes and procedures across business units to manage investor complaint resolution in a timely manner Communication Collecting, analysing and reporting compliance information throughout Dexus Continuous improvement Regularly reviewing and updating policies to ensure continued relevance. Compliance matters are reviewed by the Board Risk Committee, the Group Risk Committee and the GMC Conflicts of interest We have two internal compliance policies for personal and corporate conflicts of interest. They inform employees as to what constitutes a conflict of interest and describe the process for identifying and managing conflicts. Conflicts may arise in a variety of situations including: Related party dealings Allocating property transactions amongst clients or third party capital partners Tenant (customer) conflicts Transfer of assets between schemes or clients Personal conflicts All real or potential conflicts are reported to Dexus’s Compliance team so that necessary controls are put in place to effectively manage the conflict. These controls may include: Ensuring the transaction is conducted at arm’s length Removal of conflicted employees or teams from the transaction or decision Establishing information barriers so that employees and teams operate solely in the interests of the respective clients or third party capital partners Avoiding the transaction Dexus maintains a Conflict of Interest Register which provides a central record of all material conflicts to ensure that they are effectively identified and managed. Anti-bribery and corruption We are committed to achieving the highest corporate standards and working against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. The Fraud, Corruption and Bribery (Prevention and Awareness) Policy outlines expectations for employee conduct related to lobbying, meetings with law makers and receiving gifts and benefits. Dexus does not make monetary contributions to politicians, political parties, or political campaigns (see our Leading Cities DMA for more information on engagement with government and industry). 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 8 Transparency and continuous disclosure We take an industry leading approach to transparency and disclosure of responsible investment practices. This is supported by the Property Council of Australia’s Voluntary Best Practice Guidelines for Disclosing Funds From Operations (FFO) and Adjusted Funds From Operations (AFFO). These measures enable a transparent comparison of financial performance between Dexus and its listed property peers. We are committed to providing investors, the broader market and other stakeholders with accurate and timely information about material developments. We continue to comply with the continuous disclosure requirements of the Corporations Act and ASX Listing Rules. A Continuous Disclosure Committee manages due diligence and compliance against the Continuous Disclosure Policy. We respond annually to several investor surveys and standards, publish research papers, and formally disclose group performance each year in accordance with the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework. Compliance monitoring We conduct ongoing compliance monitoring to ensure that business units are operating in accordance with legal and internal requirements. We also ensure that management and the Board have sufficient risk and compliance information to enable them to exercise their responsibilities and discharge their duties effectively. The purpose of compliance monitoring is to: Check that controls are in place to ensure that business and/or system processes are operating adequately, function appropriately, and are compliant with relevant laws, regulations, industry standards, codes and internal organisational standards Confirm that policies and procedures are being applied and adhered to Assist with the identification of actual, possible or imminent compliance incidents Test the effectiveness of the compliance policies and structure Determine where problems are being encountered within the business and the reason for them Identify compliance training needs Monitoring takes the form of: ­ Self-Assessment Checklists ­ Compliance review and verification ­ Targeted reviews ­ Ad hoc reviews Internal audit program Internal audit is an independent, objective assurance and consulting activity designed to add value and improve our operations. Internal Audit assists in improving business performance by providing an independent and disciplined approach to evaluate and strengthen risk management, business processes, internal controls and governance activities across the organisation. The Group Risk Committee oversees the group’s risk management, compliance management and internal audit programs. KPMG performs the activities of an Internal Audit function which reports to the Group Risk Committee and Board Risk Committee. In the conduct of its activities, Internal Audit plays an active role in: Developing and maintaining a culture of accountability and integrity Promoting and supporting Dexus’s Three Lines of Defence Model by maintaining an independent ‘third line’ in relation to effective risk management and control Facilitating the integration of risk management into day-to-day business activities and processes Promoting a culture of risk-consciousness, self-assessment and adherence to high ethical standards Maintaining a professional and experienced Internal Audit function, through the engagement of suitably qualified professionals, with sufficient knowledge, skills, experience, and professional certifications to meet the requirements of the charter 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 9 Establishing a quality assurance program which supports the operation of internal audit activities and is responsive to the business’ needs Ensuring that engagements are performed with proficiency and due professional care The Internal Audit functions include examining, evaluating and monitoring the adequacy and effectiveness of governance, risk management, financial and operational controls designed to manage risks and achieve objectives. Internal Audit activities involve: Developing and implementing a flexible annual internal audit plan, adopting an appropriate risk-based approach, which is approved by the Group Risk and Board Audit Committees Assisting us to promote awareness of key risks, our risk culture and risk mitigation activities Supporting audit activities through facilitation, process design and advisory services Reporting on the outcomes of internal audits to senior management, the Group Risk Committee and Board Audit Committee Keeping our employees informed of emerging trends and successful practices in internal auditing Assisting in the investigation of significant suspected fraudulent activities and notifying findings to the Group Risk Committee, GMC, Board Risk Committee and Board Audit Committee Conducting follow up activities on the status of agreed significant, high and moderate rated recommendations We maintain an Internal Audit Charter which sets out the roles, responsibilities, authorisation, activities and reporting relationships of the Internal Audit function. The Charter is reviewed and approved by the Board Risk Committee on an annual basis. From 1 July 2019, Internal Audit reports to the Board Audit Committee. Board evaluation We recognise that performance measurement and management are integral to our Board’s success and we believe that board evaluations can contribute significantly to performance enhancement at the organisational, Board and individual Director levels. The Board Nomination Committee oversees the Board performance evaluation program. The evaluation process looks at the performance of the Board and its committees. Individual director performance is also evaluated. When appropriate, an independent expert is retained to conduct the evaluation. Any areas for improvement identified in the performance evaluation process are agreed by the Board Nomination Committee which oversees the implementation of process enhancements. The Performance Evaluation Policy outlines a formal approach to review and improve performance management. External feedback and grievance procedures We are committed to continuous improvement and seek to appropriately address feedback received from investors, customers, employees and other stakeholders. Any grievance escalated to the Head of Governance or Head of Compliance is treated as a complaint and is addressed through the Complaints Policy and procedures. For example, an investor complaint may relate to grievances involving our financial products/services or privacy matters. A customer complaint may relate to a significant issue relating to poor service or a poor customer experience. We maintain policies and procedures to address grievances formally raised by stakeholders in relation to Dexus, our products or services, or the processes we use for dealing with feedback itself. Our grievance process emphasises conciliation to ensure that inappropriate and unlawful practices cease and that grievances are resolved in a sensitive and timely manner. An agreed rectification plan is developed and actioned in accordance with the Dexus Compliance Management Framework. Regulatory authorities may be notified and involved in the procedure to resolve the incident if required. The Complaints Policy and associated procedures are designed to ensure that: Investor, client and potential client complaints are dealt with fairly, promptly and consistently Regulatory requirements are complied with Any underlying control problems or weaknesses identified by a complaint are appropriately addressed In accordance with the Australian Standards for Complaints Handling, we seek to: 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 10 Resolve complaints through mutually agreed solutions Treat complaints and complainants appropriately Provide adequate assistance particularly to those who face barriers to access Improve business procedures to prevent future reoccurrence Provide clear guidelines of resolution process and time frame Provide reasonable access to resources Ensure processes and outcomes comply with regulation Maintain open communication regarding progress Ensure the complainant is protected as stipulated in the Privacy Act We maintain tailored grievance procedures by stakeholder and based on the nature of the complaint. Grievance Mechanism Employees Investors and Third party capital Customers, Suppliers and Community partners Grievance procedure Handling investor complaints Handling property complaints Whistleblower Policy (Yourprocedure procedure call) Complaints Policy Complaints Policy Whistleblower Policy Awareness Channels Environment and Health Whistleblower Program Internal Audit program Dexus website and Safety management Your-call independent Outsourced risk based Customers and programs service provider internal audit function community ISO 14001 EMS and Secure, anonymous, Testing of compliance members can lodge OHSAS 18001 systems and confidential with controls incidents or across managed complaints Reporting of Monitor effectiveness portfolio inappropriate of governance, risk Identify, assess and workplace behaviour management, financial manage environmental and operational and safety risks controls Site incidents and hazards (e.g. personal injury, property damage, near misses) Should a complaint require subsequent remedial action, this may involve employee training, amendments to procedures or controls, or enhancements to monitoring or review processes. A register of grievances is maintained and reported to the Group Risk Committee and Board Risk Committee where appropriate. Internal grievances and whistleblowing To maintain a positive and productive work environment, we have implemented a whistleblower program. An important part of the program is the open and honest discussion of ethical issues. We encourage employees to raise problems with their manager. Should this not be possible for any reason, employees are encouraged to raise their concerns of possible breaches of law or procedure, irregularity, compliance issue, ethical issue or anything else of concern with any of the following representatives: Head of Governance Head of People & Communities General Counsel Director of Dexus Dexus’s Statutory Auditors, PwC Dexus’s Internal Auditors, EY We have also appointed an independent disclosure management service provider, Your-Call, to enable employees and contractors to report securely, anonymously and confidentially information about dishonesty, fraud, unsafe environments, unethical and other inappropriate behaviour in the workplace. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 11 1.3 Risk Management Framework Effective risk management is critical to the delivery of value to our investors and requires an understanding of risks during all phases of investment from asset selection, acquisition, allocation, ownership and management to disposal. Responsible investment and active property management principles are integrated into our sustainability approach. Dexus’s Risk Management Framework aligns with the Australian and New Zealand Standard for Risk Management – Principles and Guidelines AS/NZS ISO 31000:2009. The framework is built into daily operations in the form of accountabilities, standard operating procedures, tools and templates, management oversight, collaboration and knowledge sharing, as well as audit and assurance. The Risk Management Framework supports the Risk Management Policy which sets out how the group identifies and manages risks in a consistent, systematic, credible and timely way to minimise the impact of unexpected and undesirable events. We monitor operations and conduct audits to address the following sources of risk: Strategic Operational Legal and regulatory Financial Reputational and brand related Work health, safety and the environment The Framework includes the following mechanisms for the identification and management of risk: Risk workshops where managers identify risks, and mitigating controls within their business unit Risk Policies and Procedures which set out the minimum acceptable standard of business practice Verification via certifications to ensure adherence Exception reporting Monitoring and review of control processes External review of work health & safety, security and environmental procedures management Employee training to promote our risk management requirements and processes Our property portfolio varies by geographic location, asset type and tenant type. These variables present specific risks that are monitored and managed. The risks relate to health and safety, building safety, environmental, security and insurance risk. We conduct a comprehensive risk audit and review program to identify, evaluate and mitigate risk in the following areas: Health and safety audits: compliance/spot audits, work health and safety risk profile, OHSAS 18001 audit/gap analysis, ISO certification audit, Principal contractor audit, incident investigations Building safety: confined space risk assessment, plant risk assessment, façade audits Environmental: Hazardous materials review, initial site audit, site re-inspections, ISO 14001 audit/gap analysis, ISO certification audit Security: security risk assessment, external security review Insurance risk: underwriting assessment, insurance valuations program, risk engineering program We have developed an in-house property risk management and auditing tool called Periskope that provides systematic and rigorous property risk profiling. Periskope is a single point of access for tools and data, assisting in property risk management. Risk appetite We operate in a competitive market and strive to deliver our vision and strategy in a sustainable way to meet the expectations of our investors, third party capital partners, employees, customers (tenants), visitors and the communities in which we operate. Risk is an inherent part of conducting business and we must accept some level of risk in order to pursue our strategic objectives. In so doing, decisions at every level must be made with an informed view of the associated risks and implications. We maintain Risk Appetite Statements for each Responsible Entity within the group. These statements support each Fund’s or vehicle’s strategy as well as outlines the amount of risk each vehicle is willing to accept in order to 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 12 achieve its strategy. This approach promotes the principle of 'freedom within boundaries' by providing a framework for management to operate within to execute the strategy. Risk Appetite Statements help to guide decisions by outlining risks or activities for which we have no appetite as well as risks or activities we may be willing to accept (subject to appropriate mitigating controls) in pursuit of strategic objectives. Risk Appetite Statements are reviewed and approved annually by the relevant Boards. Health and safety We recognise our duty of care to investors, customers, employees, agents and the community to manage any work health, safety and liability (WHS&L) risks across our property portfolio. This is reflected within the group performance scorecard. Our WHS&L statement outlines how we manage WHS risks. It states the group’s commitment to maintaining safe properties, working with stakeholders to manage hazards, managing risks and continuous monitoring. We implement contractor management software across all managed properties to manage and monitor contractor compliance against insurance requirements, WH&S and inductions. Further information can be found within the Thriving People DMA (employee health and safety) and Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities DMA (property occupant health and safety). 1.4 Integrating sustainability We integrate sustainability to create sustained value by taking a systematic approach that links our strategy and vision to our actions and performance outcomes through policies and governance frameworks, setting targets and embedding these into day-to-day operations. Engagement Policies Commitments Practices Measure and report We engage with Dexus’s ESG We set measurable We integrate ESG Within our annual stakeholders to policies performance targets across management Sustainability identify and encapsulate our our key stakeholder groups in practices within Performance Pack, we manage material ‘Sustained Value’ line with our strategy, and we day-to-day report our performance issues which vision and inform all drive ethical and responsible operations, across each of our key have the greatest stakeholders of performance in all areas of developments and objectives including impact on our their legal and operations. We integrate investment decision achievements against stakeholders corporate sustainability objectives into making to enhance targets. responsibilities for our group scorecard, which is corporate We report our the management of used to determine individual performance and management environmental, objectives and remuneration create sustained approaches within our social and outcomes. value disclosure under GRI governance issues Standards 1.5 Evaluation and process improvement We seek to continuously improve our governance approach through the following: An annual review of the Compliance Management Framework and Risk Management Framework Independent reviews such as Internal Audits and reviews undertaken by industry experts Attending industry forums and seminars, including those provided by law firms and regulators Circulars and newsletters from law and accountancy firms and regulators 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 13 2 Leading Cities Disclosure on Management Approach Contributing to economic prosperity and sustainable urban development across Australia’s key cities. Dexus’s strategy is to deliver superior returns from high quality real estate in Australia’s major cities. Our focus on cities means that our success is intrinsically linked to the overall growth and prosperity of the cities where we operate. Our Leading Cities objective contributes to urban prosperity by directing us to invest in, develop and manage world class, sustainable industrial and retail precincts which enhance the amenity and vibrancy of central business districts. Across our buildings, we seek to attract high calibre customers whose businesses support local, regional and national economies. We expand our reach and engage local communities through collaboration and consultation with authorities and industry associations and work together with peers and other stakeholders to lift urban development standards and share insights. Focus areas for our approach to Leading Cities include: Understanding market volatility: Understanding how market volatility impacts supply and demand and absorption of new spaces, which may affect retail, office and industrial leasing terms, rents and vacancy rates Generating economic impact: Responding to local community and authority interest in precincts and development projects that contribute amenity, vitality and economic prosperity to their area Showcasing sustainable development: Using our development projects to demonstrate how the urban form can minimise its environmental impact and enhance wellbeing Stakeholder engagement: Working with our stakeholders to understand what matters to them and use their insights to enhance how we operate The boundary our approach encompasses Dexus’s group portfolio, including development projects, with impacts mainly felt by Dexus’s customers, suppliers and local communities. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 14 2.1 Management framework Several areas of our business, under the leadership of the Dexus Board and Group Management Committee (GMC), collaborate to deliver our objective of Leading Cities. The table below provides insight into the developments and transactions management structure and policy framework, which is an important contributor to our Leading Cities objective. Management of standing investments also contributes to the objective of Leading Cities, and relevant management frameworks for standing investments are described in the Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities DMA (page 33), Supply Chain DMA (page 40) and Enriched Environment DMA (page 49). Several policies are publicly available on the Dexus website. Leading cities management framework Dexus Board Approval of business plans, investment strategies, property acquisitions, Dexus divestments and developments unless delegated to another committee. Group Management Committee (GMC) Responsibility for developing short, medium and long-term strategies and business plans for achieving those strategies Investment Committee Consideration and approval or endorsement of investment and divestment proposals, major capital expenditure and certain leases concerning Dexus and each of its managed funds and clients Chief Investment Officer Executive General Manager Oversight of group strategic direction, capital allocation, and creating value through Investor Relations, development. Communications and Sustainability Oversight of group Sustainability Approach and stakeholder engagement. Development Team Capital Transactions and Strategy Investor Relations, teams Communications and Sustainability teams Responsibilities Responsibilities Responsibilities Oversight of office, industrial, retail Originate and execute investment Provide technical advice on and healthcare developments opportunities execution of sustainability Management of development Due diligence of acquisitions and objectives process from origination through to developments Integrate emerging stakeholder sale or handover Strategic reviews and business issues into business strategy Third party contractor management case development Investor, government and Incorporation of sustainability media stakeholder engagement objectives into development design and construction Policy Framework Development and Construction | Due Diligence | Investment Procedures | Transactions Handbook Capital Transactions Excellence Method Environmental Statement | Biodiversity | Work Health, Safety & Liability Statement Investor Communications | Continuous Disclosure 2.2 Management practices Investment due diligence Dexus has a rigorous process for evaluating the environmental, social and governance (ESG) risks and opportunities relating to investment decisions. This includes reviewing long-term asset plans and conducting appropriate environmental due diligence on acquisitions so that ESG risks are identified and effectively managed. The Investment Committee reports to the GMC and is responsible for reviewing all investment, divestment and development proposals for Dexus and its third party capital partners. The Investment Committee recognises its fiduciary duty to act in the best interests of Dexus and its third party capital partners and uses a formal process and templates to collect and evaluate a wide range of data relating to risks, opportunities and impacts before approving or endorsing each investment decision. Potential acquisitions are screened to ensure responsible investment principles are upheld. The Investment Committee identifies ESG issues that may affect an investment. It then categorises them as: Material issues that may lead to the abandonment of the potential investment 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 15 Less significant issues, risks and opportunities that impact the decision and/or the investment price, or the terms of sale Insignificant issues that are not deemed to affect Dexus or its third party capital partners If an issue is uncovered, decisions are made whether to pursue the investment opportunity or mitigate the impact We review environmental metrics for acquisitions and divestments with reference to our environmental targets and objectives. In some cases, this may present opportunities to reposition and add value to under-performing properties through environmental initiatives. In other cases, when an investment fails to meet our environmental principles, it may prevent an otherwise worthwhile transaction from proceeding. Developments Development is integral to enabling the delivery of our strategic objectives of leadership in Australian office and being a wholesale partner of choice and Dexus has a strong track record in developing high quality office, industrial and retail properties in key Australian markets. Our developments have a focus on quality, sustainability, providing vibrant public space and delivering superior risk adjusted returns. Dexus Development Lifecycle Phase Elements Origination Preliminary feasibility Asset plans and masterplans (if the opportunity involves an existing asset) Identifying potential constraints, such as planning controls, existing tenancies, internal capabilities, and physical site constraints Research market and demographic factors SWOT analysis for the opportunity Concept development Setting up a project team, including external consultants Stakeholder mapping Developing and endorsing a concept brief Planning, design and Preparing a development plan and leasing strategy construction Obtaining development approvals Stakeholder engagement Construction through a third party project manager and builders Asset sale or handover Construction completion Insurances and other regulatory matters Handover to asset management or capital transactions Drivers for sustainable development Our approach to integrating sustainability into our development projects responds to a range of internal and external drivers that underpin ongoing investment in property efficiency and financial and environmental sustainability. These include: ­ Improving rental returns: The desire to reduce operating costs and manage risk associated with utility prices. Reduced outgoings can mean that Dexus is able to increase profit margins. Evidence has shown that the most efficient and sustainable buildings attract premium rents ­ It makes financial sense: Investment in energy efficient technology is proven to be one of the lowest cost ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and project investments are paid back through reduced utility and maintenance costs in a reasonable timeframe. This is particularly evident for new designs, in which ESG opportunities can be incorporated at reduced marginal cost ­ Consumer demand and sentiment: The leasing market is competitive, and customers often have a choice of properties to occupy. An increasing expectation among customers is for their property to perform efficiently to meet their ESG needs and minimise outgoings. For example, government agencies set minimum standards for base building NABERS ratings as a minimum requirement when selecting potential space ­ Industry leadership: Taking a leadership position on issues such as responsible investment and applying suitable focus on ensuring that its properties are leaders in their respective markets ­ Benchmarking: Green Star and NABERS ratings quickly enable our customers, investors, and the wider community to assess the relative ESG performance of Dexus properties against industry benchmarks ­ Future proofing: Dexus tackles ESG issues and maximises property performance as part of its longterm risk management strategy. This ensures the property portfolio is best placed to deal with potential future issues including introduction of environmental minimum standards, taxes or financial penalties associated with resource use and greenhouse gas emissions, and new legislation 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 16 ­ Attracting and retaining investors: ESG performance is one of several criteria in which investors allocate funds. Investors interested in investing in sustainable companies will refer to stock exchange sustainability indices including DJSI and FTSE4Good to assist them Integrating sustainability issues into development projects We prepare design briefs for all new developments and refurbishments in conjunction with our customers where applicable. Design briefs describe the scope and nature of the development works and incorporate a range of requirements and minimum standards relating to sustainability issues and performance. Each design brief is unique to the development or retrofit, however an overarching document is created for each works project for the purposes of tendering and holding contractors to account against a fully documented list of requirements. We seek buy-in from prospective customers and agree the final brief before proceeding with construction. We incorporate sustainability into all aspects of the design through the inclusion of sustainable property features including passive cooling, efficient lighting and air conditioning, as well as applying minimum standards to equipment and materials such as insulation R-values and WELS ratings for water fixtures. The table below provides more detail on the integration of key sustainability elements into development projects. Element Dexus’s approach Biodiversity and habitat Our development sites are often brownfield sites with negligible biodiversity value. Where biodiversity may be impacted by our activities, the Dexus Biodiversity Policy directs teams to ensure our developments have a net positive impact on biodiversity and apply an approach to avoid, minimise, restore and offset adverse biodiversity impacts. Developments seeking Green Star Design & As Built certification are directed to manage biodiversity issues in accordance with Land Use and Ecology category credits. We comply, and direct our suppliers to comply, with development conditions that relate to biodiversity conservation at our development sites. Building safety Our development projects are expected to uphold the highest standards in building safety, both in terms of safety during construction and the ongoing operation of the asset. Our goal for all projects is a no harm, safe workplace with zero fatalities, both during the development phase and the ongoing operation of the property. Climate change adaptation and We assess potential climate change risks and changes to exposure and vulnerability resilience with regard to future climate scenarios. Developments with high inherent climate change risk that are seeking Green Star Design & As Built certification are directed to manage climate change adaptation issues in accordance with the Adaptation and Resilience credit guidelines. We comply, and direct our suppliers to comply, with development conditions that relate to climate change adaptation at our development sites, including but not limited to flood mitigation measures. Energy Across our developments, we are committed to designing for operational efficiency, consumption/management and targeting net zero emissions from operations. We collaborate with industrial customers to greenhouse gas emissions incorporate on-site solar electricity generation for new industrial developments. Developments seeking Green Star Design & As Built certification are directed to integrate energy and emissions management issues in accordance with the Energy category credits. Energy efficiency is integrated into the whole-of-property design process, and projects seek to exceed relevant energy codes and achieve Dexus’s Green Star, NABERS Energy targets and support our net zero emissions by 2030 ambition. Common energy efficiency measures include: High efficiency HVAC (heating, ventilation and air conditioning) systems High efficiency lighting Independent building commissioning Occupant sensors and controls to match indoor environmental conditions with occupant requirements Energy modelling to assess property energy performance and inform design 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 17 Element Dexus’s approach Environmental attributes of We aim to take a lifecycle approach to inform financial business cases for low embodied building materials carbon for materials at key projects. Developments seeking Green Star Design & As Built certification are directed to address issues regarding the environmental attributes of building materials consumption and management issues in accordance with the Materials category credits. Selection of materials at our development projects is often the responsibility of our suppliers. Dexus’s Sustainable Procurement Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct directs suppliers to procure sustainable products and services where feasible that: Have a lower embedded carbon footprint due to selection of raw materials and efficient manufacturing processes Contain a high recycled content and produced in a way to ensure it can be recycled through common services Are certified to internationally recognised standards or demonstrate other applicable sustainability criteria Support our net zero emissions by 2030 ambition Health and wellbeing We support occupant health and wellbeing at our developments through focusing on indoor environmental quality and supporting initiatives in property design and subsequent operations. Developments seeking Green Star Design & As Built certification are directed to integrate energy consumption and management issues in accordance with the Indoor Environmental Quality category credits. At select developments, we elect to obtain WELL Certification to further enhance a property’s health and wellbeing performance. Location and transportation Most of Dexus’s portfolio is strategically located in Australia’s major cities with strong transport networks. We also encourage active transport by providing end-of-trip facilities in our properties and supporting initiatives such as access to bicycle maintenance through our property portals. Developments seeking Green Star Design & As Built certification are directed to integrate energy consumption and management issues in accordance with the Transport category credits. Supply chain Dexus’s Sustainable Procurement Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct are included in all developer contracts and direct suppliers to comply with relevant legislation and contribute to our sustainability objectives. Water We focus on sound water management through designing new properties to achieve consumption/management minimum NABERS Water standards and integration of water saving measures such as on-site storage tanks and efficient fixtures. Developments seeking Green Star Design & As Built certification are directed to integrate energy consumption and management issues in accordance with the Water category credits. Water management is integrated into the whole-of-building design process, and projects seek to exceed relevant energy codes and achieve Dexus’s Green Star and NABERS Water ambitions. Common requirements and measures included in developments are: Requiring high efficiency fixtures to enhance indoor water efficiency Requiring drought tolerant landscaping and use of non-potable water sources (rainwater, stormwater, greywater) for outdoor uses to enhance outdoor water efficiency Water system commissioning and tuning to enhance process water efficiency Leak detection systems Occupant sensors to control water flows Waste management We focus on waste management through development and implementation of construction and operational waste management plans. Developments seeking Green Star Design & As Built certification are directed to integrate energy consumption and management issues in accordance with the Operational Waste and Construction and Demolition Waste credit guidelines. Expected inclusions within construction waste management plans are: Construction waste signage Targets for waste stream recovery, reuse and recycling Waste separation facilities Waste monitoring (including hazardous and non-hazardous waste monitoring) Contractors have financial incentives to recover, reuse and recycle building materials through avoided costs associated with sending waste to landfill. We educate employees on appropriate waste management and support contractors to deliver waste management education at our development sites. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 18 Green building certifications Dexus selectively rates new developments against the Green Building Council of Australia’s (GBCA) Green Star Design and As Built ratings and continues to present Green Star opportunities to all pre-lease construction opportunities. Dexus targets to achieve at least 5 Star Green Star Design & As Built ratings across all new office developments. During design, developments are expected to consider how the property can contribute to our NABERS Energy and NABERS Water portfolio targets by committing to achieving an ambitious rating upon property completion. Select office developments seek excellence in property health and wellbeing by targeting WELL certification from the International WELL Building Institute. Site selection and design A large proportion of our developments, particularly across the office and retail portfolios, occur within existing developed areas. We seek development opportunities in properties in highly connected urban environments, and integrate our developments with multi-modal transport networks and facilitate active transport options. When selecting brownfield sites and developing site design, our projects seek to protect, restore and conserve aquatic ecosystems, farmland, floodplain functions, and habitat for threatened and endangered species. These features are often protected through development approval conditions that we comply with and at times seek to exceed in order to achieve a net positive biodiversity outcome (see Dexus’s Biodiversity Policy). Development approval conditions and other measures included in development contracts help minimise negative impacts of construction by directing projects to: Manage waste by diverting construction and demolition materials from disposal Manage waste by diverting reusable vegetation, rocks and soil from disposal Protect air quality during construction Protection surface water and aquatic ecosystems by controlling and retaining construction pollutants Protect and restore habitat and soils disturbed during construction Developments seeking Green Star Design & As Built certification are directed to minimise negative impacts of construction through Responsible Construction Practices and Construction and Demolition Waste credit guidelines. Environmental impact assessments are carried out at all sites and on selected sites social impact assessments are undertaken. Environmental and health attributes of building materials Building materials selection for Dexus developments is usually undertaken by development contractors. Dexus’s Sustainable Procurement Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct is built into all development contracts and contains expectations for contractors regarding the environmental performance and health attributes of building materials. We obtain product data sheets from contractors detailing the environmental and health attributes of building materials as part of the design phase then in the certification of the property for its use. Wherever a development brief is likely to contain hazardous materials, the contractor is to provide independently certified laboratory tested hazardous materials clearance certificates. Demographics and accessibility Development design is informed by our Research team, which provides insights into market and demographic trends. These insights are incorporated into development briefs to ensure that the completed property will meet market and demographic demand. Properties are designed to offer flexibility and adaptability in tenancy design. All developments are required to ensure accessibility in accordance with the provisions of the Disability Discrimination Act 1992. Stakeholder engagement Building and nurturing strong working relationships with our stakeholders is critical to our value creation. Our key stakeholders include investors, third party capital partners, customers, communities, suppliers, government, media, and our people. We aim to build lasting relationships with our stakeholders through an active program of engagement activities. As part of our periodic materiality assessment, we involve groups of our key stakeholders to help identify key issues that impact our ability to create value for our stakeholders over the short, medium and long term. The table below identifies our key stakeholder groups and how we engage with them. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 19 Stakeholder group Engagement objectives and activities Dexus (DXS) Dexus is listed on the Australian Securities Exchange (ASX:DXS) and has a large investor base of investors approximately 27,000 Security holders. The majority of securities are owned by institutional investors such as superannuation funds, sovereign wealth funds and index funds. Almost half of our investors are based in Australia, with strong representation from North America, the United Kingdom and Asia. Objectives Our engagement with investors aims to: Educate investors about our business using accurate, timely and comprehensive information Understand investors’ perceptions about us Ensure that our security price reflects fair value Benchmark our performance using ESG surveys How we engage Dexus has an investor relations and communications strategy that promotes an informed market and encourages participation with investors. This strategy involves providing an open and ongoing two-way dialogue with the investment community and other key stakeholders that integrates the communication of financial and operational performance and regulatory reporting requirements. Enquiries received from Dexus Security holders are addressed in a timely manner in accordance with Dexus’s policy on the handling of enquiries and complaints. A core element of our engagement with investors is the comprehensive reporting of our performance through: Half-year and annual reports that include property performance metrics, comparison against benchmarks, key events that have occurred and their impacts on the portfolio including but not limited to acquisitions, divestments and developments. Annual General Meetings Sustainability performance reporting including current NABERS ratings, intensity figures for energy, water and greenhouse gas emissions, as well as efficiency improvement projects Participation in investor ESG surveys and responding to investor requests for ESG information. Perception studies completed by third parties to understand investor sentiment and our position relative to peers Third party capital Dexus’s funds management platform has 79 institutional investors across its seven managed partners (unlisted vehicles, with strong representation from Australia, plus Asia, North America and Europe. Third investors) party capital is largely sourced from domestic and offshore superannuation/pension funds, with multi-managers and sovereign wealth funds also represented. Objectives In addition to the objectives for Dexus investors, the funds management business works to: inform its third party capital partners on the broader Dexus business and our integrated model ensure investor confidence in Dexus’s corporate governance processes and management of related party conflicts understand investment, reporting and regulatory requirements of institutional investors promote transparency and ongoing two-way dialogue How we engage The wholesale pooled funds hold Annual General Meetings. These funds also provided best-inclass corporate governance through the provision of Investor Advisory Committees (comprised of a combination of majority and minority investors) to oversee key Fund decisions including related party transactions. Joint venture partners and mandate clients are intimately involved in the management of the portfolio and are involved in decision-making on all major matters. Third party capital partners, depending on the vehicle invested in, may receive formal monthly, quarterly and annual reports including property and financial performance metrics, comparison against benchmarks (where relevant), key events that have occurred and their impacts on the portfolio (acquisitions, divestments, developments, etc.). Third party capital partners also have access to dedicated investor internet portal viia the Dexus website enabling self service access to investment information and key documentation on the investment vehicle. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 20 Stakeholder group Engagement objectives and activities Government, We maintain an active and extensive engagement program to represent the interests of Dexus regulators, and with various government authorities, politicians and industry bodies. industry Dexus contributes to industry associations through membership fees and sponsorship opportunities. Our involvement in industry associations is designed to contribute to a collective voice that champions the property industry’s role in delivering sustainable economic growth. Dexus and its employees are prohibited from making any financial or in-kind contributions to a political party, politician or related institution, including payment of any annual or other subscription fee for membership of or affiliation with any political party. Objectives The objectives of our engagement with government and regulators include: Maintaining our reputation as a contributor to economic growth and leading city outcomes Understanding potential legal and regulatory changes relevant to the Dexus business Ensuring authorities have current information about our properties in their jurisdiction Understanding how we can deliver on civic priorities through our developments and operations, including how we can enhance the public realm of our precincts How we engage The Dexus Investor Relations and Communications team manages our engagement with public authorities and industry associations. We work closely with the main body representing the property industry – the Property Council of Australia (PCA) – to support and encourage effective policy development for the property industry, developing recommendations and drafting submissions to government and statutory authorities. Dexus is represented on a range of PCA industry committees and may be requested to participate in working groups facilitated by the PCA. In these situations, Dexus representatives act for the benefit of the property industry as a whole. Areas of engagement include collaborating on issues such as gender diversity, green building, and strategic urban planning. We also regularly engage with the industry and broader stakeholder communities through speaking engagements, presentations or panel representation, at both Australian and international conferences and events. We engage with local, state and federal government officials and policy makers as needed to discuss and present its views regarding issues such as local and state planning, local infrastructure and the environmental and social impacts of proposed developments. In these engagements, we aim to foster constructive two-way dialogue that aligns Dexus and government interests and delivers a mutually beneficial outcome. The Dexus Risk, Compliance and Governance teams maintain a respectful and transparent relationship with regulators and aim to meet any of their requests for information in a timely matter. We support regulatory examinations and ensure prompt reporting of compliance incidents where required. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 21 Stakeholder group Engagement objectives and activities Media We engage with local, state and national media to communicate news about our activities that is material to markets and of interest to the broader community. We also recognise the value of social media as a communication tool. Objectives Objectives of our media engagement include: Providing relevant, accurate information about Dexus and its activities to media outlets for dissemination Responding to media requests for information Managing and strengthening Dexus’s reputation How we engage The Dexus Investor Relations and Communications team leads our engagement with mainstream media and social media channels, and is responsible for the coordination of the group’s external messaging to ensure accuracy and consistency. We provide a single point of contact for media outlets for enquiries and, through a coordinated program with executives, regularly engage in conversation with key national and state-based media representatives. The Dexus Press and Media Policy provides guidance for employees on engaging with the media and ensuring any information provided is accurate and appropriate for disclosure. All official Dexus spokespeople undertake media training organised by the Investor Relations and Communications team. Dexus maintains a presence on the following social media networks: LinkedIn Dexus Facebook Dexus Twitter Dexus Instagram – Dexus We use these social media networks to disseminate stories about our workspace insights and activities, creating Prism articles of interest to our stakeholders. The Dexus Social Media Policy describes our approach to social media and provides guidance for employees on the appropriate use of social media. We regularly review our media engagement activities, using insights from media monitoring providers and social media networks to understand our reach, emerging issues, and trends of interest to our stakeholders. Local communities at All properties (100%) under development engage with local communities and relevant authorities development projects as part of the development approvals process. We recognise the value of community consultation on new developments and refurbishments to address concerns, and for feedback on features that benefit customers and the community. The exact methods of community engagement depend on the nature of the development. Aspects that are generally included in our approach to community engagement include: Identifying stakeholders that may be impacted by the development Identifying nuisance and/or disruption risks (e.g. noise, traffic changes) Development and implementation of a communication plan (e.g. hotlines, fact sheets) Development and implementation of a monitoring plan (e.g. monitoring issues register) Development and implementation of a risk mitigation plan Local communities at Objectives and activities related to local communities at our operational assets are described in the operational assets Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities DMA, page 33. Customers Objectives and activities related to our customers are described in the Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities DMA, page 33. Employees Employee engagement activities and objectives are described in the Thriving People DMA, page 33. Suppliers Objectives and activities related to supplier management are described in the Supply Chain DMA, pages 40. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 22 2.3 Evaluation and continuous improvement We regularly evaluate our overall strategy and employ several mechanisms to monitor performance against strategic objectives, report progress to the GMC, and drive continuous improvements. The table below specifies key performance indicators that we use to gauge our leading cities outcomes. Material issue KPI Impact Economic contribution Value of portfolio Leading destinations that attract economic activity to our cities Portfolio occupancy rates Construction jobs supported at development Economic contribution to local projects communities Gross value added to the economy from development projects Sustainable Green building certifications achieved at Demonstration of sustainable development development projects (including but not limited to development outcomes Green Star, NABERS, WELL) Environmental and health impacts as described elsewhere in this document (e.g. improved health from reduced pollution, enhanced occupant wellbeing) Stakeholder Meetings with investors, government, and other Enhanced reputation from engagement stakeholders strengthened stakeholder sentiment and strong, consistent communication Media reach and ASR (advertising space Enhanced communication to revenue) general public Enhanced reputation from strong Social media analytics (followers and positioning of brand and business engagement) activity 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 23 3 Thriving People Disclosure on Management Approach Building an engaged and capable workforce that delivers on our strategy. Our Thriving People objective recognises the direct relationship between the capability of our people and the success of our business. When we effectively engage our people, develop their capabilities and provide opportunities for growth, we are able to harness their full potential and enhance our sustained value creation. The focus areas for our approach to Thriving People are: Employee engagement and retention: enthusiastic and engaged employees are most likely to remain at Dexus and contribute positively, leading to better productivity outcomes and lower recruitment costs. We are focused on creating and supporting a culture where our employees are engaged and enthusiastic about the business and their professional development Professional development: professional development is a core component of recruiting and retaining a talented workforce. We support the ongoing learning and growth of our employees by providing a structured learning and development environment Inclusion and diversity: an inclusive workplace with a diversity of views is a driver of competitive advantage. Diversity means valuing an individual's race, colour, gender, age, religious belief, ethnicity, cultural background, economic circumstance, human capacity, expression of thought and sexual orientation as well as their experiences, skills and capabilities to create a business environment that encourages a range of perspectives Workplace health and safety: we have a duty of care to our employees, as well as investors, customers, agents and the wider community to ensure work health and safety risks are appropriately managed Employee wellbeing: people spend a significant amount of their working time indoors. In addition, mental health, access to water and nutritious food, and ability to exercise have profound impacts on people’s health, happiness, productivity and wellbeing. We value our employees and recognise the intrinsic importance of their health and wellbeing as well as its impact on business performance The boundary for our approach encompasses all Dexus employees and direct contractors across our regional offices and site-based teams within the Dexus group portfolio, with impacts felt across our employees and their families. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 24 3.1 Management framework Several areas of our business, under the leadership of the Dexus Board and Group Management Committee, collaborate to deliver our objective of Thriving People. The table below provides insight into the relevant management structure and policy framework. Several policies are publicly available on the Dexus website. Thriving People management framework Dexus Board (Board) Responsibility for approving remuneration outcomes and people policies. Board People and Remuneration Committee Oversight of people practices by reviewing and endorsing key policies and practices around employee engagement, professional development, succession planning, culture, inclusion and diversity. Group Management Committee (GMC) Responsibility for alignment of Dexus’s corporate culture with its goals and objectives, and sustaining competitive advantage by maximising available human and other resources and encouraging employee commitment. Corporate Responsibility, Inclusion and Diversity Committee Development and oversight of Dexus’s strategy in relation to employee wellbeing, inclusion and diversity policies and practices. People & Communities team Risk team Responsible for executing Thriving People strategy across: Oversight of workplace health and safety Employee engagement Talent attraction and retention Learning and development Remuneration Inclusion and diversity Oversight and management of Dexus’s Employee Wellbeing Communities: Give, Grow and Thrive. Policy Framework Employee Code of Conduct | Inclusion and Diversity | Flexible Working Work Health, Safety and Liability | Human Rights Whistleblower | Training and Education | Workplace Behaviour | Leave | Domestic Violence Leave Overarching objectives guiding our approach to Thriving People include: Maintaining the right capabilities to deliver on our strategy, focusing on key talent hires, growth in the right areas and anticipating future needs Building a culture that supports our values, inclusion and diversity, and risk management Supporting an engaged workforce that advocates for Dexus as a great place to work Delivering learning programs to build capabilities at all levels Enhancing employee wellbeing through benefits, offerings, and the activities of our Wellbeing Communities Our purpose Dexus’s purpose was defined by our people and sets out themes that guide us on our value creation journey. These themes include: Who we are: We are a passionate and agile team who want to make a difference Why we come to work: We create spaces where people thrive What we believe in: We are here to create value for customers, investors, communities and our people How we behave and what we value: Openness and trust, empowerment, integrity We set annual commitments related to our Thriving People objectives and report on progress against these commitments in our Sustainability Performance Pack. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 25 3.2 Management practices Employee engagement and culture We focus on building and sustaining an engaged, high-performing workforce that embraces our purpose and is motivated to deliver on Dexus’s strategy. Engaged employees are more likely to generate and implement innovative ideas, apply discretionary effort and act as brand custodians. We survey our employees at least twice per year to understand levels of engagement and sentiment around workplace issues such as inclusion and diversity, change management, and health and wellbeing. An outcome of these surveys is an employee Net Promoter Score (NPS), which we use as our key metric for tracking engagement. We also analyse survey results by business unit to understand how sentiment varies across Dexus and to identify any focus areas. We set employee NPS targets in our annual reporting and use survey results to inform action plans to lift engagement where required. Our purpose is an important component of how we engage our employees and instil the right culture. The purpose directs our people to focus on value creation for our investors, customers, employees and communities. It reinforces our values of openness and trust, empowerment and integrity, which underpin our culture. Our employee surveys have told us that our people value time, flexibility, and health and wellbeing. Our employee benefits offering reflects these priorities, and includes: Wellbeing Subsidy is a monthly allowance included in the monthly sum to put towards wellbeing activities Five ‘Dexus Days’, available as additional leave, are provided each year to enhance work-life balance Formal and informal flexible work arrangements to assist employees achieve a genuine balance between work, health, family and personal commitments Employee Securities Ownership Plan where permanent employees are gifted with $1000 worth of Dexus securities each year Subsidised life insurance Deals and discounts through corporate partnerships including but not limited to transport (Divvy and GoGet), Childcare (Guardian Early Learning Centres) and health and wellbeing Volunteer day is a paid day each year to provide employees with the opportunity to contribute their time and energy to a charity of their choice Inclusion and diversity We are committed to attracting and retaining a diverse workforce that bring a range of perspectives and help us execute our strategy in an ever-changing business environment. Our Inclusion and Diversity Policy embraces diversity in gender identity, race, age, disability, sexual orientation, nationality, education, socioeconomic background, work experience, relationship status, family/carer responsibilities and personality. These factors influence the unique perspectives that our employees bring to the workplace. Our people should feel safe and empowered to bring their whole selves to work every day. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 26 The table below summarises objectives and approaches within our inclusion and diversity strategy. Inclusion and diversity strategy goal: Equality is a business and cultural norm Objectives Employee Customers Community Foster an inclusive culture Use diversity to achieve high Ensure Dexus’s population is Recognise the unique needs of performing culture demographically diverse and employees Differentiate Dexus from reflects the communities we competitors operate Empower employees to use diverse talents Enable delivery of outstanding results and service Management Approach Dimensions Levers Processes Gender identity Talent pipeline Research, understanding, debate Caring responsibilities Pay equity Events, campaigns, awareness Ethnicity and culture Leadership raising Sexual orientation Inclusive culture Policies, procedures, programs and training Age and generation Recruitment Workforce and recruiting Indigenous culture Training and development Customer and supply chain Person with a disability Job design and flexible workforce Public commitment Strategies, policies and procedures Measurement and monitoring The table below describes initiatives in our workplace that enhance inclusion and assist our employees to maintain the work-life balance that works best for them. Initiative Description Gender equality and pay parity Male Champions of Change Darren Steinberg, Dexus Chief Executive Officer, champions gender equity within the property industry as part of the Male Champions of Change program. Darren is actively involved with other property CEOs to drive gender equality and increase female representation at senior levels. Dexus is encouraging gender balanced forums and panels for internal and external events, as well as encouraging Dexus’s external partners, suppliers and conference organisers to adopt Dexus’s approach. Gender diversity targets Dexus’s diversity commitment includes establishing measurable diversity objectives. Dexus has set a gender equity target of 40:40:20 (40% female, 40% male and 20% any gender) in senior and executive management roles by 30 June 2021. Pay parity Dexus closely monitors remuneration across its workforce with a view to achieving and maintaining pay parity in like-for-like roles. Paid parental leave Dexus provides paid parental leave for both primary and non-primary carers in addition to statutory entitlements (regardless of gender). Dexus also ensures continuity of superannuation throughout unpaid parental leave. Dexus provides a Return to Work Program to support employees transitioning from parenting to work, either part-time or full-time. Paid parental leave entitlements are available to eligible employees regardless of gender. Dexus recognises the gender imbalance with regard to traditional caring responsibilities and actively encourages its male employees to access paid parental leave entitlements. All parental leave benefits exceed statutory minimums and are available to eligible employees regardless of whether they are also eligible for government-issued benefits. Girls in Property Dexus launched ‘Building a Future in Property’, a property career expo targeting women interested in working for the property industry alongside industry peers. Dexus supported the Property Council of Australia’s campaign to raise awareness and encourage greater female participation in the property industry to foster a sustainable pipeline of talent for the growing industry. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 27 Initiative Description Inclusion Wellbeing communities Internally, Dexus has established three Wellbeing Communities (Grow, Give and Thrive) to research, elect and implement employee programs. Harmony Day Dexus celebrates cultural diversity on Harmony Day which coincides with the United Nations International Day for the Elimination of Racial Discrimination. NAIDOC Week NAIDOC Week is celebrated annually to remember and recognise the history, culture and achievements of Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander people. Dexus participates in the Share-A-Book program where books are donated to indigenous, refugee and marginalised communities. Employee assistance Flexible working Dexus strives to create a work environment which encourages and promotes a healthy work-life balance and offers flexible working hours to support this. Dexus has introduced a Flexible Work Policy, enabling employees to arrange flexible working arrangements with their manager. This policy seeks to increase personal wellbeing and employee engagement, improve team performance and motivation, maximise productivity and retain talent. Underpinning our commitment to workplace gender equality are formal policies including Dexus’s My Personal Flexibility Plan, which gives each employee the flexibility to choose their place of work that best supports their productivity, and records employees’ flexibility goals in their individual annual performance scorecards. Childcare placement Childspace is an industry first initiative that offers priority of access to childcare spaces for Dexus customers and employees at over 90 Guardian Early Learning Centres nationally. Acting on domestic violence Dexus promotes awareness of domestic violence and its impacts on victims’ health and safety, their wellbeing and their productivity. Dexus has introduced a Domestic Violence Leave Policy to provide Domestic Violence leave as well as the Employee Assistance Program to employees who need help to break these patterns of behaviour. Dexus supports White Ribbon Day, the International Day for the Elimination of Violence against Women. Employee assistance program Dexus provides a confidential counselling service for employees and their eligible family members. Employee health and safety Our Work Health, Safety and Liability (WHS&L) policy governs the health and safety of employees, investors, customers and the community. The policy governs the development, management and monitoring of tailored WHS&L risk management systems, training of personnel, and designation of responsibilities and resources to meet program obligations. It also governs the group’s Return to Work policy for injured employees, in addition to monitoring, evaluation and reporting of our WHS&L performance. We implement a comprehensive workplace health and safety program that is certified under OHSAS 18001, an internationally applied standard for occupational health and safety management systems. Through this system, we comprehensively monitor the health and wellbeing of employees and manage solutions to prevent workplace incidents. Our support goes beyond minimum compliance and reflects the group’s commitment to employee wellbeing (see Employee wellbeing section below). The Dexus Workplace Health, Safety & Environment (WHS&E) Committee is open to all employees and functions to: champion health and safety initiatives in the workplace ensure Dexus workers are represented in health and safety matters facilitate co-operation in instigating, developing and carrying out measures to improve the health and safety of workers assist in the ongoing development of safety standards, rules and procedures consider and address findings from health and safety audits or monitoring reports We ensure all of our employees are provided with adequate information, instruction and training to perform their job safely. All Dexus employees undertake the Dexus WHS&E induction upon commencement of employment. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 28 Our People & Communities team maintain a record of employee attendance and ensures that employees can access the Dexus Employee Handbook. The WHS&E representatives, Risk team, and People & Communities team identify all additional WHS&E competencies for the organisation and assign training to employees as required. The People & Communities team assists our employees in maintaining a training plan that is documented in each employee’s performance management process and reviewed twice per year. Additional WHS&E training responsibilities are assigned to employees with regard to: WHS&E competency requirements of existing policies and procedures WHS&E competency requirements of safe work practices levels of risk associated with work roles specific licensing requirements (if any) any industry qualifications that may be required to carry out particular tasks Our Readinow data management system provides a single source of truth for employee incident reporting, risk and compliance information. Employee health and safety is also supported by our Periskope risk management database, which contains information on property-related risk assessments, processes, manuals and audit information. Health and safety programs are subject to annual external audit and improvement plans are monitored by the Risk team and the employee Work Health Safety and Environment Committee. Health, Safety and Environment risk management are also overseen by the Board Risk Committee and the Board. To maintain our strong risk, safety and organisational culture we have embedded WHS&E into the Group scorecard through a safety audit score and we maintain a standing target of zero fatalities. Employee wellbeing We recognise the impact a person’s time at work can have on their lifestyle and we aspire for our people to be fit, healthy and engaged. To make a positive and lasting impact on our employees’ lives, we established employee wellbeing communities to create positive connections in the workspace by: Developing healthier minds and bodies Creating an inclusive and diverse culture Building sustainable workspaces for the future Enhancing professional capabilities The Wellbeing Community Framework is centred around wellbeing communities led by people from across Dexus. There are three Wellbeing Communities: Grow – focusing on professional development, employee benefits and recognition Thrive – focusing on employee wellness and social cohesion Give – focusing on employee participation in community contribution and volunteering initiatives. Wellbeing community members coordinate many initiatives including Wellbeing Month and National Safe Work Month, dedicated to promoting wellbeing and safety respectively in the workplace. We report on activities and programs delivered by our Wellbeing Communities in our annual Sustainability Performance Pack. The Wellbeing Communities created #chatdexus as an interactive online platform on the Dexus intranet enabling employees to collaborate, share ideas, knowledge and tips in an open forum. The platform provides: An efficient and strong platform to engage with the business A channel through which employees can connect with each other and across all locations An increased awareness of group-wide initiatives, promote successes and increase interest in Wellbeing Communities. Professional development At Dexus we take a blended learning approach, recognising that the best learning comes from a variety of methods: Experience learning through doing Exposure learning through others Education formal learning such as classroom sessions and online learning 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 29 We design and implement a comprehensive learning and development curriculum to build employees’ skills, knowledge and experience to deliver business objectives. The Training and Education Policy outlines the framework for training employees with a focus on strategic training needs that Dexus has identified: Ensuring that employees maintain the necessary knowledge, skills and experience required to perform their job functions and responsibilities fairly, honestly and efficiently Developing new knowledge and skills to foster innovation and to grow employees’ capabilities Updating knowledge and skills for changes to legislation, regulatory policies and standards, company policies and procedures, economic and financial developments, new products and new market practices Ensuring compliance with relevant industry training standards and qualifications Increasing awareness of our Compliance policies and expectations relating to ethics and integrity Managers undertake skills gap assessments for each employee to ensure they have the necessary capacity, competence, knowledge, training, seniority and skills to perform their role. Employees work with their managers to prepare and implement individual training plans to maintain and update employee skills and knowledge. Activities include executive coaching, a mentoring program, study assistance and a talent management process designed to foster employee development. Training activities also extend to developing the capabilities of the group’s partner providers, including onsite training of facilities management teams in the operation of enhanced building management systems and customer service. Leadership development We conduct leadership development programs to enhance the capabilities of management and to drive commercial and cultural change. Our leadership program includes individualised development plans that target improvement in specific behaviours, skills and knowledge, along with experiences to enable success in the leadership role. An online performance management system is used to manage and improve leadership abilities of managers and facilitate employee self-development. People managers participate in Dexus Management Essentials which equips new leaders to meet team leadership and role responsibility challenges. Directors attend facilitated education and training events to meet their Continuing Professional Development requirements and contribute to their obligations set by the Australian Institute of Company Directors (AICD). Employee attraction and retention Attraction, engagement and retention of employees is an integrated and continuous process. The GMC implements the talent management process and the Board People & Remuneration Committee oversees this process. Our recruitment model incorporates the following aspects: Promoting opportunities internally first to aid career development and retention Utilising advanced recruitment technology to support an enhanced best practice recruitment process Operating a careers website to capture talent pools for key job segments. This model provides an efficient way to access a diverse range of talent pools, enabling the group to attract the best people effectively. Employees who are moving on from Dexus may be eligible for Directioneering, which is a career transitions program that assists with exploring career options and supports them through implementation. The program has five levels of career transition tailored to provide appropriate support for the individual. Performance management Employees undertake ongoing check-ins with their managers to: Evaluate progress against targets and objectives Agree with their manager on targets and objectives Agree on a personal development plan Discuss personal flexibility needs We adopt a Balanced Scorecard methodology to manage executive and employee performance. These measure contribution and achievements against threshold, stretch and outperformance targets. Scorecards also motivate all leaders and employees to strive for outperformance within their teams. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 30 Key performance indicators (KPIs) are agreed with each employee in collaboration with their manager, to provide a measurable yardstick against actual performance. KPIs vary for each employee depending on their role. However, all employees’ KPIs include a subset which aligns with organisational goals and values. Teams develop scorecards of objectives with associated measures to align with the overall company objectives. The Team scorecards are monitored and updated as priorities change. Reward and recognition We recognise and reward employees who contribute to the success and growth of the group. Our remuneration structure is based on: Market competitiveness Alignment of performance payments with the achievement of financial and operational objectives that support the group’s risk framework and values-based culture A targeted mix of remuneration components including immediate performance payments and deferred performance payments linked to returns over the longer term The Board People & Remuneration Committee reviews trends in employee reward structures and strategies in other comparable companies. The annual employee remuneration review considers gender pay gaps to maintain gender pay equity. All Dexus employees are employed in Australia and are paid above the Australian minimum wage. Freedom of association and collective bargaining Dexus employees are employed under individual contracts which comply with the National Employment Standards (NES). All employees are covered by the conditions of an Award or of the NES. Dexus places its employees on an individual agreement, which cannot under legislation, remove any rights an employee has under an award for NES. These awards or standards clearly indicate the all employees are free to associate, and as per the Dexus Human Rights Policy we do not engage in any practices that discourage freedom of association nor collective bargaining. Human rights Dexus’s Human Rights Policy outlines commitments to sustainable procurement, indigenous rights, equal opportunity and relevant legislation. Dexus reviews and monitors human rights against the policy internally and with key service providers and business partners. The Dexus People & Communities team use a human rights due diligence process including an identity and visa status check during the recruitment process. Any material issues such as a candidate’s inability to evidence their right to work will lead to the abandonment of potential employment. All Dexus employees earn wages above Australian legal minimums and are free to associate and enter into collective bargaining agreements. We uphold human rights in our workplace through: building an inclusive and diverse workplace that is free from discrimination, bullying and harassment, and that offers equal opportunity in career advancement providing leave entitlements and other benefits enabling employees to enjoy the right to family, recreation and work-life balance focusing on employee health and safety through risk management and wellbeing initiatives Other focus areas identified by the People & Communities in recent human rights assessments include: addressing the gap in superannuation to women due to taking parental leave reviewing policies and support systems available to employees suffering from domestic violence providing services and support systems to employees experiencing mental health concerns. Dexus conducts exit surveys for staff that leave the business. The surveys help Dexus determine whether organisational culture or human rights considerations contributed to an employee’s departure. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 31 3.3 Evaluation and continuous improvement We regularly evaluate our group strategy and employ several mechanisms to monitor performance against strategic objectives, report progress to the GMC, and drive continuous improvements. The table below specifies key performance indicators that we use to gauge employee culture, engagement and related themes Material issue KPI Impact Talent attraction Workforce use of flexible working Enhanced employee satisfaction and retention Stronger employee retention Reduced turnover costs Reduced incidence of Employee NPS discrimination/harassment Culture index Enhanced discretionary effort Stronger business ethics Proportion of roles filled internally Reduced turnover costs Turnover Inclusion and Proportion of female senior management Enhanced decision-making Diversity Proportion of female board of directors Reduced turnover costs Reduced incidence of WGEA Employer of Choice discrimination/harassment Performance in industry benchmarks Employee demographics Workforce perception of inclusiveness Equal Gender pay gap in like-for-like roles Enhanced employee satisfaction remuneration Stronger employee retention Reduced turnover costs Human capital Employees with performance reviews Enhanced discretionary effort development Stronger employee retention Reduced turnover costs Participation in training programs Enhanced employee capabilities Health, safety and WH&S metrics (e.g. lost time injury frequency Healthier employees security rate, medical treatment injury frequency rate, Reduced incidence of injury fatalities) Lower absenteeism Reduced costs associated with workplace injury Human rights Proportion of employees and operations Enhanced employee retention assessed for human rights Compliance with local and international laws Discrimination, harassment and other code of and conventions conduct breaches 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 32 4 Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities Disclosure on Management Approach Creating value through strong, enduring relationships with our customers, local communities and suppliers. Dexus owns and manages a diverse Australian property portfolio including office, industrial, retail and healthcare properties, comprising more than 5,000 customers. Our customers vary in size from small businesses to major corporate and government organisations including: Listed and privately held companies in the fields of banking, property management, insurance, legal, transport and logistics, retailing, telecommunications and mining State and federal government agencies that require minimum building performance standards Small to medium enterprises including accountants and consultants Major supermarkets and department stores Media and entertainment cinema operators Small independent retailers, cafes and restaurants Our most material customer-related issues are: Market volatility: Market volatility risks affecting retail, office and industrial leasing including balancing supply and demand and absorption of new spaces, which may affect leasing terms, rents and vacancy rates Customer attraction and retention: Engagement with customers and the quality of service they receive may impact our ability to attract and retain customers and influence the terms of their lease agreements The boundary for our approach encompasses all customers within the Dexus group portfolio, with impacts felt across their businesses and their employees. We also interact with the broader community where we operate. Our most material community-related issues are: Health, safety and security: we have a duty of care to ensure our properties are safe and deliver healthy environments. We promote health and wellbeing through community programs and activities and in the design of spaces Economic impact on local communities: We are a major stakeholder in the communities where we operate, and contribute to local communities via corporate giving, community collaborations and partnerships, providing local employment opportunities both through development construction and through the occupation by customers of our property, and delivering community infrastructure including creating spaces where the community can interact The boundary for our approach encompasses charitable activities for not-for-profit partners and communities surrounding the properties within the Dexus group portfolio. We report on our supply chain within the value creation outcome of future enabled customers and strong communities. Our Supply Chain DMA is provided at page 40. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 33 4.1 Management framework Several areas of our business, under the leadership of the Dexus Board and Group Management Committee, collaborate to deliver our objectives of Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities. The table below provides insight into the relevant management structure and policy framework. Customers and community management framework Dexus Board (Board) Oversight and approval of targets and general strategies for customer experience and community contribution Group Management Committee (GMC) Ultimate responsibility for alignment of customer experience and community contribution activities with Dexus’s strategy Property Executive Committee Corporate Responsibility, Inclusion and Diversity Management committee with responsibility for overall Committee guidance of effective property management Management committee overseeing community contribution, social enterprise and corporate citizenship strategy Delivery functions Customer | Office Project Management Group | Office Development (including City Retail) | Office and Industrial Property Management | Retail Operations and Development Sponsorship and Events | Marketing | Sustainability | Risk | Compliance Focus areas The Dexus experience Active property management Community contribution Customer strategy Green leasing City partnerships Customer service Wellplace Connecting with local Customer engagement and Occupant health and safety communities satisfaction Property risk management Local job creation Concierge service Property environmental Corporate donations Customer products and services ratings In kind support Property community portals Environmental management Volunteering Customer amenities includingsystem Community event partnerships end-of-trip facilities and wellness Continuous improvement and sponsorships rooms targets Dexus Response Centre Flexible space Dexus Place, SuiteX Community Managers Health and wellbeing services Policies and commitments Work Health, Safety and Liability Statement | Corporate Responsibility Community | Complaints Policy Dexus Customer Promise Key policies guiding employees on managing customer and community issues include: Work Health, Safety and Liability Statement Policy Corporate Responsibility Community Policy Complaints Policy These policies describe our position on appropriate conduct and behaviour relating to health and safety, civic duty, community engagement, volunteering, philanthropy, process to dealing with a genuine grievance or complaint. Refer to our website for publicly available policies. Customer and community objectives We address customer-related material issues through the following objectives: Tracking market volatility and underlying drivers through ongoing research and market analysis Adopting a forward leasing strategy designed to manage volatility and deliver stable investor returns Securing pre-commitment agreements from new customers and rent guarantees from developers in managing risk for new developments Maintaining service excellence to attract and retain high quality customers Delivering the best customer experience in Australian real estate through the Dexus customer promise 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 34 Providing safe and productive working and recreational environments Maximising property operational efficiency to reduce resource usage and waste, while maximising customer safety, comfort and amenity We address community-related material issues through the following objectives: Enhancing community engagement through employee volunteering which assists charities including but not limited to children and young family support, homeless support and land care organisations Supporting charities and community organisations through facilitating events in our office foyers and within retail centres, and raise awareness through community portals Providing safe, productive work and recreation environments, with high standards of occupational, health and safety, security and indoor environment quality Encouraging community wellness by providing access to wellbeing offerings through property amenities, community portals and fitness programs Each year we set, review and update corporate commitments within our responsible investment framework following input from our stakeholders. Refer to the Dexus 2019 Sustainability Performance Pack for details on annual commitments and progress against customer and community priorities. 4.2 Management practices Dexus Customer Promise Our aspiration is to build the world’s best office platform, renowned for customer centricity and consistently outperforming industry benchmarks. We know that our customers are more likely to be satisfied when we listen to their concerns and address their needs. Our customer-centric approach is underpinned by our Customer Promise to: − Listen, understand and respond to customer needs − Make things ‘simple and easy’ − Innovate to enrich the customer experience Our customer promise drives the way in which we operate and contributed to our goal of being a workspace partner of choice. The Dexus experience Listening to our customers, we have curated a range of services that are carefully designed to satisfy the everyday needs and enhance the experience of the people who work in our properties. The services we provide are grouped into the four key pillars of Wellbeing, Convenience, Community and Sustainability. Wellbeing: Offering services and amenities that promote the health and wellbeing of customers through quality end-of-trip facilities, yoga, Pilates and fitness classes. (explained further at ‘Occupant wellbeing’ below) Convenience: Delivering a convenient work experience through five-star concierge, priority access to childcare, transport solutions, simple and easy leases, and access to Dexus Place, a tailored extension of our customers’ work environment that includes meeting, training and conference facilities and bespoke event space supported by state-of-the-art technology Community: Creating customer communities through activations in our office foyers, convenient local shops, and online property community platforms providing workplace news and information, events and retail offerings Sustainability: Working with our customers to achieve energy, water and waste efficiencies for their tenancies along with sustainable fit-out designs Customer and occupant health, safety and wellbeing Dexus implements a safety management system that is certified against OHSAS 18001 to address work health, safety and liability (WHS&L) property risks. Customer involvement is critical for ensuring a safe and productive workplace environment. Dexus engages with customers to identify, assess and mitigate workplace hazards/impacts, review risk processes, introduce or change monitoring procedures and propose changes to premises, work systems, plant or substances used. We believe we have an important role in enhancing the health and wellbeing of our customers both in communities and our value chain. A truly sustainable property integrates environmental and social elements by providing a healthy physical environment. We recognise industry trends towards healthy living and evidence2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 35 based research demonstrating the costs of ill-health to corporate productivity. We have listened to our customers that have identified health and wellbeing as the highest importance to them and their business. Embracing wellness enables us to attract and retain high quality customers and maximise financial performance through high occupancy rates and the ability to set rents that take into account the delivery of products and services across our portfolio. We promote occupant wellbeing by delivering healthy, productive working lifestyles and environments to our customers and their employees and surrounding communities. We actively manage property accessibility, indoor environment (internal temperature, humidity and air quality), acoustics, access to natural light, and overall performance to create comfortable indoor working environments that maximise health and productivity. Through Wellplace, Dexus customers have simple and easy access to a suite of health and wellbeing services, offerings and amenities within the properties and via online community property portals. Wellplace makes it possible for customer of all sizes to offer their employees the same services that have often only been available for large organisations. This includes integrating fitness into office life by providing quality end-of-trip facilities, including bicycle storage and group fitness, yoga and Pilates classes. We apply the following structure to our Wellplace offer: Wellplace Goal: Healthy, enriched, productive customer communities Founding Pillars Key areas of focus Implementation pathways Global health trends Mind Community engagement Property industry trends Body Education and awareness Public health research Nutrition Onsite initiatives Customer feedback Community Industry partnerships Stakeholder consultation Environment Amenities and design Leasing approach We take an active leasing approach to drive portfolio performance and reduce forward lease expiry. Our ‘simple and easy’ lease is designed to simplify negotiations and adopts a common-sense approach centred on creating a partnership with our customers in the execution of the lease. Our portfolio-wide approach to forward leasing provides flexibility to accommodate customers’ needs within the group portfolio, enhancing customer retention and minimising downtime. We play a leading role in developing the Better Building Partnership (BBP) and were instrumental in designing and communicating its green leasing standard and Gold Lease badge which defines a best practice approach for property owners and occupants to collaborate on sustainability initiatives, encourages information sharing and cooperation and removes barriers to implementing mutually agreed improvements over time. The green leasing standard is a world-first, aimed at helping property owners and occupants to benchmark their agreements against others and save on power and water bills. Dexus’s simple and easy lease is Gold Lease rated under the BBP leasing standard, which is the highest level available. This enables an active partnership between Dexus and our customers and seeks to deliver better environmental outcomes and reduce outgoings. Flexible space Our customers are increasingly demanding flexibility in their workplace. Our customer solutions that embrace these demands include: Dexus Place: Purpose built, state-of-the art meeting, training, conference and research facilities designed to be an extension of customers’ workspace and provide a more cost-effective way to connect SuiteX: A flexible workspace that provides greater flexibility in tenure (through a short-term lease) and space with modular design enabling businesses to quickly scale up or down and for Dexus to reuse the fitouts, achieving cost efficiencies Meeting customers’ sustainability needs through active property management We actively manage the environmental performance of our properties and target continuous improvement to reduce energy and water consumption and carbon emissions and provide optimal working environments. This assists our customers in meeting their own sustainability objectives and priorities by providing workplaces that are designed and operate to the highest sustainability standards. Customers directly benefit via reduced costs from resource consumption efficiencies and productivity improvements from healthier working environments. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 36 We selectively rate new developments against the Green Building Council of Australia’s (GBCA) Green Star Design & As Built rating tool and continue to present Green Star opportunities to all pre-lease construction opportunities. Operational performance is benchmarked using NABERS and Green Star Performance ratings schemes. Specialist systems support the identification and rectification of issues in building mechanical systems to help maintain optimal property performance. Refurbishments consider energy efficiency and the environmental impacts of products and services. We engage with customers on sustainability upgrades in properties and how they can achieve efficiencies in their tenancies. We provide fit-out guides that encourage the use of sustainable products and whole life costings. Health and safety of customers and communities at Dexus properties Customer involvement is critical for ensuring a safe and productive workplace environment. We engage with our customers to identify, assess and mitigate workplace hazards/impacts, review risk processes, introduce or change monitoring procedures and propose changes to premises, work systems, plant or substances used. Local community contribution and engagement Local community contribution and engagement at our operational assets is focused on enduring our properties support the prosperity, cohesion and wellbeing of the communities in which they are located. We actively support local communities through: Community engagement: Corporate giving including donations, sponsorships, event partnerships, inkind support and volunteering Connecting with local communities: Connecting with customers and communities across our retail centres, collaborating with local councils, chambers of commerce and industry groups on community issues Community hubs: Creating community hubs for work and recreation at our sub-regional shopping centres and across the city retail precincts which are connected to CBD office properties Community safety: Interacting with local authorities and the community to proactively maintain safe precincts. Retail centre management works with at-risk youth through local youth groups and schools to take steps towards building safer communities Community investment: Consulting with the community on new developments and refurbishments to address community concerns, and for new developments incorporating features that benefit customers and the community Creating vibrant working environments: Connecting with customers at a property level to make their office and industrial properties and the communities they serve vibrant and safe Activating public spaces: Creating vibrant spaces and experiences, using placemaking to bring the community together Supporting women: Empowering women in the property industry through hosting events within the property community to raise awareness of gender equality and unconscious bias to urge action. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 37 4.3 Evaluation and process improvement Customers We value our customers’ opinions and actively engage to assess customer satisfaction levels, gather feedback on our performance, and gain insights to drive innovation. We have conducted annual customer surveys since 2013 to understand customer sentiment, drive improvements, and monitor the impact of initiatives. In addition, we invest in a Mystery Shopper program that looks at performance across key public areas to anonymously assess performance across: External appearance including façade, entrances and lobbies, and car parks Interior areas such in lobbies, foyers, seating areas and elevators Interaction with concierge, security and cleaning personnel Property facilities including end of trip, bathrooms, and retail tenancies Detailed insights are gathered which provide valuable, independent feedback to facilities management on the day-to-day experience our customers receive. We use the following key performance indicators to measure the performance of our customer service approach. Annual targets for customer satisfaction and retention drive our leasing and engagement strategies. Objectives by customer KPI measure Impact material issue Customer attraction and retention Deliver exceptional customer Customer satisfaction rating with the Enhanced customer productivity service property manager (1 to 10 scale) Enhanced customer wellbeing Customer satisfaction rating with the Expanded customer base from property customer referrals (1 to 10 scale) Net Promoter Score (NPS) (-100 to +100 scale) Property performance NABERS Energy and water portfolio Reduced outgoings for customers ratings, which are measured on a scale of Enhanced customer wellbeing 0 to 6 stars, as defined within the National Australian Built Environment Ratings Scheme (NABERS) Green Star Performance ratings administered by the Green Building Council of Australia (GBCA) Portfolio customer retention Proportion of customers retained within the Stronger financial returns from rate Dexus portfolio longer leases and reduced Likelihood to renew (1 to 10 scale) downtime between leases Customer engagement on Take up of Green Lease clauses within Reduced outgoings for customers sustainability leases Market volatility Active forward leasing Weighted average lease expiry Stronger financial returns from longer leases and reduced downtime between leases Minimise property vacancy Vacancy rate: vacant area as a proportion Stronger financial returns from of lettable area longer leases and reduced downtime 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 38 Communities The Corporate Responsibility, Inclusion & Diversity Committee (CRID) monitors and manages Dexus’s community engagement programs. CRID reports directly to the Board People and Remuneration Committee and comprises business-wide representatives. The Committee annually reviews the community engagement strategy and maintains regular contact with charity partners. The committee implements the community approach across the business and also sets and tracks performance against annual targets, collating the value and benefit to the community of the corporate responsibility program. We use the following key performance indicators to measure the benefit of our community engagement program. Community contribution KPI measure Impact objective Corporate giving Financial value of cash donations to Direct support for community issues charitable and community organisations Enhanced reputation among communities In-kind contributions Financial value of space provided for use Enhanced connections between our by charitable and community customers and local communities organisations Support for community issues by Financial value of use of awarenessproviding access to customers raising tools such as online portals and lift screens for charitable and community organisations Encourage employee Total community volunteering hours and Enhanced employee engagement and volunteering percentage participation of all Dexus wellbeing employees Enhanced connections between our employees and community organisations 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 39 5 Supply Chain Disclosure on Management Approach Dexus partners with suppliers to achieve operational efficiencies, enhance customer amenity and positive environmental outcomes. Material issues and other focus areas that relate to our supply chain include: Human rights: Sourcing products and services from suppliers that uphold human rights and acceptable labour standards by rejecting child and forced labour and offering acceptable conditions and wages for workers. We are committed to sustainable procurement, indigenous rights, equal opportunity and relevant human rights legislation such as discrimination Anti-competitive behaviour: Ensuring that business dealings promote a competitive marketplace and are free of activities such as collusion, bribery, corruption, price-fixing and standover tactics. An open and transparent tender process underpins our procurement approach. Employees are trained in conflict of interest and anti-bribery to ensure a competitive process that selects suppliers based on merit rather than personal relationships Local suppliers: Working with local suppliers to support local businesses and communities, reduce transport resource use and cost, and provide quality service delivery. We choose from a mix of local and nationwide suppliers using service delivery as the primary criteria. We seek to engage with local suppliers to reduce transportation costs, provide reliable solutions for critical services and to support the communities in which we operate Supply chain management: Creating partnerships that go beyond simple client-supplier relationships to establish deep understanding of each other’s business drivers and create further opportunities for value. We develop long-term partnerships that address sustainability impacts and create shared value. We recognise the central role that suppliers play in optimising asset performance, managing risk and delivering customer amenity The boundary for these issues encompasses all direct suppliers across our group property portfolio with social impacts felt across Dexus, our suppliers and their employees and upstream suppliers, as well as environment impacts. 5.1 Supply chain composition Dexus’s supply chain encompasses a diverse range of products and services which are grouped into categories. All procurement categories are considered however certain commodities are critical and may present a risk to operational continuity, safety or have material environmental impacts. Dexus defines a critical supplier as one whose services are required daily for the normal operation of a building. Critical suppliers are retained on a centralised Preferred Supplier List. Dexus applies a high-level assessment of inherent supply chain sustainability risk for each spend category. The risk assessment is based on existing supplier spend data and the British Standard 8903:2010 Principles and Framework for Procuring Sustainably – Guidance. Dexus classifies its suppliers as follows: Critical – representing areas with a high spend, as well as high potential supply chain sustainability impact Secure – representing areas with a lower comparative spend and representing potential sustainability impacts and should be prioritised Cost driven – representing lower potential sustainability impacts and high spend Acquisition representing lower sustainability impact 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 40 The table below shows Dexus’s main procurement categories and how they are classified. Dexus’s main procurement categories Procurement category Classification Inherent sustainability risk Environmental Social Economic Building operations Cleaning and Waste Management Critical    Facility Managers Secure   Energy Critical   Water Secure  Security Critical   Electrical, mechanical, hydraulic Secure   Lifts Cost driven   Capital Works Critical    Fire protection Secure  Statutory fees and non-controllable Cost driven  expenses Landscaping Secure  Developments Developers and Builders Critical    Façade materials Critical    Building materials locally sourced Cost driven  Building materials internationally sourced Critical   Corporate IT Critical   Events and conferences Secure  Merchandise and promotions Critical   2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 41 5.2 Supply chain management framework We adopt a long-term approach to managing and maintaining supplier relationships through a robust set of business procedures which guide supplier screening, selection and engagement. A suite of policies, principles and performance standards underpin our supply chain approach. The table below outlines our governance structure and approach to supply chain management. Supply chain management framework Dexus Board (Board) Responsibility for approving and overseeing compliance with supply chain policies and statutory disclosures. Board Risk Committee Responsibility for reviewing and overseeing incorporation of suppliers into Dexus risk and compliance frameworks. Property Executive Committee Responsibility for oversight of property-level projects and work health and safety issues, including where projects and issues involve suppliers. Dexus Sustainability Team Dexus Governance, Risk and Dexus/CBRE Facilities Management Modern slavery reporting Compliance Teams teams Supplier assessment and Oversight of modern slavery Operational procurement engagement on modern slavery policies and procedures Supplier due diligence Supplier spend analysis and Providing training to Dexus Supplier contractual monitoring overall risk assessments people about modern slavery Monitoring compliance Investigating whistleblower matters and other grievances Policies Supplier Code of Conduct | Sustainable Procurement | Tendering | Human Rights | Environment Work Health Safety & Liability | Fraud, Corruption and Bribery (Prevention and Awareness) Conflicts of Interest | Development & Construction Dexus Operating Limits | Embargo Implementation practices Procurement Supplier monitoring Business procedures for procurement Rapid Induct contractor management system Category standards, minimum requirements and In-house property risk management system weightings Project Control Group (PCG) meetings and reports Risk and opportunity assessment Spend analysis Supplier engagement Supplier self-assessments Pre-qualification process Contractor spot checks and corrective action plans Tendering process Evaluation against contract KPIs and SLAs Preferred supplier panel Our Sustainable Procurement Framework helps minimise potential impacts from our upstream supply chain. Sustainable procurement is built into all supplier engagements through requiring supplier compliance with the policies listed in the table above. Refer to our website for publicly available policies. An internal Embargo Policy outlines our approach to managing contractors and service providers that do not meet our performance standards. It identifies the circumstances in which a contractor or service provider will be placed on the Embargo List. Should we determine to place a supplier on the Embargo List, we will not engage with that contractor or service provider until the issues of concern have been appropriately addressed. The Embargo List is updated on an ongoing basis. Supply chain objectives We aspire to and dedicate focus towards using our aggregate spend to positively influence our suppliers, contractors, products, services and workers. We take a long-term view to partner with our suppliers to achieve quality service by: Fostering a ‘no harm’ safe workplace with zero fatalities target, and establishing robust safety compliance systems Monitoring performance through regular engagement, reporting against contract key performance indicators and supported by regular contractor spot checks for service providers at each Dexus managed property 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 42 Engaging with suppliers through self-assessments to gain a comprehensive insight into their relationship with us through 360-degree feedback, how they manage their own sustainability risks and those for their most significant suppliers In addition, we seek to collaborate with suppliers to address human rights and modern slavery risks across our supply chain, through enhanced due diligence, risk profiling and supported by assessments. 5.3 Supply chain management practices As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact and the United Nations-supported Principles of Responsible Investment (PRI), we manage our supply chain to account for human rights, environmental, social and economic factors in its purchasing decisions. We rationalise suppliers where possible by identifying partners that can best meet our needs and optimise their engagement across our portfolio. This leads to fewer suppliers and closer relationships with our business and a greater alignment of interest. It also presents a greater opportunity to embed our sustainability approach with suppliers. General supply chain management priorities Our corporate supply chain goals are to: Maintain an efficient procurement process operating under sound governance that achieves the best value for money, meets business requirements and delivers financial and sustainability outcomes based on a whole of life costing Identify key risks and opportunities particularly in high value, high impact contracts and improve the overall impacts of the products and services we procure Mandate that suppliers abide by all minimum standards and laws in the countries in which they operate Maintain safe workplaces in line with our goal for ‘no harm’, safe work environments with zero fatalities Treat suppliers and contractors fairly, with respect and dignity demonstrating probity, equity and transparency Continue to develop and manage relationships with suppliers and contractors to encourage them to promote a best practice approach to employment practices, social outcomes and the environment Challenge suppliers to deliver tangible, innovative and sustainable solutions that deliver mutually beneficial outcomes Continue to assess each contract’s merits against a set of sustainability principles and ensure environmental and social impacts are assessed in line with our policies and objectives, emerging best practice and industry standards Ensure prospective and new suppliers understand sustainability-related contract criteria and requirements Mandate that all suppliers acknowledge and abide by the Dexus Supplier Code of Conduct Maintain sustainable procurement capability by engaging and upskilling employees and implementing sustainable procurement training for procurement and contract managers Collaborate with suppliers and seek feedback as part of contract management Where appropriate, increase the purchase of products that support community base charities, are carbon neutral or have a lower carbon footprint, are more efficient or meet internationally recognised sustainability performance standards Where appropriate, partner or encourage supplier participation in community engagement and with our philanthropic activities Understanding supply chain sustainability risk exposure We conduct a periodic group-wide supply chain sustainability risk assessment to identify and categorise the supply chain risks relevant to our geographical operations and the types of products and services it procures. The assessment involves the following staged process to assess the most relevant supply chain issues. 1. Contextual environment, social and governance (ESG) factors are reviewed against emerging trends and issues. These are mapped against our procurement categories to identify the inherent ESG risks that may apply to Dexus 2. Supplier categories with significant inherent risk are analysed against our material ESG issues to assess each in terms of their relevant inherent risk. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 43 3. Inherent risk hotspots are evaluated and ranked within a matrix according to their level of inherent risk. Supply Chain Risk Management Process 1. Establishing Context Internal Drivers External Drivers e.g. sustainability approach, risk management framework, e.g. legislation, regulation, and societal sentiment code of conduct, and spend analysis 2.Risk Assessment Risk Identification Risk Analysis Risk Evaluation Lifecycle of a Based on contextual Mapped against Dexus Procurement categories project factors e.g. country of material ESG issues ranked by inherent risk origin, skill requirements, rating Due diligence and use of hazardous Review against supplier assessment materials or substances spend analysis Material issue hotspots actions mapped by procurement category 3. Risk Treatment Supply chain engagement and monitoring informed by risk rating e.g. contract KPIs/SLAs, performance meetings, supplier self-assessment The outcome of the risk assessment is a risk matrix of sustainability risk exposures across each of our major supply chain categories. The matrix informs procurement processes and sustainability ambitions, including specification of requirements, and questions during tendering and the screening of suppliers. In addition, the matrix is referenced for establishing contract key performance indicators (KPIs) and the adoption of best practice sustainability management and monitoring over the lifecycle of the project. We conduct an annual supplier spend analysis to prioritise a list of suppliers based on the category-level assessment. Together, the supplier spend analysis and supplier category risk assessment direct ongoing engagement with suppliers through due diligence and verification activities (monitoring and engagement). 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 44 Managing supply chain across the lifecycle of a project Our staged procurement and contract management process optimises performance and supplier service levels, manages risk, maintains symbiotic supplier relationships and realise shared value. The overall risk rating for the procurement category and spend details the extent to which due diligence and supplier monitoring is undertaken. The table below details key aspects of this process with reference to supplier engagement over a project lifecycle. Project stage Due diligence actions Assessment actions 0. Supply chain ­ Periodic risk assessment sustainability risk conducted in accordance with our assessment and spend Risk Management Framework to analysis evaluate our procurement categories against external contextual factors. ­ Procurement categories are ranked by inherent risks material to Dexus to inform procurement and supply chain monitoring activities 1. Project is proposed ­ Project owners follow procurement ­ Internal audit of Operating Limits procedures to develop and present a Policy project business case to decision makers ­ Project assigned risk level in accordance with Tendering and Operating Limits Policies ­ Articulate project sustainability goals 2. Project is approved ­ Project owners: a) procure services ­ Internal audit of Operating Limits directly within agreed limits and preferred Policy panel, or b) work with our procurement team to procure major services via formal tender 3. Quotes obtained or ­ Business units work with our procurement formal tender is issued team to issue project brief to service providers ­ Service providers may be pre-qualified and selected on our preferred supplier panel ­ Sustainability prequalification criteria specified 4. Service provider is ­ Sustainability track record, as well as risks selected and opportunities are evaluated during a rigorous and structured screening and ranking of suppliers, using a balanced scorecard ­ We conduct financial due diligence to establish that a company is viable and can perform the tasks required ­ Assessing a company's capability to perform by reviewing its track record, and seeking feedback from references 5. Service provided is ­ We review proposed services to confirm appointed fair value upfront and avoid later uplift ­ Service providers contractually agree to the Dexus Sustainable Procurement Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct 6. Service is undertaken ­ Contractor management systems track on-site contractor activity and ensure contractors maintain licences and insurances ­ Project Control Group (PCG) holds regular meetings between Dexus and suppliers and receive progress reports 7. Service is monitored ­ Our procurement team monitors supplier ­ We conduct site-level contractor performance through site feedback, spot checks to evaluate performance and develop 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 45 regular performance meetings and corrective action plans where tracking against project KPIs required ­ Evaluation against contract KPIs and SLAs ­ Suppliers periodically complete a self-assessment to provide us with insights into their businessrelated sustainability issues and gather feedback on its performance as a partner 8. Project completion ­ We evaluate the effectiveness and value ­ Suppliers periodically complete a for money as part of retaining service self-assessment to provide us providers with insights into their business­ We conduct period spend analysis to related sustainability issues and maintain a current view of critical suppliers gather feedback on its and commodities performance as a partner Tender documentation and service agreements integrate sustainability policies and key performance indicators. Dexus communicates its expectations and environmental, social and governance (ESG) requirements to all suppliers and requires each one to operate in line with a Supplier Code of Conduct as well as understand Dexus’s procurement requirements and commitments outlined in its Sustainable Procurement Policy and Human Rights Policy. With each supplier engagement Dexus seeks to ensure that investment considerations: Address impact on supply chains and adhere to Dexus’s Supplier Code of Conduct including materials, contractors, consultants and other professional services. Are in line with recognised and accepted local labour and employment practices where that investment results in employment or engagement of suppliers, contractors and professional service providers Specific standards regarding ESG are agreed with contractors based on the prepared design brief. All work carried out must comply with the brief. We prioritise supplier engagements based on the commodity/service involved, the size of the contract, supplier values and its criticality to business continuity. A supplier assessment process takes into account labour practices, social, environmental and human rights issues. Suppliers are encouraged to work with us to reduce carbon emissions, adopt sound environmental principles, manage their people ethically, drive positive supplier relationships and consider the impacts of their activities on the communities in which they operate. Ongoing data collection and performance analysis provides a benchmark for site teams that oversee supplier services. This provides valuable insights on how performance trends vary over time and across sites. This data is used as an input into initial reviews of supplier contracts and periodic reviews of our panel of preferred suppliers. Addressing modern slavery risk in our supply chain Dexus’s Sustainable Procurement Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct requires all suppliers in our supply chain to comply with our Human Rights Policy. The Human Rights Policy explicitly states Dexus’s commitment to support internationally recognised human rights, including everyone’s right to be free from slavery. We have worked with our suppliers to understand modern slavery risk and prepare for the reporting requirements of the Australian Modern Slavery Act 2018. Requirements related to identifying, understanding and mitigating modern slavery risk are included in supplier contractual documentation and returnable schedules. We conduct due diligence on suppliers throughout all phases of our engagement with them to understand human rights risk exposure and any potential breaches. We understand that our supply chain extends beyond the suppliers with whom we have a direct contractual relationship and we are committed to working with our suppliers to assess and address human rights risks in their supply chains, including where these supply chains extend outside of Australia. We have put processes in place to connect with individuals across our supply chain and establish opportunities for individuals at risk to identify and escalate concerns. We maintain grievance and whistleblower mechanisms (refer to the Sustained Value DMA in this DMA series) for stakeholders to safely, confidently and anonymously raise concerns about modern slavery in our supply chain. We have collaborated with industry peers through the Property Council of Australia (PCA) to develop a common supplier due diligence questionnaire that can be used across the industry to assess supplier modern slavery risk and enhance industry practice. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 46 When it comes to our attention that an individual in our supply chain may be impacted by modern slavery, we commit to investigate the matter and to take appropriate action to mitigate the modern slavery risk that was identified. The appropriate action will depend on whether we have caused the impact, contributed to the impact, or are linked to the impact through our business relationships. In all cases, our focus will be on mitigating the risk to the individual(s), experiencing the impact and using our leverage to foster continuous improvement. Procurement procedures Our procurement procedures outline the buying process for the Dexus Office & Industrial, Retail and Corporate divisions, and by authorised third party property managers. The procedures accompany the Dexus Operating Limits, Conflicts of Interest and Tendering policies. The procedures ensure that: Service providers are engaged based on merit Conflicts of interests are appropriately identified and managed Our interests are legally protected (including the avoidance of fraudulent transactions) and Our insurances are not compromised An important step in this process is engaging with suppliers to evaluate the effectiveness of Dexus’s sustainable procurement policies and supplier relationship management practices. Tender process Our tender process ensures that service providers are chosen based on merit and capacity to deliver works and services. The number of organisations invited to tender varies taking into account a project’s size, complexity and procurement guidelines. We are committed to a transparent and competitive tendering process. The process is subject to detailed monitoring and oversight. A Project Control Group (PCG) is established for high value projects. The PCG includes appropriately qualified representatives from Dexus, co-owners and senior representatives of the core service providers and contractors or consultants, for example builders, architect, project manager or leasing agents. Employee responsibilities and training Our employees receive periodic training on procurement best practices as well as property-related products, services and requirements. This provides them with the required skills and industry knowledge to appropriately select and appoint service providers. All employees with responsibility for selecting, appointing and monitoring service providers must ensure performance and compliance with contractual agreements via standard contract templates. Supplier monitoring and relationship management We monitor the performance of major contracts through: Regular performance review meetings with site teams that assess performance against KPIs High level performance reviews that occur at least half yearly and incorporate formal feedback from internal stakeholders Site and corporate team feedback, which is discussed with suppliers to directly manage exceptions against performance expectations Service agreements set out the level and frequency of monitoring. Suppliers must perform an appropriate level of monitoring, which may include a combination of physical monitoring of activities and performance reports. Contractor health and safety Dexus recognises its duty of care to manage any work health and safety risks across its managed property portfolio, including activities of its suppliers or contractors. Dexus’s Workplace Health, Safety and Liability (WHS&L) statement outlines how Dexus manages property risks. It states the group’s commitment to maintaining safe properties, working with stakeholders to manage hazards, risks and continuous monitoring. Dexus implements a safety management system that is certified against OHSAS 18001 to address WHS&L risks across the portfolio. Dexus uses a third-party tool across all Dexus managed properties to monitor contractor WHS management systems and manage compliance of contractors regarding insurance, WHS and inductions. The Dexus Work Health Safety & Liability Manual sets out a consistent approach for contractor management across our portfolio. We focus on contractor health and safety at our sites through: Delivering Dexus Contractor Induction and site-specific inductions that confirm contractor qualifications and make them aware of site-specific risks and procedures before work commences 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 47 Ensuring contractors are using the contractor management system and that they have supplied current documentation (e.g. contractors’ licences, insurance certificates, Safe Work Method Statements, WHS Plans) Confirming that contractors correctly use the forms and permits relevant to their activities Consulting with contractors on WHS activities through ‘tool-box talks’ or using the Health & Safety meeting agenda available in Dexus’s safety management system Reviewing contractor health and safety performance through conducting regular contractor spot checks, which are to be conducted across all properties at least monthly, with at least one annual spot check conducted for each contractor Grievance mechanism Feedback from or about a contractor that becomes a formal grievance is addressed through Dexus’s Complaints Policy. Further details are available in the Sustained Value DMA within this DMA series. 5.4 Evaluation and process improvement Our procurement process is subject to ongoing, risk-based auditing and monitoring via the Risk team and Compliance team. Potential breaches of procedures are investigated and may result in disciplinary action if substantiated. Our operational teams monitor procurement activity to evaluate the value that is being delivered to our business, as well as identify and address environmental, social and governance risks within tier 1 suppliers (i.e. our direct suppliers). We measure our success in effective supply chain management in the following ways: Objectives by KPI Impact material issue Supply chain management and sustainable procurement Maintain value aligned Number of critical suppliers Stronger supplier relationships partnerships Supplier relationship satisfaction score Maintained service continuity (0 to 10) Minimise costs associated with service Supplier net promoter score (-100 to +100) disruptions Value for money Effective service Customer satisfaction survey Customer satisfaction delivery Feedback from customers and/or facility Increased likelihood to renew leading to managers sustained revenue generation Supplier conformance and legal compliance Reduced compliance costs (fines, penalties and breach notices) Achievement of contract KPIs and SLAs Human rights Readiness for Modern Supplier Code of Conduct in contracts Reduced compliance costs associated Slavery legislation Spot checks with human rights Contractor KPIs related to human rights Enhanced reputation through minimal due diligence human rights impacts at Dexus sites Supplier coverage of modern slavery due diligence questionnaire Number of grievances Incidents of non-conformance Fair Working Incidents of non-conformance Conditions Corrective action plans Health, safety and security Maintain a safety Contractor compliance with on-site WH&S Enhanced worker health and wellbeing culture systems Reduced incidence of injury WH&S metrics (e.g. lost time injury Reduced compliance costs associated frequency rate, medical treatment injury with WH&S frequency rate, fatalities) Enhanced reputation through minimal Incidents of non-conformance WH&S impacts at Dexus sites Reduced insurance costs 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 48 6 Enriched Environment We recognise we have a duty of care to our stakeholders: investors, customers, employees, agents and the wider community, to sustain and protect the environment during the management of our property portfolio, and ensure environmental obligations receive equal importance to our commercial and competitive obligations. As a signatory to the United Nations Global Compact, Dexus acknowledges the United Nations Sustainable Development goals (SDGs) advocating for responsible consumption and production of resources, and acknowledge our contribution in promoting greater environmental responsibility. We understand the increasing environmental and social challenges caused by climate-related impacts to the environment and their effects on our communities, and we recognise our role to limit those long-term effects of human-induced climate change in line with the goals of the Paris Climate Agreement. We seek to enhance property portfolio environmental resilience by minimising our greenhouse gas emissions impact, adapting for change through environmentally friendly technologies, and influencing across our value chain. Dexus is committed to transitioning to a low carbon future through the Group’s target to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. The group adopts a holistic, precautionary approach to environmental challenges – from the boardroom to the plant room – to reduce operating costs, enhance property values and improve customer appeal, resulting in enhanced long-term returns for investors together with lower environmental risks. Adopting a sustainable approach to property operations contributes to the following outcomes: Enhanced income through higher rental premiums for sustainable buildings Reduced operations and maintenance costs Improved customer comfort and amenity Enhanced business reputation Improved employee productivity and wellbeing Our material environmental issues include: Energy consumption: Optimising energy usage positively impacts the environment while reducing operating costs and exposures to volatility in energy prices. High performing buildings attract customers and increase occupancy and customer retention. This reduces financial risk, maximises the return on investment and gives customers an environmentally conscious space to occupy Water consumption: Improving water efficiency, onsite water recycling and rainwater harvesting preserves a precious natural resource and reduces utility costs which leads to reductions in outgoings and maintenance costs. These outcomes reduce operational financial risks, improve reputation, help to attract and retain customers and maintain each property’s market competitiveness Climate change impacts: Assessing climate change risks, reducing greenhouse gas emissions and implementing adaptation measures reduces operational and financial risks and assists in maintaining a property’s long-term resilience and competitiveness Waste management: Minimising waste, recycling, and effective waste handling reduces raw material use and avoids environmental and health related hazards associated with sending waste to landfill Biodiversity: Ecosystems and their species perform important biological services. Protecting and enhancing biodiversity provides places for native flora and fauna to reside. Biodiversity contributes to protecting areas from soil erosion and floods, reducing climate change risks, recycling nutrients to boost farming productivity, capturing and retaining water, assisting with controlling pollution as well as providing aesthetic value The boundary for these issues encompasses all properties within the Dexus group portfolio, with impacts felt across occupants and visitors, as well as local communities and habitats. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 49 6.1 Management framework and objectives We have established the following business goals to minimise the overall environmental impact of its operations and guide the development of environmental sustainability practices and initiatives: ­ Achieve high environmental performance standards across Dexus’s group property portfolio ­ Develop properties that are sustainable and minimise resource consumption and environmental impacts ­ Increase stakeholder awareness of the benefits of investing in sustainability and improved building performance ­ Effectively manage environmental risks for community health and wellbeing and to preserve the environment Several areas of our business, under the leadership of the Dexus Board and Group Management Committee, collaborate to deliver these goals. The table below provides insight into the relevant management structure and policy framework. Several policies are publicly available on the Dexus website. Enriched Environment management framework Dexus Board Oversight of the integration of environmental considerations into Dexus’s strategy, risk management and statutory reporting. Board Risk Committee Oversight of the implementation of environmental initiatives to maintain Dexus’s position as a leader in sustainability. Group Risk Committee Oversight of portfolio sustainability initiatives, linking business operations and corporate governance. Dexus/CBRE Strategic Management Committee Retail Operations team Partnership committee across CBRE-managed Team managing property and facility management properties providing oversight on delivery, performance operations across Dexus-managed retail centres team engagement and innovation Enriched Environment delivery Risk and Compliance Corporate Sustainability Office, Industrial and Developments and teams team Retail teams Capital Works team Responsibilities include: Responsibilities include: Responsibilities include: Responsibilities include: Environmental Resource efficiency Building operations New developments management system Employee Asset planning Major refurbishments Climate change risk engagement Customer Customer fit outs Hazardous materials Sustainable engagement and Biodiversity management procurement green leasing assessments Industry engagement Continuous improvement targets Carbon neutrality Oversight of building environmental ratings Policies and systems Environmental Statement | Biodiversity | Work Health Safety & Liability Environmental Management System Environment Statement Dexus’s Environment Statement outlines its commitment to minimising the overall environmental impact of its operations. The statement covers the group’s detailed environmental management system for the property portfolio, including: ­ Managing and monitoring potential risks and opportunities of climate change ­ Identifying and implementing compliance requirements ­ Educating, training and communicating to stakeholders about environmental impacts and commitments ­ Actively developing and promoting initiatives to improve environmental performance Providing transparent monitoring and reporting of environmental performance 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 50 Dexus’s commitments and targets Each year we set, review and update corporate commitments within its responsible investment framework and sustainability approach. In line with a precautionary approach to environmental challenges, we aspire to and dedicate focus towards minimising the overall environmental impact of our operations, in the development, management and refurbishment of properties. We have committed to: Deliver 1,000,000 square metres to a minimum 5 star NABERS Energy rating and 4 star NABERS Water rating across the group’s office portfolio by 2020 Establish new 2025 energy and emissions reduction targets as part of our pathway to net zero emissions by 2030 Consistently demonstrate a resource recovery rate of 80 per cent by 2020 from de-fitting vacated space, actively identifying resources for re-use and increasing waste diversion from landfill Refer to the Dexus Annual Reporting Suite on our website for further disclosure of annual commitments and progress against key priorities. 6.2 Management practices Key actions contributing to Enriched Environment priorities are listed in the table below. Priority Actions Being an innovative, leading Set environmental performance targets for all investments environmental performer Maximise energy and water performance of properties rated under NABERS Outperform industry benchmarks for GHG emissions, waste, indoor environmental quality, transport and social performance Comply with applicable legislation Optimising building environmental Identify opportunities to enhance both environmental and social performance and resilience performance Prepare strategic improvement plans for properties that quantify the ratings enhancement, energy saved and the required investment Being a sustainable developer Incorporate sustainable design within new developments, leveraging best practices tools such as the Green Star rating system Establish minimum energy performance benchmarks through NABERS Commitment Agreements Being a low carbon energy Collaborate with industrial customers to incorporate on-site solar producer electricity generation for new industrial developments Reduce emissions by evaluating and pursuing opportunities to incorporate renewables across existing industrial and retail properties Creating customer environmental Collaborate with customers to improve environmental performance of partnerships Dexus properties and its tenancies through Green Lease clauses, customer and fit-out guidelines, and support Adapting for environmental Assess the impacts of climate change and extreme weather events and resilience address appropriate mitigation and adaptation actions Assess biodiversity risks and opportunities to create a net positive benefit 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 51 Energy and emissions Dexus consumes electricity, natural gas, diesel and solar energy for the operation of its property portfolio and aims to reduce its major emissions sources including electricity, natural gas, diesel, refrigerant leakage and waste to landfill. Refer to Dexus’s online Sustainability Performance Pack for detailed disclosure on current environmental performance. Climate change risk and response Climate change presents a range of risks to the Dexus portfolio and business strategy, including: ­ Direct physical risks to property and infrastructure as a result of extreme weather events such as floods, storms and heatwaves, potentially resulting in significant impacts to operations ­ Indirect physical climate risks where climate events disrupt systems upon which an asset relies (e.g. energy supplies, communications, transport), resulting in impacts on building operations, customers and occupants ­ Transitional risks, such as the potential impacts of technological and market shifts, business model risks, and political decision-making on operational goals for both individual properties and the overall Dexus business The risk to Dexus from the adverse effects of climate change are varied and new information continues to emerge regarding the scale, likelihood and areas that could be impacted. In addition to understanding the physical risks to properties and populations, Dexus, its customers and local communities are also faced with transitional risks including socio-economic effects, resource availability, and health and wellbeing. We seek to enhance property and portfolio climate resilience by minimising our greenhouse gas emissions impact, adapting for change and influencing across our value chain. Dexus is committed to transitioning to a low carbon future through the Group’s target to achieve net-zero greenhouse gas emissions by 2030. Climate resilience strategy Dexus’s climate change resilience strategy involves: 1. Mitigating our impact through decarbonisation, energy efficiency and renewable energy. 2. Adapting to physical and transitional risks relevant to our properties, people and operations, and leveraging climate change-related opportunities. 3. Influencing our value chain by engaging customers and suppliers to reduce climate impacts. Dexus seeks to build the capacity of individuals, communities and systems in and around Dexus properties to adapt and grow with consideration to chronic stresses and acute shocks that may result from the effects of climate change. The table below illustrates Dexus’s climate change resilience pathway: Objective Increased resilience through adaptive buildings and spaces for Dexus’s people, customers and business to prosper long term Mitigation – Avoid the risks Adaptation – Maximise resilience Value creation opportunities Reduce Dexus’s environmental impacts Adapt to climate changes Influence Dexus’s value chain De-carbonisation targets (2020 10% Address physical risks (portfolio Engaging with customers to reduction, 2030 Net Zero, Science risk assessment, property-level adopt a whole building approach Based target) adaptation activities) (Green leasing) Energy efficiency (Capex program, Address transitional risks Adopt a ‘life-cycle approach’ and and building analytics) (economic impact analysis, ‘net zero’ targets in new Resource efficiency (waste recycling, enhance business processes) developments (NABERS and water efficiency targets) Leveraging climate related Green Star commitments) Electrification opportunities Procuring for a low carbon supply chain Onsite and offsite renewable energy Offset remaining emissions 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 52 As part of the management of climate related risks and opportunities, Dexus evaluates climate resilience risks and opportunities across short, medium and long-term time horizons to inform the development of strategy and actions to transition to a low carbon economy in line with the Paris Agreement and SDGs. Time horizons Dexus’s material climate-related priorities across time horizons Short term (0 – 2 years) Medium tern (2 – 7 years) Long term (7 – 15 years) Manage day-to-day risks of Meet energy and emissions reduction Meet Net Zero 2030 target and properties from climate-related 2020 targets long-term investment objectives events Meet interim environmental targets Integrate physical and Manage building operations to towards Dexus’s 2030 net zero and transitional issues in business as minimise energy consumption and science-based emission reduction usual asset planning associated emissions targets Embed climate scenarios to Alignment with the Dexus’s Meet Group Scorecard goals, inform asset planning through frequency of financial and company-wide understanding of Capex and transactions and operational planning and annual sustainability risks, and renewable research team’s long-term budgets energy uptake market outlook Capex adaptation planning, Implementing resource, management and implementation renewable energy and emissions Comprehensive understanding of targets consistent with latest transitional risks and integrating climate science those learnings into strategy and stress testing Climate scenario modelling Dexus has conducted a qualitative and qualitative portfolio-wide assessment of climate change risk, incorporating medium and long-term greenhouse gas emission scenarios (RCP 4.5 and RCP 8.5) from the 5th Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) report as well as climate projections from the CSIRO and the NSW Office of Environment and Heritage (OEH). The RCP 8.5 scenario was chosen to provide us with an indication of high-impact climate-related outcomes, including the magnitude and specific locations where they are likely to occur. A geospatial analysis was conducted to map our properties against their relevant climate-zones and link to the scenario outcomes. Risk exposure was rated for each property using our standard 2-dimensional risk rating matrix, which assesses likelihood and consequence for each type of physical risk. We also reviewed property-specific scenario data including flood maps, and likely frequency and intensity of bushfires and tropical storms to assess each property and identify hotspots in each geographical market. To sense check these results we surveyed facility and operations managers to assess climate vulnerability at their properties. Analysis has informed the overall level of physical risk exposure across all existing properties and geographical hotspots. Data is used to inform future investments and establish mitigation plans for existing investments. Climate resilience is also included as an ’Aspect’ within the Dexus Environmental Management System to provide a structured property risk management process to evaluate vulnerability and develop adaption actions moving forward. High risk properties will undertake site-specific climate change risk assessments to evaluate significant climaterelated vulnerabilities and adaptation actions. Climate change disclosure To enhance disclosure on these impacts, Dexus has publicly committed to adopting the Task Force on Climaterelated Financial Disclosures (TCFD) framework. TCFD provides an effective lens for us to communicate with investors on where direct and indirect risks and opportunities exist, and the action we are taking to address them. To date, we have assessed our alignment with TCFD, and published disclosure within our Sustainability Performance Pack which is available via our website. To further our understanding, we are bringing together teams across Dexus to combine data for new insights. These insights will be used to inform portfolio strategy and to enhance disclosure on our ongoing TCFD journey. Reducing Dexus’s emissions footprint Within Dexus’s annual commitments, Dexus sets continuous improvement targets to drive reductions in energy use, the major contributor to Dexus’s emissions footprint. Dexus is looking beyond its current targets towards a net-zero future in line with current climate science which is advocating significant reductions in emissions to keep global warming under two degrees against a pre-industrial baseline. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 53 Emissions management Our continuous improvement approach to addressing environmental issues includes a focus on reducing energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions. Dexus aims to reduce its greenhouse gas emissions by: Tracking greenhouse gas emissions across the group portfolio and ongoing disclosure of performance Setting continuous improvement targets Conducting ongoing energy management processes and initiatives across operations Implementing energy efficiency and fuel switching projects Generating energy onsite from renewable sources Purchasing accredited, emission-free GreenPower Incorporating environmental performance into new developments and investment decision making Maintaining carbon neutral certification for its corporate operations under the National Carbon Offset Standard via participation in the Australian Carbon Neutrality program Actively participating in industry collaborations including the Global Real Estate Benchmark and Sydneybased Better Buildings Partnership Carbon neutrality We have set a pathway to net zero emissions through energy and resource efficiency, renewable energy and minimal offsets. We are a signatory to the Australian Carbon Neutral program and our corporate head office has been certified as carbon neutral since 2011. In line with the National Carbon Offset Standard, we offset direct emissions from refrigeration and electricity usage and indirect emissions generated by waste to landfill, paper use, airline travel and car mileage for national employees, taxi travel, hire cars and employee commuting. Carbon neutral certification is achieved through assessing our energy consumption and developing an emissions management plan. The plan focuses on reducing waste to landfill, increasing recycling, increasing the use of recycled products, reducing use of consumables and paper and introducing new technologies to reduce energy consumption. Resource efficiency We target continuous improvements in energy and water efficiency, and emissions reduction across the group property portfolio. We use smart meters to validate utility bills, identify consumption and report anomalies. Energy and water sub-metering has been installed in key office properties to deliver incremental efficiencies. We develop Strategic Improvement Plans (SIPs) to maximise operational performance and reduce resource consumption. Our SIPs cover four elements: Strategic building reviews Resource consumption performance Energy and water operational improvements Plant and equipment upgrades Assessing these elements provides a comprehensive view of building performance. This enables us to plan and implement optimum plant and equipment upgrades to maximise energy efficiency and customer comfort. The plans incorporate best practice maintenance and serviceability such as the Property Council of Australia’s quality grade considerations and potential future building code compliance. We implement viable projects identified in the SIPs in conjunction with overall asset planning. Examples of energy efficiency initiatives include: Chiller replacements Upgrades to building management and control systems (BMCS) Mechanical works and retro-commissioning Installation of sub-meters and energy management systems Lighting upgrades ‘Virtual engineer’ building analytics 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 54 Examples of water management initiatives include: Optimising or upgrading cooling towers Use of water efficient appliances including fitting water efficient cisterns and fixtures in bathrooms to enhance water efficiency, and treating wastewater through central blackwater and greywater treatment plants, reducing potable water consumption via the provision of clean recycled water for the washroom flushing system Use of recycled rainwater in toilet facilities to irrigate gardens and decorative plantings We embed sustainability practices within industrial estate masterplanning for new developments and through targeted technology and controls upgrades. Masterplanning initiatives reduce water and energy including the use of solar hot water, rainwater for irrigation and toilets use and native landscaping. We participate in the NSW Energy Savings Scheme and generate Energy Savings Certificates (ESCs) based on demonstration of electricity reductions due to energy efficiency projects. These certificates can be sold at a future date to realise extra funds for use in further building works. We benchmark energy efficiency performance against the leading industry benchmarks, NABERS and Green Star. NABERS provides resource consumption profiles for each property and helps to identify improvements. NABERS Energy and Water ratings are regularly undertaken across the group’s office and retail portfolio. Renewable energy We support the development of renewable energy and distributed energy generation across its portfolio. We purchase accredited GreenPower which is electricity that is certified as renewable and 100 per cent emissions free. We generate on-site energy across several properties, including emission-free solar hot water, solar photovoltaic (PV) and gas-fired cogeneration. Through these initiatives, we seek to harness natural resources and low carbon natural gas to offset grid purchases of high emissions intensity coal-fired electricity production. Waste management We contribute to and adopt the Sydney-based Better Buildings Partnership (BBP) best practice guidelines for operational and strip-out waste management. Operational waste We implement waste management plans for each property. Comprehensive recycling streams are standardised and implemented as part of cleaning and waste services. We also look at other recycling opportunities on a property by property basis, for example recycling of materials removed from the site when it is under development; recycling of demolition material and providing re-usable materials during demolition to local community groups. We collaborate with customers and waste contractors to introduce recycling systems within their tenancies, and offers adhoc services such as electronic waste collection based on customer needs. Contractors also educate customers on recycling practices to maximise the amount of waste that can be diverted from landfill. We report waste tonnage and recycling/diversion rates for office and retail properties in line with best practice guidelines. We include environmental sustainability criteria in tender evaluation processes for the provision of waste services and as a result, waste management and recycling practices are standardised across the portfolio. The tender process considers detailed sustainability capability which forms key performance indicators within the service contract. These enable us to capture relevant data on waste management and recycling. De-fit (strip out) waste In 2015, in partnership with the Sydney-based Better Buildings Partnership (BBP), we trialled enhanced materials recovery processes to improve the recovery rates from a Sydney office property from the current industry average of 20% to up to 80%. This trial highlighted key success factors including developing inventories, structured removal and sorting practices, and establishing downstream materials receivers. We have subsequently set a de-fit recovery target within our corporate commitments and are embedding the guidance from the BBP’s strip out guidelines into de-fit operations. We are expanding our network of receivers and engaging with customers on opportunities to recycle furniture. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 55 Biodiversity Biodiversity risk exposure is reviewed during the due diligence process for new acquisitions and within periodic valuations. Given the location of our developments primarily in urban and brownfield sites, there is limited exposure to biodiversity risks and opportunities for biodiversity enhancement. Risk exposure typically extends to our industrial portfolio where sites may be greenfield or are situated close to waterways. The United Nations has dedicated a Decade on Biodiversity from 2011 to 2020. Australia has set challenging targets under the National Biodiversity Conservation Strategy. We recognise the importance of this national strategy and has developed a Biodiversity Policy and activities in support. Our Biodiversity Policy focuses on protecting and enhancing biodiversity in and around our properties. We aspire to have a net positive impact on biodiversity has applied an approach to avoid, minimise, restore and offset adverse biodiversity impacts within its properties. This includes making buildings and their surrounds a place for native flora and fauna to reside, and a place for people to enjoy. Biodiversity is addressed in conjunction with the Green Building Council of Australia’s Green Star rating tools, to determine if spaces can be created or improved in developments and building upgrades. For its existing properties, we work to create green spaces and enhance species diversity through applicable retrofitting solutions. we do not engage in mining, exploration activities, operate manufacturing sites, or conduct activities that that lead to the extinction of International Union of Conservation of Nature (IUCN) listed endangered species. We recognise that our suppliers can also impact on biodiversity. Dexus’s Supplier Code of Conduct requires suppliers to present us with technological, architectural, or design products or solutions that enhance, protect and retain native biodiversity throughout their supply chain to assist us to achieve our biodiversity objectives. Environmental risk management and hazardous materials We conduct a comprehensive risk audit program to identify, evaluate and mitigate the following risks: Personal health and safety audits: compliance/spot audits, work health and safety risk profile, certification of safety system to international standard OHSAS 18001, Principal Contractor audit, incident investigations Building safety: confined space risk assessment, plant risk assessment, façade audits Environmental: hazardous materials review, initial site audit, site re-inspections Security: security risk assessment, external security review Insurance risk: underwriting assessment We track the audit program via a proprietary online property risk management and auditing tool that enables systematic and rigorous property risk profiling. This provides a single point of access for tools and data and improves the disclosure of due diligence data. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 56 Environmental Management System We maintain an environmental management system, which is certified against international standard ISO 14001:2015. This system and accompanying manual forms an integral part of the Dexus Environmental Management (EM) Program. The EM program has been designed to identify, assess and manage environmental risks across our portfolio, specifically properties under management, developments and transactions, and to promote continual improvement. The Environmental Management program involves the following environmental management approach: Asset acquisition An Initial Status Audit (ISA) details site specific aspects and impacts and is undertaken for all new acquisitions. Initial Status Audit (ISA) and Initial Hazardous Material Audit (if required) An Initial Hazardous Materials Audit (HAZMAT) is undertaken if there is no previous information relating to Asbestos, Synthetic Mineral Fibres Implementation of recommendations to comply with (SMF), Polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) Dexus EM program and lead based paint. Regular Risk Audit (compulsory) and Hazardous Material re-inspection (if required) Environmental aspects considered within the day-to-day activities at our managed properties include: Storage of environmentally hazardous materials Environmentally hazardous materials can have a significant environmental impact if released to the environment Waste generation Management of solid and liquid waste materials requires safe handling and disposal Stormwater discharge Release of contaminants to stormwater may result in the degradation of stormwater quality, with potential subsequent impact on surface waterways Trade waste and wastewater discharge Discharge of wastewater to sewer requires a Trade Waste Agreement. Release of unlicensed discharges to sewer may lead to prosecution Emissions to atmosphere Emissions to atmosphere (such as the discharge from cooling towers and kitchen exhausts, etc.), are managed to meet regulatory standards. We also recognise emissions of ozone depleting substances and refrigerants from air-conditioning and refrigeration Noise emissions Noise and vibration may cause a nuisance to neighbouring properties or customers and give rise to complaints and subsequent prosecution under environmental legislation Site contamination Site contamination can result from loss of materials to soil and groundwater (leakage from underground storage tanks is a common source of soil and groundwater contamination) Climate change The manifestations of climate change include higher temperatures, altered rainfall patterns, and more frequent or intense extreme events such as heatwaves, drought, and storms Energy management Energy management activities aim to reduce energy consumption including electricity, natural gas and diesel to minimise the overall environmental impact of operations. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 57 6.3 Stakeholder collaboration on environmental performance We collaborate across our value chain and conduct ongoing activities to manage and improve environmental performance. Key stakeholders include customers, employees, facility management and suppliers. Customers We collaborate with customers to improve their sustainability performance and awareness through initiatives such as City Switch, a national tenant energy efficiency program. We are both a signatory and a landlord within the program. We aim to drive improvements in customers’ energy efficiency through green building committees and other programs. These programs include involvement in the annual Earth Hour campaign and the National Australian Built Environment Rating System (NABERS) Energy and Water ratings. We undertake initiatives to receive regular, open feedback from our customers. Customer feedback helps to determine the important sustainability issues that keep property performance on the right track. Employees We have established dedicated employee working groups with mechanisms in place to improve engagement on environmental sustainability and drive environmental performance. We also encourage employees to pursue professional development in sustainability, with a number of Dexus’s development managers having achieved Green Star professional accreditation from the Green Building Council of Australia. Facility managers Dexus directly manages more than 90% of the properties within the group portfolio. The remaining co-owned properties are managed either by the co-owners or by a jointly-appointed independent property manager. We engage regularly with co-owners and independent property managers to review their performance against the property management agreements, and to monitor alignment with Dexus’s policies, procedures and KPIs. We work closely with our facility manager partners for directly managed sites which involves day-to-day interaction regarding operations to maximise property performance, deliver customer service and respond to customer needs. We employ dedicated retail management teams across directly managed retail centres. These teams work closely with the retail management team to maximise the performance of each centre within its local community. Suppliers We engage with like-minded suppliers on sustainability issues and practices. We work with preferred property services providers and equipment vendors to select best-of-breed products to maximise environmental performance while meeting performance expectations. We communicate our sustainability expectations to all suppliers through the Dexus Sustainable Procurement Policy and Supplier Code of Conduct and suppliers contractually agree to support these policies. Please refer to the Supply Chain section of this document for further information. 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 58 6.4 Evaluation and continuous improvement Our environmental programs are subject to annual external audit. Improvement plans are monitored by corporate leadership teams and the Risk team. The Board Risk Committee and the Board oversee health, safety and environment issues. Our management reviews performance against its environmental objectives on a quarterly basis. We report on key environment commitments every six months and report comprehensively on all commitments within our Annual Report and Sustainability Performance Pack (available on our website). This is in line with requirements to transparently monitor and report performance as outlined in the Environment Statement. We benchmark energy efficiency performance against the leading industry benchmarks, NABERS and Green Star. NABERS provides resource consumption profiles for each property and helps to identify improvements. NABERS Energy and Water ratings are regularly undertaken across its portfolio. We employ measures to assess ESG performance including: Monitoring consumption patterns Billing data: We record energy and environmental data in a centralised environmental reporting system and facility managers (FMs) receive regular reports that track performance. The FMs are queried about trends that differ from expectations Meter data: FMs use interval and sub-meter data for finer granularity. This data helps identify potential savings projects and confirms the effectiveness of implemented projects SIPs for each asset list all feasible energy/water projects identified from audits and staff/customer suggestions. Facility managers update the SIPs, which then form a basis for future comparison to confirm that estimated savings are realised We conduct measurement and verification on an as needs basis to confirm successful project implementation Monitoring NABERS ratings for energy and water for all eligible properties. These ratings are heavily scrutinised as they form the basis for internal KPIs Participating in investor and industry benchmarking surveys Environmental performance undergoes ongoing review through: Live monitoring of building consumption by Facility Managers Monthly sustainability team meetings involving stakeholders from Dexus and its managing agents Monthly reporting of NABERS ratings activity and tracking of rolling portfolio targets Monthly review of energy and water billing data and investigation into adverse consumption trends Quarterly Board Risk Committee progress updates We measure our success in environmental performance in the following ways: Completion of commitment milestones Achievement of targets Feedback from customers and employees Awards and external recognition Inclusion and rankings within sustainability and leadership indices Benchmarking against leading industry standards such as NABERS and Green Star 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 59 The table below outlines key performance indicators that we use to measure environmental performance. Material issue and objective KPI Impact Energy consumption and Absolute energy consumption (GJ) Reduction in extraction and use of greenhouse gas emissions Absolute scope 1 and 2 greenhouse fossil fuels ­ Reduce like-for-like gas emissions (t. CO2-e) Mitigation of climate change portfolio energy use and greenhouse gas emissions Energy efficiency Energy intensity (MJ/sqm) Better utilisation of natural resources Maximise portfolio energy Reduced energy costs efficiency accounting for portfolio changes Climate change impacts NABERS Energy portfolio star rating Lower greenhouse gas emissions Target Australian best Greenhouse gas emissions intensity through focus on leading performance practice in building energy (kgCO2-e/sqm) Mitigation of climate change and emissions performance Water consumption and NABERS Water portfolio star rating Reduction in use of potable water and efficiency Water consumption intensity better utilisation of water on site Target Australian best (litres/sqm) Reduced water costs practice in building water performance Waste management Waste data coverage = Percentage of Understanding of Dexus waste Maximise data collection total office and retail lettable area with management impacts coverage across office waste data and retail portfolio Waste diversion (%) = total recycled Reduced volumes of waste sent to Increase recycling rate waste / (total recycled waste + waste landfill and associated avoided and reduce the to landfill) greenhouse gas emissions percentage of waste sent to landfill across office Diverted materials available for reuse, and retail portfolio repurposing or recycling, reducing reliance on new raw materials Reduced waste management costs Biodiversity Green Star rating of ecological value Protect and promote local ecology, Net positive impact and credits for new developments enhancing ecosystem productivity and have integrated Landcare volunteering agriculture, and maintaining ecological biodiversity management diversity Biodiversity KPIs / SLA in landscaping within the business contract 2019 Disclosures on Management Approach | dexus.com 60 de>cus GRI Index 2019 A content index supporting the alignment of the Dexus 2019 Annual Reporting Suite with the GRI Standards. 2019 GRI Content Index Dexus referred to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards to determine the 2019 Annual Reporting Suite boundaries for guidance on identifying and reporting its material issues, management approaches and reporting key performance indicators across stakeholder groups including investors, employees, customers, suppliers and the community. Dexus has elected to prepare a GRI report in accordance with GRI Standards (Core) reporting guidelines. This required Dexus to implement the GRI reporting principles to disclosure our approach and performance against a list of standard disclosures as well as specific and sector related disclosures based on the list of Dexus's material topics. Dexus has reported against the two main types of disclosures contained with the GRI Standards with the addition of the G4 Construction and Real Estate Sector Supplement: General Disclosures: Disclosures that set the overall context for understanding Dexus's performance such as strategy, profile, and governance. Material Topic Disclosures: Disclosures on Management Approach and indicators that elicit comparable information on Dexus's economic, environmental and social performance for each material issue. General disclosures Number Disclosure Reference Remarks/Omissions GRI 102: General Disclosures 2016 102–1 Name of the Annual Report, page 4 – About Dexus organization 102–2 Activities, brands, Dexus website Dexus does not produce or sell any products that are products, and services banned in certain markets. 102–3 Location of Dexus website – Contact Level 25, Australia Square, 264 George Street headquarters Sydney NSW 2000 102–4 Location of operations Annual Report, page 4 – About Dexus Dexus operates in Australia 102–5 Ownership and legal Dexus website – Corporate Governance Dexus (DXS) is a publicly traded real estate form investment trust listed on the Australian Securities Exchange. 102–6 Markets served Annual Report, pages 4-5 – About Dexus and Our Purpose 102–7 Scale of the Annual Report, page 4 – About Dexus organization Annual Report, pages 22-27 – Material issues and risks Annual Report, page 96 – Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income Annual Report, page 97 – Consolidated Statement of Financial Position Annual Report, page 160 – Investor Information: Top 20 security holders at 31 July 2019 102–8 Information on Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 20-26 – employees and other Thriving People workers Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 7-17 – Thriving People 102–9 Supply chain Disclosures on Management Approach, pages 4048 – Supply Chain Sustainability Data Supplement, page 20 Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 27-37 – Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities 102–10 Significant changes to Annual Report, pages 6-11 – Chair and CEO the organization and its Review supply chain Annual Report, page 28-61 – Performance Sustainability Data Supplement, page 20 Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 27-37 – Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities 2019 Dexus GRI Index | dexus.com 1 Number Disclosure Reference Remarks/Omissions 102–11 Precautionary Principle Corporate Governance Statement, page 17or approach Principle 7 – Recognise and manage risk Disclosures on Management Approach, page 49 102–12 External initiatives Dexus website – Memberships and affiliations Dexus's corporate voluntary commitments include: 2019 PRI Transparency Report Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), United 2019 CDP Report Nations Global Compact (UNGC), CDP Climate Change, National Carbon Offset Standard (NCOS), FTSE4Good, CitySwitch, Better Buildings Partnership, Dow Jones Sustainability Indexes (DJSI) and Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark (GRESB). 102–13 Membership of Dexus website – Memberships and affiliations associations 102–14 Statement from senior Annual Report, pages 6-11 – Chair and CEO decision–maker Review 102–15 Key impacts, risks, and Annual Report, pages 6-11 – Chair and CEO opportunities Review Annual Report, pages 12-27 – Approach, Material issues and risks – Strategy 2019 CDP Report, pages 8-26 – Module C2: Risks and opportunities Disclosures on Management Approach, Sustained Value, pages 4-13 Disclosures on Management Approach, Leading Cities, pages 14-23 Disclosures on Management Approach, Thriving People, pages 24-32 Disclosures on Management Approach, Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities, pages 33-39 Disclosures on Management Approach, Supply Chain, pages 40-48 Disclosures on Management Approach, Enriched Environment, 49-62 102–16 Values, principles, Annual Report, page 8 – Our Purpose standards, and norms of Sustainability Performance Pack, page 9 behaviour Disclosures on Management Approach, Thriving People, pages 24-32 Corporate Governance Statement, pages 12-13 – Principle 3 – Act Ethically and Responsibly 102–17 Mechanisms for advice Corporate Governance Statement, pages 12-13 – and concerns about Principle 3 – Act Ethically and Responsibly ethics Corporate Governance Statement, page 14 – Principle 4 – Safeguard Integrity in Corporate Reporting Corporate Governance Statement, page 17 – Principle 7 – Recognise and Manage Risk Disclosures on Management Approach, Sustained Value, pages 4-13 Whistleblower Policy 102–18 Governance structure Corporate Governance Statement, pages 2–3 Corporate Governance Statement, pages 4-5 – Principle 1 – Lay solid foundations for management and oversight Corporate Governance Statement, pages 6-11 – Principle 2 – Structure the Board to add value Corporate Governance Statement, pages 12-13 – Principle 3 – Act Ethically and Responsibly Corporate Governance Statement, page 14 – Principle 4 – Safeguard Integrity in Corporate Reporting Corporate Governance Statement, page 17 – Principle 7 – Recognise and Manage Risk 102–19 Delegating authority Corporate Governance Statement, pages 12-13 – 3.4 Sustainability and responsible investment Disclosures on Management Approach, Sustained Value, page 5 – Corporate governance Disclosures on Management Approach, Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities, page 34 – Management framework Disclosures on Management Approach, Supply Chain, page 42 – Management framework Disclosures on Management Approach, Enriched Environment, page 50 – Management framework 2019 Dexus GRI Index | dexus.com 2 Number Disclosure Reference Remarks/Omissions 102–20 Executive–level Corporate Governance Statement, pages 12-13 – responsibility for 3.4 Sustainability and responsible investment economic, environmental, and social topics 102–21 Consulting stakeholders Dexus Website – Contact Us Dexus has four Board Committees to assist in on economic, Corporate Governance Statement, page 16 – fulfilment of its responsibilities. There are seven environmental, and Principle 6 – Respect the Rights of Security committees including the Group Management social topics Holders Committee (the senior executives of the Sustainability Performance Pack, page 12 – organisation). Employees are able to make Investor engagement on ESG recommendations through these forums as well as Disclosures on Management Approach, Leading directly to senior management. Cities, pages 14-23 Disclosures on Management Approach, Enriched Security holders may attend the Annual General Environment, page 58 – Stakeholder collaboration Meeting (AGM) in person to meet the Board of Directors and Executive team. The Investor Relations team facilitate engagement with investors including regular meetings with investors. A feedback mechanism and enquiry facility is available on the Dexus website to facilitate investor and stakeholder feedback. Additionally, investors can make enquiries through the Registry info line. 102–22 Composition of the Annual Report, pages 62-67 – Governance highest governance Corporate Governance Statement, pages 6-11 – body and its committees Principle 2 – Structure the Board to add value 102–23 Chair of the highest Annual Report, pages 64-65 – Board of Directors governance body 102–24 Nominating and Corporate Governance Statement, pages 4-5 – selecting the highest Principle 1 – Lay solid foundations for governance body management and oversight Corporate Governance Statement, pages 6-11 – Principle 2: Structure the Board to Add Value 102–25 Conflicts of interest Dexus website – policies Dexus has strict policies which address conflicts of Corporate Governance Statement, pages 6-11 – interest including: Director Code of Conduct; Principle 2 – Structure the Board to add value Employee Code of Conduct; Conflicts of Interest – Corporate Governance Statement, pages 12-13 – Personal Policy (including gifts and entertainment); Principle 3 – Act Ethically and Responsibly Securities Trading Policy (including Inside Annual Report, page 92 – Directors' directorships Information). Potential conflicts and related party in other listed entities transactions are overseen by the Compliance Manager and are reported on a regular basis to the Board Risk Committee and the Board. 102–26 Role of highest Corporate Governance Statement, pages 4-5 – governance body in Principle 1 – Lay solid foundations for setting purpose, values, management and oversight and strategy Annual Report, pages 29, 39, 51, 55, 59, 69 – Board focus areas Disclosures on Management Approach, Sustained Value, page 5 Disclosures on Management Approach, Leading Cities, page 15 Disclosures on Management Approach, Thriving People, page 25 Disclosures on Management Approach, Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities, page 34 Disclosures on Management Approach, Supply Chain, page 42 Disclosures on Management Approach, Enriched Environment, page 50 102–27 Collective knowledge of Corporate Governance Statement, pages 6-11 – highest governance Principle 2: Structure the Board to Add Value body Annual Report, pages 62-67 – Governance: Board skills and experience 102–28 Evaluating the highest Corporate Governance Statement, pages 4-5 – governance body’s Principle 1 – Lay solid foundations for performance management and oversight Board Performance Evaluation Policy 2019 Dexus GRI Index | dexus.com 3 Number Disclosure Reference Remarks/Omissions 102–29 Identifying and Corporate Governance Statement, page 17 – managing economic, Principle 7: Recognise and manage risk environmental, and Annual Report, pages 12 – 27 – Approach, social impacts Material issues and risks Sustainability Performance Pack, page 4 – Material Issues Disclosures on Management Approach, Sustained Value, pages 4-13 Disclosures on Management Approach, Leading Cities, pages 14-23 Disclosures on Management Approach, Thriving People, pages 24-32 Disclosures on Management Approach, Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities, pages 33-39 Disclosures on Management Approach, Supply Chain, pages 40-48 Disclosures on Management Approach, Enriched Environment, 49-62 102–30 Effectiveness of risk Corporate Governance Statement, page 17 – management processes Principle 7: Recognise and manage risk Annual Report, pages 12-27 – Approach, Material issues and risks Disclosures on Management Approach, Sustained Value, pages 4-13 102–31 Review of economic, Annual Report, page 91 – Directors Report – environmental, and Attendance of Directors at Board Meetings and social topics Board Committee Meetings Corporate Governance Statement, page 17 Principle 7: Recognise and manage risk Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 4-5 – Material issues Disclosures on Management Approach, Sustained Value, pages 4-13 102–32 Highest governance Corporate Governance Statement, pages 12-13 – The 2019 Annual Report is an integrated report that body’s role in Principle 3 – 3.4 Sustainability and responsible discloses Dexus’s financial and sustainability sustainability reporting investment performance. The report has been reviewed and approved by senior executives and managers across all business units with final approval provided by the Dexus Board. 102–33 Communicating critical Corporate Governance Statement, page 17 – concerns Principle 7: Recognise and manage risk Disclosures on Management Approach, Sustained Value, pages 4-13 102–34 Nature and total number Annual Report, pages 29, 39, 51, 55, 59, 69 – of critical concerns Board focus areas Annual Report, pages 12-27 – Approach, Material issues and risks Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 46-50 Our approach to climate–related issues Sustainability Data Supplement, page 13 – employee relations matters 102–35 Remuneration policies Corporate Governance Statement, page 18 – Principle 8: Remunerate fairly and responsibly Annual Report, pages 68-89 – Remuneration Report 102–36 Process for determining Annual Report, pages 68-89 – Remuneration remuneration Report 102–37 Stakeholders’ Annual Report, pages 6-11 – Chair and CEO involvement in Review remuneration Corporate Governance Statement, page 16 – Principle 6 – Respect the Rights of Security Holders Annual Report, pages 68-89 – Remuneration Report 102–38 Annual total Sustainability Data Supplement, page 17 – compensation ratio Thriving People, Remuneration ratios 102–39 Percentage increase in Sustainability Data Supplement, page 17 – annual total Thriving People, Remuneration ratios compensation ratio 102–40 List of stakeholder Disclosures on Management Approach, Leading groups Cities, pages 14-23 2019 Dexus GRI Index | dexus.com 4 Number Disclosure Reference Remarks/Omissions 102–41 Collective bargaining Sustainability Data Supplement, page 14 – agreements Thriving People, Recruitment 102–42 Identifying and selecting Sustainability Performance Pack, page 4 – stakeholders Material Issues Sustainability Performance Pack, page 5 – Boundaries and Independent Assurance Disclosures on Management Approach, Leading Cities, pages 14-23 102–43 Approach to stakeholder Dexus website – Sustainability Approach engagement Sustainability Performance Pack, page 3 – Material Issues Sustainability Performance Pack, page 5 – Boundaries and Independent Assurance Disclosures on Management Approach, Leading Cities, pages 14-23 102–44 Key topics and concerns Sustainability Performance Pack, page 4 – raised Material Issues 102–45 Entities included in the Annual Report, page 100 – Financial Report – consolidated financial About this report statements 102–46 Defining report content Sustainability Performance Pack, page 4 – and topic Boundaries Material Issues Sustainability Performance Pack, page 5 – Boundaries and Independent Assurance Disclosures on Management Approach, pages 2-3 – Management approach by material issue 102–47 List of material topics Sustainability Performance Pack, page 4 – Material Issues Disclosures on Management Approach, pages 2-3 – Management approach by material issue 102–48 Restatements of 2019 Annual Report, page 145 – Note 24 information Changes in accounting policies Sustainability Performance Pack, page 53 – Enriched Environment – Resource Consumption Methodology 102–49 Changes in reporting There have been no significant changes from previous reporting periods in the boundary, or measurement methods applied in the report. 102–50 Reporting period Fiscal year 2019 (1 July 2018 – 30 June 2019) 102–51 Date of most recent Fiscal year 2018 (1 July 2017 – 30 June 2018) report 102–52 Reporting cycle Reporting cycle is annual, period ending 30 June 2019 102–53 Contact point for Annual Report, page 159 – Making contact questions regarding the report 102–54 Claims of reporting in Annual Report, page 163 – Directory accordance with the GRI Index GRI Standards 102–55 GRI content index GRI Index 102–56 External assurance Corporate Governance Statement, page 14 – 4.1 PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) is an independent Board Audit Committee auditor engaged by Dexus to audit Dexus's financial Annual Report, page 94 – Auditor’s Independence reports and provide a Limited Assurance opinion over Declaration key aspects of Dexus's sustainability performance as Annual Report, pages 150-156 – Independent reported in the 2019 Annual Report and within the Auditors Report online reporting suite on the Dexus website. Sustainability Performance Pack, page 5 – Independent assurance 2019 Sustainability Assurance Opinion and Criteria Selection and Appointment of External Auditors Policy 2019 Dexus GRI Index | dexus.com 5 Material topic disclosures GRI Standard Number Disclosure Reference Remarks/Omissions Economic performance GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the Annual Report, pages 22-27 – Material issues and Management material topic and risks Approach 2016 its Boundary Sustainability Performance Pack, page 4 – Material Issues Disclosures on Management Approach, pages 2-3 – Management approach by material issue 103–2 The management Annual Report, pages 12-27 – Approach, Material approach and its issues and risks components Disclosures on Management Approach 103–3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, pages 2-3 – FY19 highlights management Annual Report, pages 28-61 – Performance approach Disclosures on Management Approach GRI 201: 201–1 Direct economic Annual Report, pages 2-3 – FY19 highlights Economic value generated Annual Report, pages 28-61 – Performance performance and distributed Annual Report, pages 96-156 – Financial Report 2016 – Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, page 96 – Consolidated Statement of Financial Position, page 97 – Consolidated Statement of Changes in Equity, page 98 – Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, page 99 Annual Report, pages 68-89 – Remuneration Report Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 27-37 – Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities 201–2 Financial Annual Report, pages 12-27 – Approach, Material implications and issues and risks other risks and 2019 CDP Report, pages 8-26 – Module C2: Risks opportunities due and opportunities to climate change Disclosures on Management Approach, Enriched Environment, pages 49-62 Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 46-50 – Enriched Environment – Our approach to climate– related issues 201–3 Defined benefit Dexus does not operate a defined benefit plan obligations superannuation scheme. Consistent with Australian and other legislation, superannuation contributions are made retirement plans to superannuation funds selected by employees. Dexus contributes retirement provisions in line with Australia's employer superannuation guarantee requirements. In FY19 Dexus provided superannuation contributions at the legislated contribution rate of 9.5%, unless elected at a higher rate by an employee as part of a voluntary contribution. 201–4 Financial Sustainability Data Supplement, page 29 – Energy During FY19 Dexus generated 6,932 Energy assistance Savings Scheme Savings Certificates (ESCs) through participation in received from the NSW Energy Savings Scheme (ESS) for government improvements in base building energy efficiency. However, Dexus did not undertake any ESC transactions, resulting in $0 revenue for the year. Corporate governance and transparency GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the Annual Report, pages 22-27 – Material issues and Management material topic and risks Approach 2016 its Boundary Sustainability Performance Pack, page 4 – Material Issues Disclosures on Management Approach, pages 2-3 – Management approach by material issue Corporate Governance Statement, page 15 – Principle 5 – Make timely and balanced disclosure 103–2 The management Corporate Governance Statement, page 15 – approach and its Principle 5 – Make timely and balanced disclosure components Disclosures on Management Approach, Sustained Value, pages 4-13 Annual Report, page 157 – Investor Information 2019 Dexus GRI Index | dexus.com 6 GRI Standard Number Disclosure Reference Remarks/Omissions 103–3 Evaluation of the Corporate Governance Statement, page 15 – management Principle 5 – Make timely and balanced disclosure approach Disclosures on Management Approach, Sustained Value, page 13 – Evaluation and process improvement Annual Report, page 157 – Investor Information GRI 102: Ethics 102–17 Mechanisms for Corporate Governance Statement, pages 12-13 – and integrity advice and Principle 3 – Act Ethically and Responsibly (general concerns about Corporate Governance Statement, page 14 – disclosures ethics Principle 4 – Safeguard Integrity in Corporate comprehensive) Reporting 2016 Corporate Governance Statement, page 17 – Principle 7 – Recognise and Manage Risk Disclosures on Management Approach, Sustained Value, pages 4-13 Whistleblower Policy GRI 102: 102–25 Conflicts of interest Dexus website – policies Dexus has strict policies which address conflicts of Governance Corporate Governance Statement, pages 6-11 – interest including: Director Code of Conduct; (general Principle 2 – Structure the Board to add value Employee Code of Conduct; Conflicts of Interest – disclosure Corporate Governance Statement, pages 12-13 – Personal Policy (including gifts and entertainment); comprehensive) Principle 3 – Act Ethically and Responsibly Securities Trading Policy (including Inside 2016 Annual Report, page 92 – Directors' directorships in Information); and Gifts and Entertainment. Potential other listed entities conflicts and related party transactions are overseen by the Compliance Manager and are reported on a regular basis to the Board. GRI 205: Anti– 205–1 Operations Corporate Governance Statement, page 17 – Each year Dexus completes a review of its risk corruption 2016 assessed for risks Principle 7 – Recognise and manage risk – 7.2 management framework that encompasses 100% of related to Risk management employees. Risk management policies, procedures corruption and governance committee structure were reviewed to ensure continuous improvement and to minimise the risk of ethical or corruption breaches. The review process involves the facilitation of risk workshops with senior management to review and update the risk register. Dexus has a Fraud, Corruption and Bribery Policy that outlines its commitment to ethical behaviour. 205–2 Communication Directors' Code of Conduct Dexus board members are required to adhere to the and training about Corporate Governance Statement, page 11 – Directors' Code of Conduct. Directors must comply anti–corruption Principle 2 – Structure the Board to add value – 2.7 with the legal framework governing the operations of policies and Access to training and information Dexus which includes anti–corruption policies and procedures Corporate Governance Statement, pages 12-13 – procedures. Principle 3 – Act ethically and responsibly Corporate Governance Statement, page 17 – Dexus conducts annual risk and sustainability Principle 7 – Recognise and manage risk – 7.2 roadshows with our key business partner CBRE Risk management nationally. Sustainability Data Supplement, page 16 – Thriving People 205–3 Confirmed Sustainability Data Supplement, page 13 – Thriving incidents of People corruption and actions taken GRI 206: Anti– 206–1 Legal actions for There were no legal actions brought against Dexus competitive anti–competitive for anti–competitive, anti–trust or monopoly practices behaviour 2016 behaviour, anti– in FY19. trust, and monopoly practices GRI 307: 307–1 Non–compliance In FY19, Dexus recorded no significant incidents of Environmental with environmental non–compliance with environmental laws and/or Compliance laws and regulations. Dexus did not receive and fines or non– 2016 regulations monetary sanctions and had no legal cases concerning environmental issues brought against it. 2019 Dexus GRI Index | dexus.com 7 GRI Standard Number Disclosure Reference Remarks/Omissions GRI 415: Public 415–1 Political Fraud, Corruption and Bribery (Prevention and Dexus does not give any contributions – financial or Policy 2016 contributions Awareness) Policy, page 3 – Political Donations in–kind – to political parties or politicians. Dexus website – Memberships with industry associations and affiliations During FY19 Dexus contributed $348,653 to trade associations for memberships and event sponsorships. Dexus's alignment towards trade associations views on key sustainability topics is detailed within Dexus’s 2019 CDP Report, pages 65–66 (C12.3c). Dexus is a member of various industry associations that promote best practice, advocate for policy reforms or otherwise enhance the property sector or geographical markets in which we operate. Key industry memberships and sponsorships include: Property Council of Australia, Green Building Council of Australia, Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark, Better Buildings Partnership, Principles for Responsible Investment, Investor Group on Climate Change, Australasian Investor Relations Association, Committee for Sydney, Melbourne Chamber of Commerce, NSW Business Chamber, Urban Land Institute and the Asia–Pacific Real Estate Association. Market volatility GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the Annual Report, pages 22-27 – Material issues and Management material topic and risks Approach 2016 its Boundary Sustainability Performance Pack, page 4 – Material Issues Disclosures on Management Approach, pages 2-3 – Management approach by material issue 103–2 The management Annual Report, pages 28-37 – Financial approach and its performance components Annual Report, pages 38-49 – Properties Annual Report, pages 122-137 – Capital and financial risk management and working capital 103–3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, pages 28-37 – Financial management performance approach Annual Report, pages 38-49 – Properties Annual Report, pages 122-137 – Capital and financial risk management and working capital 101, Additional Annual Report, pages 28-37 – Financial Dexus reports on market volatility using several clause disclosures – performance indicators that track the use and performance of 2.5.3 market volatility Annual Report, pages 38-49 – Properties Dexus’s portfolio. Indicators include, but are not limited to, portfolio value, occupancy, weighted average lease expiry (WALE). Customer engagement, Customer attraction and retention GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the Annual Report, pages 22-27 – Material issues and Management material topic and risks Approach 2016 its Boundary Sustainability Performance Pack, page 4 – Material Issues Disclosures on Management Approach, pages 2-3 – Management approach by material issue 103–2 The management Disclosures on Management Approach, Future approach and its Enabled Customers and Strong Communities, components pages 33-39 Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 27-37 – Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities 103–3 Evaluation of the Disclosures on Management Approach, Future management Enabled Customers and Strong Communities, approach pages 33-39 Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 27-37 – Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 18-20, Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities GRI 417: 417–1 Requirements for Supplier Code of Conduct, page 4 – Marketing and product and Sustainable/ethical purchasing policies and labelling 2016 service information products and labelling 2019 Dexus GRI Index | dexus.com 8 GRI Standard Number Disclosure Reference Remarks/Omissions 417–2 Incidents of non– Dexus recorded no incidents of non–compliance with compliance regulations and voluntary codes concerning product concerning product and service information and labelling, by type of and service outcomes in FY19. information and labelling 102–44 Results of surveys Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 27-37 – measuring Future Enabled Customers and Strong customer Communities satisfaction Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 18-20 – Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities Sector G4-CRE8 Type and number Sustainability Performance Pack, page 45 – Dexus rates its office and retail buildings and Disclosure: of sustainability Enriched Environment, Building certifications tenancies and displays this information on marketing Construction certification, rating Sustainability Data Supplement, page 26 – collateral. Dexus maintained compliance with the and Real Estate and labelling Enriched Environment, NABERS Ratings Australian Government's Building Energy Efficiency Sector schemes for new Property Synopsis, pages 8 11 – Sustainability Disclosure (BEED) Act, which requires Dexus and Disclosures construction, other commercial building owners to disclose the 2016 management, energy efficiency of its building through a Building occupation and Energy Efficiency Certificate in the event of redevelopment. marketing the lease and/or sale of a space and/or greater than 1,000 square metres. The provisions of the Act also require the energy efficiency rating (via NABERS ratings) to be displayed in printed, physical and online marketing materials. At 30 June 2019, of Dexus's managed portfolio comprised 60 office and 6 retail properties were NABERS Energy certified. In addition, 58 office and 6 retail Dexus managed properties were voluntarily NABERS Water certified. Dexus voluntarily certifies against Green Star, an environmental rating tool for commercial design, construction and performance, which evaluates a building’s impact against eight environmental impact categories. Dexus maintained Green Star Performance ratings across 76 office and retail properties. Talent attraction and retention, Human capital development, Inclusion and diversity, Equal remuneration GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the Annual Report, pages 22-27 – Material issues and Management material topic and risks Approach 2016 its Boundary Sustainability Performance Pack, page 4 – Material Issues Disclosures on Management Approach, pages 2-3 – Management approach by material issue Disclosures on Management Approach, Thriving People, pages 24-32 103–2 The management Disclosures on Management Approach, Thriving approach and its People, pages 24-32 components Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 20-26 – Thriving People 103–3 Evaluation of the Disclosures on Management Approach, Thriving management People, pages 24-32 approach Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 20-26 – Thriving People Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 7-17 – Thriving People GRI 401: 401–1 New employee Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 14-15, Employment hires and Thriving People, Recruitment, Retention 2016 employee turnover 2019 Dexus GRI Index | dexus.com 9 GRI Standard Number Disclosure Reference Remarks/Omissions 401–2 Benefits provided Dexus website – Employee benefits overview Dexus offers a number of employee benefits in line to full–time Disclosures on Management Approach, Thriving with contemporary Australian market practice. employees that are People, pages 24-32 Benefits are offered regardless of full–time or part– not provided to time employment status, but may be pro–rated in the temporary or part– case of leave and life insurance benefits which are time employees based on the employee’s regular salary level. Temporary employees engaged via a labour hire agency or contracting agreement receive benefits from their primary employer, the cost of which is factored into the hourly rate or service fee paid by Dexus. Temporary employees are not eligible for the following benefits: leave benefits, life and disability insurance, membership to the corporate discount program, study assistance. 401–3 Parental leave Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 20-26 – Thriving People Sustainability Data Supplement, page 15 – Thriving People, Retention Disclosures on Management Approach, Thriving People, page 27 GRI 402: 402–1 Minimum notice Notice periods at Dexus vary depending upon level Labour– periods regarding of seniority of the role. The position of CEO must management operational provide 6 months’ notice of intention to resign and relations 2016 changes Executive General Management Committee members must provide three months’ notice of their intention to resign from their respective positions. The minimum notice period for termination of employment is two weeks’ during probation and one month notice once ongoing employment has been confirmed. GRI 404: 404–1 Average hours of Sustainability Data Supplement, page 16 – Thriving Training and training per year People, Training and development education 2016 per employee 404–2 Programs for Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 20-26 – upgrading Thriving People employee skills Sustainability Data Supplement, page 16 – Thriving and transition People, Training and development assistance Disclosures on Management Approach, Thriving programs People, pages 29-30 404–3 Percentage of Sustainability Data Supplement, page 16 – Thriving employees People, Training and development receiving regular performance and career development reviews GRI 405: 405–1 Diversity of Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 9-11 – Diversity and governance bodies Thriving People, Inclusion and diversity equal and employees opportunity 405–2 Ratio of basic Sustainability Data Supplement, page 17 – Thriving 2016 salary and People, Remuneration ratios remuneration of women to men GRI 406: Non– 406–1 Incidents of Sustainability Data Supplement, page 13 – Thriving discrimination discrimination and People, Employee relations matters 2016 corrective actions taken Health, safety and security, Risk and crisis management GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the Annual Report, pages 22-27 – Material issues and Management material topic and risks Approach 2016 its Boundary Sustainability Performance Pack, page 4 – Material Issues Disclosures on Management Approach, pages 2-3 – Management approach by material issue 2019 Dexus GRI Index | dexus.com 10 GRI Standard Number Disclosure Reference Remarks/Omissions 103–2 The management Annual Report, page 10 – Chair and CEO Review: approach and its Developing thriving people components Annual Report, pages 22-27 – Material issues and risks Disclosures on Management Approach, Thriving People, pages 28-29 – employee health and safety Disclosures on Management Approach, Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities, pages 35-36 – customer and occupant health and safety Disclosures on Management Approach, Supply Chain, pages 47-48 – contractor health and safety 103–3 Evaluation of the Annual Report, page 10 – Chair and CEO Review: management Developing thriving people approach Annual Report, page 52 – People and capabilities Sustainability Data Supplement, page 13 – Thriving People, Work Health and Safety GRI 403: 403–1 Workers Disclosures on Management Approach, Thriving Occupational representation in People, pages 28-29 – employee health and safety Health and formal joint Safety 2016 management– worker health and safety committees 403–2 Types of injury and Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 12-13 – rates of injury, Thriving People, Leave and absenteeism, Work occupational Health and Safety diseases, lost days, and absenteeism, and number of work– related fatalities 403–3 Workers with high Dexus employees are not involved in occupational incidence or high activities that have a high incidence or high risk of risk of diseases specific diseases related to their occupation GRI 416: 403–4 Health and safety Sustainability Data Supplement, page 14 – Thriving Customer topics covered in People, Recruitment health and formal agreements safety 2016 with trade unions 416–1 Assessment of the Disclosures on Management Approach, Future health and safety Enabled Customers and Strong Communities, impacts of product pages 35-36 – customer and occupant health and and service safety categories Annual Report, page 52 – People and capabilities, safety audit score Economic impact on local communities GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the Annual Report, pages 22-27 – Material issues and Management material topic and risks Approach 2016 its Boundary Sustainability Performance Pack, page 4 – Material Issues Disclosures on Management Approach, pages 2-3 – Management approach by material issue 103–2 The management Disclosures on Management Approach, Future approach and its Enabled Customers and Strong Communities, components pages 33-39 Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 27-37 – Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities 103–3 Evaluation of the Disclosures on Management Approach, Future management Enabled Customers and Strong Communities, approach pages 33-39 Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 27-37 – Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 18-20, Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities GRI 203: 203–1 Infrastructure Annual Report, pages 38-49 – Properties Indirect investments and Sustainability Performance Pack, page 13-19 – Economic services supported Leading cities Impacts 2016 Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 27-37 – Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities 2019 Dexus GRI Index | dexus.com 11 GRI Standard Number Disclosure Reference Remarks/Omissions 203–2 Significant indirect Sustainability Performance Pack, page 13-19 – economic impacts Leading Cities Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 27-37 – Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities GRI 413: Local 413–1 Operations with Disclosures on Management Approach, Future Communities local community Enabled Customers and Strong Communities, 2016 engagement, pages 33-39 impact Disclosures on Management Approach, Leading assessments, and Cities, pages 14-23 development programs 413–2 Operations with Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 27-37 – No potential or actual material negative impacts significant actual Future Enabled Customers and Strong identified. Positive impacts are provided in and potential Communities Community performance. negative impacts on local communities Sector G4-CRE7 Number of persons No people were physically displaced as a result of Disclosure: voluntarily and Dexus operations. Construction involuntarily and Real Estate displaced and/or Sector resettled by Disclosures development, 2016 broken down by project Supply chain management GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the Annual Report, pages 22-27 – Material issues and Management material topic and risks Approach 2016 its Boundary Sustainability Performance Pack, page 4 – Material Issues Disclosures on Management Approach, pages 2-3 – Management approach by material issue 103–2 The management Disclosures on Management Approach, Supply approach and its Chain, pages 40-48 components Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 27-37 – Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities 103–3 Evaluation of the Disclosures on Management Approach, Supply management Chain, pages 40-48 approach Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 27-37 – Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 18-20, Future Enabled Customers and Strong Communities GRI 308: 308–1 New suppliers that Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 35-37 – Supplier were screened Supply chain management Environmental using Disclosures on Management Approach, Supply Assessment environmental Chain, pages 40-48 2016 criteria 308–2 Negative In FY19 Dexus did not receive any complaints or environmental grievances regarding negative environmental impact impacts in the due to supplier and service provider activities. supply chain and actions taken GRI 414: 414–1 New suppliers that Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 35-37 – Supplier Social were screened Supply chain management Assessment using social criteria Disclosures on Management Approach, Supply 2016 Chain, pages 40-48 414–2 Negative social Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 35-37 – In FY19 Dexus continued to monitor industry impacts in the Supply chain management dialogue regarding labour practices and the potential supply chain and Disclosures on Management Approach, Supply impacts within its supply chain, with no material actions taken Chain, pages 40-48 impacts identified through monitoring of suppliers. Dexus continues to enhance its supplier engagement and assessment process to improve data collection and reporting regarding supplier performance including labour practices. GRI 204: 204–1 Proportion of 100% of operational expenditure for the group's Procurement spending on local managed portfolio are Australian based suppliers Practices 2016 suppliers (includes Australian divisions of international companies). Human rights 2019 Dexus GRI Index | dexus.com 12 GRI Standard Number Disclosure Reference Remarks/Omissions GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the Annual Report, pages 22-27 – Material issues and Management material topic and risks Approach 2016 its Boundary Sustainability Performance Pack, page 4 – Material Issues Disclosures on Management Approach, pages 2-3 – Management approach by material issue 103–2 The management Disclosures on Management Approach, Thriving approach and its People – Human Rights, page 31 components Disclosures on Management Approach, Supply Chain, pages 40-48 103–3 Evaluation of the Disclosures on Management Approach, Thriving management People, page 32 approach Disclosures on Management Approach, Supply Chain, pages 40-48 Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 7-17, Thriving People Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 35-37 – Supply chain management Sustainability Data Supplement, page 20, Supply chain GRI 412: 412–1 Operations that Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 35-37 – Human Rights have been subject Supply chain management Assessment to human rights Disclosures on Management Approach, Thriving 2016 reviews or impact People, pages 24-32 assessments Disclosures on Management Approach, Supply Chain, pages 40-48 Sustainability Data Supplement, page 13 – Thriving People, Work Health and Safety 412–2 Employee training Sustainability Data Supplement, page 16 – Thriving on human rights People, Training and development policies or Disclosures on Management Approach, Thriving procedures People, pages 24-32 Human Rights Policy 412–3 Significant Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 35-37 – investment Supply chain management agreements and Disclosures on Management Approach, Supply contracts that Chain, pages 40-48 include human rights clauses or that underwent human rights screening Climate change impacts, Emissions GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the Annual Report, pages 22-27 – Material issues and Management material topic and risks Approach 2016 its Boundary Sustainability Performance Pack, page 4 – Material Issues Disclosures on Management Approach, pages 2-3 – Management approach by material issue Disclosures on Management Approach, Enriched Environment, page 49 103–2 The management Disclosures on Management Approach, Enriched approach and its Environment, pages 49-60 components Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 38-55 – Enriched Environment 103–3 Evaluation of the Disclosures on Management Approach, Enriched management Environment, page 60 – Evaluation and process approach improvement Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 38-55 – Enriched Environment Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 21-40, Enriched Environment GRI 201: 201–2 Financial Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 46-50 – Economic implications and Enriched Environment – Climate related financial Performance other risks and risks and opportunities 2016 opportunities due 2019 CDP Report, pages 8-26 – Module C2: Risks to climate change and opportunities GRI 305: 305–1 Direct (Scope 1) Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 21-40, Emissions 2016 GHG emissions Enriched Environment Reporting criteria 305–2 Energy indirect Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 21-40, (Scope 2) GHG Enriched Environment emissions Reporting criteria 2019 Dexus GRI Index | dexus.com 13 GRI Standard Number Disclosure Reference Remarks/Omissions 305–3 Other indirect Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 21-40, (Scope 3) GHG Enriched Environment emissions Reporting criteria 305–4 GHG emissions Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 21-40, intensity Enriched Environment 305–5 Reduction of GHG Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 38-55 – emissions Enriched Environment Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 21-40, Enriched Environment Disclosures on Management Approach, Enriched Environment, pages 49-60 305–6 Emissions of Sustainability Data Supplement, page 32 – ozone–depleting Enriched Environment – Emissions of ozone substances (ODS) depleting substances 305–7 Nitrogen oxides In FY19 Dexus estimates it emitted the following air (NOX), sulphur emissions through combustion of natural gas and oxides (SOX), and diesel within generators, cogeneration engines and other significant air fire pumps: 25.1 tonnes of Nitrogen oxides (NOx), emissions 7.4 tonnes of Carbon Monoxide (CO), 0.1 tonnes of Sulphur Dioxide (SOx), 1.2 tonnes of particulate matter ≤ 2.5µm, 1.2 tonnes of particulate matter ≤ 10µm, and 1 tonne of volatile organic compounds (VOCs) Sector G4-CRE1 Building energy Sustainability Performance Pack, page 52 – Building energy intensity is reported in megajoules Disclosure: intensity Enriched Environment, Group managed portfolio per square metre rather than kilowatt-hours per Construction consumption, emissions and waste on an intensity square metre. and Real Estate basis Sector Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 21-40 – Disclosures Enriched Environment 2016 G4-CRE3 Greenhouse gas Sustainability Performance Pack, page 52 – emissions intensity Enriched Environment, Group managed portfolio from buildings consumption, emissions and waste on an intensity basis Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 21-40 – Enriched Environment Energy efficiency, Water use, Waste management GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the Annual Report, pages 22-27 – Material issues and Management material topic and risks Approach 2016 its Boundary Sustainability Performance Pack, page 4 – Material Issues Disclosures on Management Approach, pages 2-3 – Management approach by material issue Disclosures on Management Approach, Enriched Environment, page 49 103–2 The management Disclosures on Management Approach, Enriched approach and its Environment, pages 49-60 components Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 38-55 – Enriched Environment 103–3 Evaluation of the Disclosures on Management Approach, Enriched management Environment, page 60 – Evaluation and process approach improvement Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 38-55 – Enriched Environment Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 21-40, Enriched Environment GRI 302: 302–1 Energy Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 21-40, Energy 2016 consumption within Enriched Environment – Group managed portfolio – the organization environmental inventory 302–2 Energy Information on upstream energy consumption consumption outside Dexus's organisation boundary relates to outside of the energy consumed by suppliers providing products organization and services to Dexus. Dexus has engaged with key suppliers to request information, and suppliers have stated that energy data is not available. Downstream energy consumption relates to energy consumption by tenants occupying Dexus buildings. Dexus collects data for tenants across a proportion of properties, however this data falls outside of the operational control boundary used for public disclosure. 302–3 Energy intensity Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 21-40, Enriched Environment – Group managed portfolio – Consumption/emissions on an intensity basis 2019 Dexus GRI Index | dexus.com 14 GRI Standard Number Disclosure Reference Remarks/Omissions 302–4 Reduction of Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 38-55 – energy Enriched Environment consumption Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 21-40, Enriched Environment Disclosures on Management Approach, Enriched Environment, pages 49-60 2019 CDP Report – Module: Targets and performance– Question C4.3b 302–5 Reductions in Disclosures on Management Approach, Enriched energy Environment, pages 49-60 requirements of Sustainability Performance Pack, page 45 – products and Enriched Environment, Green Star and National services Australian Build Environment Ratings System (NABERS) GRI 303: Water 303–1 Water withdrawal Sustainability Data Supplement, page 30, Enriched 2016 by source Environment – Water consumption by source 303–2 Water sources Sustainability Data Supplement, page 30, Enriched Water used in Dexus operations is sourced from significantly Environment – Water consumption by source metropolitan water authorities and is not deemed as affected by having a significant impact as per GRI definition. withdrawal of water Dexus operates water recycling plants at 1 Bligh Street Sydney, and 123 Albert Street and 145 Ann Street in Brisbane. Dexus also obtains water from on–site rainwater harvesting across several properties and draws water from a recharged bore at Willows Shopping Centre. 303–3 Water recycled and Sustainability Data Supplement, page 30, Enriched reused Environment – Water consumption by source GRI 306: 306–1 Water discharge by All water from Dexus properties is discharged as Effluents and quality and sewage to water utilities, with some water recycling Waste 2016 destination conducted using on–site greywater/blackwater plants at 1 Bligh Street Sydney, and 123 Albert Street and 145 Ann Street in Brisbane. Stormwater is harvested for use on site or discharged via stormwater drainage. Downstream wastewater, particularly retailers trade wastewater allowance relates to tenants occupying Dexus buildings, and is not material due to its low toxicity. 306–2 Waste by type and Sustainability Data Supplement, pages 22 and 31, disposal method Enriched Environment – Group–managed portfolio – Consumption emissions on an intensity basis, and Waste and recycling from property operations by stream 2019 Assurance Report, page 3 – 2019 PwC Assurance Opinion and Criteria – Parameters used in the preparation of the subject matter – Environment 306–3 Significant spills Sustainability Data Supplement, page 31– Enriched Environment – Waste and recycling from property operations by stream 306–4 Transport of Sustainability Data Supplement, page 31– Enriched hazardous waste Environment – Waste and recycling from property operations by stream 306–5 Water bodies There have been no water bodies nor related affected by water habitats that have been significantly affected by discharges and/or water discharges from any Dexus facility this year. runoff Biodiversity GRI 103: 103–1 Explanation of the Annual Report, pages 22-27 – Material issues and Management material topic and risks Approach 2016 its Boundary Sustainability Performance Pack, page 4 – Material Issues Disclosures on Management Approach, pages 2-3 – Management approach by material issue Disclosures on Management Approach, Enriched Environment, page 49 103–2 The management Disclosures on Management Approach, Enriched approach and its Environment, pages 49-60 components Sustainability Performance Pack, pages 46 – Enriched Environment, Biodiversity 2019 Dexus GRI Index | dexus.com 15 GRI Standard Number Disclosure Reference Remarks/Omissions 103–3 Evaluation of the Disclosures on Management Approach, Enriched management Environment, page 60 – Evaluation and process approach improvement Sustainability Performance Pack, page 46 – Enriched Environment, Biodiversity GRI 304: 304–2 Significant impacts Sustainability Performance Pack, page 46 – The Dexus Biodiversity Policy sets out how Dexus Biodiversity of activities, Enriched Environment, Biodiversity protects and enhances biodiversity through its 2016 products, and activities. services on biodiversity 2019 Dexus GRI Index | dexus.com 16 de>cus Independent limited assurance report What we found Based on the work described below, nothing has come to our attention that causes us to believe that the Subject Matter for the year ended 30 June 2019 has not been prepared, in all material respects, in accordance with the Assurance Criteria. To the Board of Directors of DEXUS Funds Management Limited, Responsibilities What we did PricewaterhouseCoopers DEXUS Funds Management Limited (DEXUS) engaged Our responsibility is to express a conclusion based on the work we PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) to perform a limited assurance performed. engagement on the preparation of selected Subject Matter contained DEXUS within their 2019 Performance Pack in accordance with the Assurance DEXUS management is responsible for the preparation and Criteria for the year ended 30 June 2019. presentation of the Subject Matter in accordance with the Assurance Criteria. Selected subject matter What our work involved The Subject Matter included within the scope of our engagement comprised the following performance metrics contained within the We conducted our work in accordance with the Australian Standard on 2019 Integrated Online Reporting Suite presented at: Assurance Engagements 3000 Assurance Engagements Other than www.dexus.com/2019-sustainability-performance-pack and Audits or Reviews of Historical Financial Information and Australian www.dexus.com/2019-sustainability-data-supplement Standard on Assurance Engagements and Australian Standard on • Total net energy consumption 685,856 GJ Assurance Engagements 3410 Assurance Engagements on Greenhouse • Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 location-based greenhouse gas (GHG) Gas Statements. These standards require that we comply with emissions 179,476 tCO2-e independence and ethical requirements and plan the engagement so • Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 market-based GHG emissions 174,521 that it will be performed effectively. tCO2-e Main procedures performed • Total water usage 1,820,791 kL • Total waste to landfill and recycling 16,048 t Our procedures consisted primarily of: • Percentage of female employees (FTE) 56% • Undertaking enquiries of management regarding the processes • Percentage of females in senior management (headcount) 37% and controls for capturing, collating and reporting the Subject • Percentage of female Non-Executive Directors 43% Matter • Absentee rate 2.6 • Reconciling the Subject Matter with DEXUS underlying records • Lost time injury frequency rate 0 • Agreeing underlying records back to supporting third party Assurance Criteria documentation on a sample basis • Undertaking analytical review procedures over data and The criteria against which we assessed the Subject Matter was obtaining explanations from management regarding unusual or prepared by DEXUS and is titled 2019 Assurance Criteria Document unexpected amounts presented at: http://www.dexus.com/who-we-are/corporateresponsibility-and-sustainability/reports and included as Appendix 1 • Assessing the reasonableness of any material estimates made in to our Assurance Report. preparing the Subject Matter • Assessing the appropriateness of the GHG emission factors Independence and Quality Control applied in calculating the Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 GHG emissions and testing the arithmetical accuracy of the GHG emission We have complied with relevant ethical requirements related to calculations and assurance engagements, which are founded on fundamental principles of integrity, objectivity, professional competence and due care, • Reviewing DEXUS’ Assurance Criteria to ensure that it is confidentiality and professional behaviour. appropriate for assurance and assessing the preparation and collation of the Subject Matter against the Assurance Criteria The firm applies Auditing Standard ASQC 1 Quality Control for Firms that Perform Audits and Reviews of Financial Reports and Other We believe that the information we have obtained is sufficient and Financial Information, Other Assurance Engagements and Related appropriate to provide a basis for our conclusion. Services Engagements and accordingly maintains a comprehensive system of quality control including documented policies and procedures regarding compliance with ethical requirements, professional standards and applicable legal and regulatory John Tomac PricewaterhouseCoopers requirements. Partner Sydney 13 August 2019 Liability limited by a scheme approved under Professional Standards Legislation Inherent limitations Any reliance on this report by any third party is Limited assurance Inherent limitations exist in all assurance entirely at its own risk. We consent to the inclusion of This engagement is aimed at obtaining limited engagements due to the selective testing of the this report within the 2019 Integrated Online assurance for our conclusions. As a limited assurance information being examined. Therefore fraud, error Reporting Suite presented at: engagement is restricted primarily to enquiries and or non-compliance may occur and not be detected. http://www.dexus.com/who-we-are/corporateanalytical procedures and the work is substantially responsibility-and-sustainability/reports to assist less detailed than that undertaken for a reasonable Additionally, non-financial data may be subject to DEXUS’ members in assessing whether the directors more inherent limitations than financial data, given assurance engagement, the level of assurance is lower have discharged their responsibilities by than would be obtained in a reasonable assurance both its nature and the methods used for commissioning an independent assurance report in determining, calculating and sampling or estimating engagement. connection with the selected Subject Matter. such data. Professional standards require us to use negative We accept no responsibility for the integrity and wording in the conclusion of a limited assurance Restriction on use security of the DEXUS website, which is the report. This report has been prepared in accordance with our responsibility of DEXUS management. This report is engagement terms to assist DEXUS in reporting its not intended to relate to, or to be read in conjunction sustainability performance. with, any information that may appear on the DEXUS Our report is intended solely for the Directors of website other than the Subject Matter and Assurance DEXUS. We do not accept or assume responsibility Criteria. Readers of this report on the DEXUS website for the consequences of any reliance on this report for (who may read it for their information only) should any other purpose or to any other person or bear in mind the inherent risk of the website organisation. changing after the date of our report. 2019 reporting criteria Criteria for reporting on selected information included within the scope for assurance The following criteria were used by Dexus to prepare the selected subject matter assured by PricewaterhouseCoopers (PwC) included within the 2019 Dexus Sustainability Performance Pack set out below. Section of CR&S Reporting Matter subject to assurance Environment  Total scope 1, 2 and 3 location-based greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (t CO 2-e)  Group  Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 market-based greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions (t CO 2-e) environmental  Total net energy consumed (electricity, natural gas, diesel, solar) (GJ) summary  Total water consumed (kL)  Total waste (tonnes) Employees  HR Indicators  Work statistics  Percentage of female employees  Engagement and  Percentage of females in senior management leave  Percentage of female non-executive directors  Work health &  Absentee rate (days per employee) safety, and discrimination  Safety indicators  Lost time injury frequency rate Dexus believes that underlying data presented for other areas of the 2019 Annual Report is sound. Parameters used in the preparation of the subject matter Environment Dexus applied the following parameters in calculating the reported GHG emissions, energy and water consumption data, and waste data described above: Item Description Reporting period 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 Reporting boundary Unless otherwise stated, Dexus applied the principles contained within the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting Act 2007 (NGERA) and its associated guidelines. Unless otherwise stated below, the reporting boundary comprises those facilities in Australia which fall under the operational control of members of the group of which Dexus Holdings Limited is the controlling corporation for part of all of the 12 months ending June 30, 2019. The operations covered under the scope of reporting are consistent with Dexus’s operation as a property business, being: 1. Property investment including directly owned assets and assets managed on behalf of third party investors. Property investment comprises: a. Office assets b. Industrial assets c. Retail assets. 2. Occupied premises being Dexus occupied tenancies. Property development is excluded from the boundary of operational control for Australia. Operational control of the development site is handed over at Practical Completion of the development. Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 Total Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG emissions comprises emissions within the reporting boundary location-based GHG for Australia as calculated using the formula below: emissions 𝑇𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒 1, 2, 𝑎𝑛𝑑 3 𝑙𝑜𝑐𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛 𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒𝑑 𝐺𝐻𝐺 𝑒𝑚𝑖𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 = 𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒 1 𝐺𝐻𝐺 𝐸𝑚𝑖𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 + 𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒 2 𝑙𝑜𝑐𝑎𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛 𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒𝑑 𝐺𝐻𝐺 𝐸𝑚𝑖𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 + 𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒 3 𝐺𝐻𝐺 𝐸𝑚𝑖𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 Where: Scope 1 GHG Emissions, Scope 2 location based GHG Emissions and Scope 3 GHG Emissions are as defined within this criterion. ‘Scopes’ are defined under the international reporting framework of the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development reported in The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and have been adopted by the NGERA. Reporting is in alignment with the NGERA and its associated guidelines with the exception of Scope 3 GHG emissions as described below. GHG are measured in carbon dioxide equivalents and expressed in tonnes (tCO2-e). Total Scope 1, 2 and 3 Total Scope 1, 2, and 3 GHG market-based emissions comprises emissions within the market-based GHG reporting boundary for Australia as calculated using the formula below: emissions 𝑇𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 1, 2, 𝑎𝑛𝑑 3 𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒𝑑 𝐺𝐻𝐺 𝑒𝑚𝑖𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 = 𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒 1 𝐺𝐻𝐺 𝐸𝑚𝑖𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 + 𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒 2 𝑚𝑎𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑡 𝑏𝑎𝑠𝑒𝑑 𝐺𝐻𝐺 𝐸𝑚𝑖𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 + 𝑆𝑐𝑜𝑝𝑒 3 𝐺𝐻𝐺 𝐸𝑚𝑖𝑠𝑠𝑖𝑜𝑛𝑠 Where: Scope 1 GHG Emissions, Scope 2 market based GHG Emissions and Scope 3 GHG Emissions are as defined within this criterion. ‘Scopes’ are defined under the international reporting framework of the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development reported in The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and have been adopted by the NGERA. GHG are measured in carbon dioxide equivalents and expressed in tonnes (tCO2-e). Scope 1 GHG Scope 1 emissions (direct emissions) comprise GHG emission under associated with fuel emissions combustion and use of hydrofluorocarbons for the following sources:  Natural gas (used for heating air and water). Natural gas data is derived from supply authority billing. Meter data and/or estimated data is applied based on Dexus’s methodology, set out below, if billing data is unavailable at the time of reporting.  Diesel Oil (Diesel). Diesel data is collected from site operations managers and is sourced from delivery invoices for diesel purchases and periodic diesel tank level readings. Billing data and/or estimated data is applied based on Dexus’s methodology if billing data is unavailable at the time of reporting.  Refrigerant gases (used within air conditioning equipment). The data for refrigerant gases is derived from a refrigerant register that lists all equipment under Dexus operational control containing hydrofluorocarbons reportable under NGERA. Dexus does not have company fleet vehicles and no vehicle related emissions have been reported. Scope 1 emissions have been calculated according to the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (Measurement) Determination, July 2018. Scope 2 location-based Scope 2 location-based GHG emissions comprise indirect GHG emissions associated with GHG emissions grid-purchased electricity used for lighting and power. The data is provided by supply authority billing. Meter and/or estimated data is applied based on Dexus’s methodology if billing data is unavailable at the time of reporting. Scope 2 emissions have been calculated using published average grid emission factors according to the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (Measurement) Determination, July 2018. dexus.com 2 Scope 2 GHG marketScope 2 GHG market-based emissions comprise indirect GHG emissions associated with based GHG emissions grid-purchased electricity used for lighting and power. The data is provided by supply authority billing. Meter and/or estimated data is applied based on Dexus’s methodology if billing data is unavailable at the time of reporting. Electricity purchases are identified, aggregated and emissions are calculated separately applying: ‘market-based’ accounting for Scope 2 emissions for electricity purchases that can be accounted using source-based scope emission factors evidenced by electricity attribute certificates, as defined below ‘location-based’ accounting for Scope 2 emissions for remaining electricity purchases not evidenced by electricity attribute certificates using published average grid emission factors, as defined below. Where: ‘Location-based’ accounting for Scope 2 emissions involves accounting for electricity purchases using published average grid emission factors, as defined within The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Scope 2 Guidance. Dexus has calculated Scope 2 emissions for ‘location-based’ electricity purchases using published average grid emission factors according to the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (Measurement) Determination, July 2018. ‘Market-based’ Scope 2 emissions involve separate accounting for any type of energy or energy attributed to a purchase via a contractual instrument, using source-based scope 2 emission factors evidenced by electricity attribute certificates, as defined within The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Scope 2 Guidance. These instruments are termed “energy attribute certificates”, flow from energy generation facilities to energy suppliers and ultimately energy consumers in order to support consumer claims about the type of energy used and its related attributes—such as GHG emissions— produced at the point of generation. In line with The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: Scope 2 Guidance. The GHG emission coefficients from the table above apply to Scope 2 emissions only, with Scope 3 emissions calculated using the relevant state-based grid GHG emissions coefficient. ‘Energy attribute certificates’: Dexus recognises the following schemes and certificates as energy attribute certificates and has applied the nominated GHG emission coefficients listed in the table below for quantities of electricity purchased and consumed, or volumes of certificates that retired under these schemes. Energy attribute certificate scheme Scope 2 Scope 3 emission factor emission factor GreenPower – electricity generated under the 0 0 National GreenPower Accreditation Program (https://www.greenpower.gov.au/) Large Scale Generation Certificates (LGCs) and 0 0 Small-scale Technology Certificates (STCs) created by accredited renewable energy power stations under Australia’s Renewable Energy Target, administered by the Clean Energy Regulator Contracts for electricity, such as power purchase Source specific State-based agreements (PPAs) and contracts from specified coefficients as sources, where electricity attribute certificates do per locationnot exist or are not required for a usage claim. based accounting Where: Scope 3 emissions: For GreenPower and LGCs, a scope 3 emission factor = 0 is applied as losses are taken into account in the creation of LGC’s in accordance with the GreenPower Program Rules Version 10, page 14 and http://www.cleanenergyregulator.gov.au/RET/Scheme-participants-and-industry/Powerstations/Large-scale-generation-certificates/Large-scale-generation-certificate-eligibilityformula Dexus has used tax invoices for the purchase of GreenPower and records of retirements of certificates in their relevant registries to evidence the volumes of electricity reported under its market-based approach. dexus.com 3 Scope 3 GHG Scope 3 emissions (other indirect emissions) comprise GHG associated with transmission emissions and distribution losses (“energy losses”) associated with energy use, waste sent to landfill, recycled waste, and water/wastewater use, and emissions from corporate operations including office paper use, corporate travel and employee commuting. Data for energy losses is that used to calculate scope 1 and 2 emissions. Data for waste to landfill and recycled waste is provided by waste contractors directly or collated by site managers from data provided by waste contractors. Estimated data is applied based on Dexus’s methodology if billing data is unavailable at the time of reporting. Data for water consumption is provided by water utilities. Estimated data is applied based on Dexus’s methodology if billing data is unavailable at the time of reporting. Data for corporate operations has been compiled in accordance with the Australian National Carbon Offset Standard (NCOS), version 4, November 2017. Scope 3 emissions for energy and waste to landfill have been calculated according to the National Greenhouse Accounts (NGA) Factors, July 2018. Scope 3 emissions for recycled waste have been calculated according to Department of Sustainability, Environment, Water, Population and Communities: A study into commercial & industrial (C&I) waste and recycling in Australia by industry division: 2013, Table 21: Greenhouse gas impacts of landfilling and recycling materials. Scope 3 emissions for water/wastewater have been calculated using factors derived from the Australian Bureau of Meteorology Urban National Performance Report 2018 http://www.bom.gov.au/water/npr/ Emissions for corporate air travel have been calculated according to the 2018 Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting and associated 2018 Carbon Factors published by the United Kingdom’s Department of Environment, Food and Rural Affairs (DEFRA). Energy consumed Energy consumed comprises natural gas, diesel and electricity purchased by Dexus for facilities within the reporting boundary for Australia. Energy consumed also comprises secondary electricity that is generated from conversion of solar energy, and natural gas or diesel via combustion, for consumption within the facility. Energy consumed is calculated as a total figure converting measured usage to gigajoules using the methods and conversion factors specified within the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (Measurement) Determination, July 2018. Energy consumption has been based on quantities invoiced or metered by suppliers. Estimates are used when billing data is unavailable and these are based on Dexus’s methodology, drawing from secondary sources such as meter data or based on seasonal historical estimates. Energy produced Energy produced comprises energy captured from natural sources and the manufacture of energy from transformation from another fuel source within Dexus for facilities within the reporting boundary for subsequent consumption onsite or export offsite. Energy produced comprises:  Electricity production from solar radiation (solar PV). The data for electricity production from solar radiation is derived from site based sub meters. Estimated data is applied based on Dexus’s methodology if meter data is unavailable at the time of reporting.  Electricity production from thermal generation (cogeneration and diesel generators). Data for electricity production from thermal generation is derived direct measurement or from incoming natural gas or diesel utility data that is multiplied by efficiency factors of 32% for natural gas and 40% for diesel, which represent the estimated electricity yield. Estimated data is applied based on Dexus’s methodology if meter data is unavailable at the time of reporting. Energy produced is calculated as a total figure converting measured usage to gigajoules using the methods and conversion factors specified within the National Greenhouse and Energy Reporting (Measurement) Determination, July 2018. Total net energy Total net energy consumed is defined as the energy consumed minus the energy produced consumed within the reporting boundary. Water consumption Water consumption is based on quantities invoiced or metered by suppliers. Water consumption comprises:  Water purchased by Dexus from local water authorities and suppliers for assets for which Dexus has operational control  Water purchased by Dexus on behalf of industrial assets which are under the operational control of tenants, but where the asset has water outlets that Dexus can use for landscaping and external cleaning or external amenities dexus.com 4 Water consumption excludes water use from onsite water recycling and rainwater harvesting. Total waste Total waste is based on volume or weight quantities invoiced by waste contractors. Total waste comprises:  Waste measured in weight that is sent to landfill by waste and cleaning contractors on behalf of Dexus and our customers for office and retail assets for which Dexus has operational control.  Recycling measured in weight that is diverted from landfill by waste and cleaning contractors on behalf of Dexus and our customers for office and retail assets for which Dexus has operational control.  Where waste and recycling data is based off volumes rather than actual weights, waste contractors use a predetermined density factor in order to report to Dexus in weight. Waste contractors may apply different density factors based on their historical analysis of different waste collection practices employed at Dexus facilities. For example, there may be variations in bin size and average bin fullness across different facilities. Total waste excludes waste to landfill and recycling for industrial assets as Dexus does not have operational control over waste collection. Furthermore, waste data may be not available for all office and retail facilities. The site area of those facilities that have been reported represents 100% of the total lettable area of retail and office facilities. Data confidence and Where primary data such as utility invoices have not been received, estimates are applied estimation using the following prioritised data methodology: 1. 30-minute interval electricity, natural gas and water metering data supplied by MP/MDA Metering Dynamics 2. Estimated data using an estimate that accounts for seasonal variances derived by: a. Derived from an actual figure for the same period in the prior year, adjusted for the length of the gap. b. Derived from an actual figure for the prior month, adjusted for the length of the gap c. Interpolation between two adjacent actual readings, adjusted for the length of the gap 3. Estimated data using the monthly average for the previous 12 month period. Parameters used in the preparation of the subject matter Employees Dexus applied the following parameters in calculating the reported workforce diversity statistics, absenteeism and safety statistics described above: Item Description Reporting period 1 July 2018 to 30 June 2019 Reporting boundary Unless otherwise stated below, the reporting boundary comprises employees (‘Dexus workforce’, ‘Dexus employees’) across facilities in Australia which fall under the operational control of members of the group of which Dexus Holdings Limited is the controlling corporation. The ‘Dexus workforce’ or ‘Dexus employees’ includes staff employed full-time, part-time, on fixed term contracts and on a casual basis and excludes independent consultants/service providers and temporary staff sourced via external agencies. Number of workers Number of workers Is defined as the number of workers who were employed by Dexus as recorded at 30 June 2019. Headcount data for the purpose of these statistics represents the active Dexus workforce and is based on the metric ‘Total Headcount (ongoing)’ as defined by the Australian Public Service Commission (https://www.apsc.gov.au/appendix-common-workforcemetrics), as the number of ongoing employees directly employed by Dexus at the point in time described above.. Number of full time Number of full time equivalent employees (FTEs) Is defined as the number of equivalent employees workers who were employed by Dexus as recorded at 30 June 2019. Persons who were absent from work on extended paid or unpaid leave as recorded at 30 June 2019 are excluded from this calculation. dexus.com 5 FTE data for the purpose of these statistics represents the active Dexus workforce, and is based on the metric ‘Total FTE’ as defined by the Australian Public Service Commission (https://www.apsc.gov.au/appendix-common-workforce-metrics), as the number of full-time equivalent employees directly employed by the organisation at a point in time where part-time employees are converted to full-time equivalent based on the hours they work as a proportion of the hours for a full-time employee. Number of hours worked Number of hours worked in the period Refers to the total scheduled number of hours of all Dexus employees as recorded at 30 June 2019. Dexus offers employees flexible work arrangements and staff are employed under individual contracts that stipulate 1824 hours per annum (equal to 240 days x 7.6 hours) for each full-time employee. As Dexus does not track employee working hours and staff do not engage in overtime or shift work, Dexus has defined the ‘number of hours worked’ as 1824 hours per annum per full-time employee. Percentage of female The percentage of female full time equivalent workers employed is calculated as follows: employees 𝑛𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟 𝑜𝑓 𝑓𝑒𝑚𝑎𝑙𝑒 𝑓𝑢𝑙𝑙 𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒 𝑒𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑒𝑛𝑡 𝑤𝑜𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑟𝑠 𝐹𝑒𝑚𝑎𝑙𝑒 𝑒𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦𝑒𝑒𝑠 (%) = 𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 𝑛𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟 𝑜𝑓 𝑓𝑢𝑙𝑙 𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒 𝑒𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑒𝑛𝑡 𝑤𝑜𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑟𝑠 Where: Number of full time equivalent workers – as defined above Number of female full time equivalent workers – A subset of the number of full time equivalent workers defined above who identify themselves as female Percentage of females ‘Senior Management team’ includes executive management and senior management in senior management positions within the Dexus workforce. Where: Executive management and senior management positions include Dexus employees whose role is mapped to one of the following four occupational categories: ‘CEO/head of business’, ‘KMP (key management personnel)’, ‘other executives/general managers’, and ‘senior managers’, as outlined within worker classification guidance Standardised occupational categories of managers: February 2018 published by the Australian Government’s Workplace Gender Equality Agency (WGEA). Refer to: https://www.wgea.gov.au/sites/default/files/standardised-categories-managers.pdf The percentage of females in senior management is calculated as follows: 𝑛𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟 𝑜𝑓 𝑓𝑒𝑚𝑎𝑙𝑒 𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑖𝑜𝑟 𝑚𝑎𝑛𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑟𝑠 𝐹𝑒𝑚𝑎𝑙𝑒𝑠 𝑖𝑛 𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑖𝑜𝑟 𝑚𝑎𝑛𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑚𝑒𝑛𝑡 (%) = 𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 𝑛𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟 𝑜𝑓 𝑠𝑒𝑛𝑖𝑜𝑟 𝑚𝑎𝑛𝑎𝑔𝑒𝑟𝑠 Where: Number of senior managers – A subset of the total number of workers with a ‘Senior Management team’ corporate title as defined above Number of female workers – A subset of the number of senior managers defined above who identify themselves as female Percentage of female The percentage of female non-executive directors is calculated as follows: non-executive directors 𝐹𝑒𝑚𝑎𝑙𝑒 𝑛𝑜𝑛 𝑒𝑥𝑒𝑐𝑢𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒 𝑑𝑖𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑜𝑟𝑠 (%) 𝑛𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟 𝑜𝑓 𝑓𝑒𝑚𝑎𝑙𝑒 𝑛𝑜𝑛 𝑒𝑥𝑒𝑐𝑢𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒 𝑑𝑖𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑜𝑟𝑠 = 𝑡𝑜𝑡𝑎𝑙 𝑛𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟 𝑜𝑓 𝑛𝑜𝑛 𝑒𝑥𝑒𝑐𝑢𝑡𝑖𝑣𝑒 𝑑𝑖𝑟𝑒𝑐𝑡𝑜𝑟𝑠 Where: Number of non-executive directors – The total number of non-executive directors of Dexus Holdings Limited as recorded at 30 June 2019 Number of female non-executive directors – A subset of the number of non-executive directors defined above who identify themselves as female Absentee Rate Absentee Rate (AR) – the number of sick leave and carers leave days per full time equivalent workers employed is calculated as follows: 𝑛𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟 𝑜𝑓 𝑆𝑖𝑐𝑘 𝑎𝑛𝑑 𝐶𝑎𝑟𝑒𝑟𝑠 𝑙𝑒𝑎𝑣𝑒 𝑑𝑎𝑦𝑠 𝐴𝑅 = 𝑛𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟 𝑜𝑓 𝑓𝑢𝑙𝑙 𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒 𝑒𝑞𝑢𝑖𝑣𝑎𝑙𝑒𝑛𝑡 𝑒𝑚𝑝𝑙𝑜𝑦𝑒𝑒𝑠 Where: dexus.com 6 Number of full time equivalent employees – as defined above Work health & safety Work health and safety (WH&S) incidents account for all recorded incidents pertaining to definitions Dexus employees and includes contractors employed directly by Dexus. All reported incidents in FY19 related to personal injury. The system of rules applied in recording and reporting accident statistics include Australian Standard 1885.1 1990, Workplace injury and disease recording standard as well as definitions within disclosure 403-2 from GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 2018, from the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. No lost-time injuries/diseases – Those occurrences which were not lost-time injuries/diseases and for which first aid and/or medical treatment was administered Lost-time injuries/diseases – Those occurrences that resulted in a fatality, permanent disability or time lost from work of one day/shift or more and is recorded via an approved workers compensation claim Occupational disease – A disease arising from the work situation or activity (such as stress or regular exposure to harmful chemicals), or from a work-related injury Fatalities – Fatalities that occur as a result of an injury or disease occurrence arising from the work situation or activity Lost Time Injury Lost Time Injury Frequency Rate (LTIFR) The number of occurrences of injury or Frequency Rate (LTIFR) disease for each one million hours worked is calculated as follows: 𝑛𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟 𝑜𝑓 𝑙𝑜𝑠𝑡 𝑡𝑖𝑚𝑒 𝑖𝑛𝑗𝑢𝑟𝑖𝑒𝑠/𝑑𝑖𝑠𝑒𝑎𝑠𝑒𝑠 𝐿𝑇𝐼𝐹𝑅 = × 1,000,000 𝑛𝑢𝑚𝑏𝑒𝑟 𝑜𝑓 ℎ𝑜𝑢𝑟𝑠 𝑤𝑜𝑟𝑘𝑒𝑑 Where: Number of lost time injuries/diseases – the number of lost-time injuries/diseases recorded during the reporting period as defined above Number of hours worked in the period – as defined above Criteria for reporting on selected information not included within the scope for assurance Dexus makes the following additional definitions to support additional environmental disclosure within its 2019 reporting: Item Description Total Net Scope 1, 2 Total GHG comprises Scope 1 GHG emissions + Scope 2 (market-based) GHG and 3 GHG emissions emissions + Scope 3 GHG emissions – GHG offsets within the reporting boundary for Australia, as defined within this criterion, where: ‘GHG offsets’ comprises carbon offsets or carbon credits equivalent offset units eligible under the National Carbon Offset Standard, administered by the Australian Department of the Environment and Energy. The National Carbon Offset Standard provides a list of eligible offset units that have been assessed as meeting the Standard's offsets integrity principles. These principles are designed to ensure that eligible offset units represent genuine and credible emission reductions. GHG offsets are created by eligible projects under recognised schemes and each offset represents 1 tonne of abated or avoided carbon dioxide equivalent. GHG offsets are created and tracked through market registers. ‘Scopes’ are defined under the international reporting framework of the World Resources Institute/World Business Council for Sustainable Development reported in The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard and have been adopted by the NGERA. Reporting is in alignment with the NGERA and its associated guidelines with the exception of Scope 3 GHG emissions as described above. GHG are measured in carbon dioxide equivalents and expressed in tonnes (tCO2-e). 13 August 2019 dexus.com 7 de>cus
