2018 Corporate Responsibility Report 02 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Table of Contents 3 Executive Message 4-8 Sustainability at Haworth 9-11 Design 12-13 Supply Chain 14-17 Manufacturing and Logistics 18-20 Usage and Performanc 21-22 Continued and After Use 23-28 People and Community 24 Diversity and Inclusiveness 25 Member Development and Training 26-27 Safety and Well-Being 27-28 Giving Back 29-33 Global Reporting Initiative Index 03 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Executive Message 2018 marked Haworth’s 70th year in business, a milestone we acknowledged through a variety of commemorative events around the world. In May, more than 700 guests including Haworth members (employees), dealers, and customers traveled to our headquarters in Holland, Matthew R. Haworth Michigan to celebrate with us. Numerous and varied anniversary events were also held in Chairman global showrooms throughout the year. There was an underlying—but always present—note of accomplishment and gratitude as we reflected on our roots and the path we’ve traversed to become the company we are today. Throughout its evolution from a small home-based business to a global corporation, Haworth’s connection to sustainability and the environment played a prominent role. Our recycling efforts began in the 1980s—earlier than most other businesses in our industry. Since that time, our efforts to protect and preserve natural resources used in developing healthy, inspiring Franco Bianchi spaces have been constant. Here are a few important highlights from 2018: President & CEO Healthier products using healthier materials–We continue to make strides in driving problematic chemicals from our products. Today, most of our major product lines are free from chemicals of concern commonly used in our industry, such as PVC, heavy metals, and halogenated flame retardants. Updates in product certifications–Haworth is one of the first three companies to have products certified under the European LEVEL® program, the new certification system for Michael Warsaw sustainable office furniture. All products Haworth submitted received the organization’s Vice President, Global highest certification level possible. Design & Innovation Packaging improvements in all regions–Our initiative to reduce packaging materials or to replace them with readily recyclable alternatives is ongoing. Significant advances in packaging across the globe resulted in generating less waste while still providing exceptional protection to package contents. The Healthy Workplace Nudge: How Healthy People, Culture, and Buildings Lead to High Performance–For more than five years, our Global Workplace Research and Strategy team has led the way in researching how employee wellness and healthy buildings are influenced by workplace design and culture. In 2018, the findings of this research became the foundation of this new book, co-authored by Rex Miller, Phillip Williams, and Haworth’s own Dr. Michael O’Neill, who leads the Global Workplace Research team. Haworth remains a private, family-owned company, defined by the totality of the actions of our members, our partners, and the global communities we serve. We operate at the intersection of passion and purpose, as keen about our craft as we are about protecting the environment and encouraging well-being. Looking to the future, our global sustainability team has begun to develop long-term commitments for 2030 that will further help our global strategy. Operating our business consciously—with intent and deliberation—is essential to Haworth’s identity as a sustainable organization. As we embark upon the next 70 years, we will continue to cultivate hope for the future by embracing diversity, protecting our environment, and creating economic value. In this small way, we help to make the world a better place for people to work and live. 04 Sustainability Sustainability at at Haworth Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Sustainability at Haworth Making the world better is one of Haworth’s foundational, company-wide values. This philosophy guides our members every day as we work to strengthen the communities where we live and work. Through our research, development, and the actualization of creative, sustainable solutions, we help protect and restore the environment, support and strengthen global communities, create economic value, and inspire well-being—now and for the future. 05 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Our Sustainability Vision Financial Performance Haworth will be a sustainable corporation. We engage our members Haworth’s 2018 global sales totaled $2.14 billion—a 5% increase in sustainable practices, we initiate and use processes that are from the previous year. neutral or improve our environment, and we utilize our resources in ways that create adaptable and sustainable workspace solutions for our customers. We do all of this globally to protect and restore our 2.5 environment, create economic value, and support and strengthen 2.0 our communities. 1.5 Billions of US Dollars Our Values 1.0 0.5 The guiding principles on which Haworth was founded in 1948 have remained steady throughout its history. Our Values define 0 our business behavior, inform decisions, and communicate our 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 brand. They serve as a compass for today’s activities and tomorrow’s growth. As our company evolves, and as the world gets a little smaller, our Values are refreshed periodically to align and inspire all members to be the best for each other and for the world. We listen to our Customers. $2.14 billion in global sales for 2018 We rely on our Members. 450+ patents We honor Integrity. We embrace Continuous Learning. More than 7,000 members worldwide We lead with Design. 192 languages spoken We create Value. More than 650 dealers worldwide We work to make the World better. Presence in more than 120 countries Looking to the Future Milestones along our journey toward becoming a more sustainable organization have been numerous, but we know the process is infinite. Our global team is now developing Haworth’s next long-term commitments in a vision for 2030. These commitments will follow along our Value Stream, producing impact through product design, material sourcing, and manufacturing—all while supporting the communities in which we live and do business around the world. Sustainability Leadership Our executive team is accountable for meeting sustainability goals and objectives. The executive sponsors, in partnership with our global sustainability team, set company-wide goals and metrics based on the company's long-term strategy. The global sustainability team drives the metrics and reports progress regularly to our Vice President of Global Design & Innovation, who is responsible for the direction and pace of our sustainability plan, reporting to the CEO. The CEO provides formal sustainability oversight through corporate sector reviews. Region-specific functional leaders help direct local sustainability efforts. They represent and provide the conduit for regional efforts and priorities. 06 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Global Sustainability Team Our global sustainability team sets strategic direction and policy, ensures the company and its leadership are kept abreast of current concerns, and shares industry best practices across all regions. They are supported by an interdisciplinary group of members across the globe who play a crucial role in promoting and maintaining the strategic direction set by the team. Asia Pacific Alex Przybyla Sridhar Harivanam Reta Yang China India China Europe Jessica Karp Bianca Doenicke Germany Germany North America Anne McManus Devin O’Herron Jim Kozminski US US US Global Partnerships United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) Health Product Declaration Collaborative (HPDC) US Green Building Council (USGBC) IAO Fraunhofer Office 21 Indian Green Building Council (IGBC) German Design Council Business and Institutional Furniture Manufacturers Association (BIFMA) West Michigan Sustainable Business Forum European Federation of Office Furniture (FEMB) Michigan Recycling Coalition (MRC) The German Environmental Management Association (B.A.U.M. e.V.) Healthier Hospitals Initiative (HHI) 07 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Global Reach Haworth Headquarters Haworth serves markets in more than 120 countries and employs more than 7,000 people, nearly half of whom reside outside of the Haworth Showrooms United States. It operates 18 wholly-owned manufacturing facilities and markets and sells products and services through 95 offices and Haworth Owned Manufacturing showrooms around the world. Haworth Preferred Dealers We report our progress in three regions: • The Americas • Europe, Middle East, Africa • Asia Pacific 08 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Value Stream Haworth takes a holistic approach to evaluating the impact we make on our global economy throughout every aspect of our business. Using a continuous Value Stream as a framework for our sustainability approach, we create a process flow that grounds our thinking and supports our rapidly changing world. Design Supply Chain Designing with people and the environment in Engaging with supplier partners mind through sustainable material choices and in continuous dialogue to ensure the avoidance of harmful chemicals. responsible sourcing. Continued and People and Community Manufacturing After Use and Logistics Strengthening communities by helping to protect and restore Providing lifecycle the environment and supporting people through volunteerism, Maintaining ISO assessments, product health and safety protocols, and continuing education. certifications and certifications, and Zero Waste to Landfill educating customers on status globally. landfill alternatives. Usage and Performance Earning top certifications, promoting healthy spaces, and fostering well-being. Continuous Improvement Continuous improvement is an essential component of each phase of the Value Stream. Through our Haworth Management System (HMS), we ensure the principles of continuous improvement are applied to both manufacturing operations and office processes. Our global HMS team inspires all members to support, facilitate, and lead initiatives that drive results and eliminate waste. 09 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Design We are committed to designing with people and the environment in mind through sustainable material choices and engineering processes, and the avoidance of banned chemicals. We apply customer insights to our products and services to develop inspiring spaces that enrich people’s lives and businesses. Our designers implement sustainable objectives that contribute toward certifications from BIFMA LEVEL®, European LEVEL, GREENGUARD®, and others. This drive toward sustainable, healthier solutions helps protect the planet and meet client expectations. Design Supply Chain Continued and Manufacturing After Use and Logistics People and Community Usage and Performance 10 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Organic Workspace® Organic Workspace, our process for creating inspiring spaces and OUR PRODUCTS our perspective of workplace design, enhances the effectiveness of people and the efficiency of real estate. A key component of Our mix of products inspire options to transform this is our design point of view, “Performance + Desire,” which encompasses elements of empathy, beauty, simplicity, performance, and tailor spaces for solutions now and as balance, and craft. This viewpoint led to the development of workspace needs evolve. Haworth’s Integrated Palette™ and a holistic portfolio (including systems, storage, tables, desking, and walls) that helps customers • Seating embrace change. More sustainable spaces are realized through our customers’ ability to reuse, rearrange, and reconfigure elements to • Storage create new environments with minimal effort and cost. • Lounge Furnishings • Workspaces Design for Sustainability • Desks and Tables Designing for the environment is part of the creative process, • Walls beginning at the point of inspiration and continuing through a product’s lifecycle. The following examples illustrate some of the • Technology ways design plays an integral role in how we continuously work to become a more sustainable company. • Accessories • Europe’s Drift™ floor-standing screen was one of the first products designed and developed according to newly revised sustainability standards for product design and development. Adhering to • When one of our products, the Hello® chair, began exhibiting requirements on material chemistry and healthy materials use, Drift’s unexpected performance issues in the field it resulted in an increased main components are aluminum, cardboard, and fabric—all easily number of replacements. Recognizing and responding to the issue, and fully recyclable materials. All fabric collections are certified either our Engineering team in High Point, North Carolina redesigned the OEKO-TEX or EU Ecolabel, and the frame contains no heavy metals. product with a different assembly mechanism, making the chair The screens are produced in an ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certified stronger and more durable, thus increasing the lifespan of facility, ensuring high quality and environmental standards. the product. Packaging is readily recyclable. No adhesives are applied in any product configuration, and it is easily disassembled for recycling or refurbishment. • For most metal parts, Haworth uses powder painting, a VOC-free finishing process that creates low amounts of waste. Through a transition to water-based finishes and powder-coat paints, we’ve realized an over 90% reduction in VOC emissions from our processes since 2007. Partnering with a supplier, Haworth Germany discovered a way to redesign and substituted three powder paint colors with a twocomponent powder solution. This not only makes the powder paints more environmentally friendly, but also more robust in terms of quality. Now, the entire powder paint portfolio is free of any hazard classification. This improvement also yielded cost savings, making it a win/win/win for the environment, quality, and costs. • Through a minor design modification to the fixed arm supports of the Very® task chair, North American engineers successfully eliminated roughly one pound of aluminum per chair. This small change reduces waste by approximately 12 tons annually. 11 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index We continue to offer products free of problematic chemicals such as: • Non-stick additives derived from perand poly-fluorinated compounds • Antimicrobials • PVC and associated phthalates • Halogenated flame retardants • Heavy metals Healthy Materials, Healthy Products Compliance with legal requirements and regulations from directives such as the European standard, REACH (Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals) is a matter of course, but we go beyond what is mandated to further reduce potentially hazardous materials in our products. As a first step, we partner with suppliers to fully understand the chemical makeup of parts and materials, and then verify whether they contain Haworth-identified chemicals of concern. If confirmed present, we collaborate with suppliers to switch to safer alternatives that meet our rigorous performance and quality standards. A few examples of healthy improvements we’ve made in materials include: Foams We avoid the use of halogenated flame retardants, and most Haworth standard AWARDS foams are free of any flame-retardant additive (unless specified, e.g. for CAL133 certification). Foam propellants classified as Interior Design Best of Year 2018 ozone depleting substances, such as CFCs • Maari™ and HCFCs, are also avoided. Metropolis Likes, NeoCon 2018 Maari Fabrics HiP at Neocon Through our suppliers’ chemical material (Presented by Interior Design Magazine) declarations and fabric certifications, such as STANDARD 100 by OEKO-TEX® and the Honoree – Workplace Guest Seating: Maari EU Ecolabel, Haworth confirms product Honoree – Workplace Task Seating: Soji™ offerings are free of harmful chemical groups that are commonly used in our ICFF NYCxDesign industry. Guest Seating – Winner: Maari Red Dot Design Award 2018 Poppy® German Design Award Excellent Product Design: Poppy Best Workplace Award 2018 Haworth GmbH ranked in Top Ten 12 Sustainabilityat Sustainability atHaworth Design || Supply Haworth || Design Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Supply Chain We engage in continuous dialogue and education with our global network of suppliers. We share best practices to ensure socially and ecologically responsible sourcing. Nurturing these relationships maintains integrity and transparency throughout our supply chain. Design Supply Chain Continued and Manufacturing After Use and Logistics People and Community Usage and Performance 13 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Our Supplier Code All our suppliers are encouraged to sign and adhere to the Haworth Supplier Code of Conduct, an agreement that addresses worker safety, labor compensation, anti-child labor, anti-discrimination, anti-corruption, worker respect, and environmental compliance. With over 93% of global suppliers (by spend) signing this Code of Conduct, we work together to help increase the transparency of sustainability standards and initiate improvement measures. We conduct in-depth audits on quality, environment, health and safety, and overall sustainability for current key suppliers. Surveillance audits conducted in 2018 identified significant improvements for suppliers reassessed. Each audit is followed by action plans and a close follow-up process — all designed to support Sustainable Textiles our supplier partnerships as we overcome challenges together. The New Zealand wool used in our Main Line Flax offering is certified with the EU Ecolabel, an environmental label with very rigorous criteria when it comes to resource acquisition and farming. The textile uses flax, a bast fiber, which is rapidly renewable and has extremely Many of our fabrics have high low resource use in comparison to other natural plant fibers, such as cotton. Bast fibers create diverse eco-systems where they are recycled content, some as grown and can be cultivated on land often unsuitable for other crops. Additionally, the blend of wool and bast fibers creates an inherently flame-retardant fabric that meets higher flammability standards than much as 100%. wool alone and negates the need for extra chemical treatment. Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) Sourcing Insights Haworth’s Shanghai Sustainability and Quality teams visited a key supplier to evaluate and confirm its capacity to provide 100% FSC-certified lowand high-pressure laminate (LPL and HPL) particleboard and paper finishes. As part of the evaluation, the teams pinpointed the source of the supplier's wood raw materials and learned the forest is part of the UN World Food Programme and the first FSC-certified forest in mainland China. 14 SustainabilityatatHaworth Sustainability Haworth | | Design Chain | | Manufacturing SupplyChain Design | | Supply Manufacturingand and Logistics Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Manufacturing and Logistics Since 2010, all Haworth manufacturing facilities globally have achieved ISO 9001 and ISO 14001 certifications. In 2012, we attained Zero Waste to Landfill status globally, and we continue to advance our waste, water usage, and energy reduction initiatives. We are are also committed to green transportation by increasing resource-efficient transportation. Design Supply Chain Continued and Manufacturing After Use and Logistics People and Community Usage and Performance 15 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Management System Global Water Usage Certification 100 100 Since 2005, through our 90 90 Environmental Management System, 80 80 we have reduced our VOC emissions 70 70 Gallons/$1,000 Net Sales by 93%, greenhouse gas emissions by 60 60 20%, and water usage by 15%. Million Gallons/Year 50 50 All global Haworth manufacturing 40 40 sites are certified to ISO 9001 and 30 30 ISO14001. Haworth manufacturing 20 20 sites in Germany, Switzerland, and 10 10 China are certified to OHSAS 18001. 0 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Global Gallons Per Year Global Gallons Per $1000 Net Sales Sustainable Wood Purchases Global VOC Air Emissions Global average 91.7% 700 600 100 500 400 Total VOC Tons/Year 80 300 60 200 100 40 0 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 20 0 Global Greenhouse Gas Emissions Asia Pacific Europe North America 140,000 120 120,000 100 MT CO2e/$1,000 Net Sales 100,000 80 80,000 60 MT CO2e/Year 60,000 40 40,000 20 20,000 0 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 MT CO2e MT CO2e/$1M Sales 16 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Packaging Optimization To improve customer satisfaction, save on costs, and increase sustainability, Haworth members around the globe continually work to optimize packaging. Shanghai North America Haworth Shanghai eliminated the unnecessary center parts of Packaging engineers in North America identified and implemented particleboard cartons while keeping protective edge and corner various design modifications. Collectively, these changes will result packaging. This reduces material usage by 50% and saves 42% on in an estimated annual reduction of 225,000 pounds of packaging packaging cost. materials used. Germany Haworth Germany reduced the amount of foil used for parts packaging by 98% within one of its table lines. Fully quality tested to ensure stability, the new packaging is not only more sustainable, it also yields a savings of over €60K in annual costs. 17 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Improving Waste Recycling in Portugal Lights Out for Savings Partnering with a local recycling company, plant members in Agueda, At the Haworth facility in Conover, North Carolina, the first Portugal devised a plan to recycle wood waste from production production shift leaves at 2:30 p.m. However, lights across the processes. With the new wood recycling plan in place, the Agueda entire facility were being left on to accommodate the Shipping plant will eliminate roughly 100 tons of wood waste from department, whose members end their shift at 5 p.m. By turning incineration annually. lights out in the other areas during non-production times, the team is now realizing savings on utility costs and reducing wasted energy. Substituting Solvent-Based Lacquers Testing alternative lacquer process solutions over the course of a year, our French manufacturing team was able to replace a total of 96 solvent-based products with only 35 water-based varnishes and lacquers. In addition to making the process safer for members and reducing the environmental impact through decreasing harmful emissions, the reduced overall number of varnishes and lacquers simplifies handling and storage. Powder Coat Waste Reduction In our plant in Big Rapids, Michigan, powder coatings were often discarded due to cross-contamination of colors during the application process. Making a slight formula modification, the team was able to reduce the amount of wasted material by approximately 60 percent. 18 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage Usageand andPerformance Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Usage and Performance We strive for solutions that are neutral to the environment, with positive impacts on human health. Our products are designed and built leveraging global knowledge and best practices, earning top certifications such as GREENGUARD, BIFMA LEVEL, European LEVEL, and NF Environment. They also contribute toward LEED® building certifications and the WELL® Building Standard® to support well-being. Design Supply Chain Continued and Manufacturing After Use and Logistics People and Community Usage and Performance 19 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index PRODUCT PERFORMANCE BIFMA LEVEL SCS Indoor Advantage™ Gold North America 20 products Indoor Advantage Gold certified 45 products BIFMA LEVEL 1 certified 18 products BIFMA LEVEL 2 certified 27 products BIFMA LEVEL 3 certified NF Environment Mark 7 products NF Environment certified Asia Pacific 18 products BIFMA LEVEL 1 certified Good Environmental Choice Australia (GECA) 17 products GECA certified European LEVEL by FEMB 9 products LEVEL 3 certified Product Environmental Data Sheets (PEDs) 159 PEDs completed GREENGUARD North America 94 products GREENGUARD certified Haworth Global awarded Asia Pacific 31 products GREENGUARD certified EcoVadis Gold for Corporate Europe Social Responsibility Excellence. 8 products GREENGUARD GOLD certified Haworth Products Earn Highest Achievable European LEVEL by FEMB The newly accredited certification standard concentrates on holistic product sustainability. LEVEL acknowledges various national and local certifications and indicates a common methodology to present the environmental and social characteristics of products. This provides customers the ability to make informed choices about commercial furniture that exceed single-attribute eco-certifications. Haworth was one of the first three companies to have products certified under this program. The criteria for certification include meeting set requirements for materials, energy and atmosphere, human and ecosystem health, and social responsibility. Under a pilot program in the third quarter of 2018, all nine products submitted by Haworth achieved European LEVEL 3 status, the highest certification level awarded. 20 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Workplace Nudge™ Well-Being Research For more than five years, Haworth has extensively researched happiness and well-being. This research included a 2+ year Haworthsponsored, multi-stakeholder study that brought together Haworth’s Sustainability and Workplace Knowledge teams, Rex Miller of Mindshift, and 100 corporate leaders and experts—all working to explore best practices and aspects of workspace design and operation as they relate to occupants and their well-being. As a result of this research, Haworth released the “Workspace Nudge™: Design to Help People Move, Focus and Connect” white paper. In it, Haworth members Dr. Michael O’Neill and Beck Johnson share insights into the “nudges” organizations can give their employees to help them choose healthier behaviors—sometimes without even realizing it. Silver IGBC Certification Additionally, Mike O’Neill and Rex Miller launched their co-authored Members in the Chennai, India plant renewed their IGBC Green book, The Healthy Workplace Nudge: How Healthy People, Culture and Factory Building Silver certificate to continue their commitment to Buildings Lead to High Performance. The book addresses the concept environmental sustainability goals. Achieving the requirements for of behavioral economics and explores the connection between this certification provides tangible and intangible benefits, design and employee well-being, going beyond physical health, to including: include how meeting the needs of people in the workplace enables them to thrive at work. • Energy savings: 30–40% • Water savings: 20–30% • Enhanced indoor air quality • Good day lighting • Health, well-being, and safety of members The IGBC Green Factory Building rating system addresses green features within categories that include site selection and planning, water and energy conservation, indoor air quality, and innovation and design. Sharing Sustainability Knowledge During the 2018 European dealer council in Amsterdam, Netherlands, Haworth dealers made an on-site visit to the Circl Living Lab, a building designed and constructed with sustainability, and a circular value stream in mind. While there, dealers in attendance participated in a workshop which involved training and a unique group exchange of knowledge on sustainability, well-being, and happiness in the workplace. 21 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usageand Usage andPerformance Performance | | Continued Continuedand After Use and After | People and Community | GRI Index Continued and After Use We provide product certifications, lifecycle assessments, and after-use recommendations to customers, encouraging them to choose non-landfill options for their used Haworth products. These options may include refurbishment, resale, donation, and recycling depending on product condition and regional infrastructure. Design Supply Chain Continued and Manufacturing After Use and Logistics People and Community Usage and Performance 22 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index PROVIDING OPTIONS FOR USED FURNITURE A desire for an updated aesthetic or a redesign that better accommodates changing workstyles or functions is often the motivating factor that drives customers to replace furniture, long before products have reached the end of their useful life. When this occurs, we provide options for refreshing and refurbishing, resale, donation or recycling, with opportunities depending on product condition and regional infrastructure. Our growing network of used furniture dealers and non-profit organizations can help breathe new life and purpose into older products. In cases where other options have been exhausted, recycling for most Haworth products is facilitated by easy disassembly and parts marked for material separation. Office and Showroom Furniture Gets a Second Life As Haworth reimagines and updates its offices and showrooms around the world, we work to find a robust and meaningful second life for items that will no longer be used. This year, more than 25 non-profit organizations received donations of Haworth furniture that had been removed from showrooms, mockups, or industry trade show installations. One of the largest donations was made to a non-profit organization that serves individuals returning from incarceration, as well as the families of those who are currently incarcerated. The donation was a mix of new and used furniture, with the bulk of it comprised of products recently used in our corporate headquarters and Chicago showrooms. We delivered a combination of seating, desking, workstations, storage, and privacy screens to help support the organization’s work while also providing a welcoming and professional appearance that helps put people at ease the moment they walk through the door. 23 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage Usageand Performance | | Continued andPerformance Continuedand AfterUse andAfter Peopleand Use | | People and Community Community | GRI Index People and Community Haworth is committed to operating as an ethical business and supporting the communities in which we live and work—all around the world. Through volunteer hours, health and safety protocols, and continuing education (including ethics and anti-corruption), we encourage and empower our members to help protect and restore our environment, create economic value, and strengthen our communities. Design Supply Chain Continued and Manufacturing After Use and Logistics People and Community Usage and Performance 24 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index DIVERSITY AND INCLUSIVENESS Supporting Each Other and the Community Haworth takes pride in and celebrates the many diverse aspects Haworth empowers members by encouraging them to lead in the of our members. In 2018, three generations were represented in development and management of employee resource groups that our workforce. support initiatives that align with their own passions and priorities. Two new resource groups this year launched: the Haworth Veterans Resource Group and the Haworth Young Professionals Group. In addition to providing members with growth and development opportunities, both groups also participate in community outreach. The Veterans Resource Group participated in the Armed Forces 33% Baby Boomers 35% Generation X Thanksgiving event, supporting student service projects for (1946–1964) (1965–1979) veterans, and the Young Professionals Resource Group coordinated community service events providing members with opportunities to connect with one another and give back to the community by using volunteer service hours. 32% Communication and Connection Millennials (1980–2000) Our commitment to continuous improvement includes actively seeking our members' insights to enhance our organizational culture. Each year, we conduct a global Member Engagement Survey, encouraging all members to offer their candid, anonymous feedback regarding a range of engagement and satisfaction topics. Following the survey, results are shared and improvements are identified through Globally, we continue to support and promote gender diversity. discussion, as we begin the process of working collaboratively on In 2018, Haworth was a Gold Sponsor in the West Michigan solutions to unlock the potential of our people. International Women’s Day celebration. The event provided workshops, panel discussions, and keynote speakers championing women and men working together to ensure leadership equality Members agree that: becomes a reality. Haworth women and men attended the event to recognize and celebrate women’s contributions around the world. 80% – The people I work with treat me with respect. 76% – I enjoy working with the people in my work group. Gender ratio of members by region: 76% – My supervisor is approachable and easy to talk to. The Americas: 62% men 38% women 75% – The people on my team collaborate and help each other. EMEA: 68% men 32% women Asia Pacific: 44% men 56% women Global Turnover rate: 13.80% Number of New Hires: 897 Number of Interns: 123 25 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index MEMBER DEVELOPMENT AND TRAINING Dedication to Continuous Improvement As part of our Haworth Management System (HMS) initiative to More than $1.4 million on Member-Invested Training globally, sensitize, motivate, and inspire continuous improvement, Haworth including more than $242,000 in Tuition Reimbursement Switzerland organized a Continuous Improvement Week. Each department—from sales, accounting, and order entry, to cabinet assembly and truck drivers—implemented one improvement initiative from their own area. By the end of the week, each Professional Development improvement was visualized and presented to the other members, • 12 courses demonstrating the before/after and benefits so that everyone could • 379 participants benefit from the good ideas of others. • 129 classes delivered • 2,365 in-person training hours Business Systems Training • 68 courses • 451 members attended • 129 classes delivered • 2,224 systems training hours Haworth Leadership Institute (HLI) • 3 classes • 2 courses • 83 participants • 1,996 HLI training hours Haworth members managed Orientation • 119 classes and shared 348 continuous • 2 courses improvement projects globally. • 1082 participants • 11,072 orientation training hours Inspiring Each Other Through Knowledge To foster a culture of knowledge sharing, Haworth France created a peer-to-peer program that offers short, interactive learning sessions North America: Total of 17,657 hours invested designed to develop and diversify members’ knowledge. Successfully launched with “Designing for Creativity and Innovation,” presented by Europe: Adding to their well-established educational offerings, France’s Ideation team, these informal breakfast gatherings are hosted Haworth Europe developed several new training programs and by various member teams, and each include a short presentation modules, including new sales training sessions to help spark followed by discussion with subject matter experts. curiosity toward customer needs. A three-day management development program also made a successful debut in Europe, with 31 participants from all over the world. And throughout the year, our internal e-learning platform gained several new online training modules on new product development. To increase the visibility of training offerings, a newly developed comprehensive catalogue on personal and professional development was also made available to all members. 26 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index SAFETY AND WELL-BEING Safety Focus Week Local teams develop goals and define metrics for health and safety To help raise awareness and provide education on health and safety, at all Haworth global facilities. They regularly track occupational Haworth Switzerland held a week-long Safety Focus event. During health and safety performance, initiate improvement measures, the week, all members had the opportunity to participate in several and provide training. Transparency in health and safety is deeply workshops on a variety of topics including preventing stumbles embedded in our philosophy and culture. The risk assessment and falls, measuring blood pressure, and emergency preparedness. process is evaluated on an ongoing basis to help keep members safe Members learned what to do in case of fire, how to issue an alarm, and reduce the overall incident rate. proper use of a fire extinguisher, and the locations of gathering points. Themed posters placed throughout the facility and safety Lost time cases per 100 members globally: movies in break rooms further enhanced the week’s focus on safety. Emphasizing a Safety-First Culture Haworth’s members in North American manufacturing facilities further enhanced company efforts to keep safety and awareness top priorities. More than 330 members, representing all North American plants, reported thousands of care observations throughout the course of the year. This heightened awareness helped teams identify and communicate issues, gain member feedback, and implement immediate solutions. The growing Safety-First culture even prompted the production team members in one plant to request full ownership of its Safety Committee. Empowering them with ownership exceeded all expectations; members have a clear understanding of the right contacts for all safety questions and can easily pass along suggestions, resulting in a vast improvement in safety awareness, higher levels of engagement, and an increase in the numbers of safety suggestions submitted. Relocating Honeybees Honeybees are admired not only for the essential role they play in Upgrading Emergency Safety Systems the eco-system but also for being the hardest working adorable little creatures on the planet. Despite their charm, a swarm of bees Haworth’s German facility team collaborated with safety experts is intimidating, and even a single bee can pose a serious threat. to initiate several upgrades to the location’s existing emergency In India, bees are protected making it illegal to kill them, so when preparedness plans. As part of these initiatives, fire detector members at the Chennai plant began noticing bee activity, they positioning was updated and clearly marked. Additional alarm partnered with a local pest control firm to find a sustainable solution systems were installed to ensure every member is consistently that would protect both these pollinators and the people who work warned in case of fire. A comprehensive upgrade to the sprinkler in the plant. Whenever a hive is spotted in or around the building, system was implemented, with improvements to the pipes and a technician is dispatched to arrive after sundown when the hive pressure control system, as well as the addition of an automated is less active. With the help of smoke created from an eco-friendly refill system. The upgrades also included new fire hoses in neon source, the bees are calmed enough to safely remove the hive, and colors and renewed floor markings for access to the sprinkler system. its former site is treated with a layer of petroleum jelly, compelling them to relocate to a more suitable location. 27 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Health Week Promotes Well-Being GIVING BACK Members at the Haworth Germany plant and office took part in the Numerous non-profit organizations benefit from monetary and location’s inaugural Health Week event in April, centered around gift-in-kind contributions from Haworth. Although the majority of ergonomics, physical activity, and healthy nutrition. Throughout the Haworth’s philanthropic giving supports education, our charitable week, members took part in lectures, exercise demonstrations, and giving is also extended to humanitarian organizations, the arts, health screenings. By the end of Health Week, members: medicine and health initiatives, outreach services, youth programs, and animal welfare. We encourage our members to follow our lead • Took part in over 10 lectures by offering a matching gift program that helps their donation dollars • Completed 220 health assessments go further. Haworth’s Member Garden produces hundreds of pounds • Consumed 60 kilograms (132 pounds) of fresh fruits of organic produce annually that is donated to local families in need each year. Further, each North American member is offered paid time off annually to volunteer at a non-profit organization of their choice. Collectively, their time and efforts make a profound impact on local communities. Healthy, Environmental Commuting Taking a cue from our Workspace Nudge research, Haworth’s German facility constructed a bicycle shed to encourage healthy and environmentally friendly commuting. The shed is the result of a suggestion made by members during the site’s Health Week event, who expressed a desire for a structure that would protect their bicycles from the impact of weather (rain, hail, extreme sun, etc.) while they are working. US Members Surpass United Way Manufacturing and Facility Management partnered to develop the Challenge Goals shed’s design, ensuring it was constructed in compliance with local Members across Haworth’s United States manufacturing sites regulations on size and stability. The wooden shed also included a have big hearts for giving back, evidenced through the generous plan for rainwater run-off from its roof. The new shed was completed monetary pledges made during Haworth’s 2018 United Way right on time for the warm end-of-summer days and is already being fundraising campaign, the 52nd in the company’s history. extensively used. For the second consecutive year, Haworth’s Bruce, Big Rapids, High Point, Holland, and Ludington plants each surpassed their targeted challenge goal by nearly 4%. Donations made to United Way— Haworth’s chosen charitable, nonprofit organization to support— remain local and are used to develop and implement a range of impactful solutions focusing on education, health, financial stability, and basic needs to improve lives. Haworth provides a percentage match on all member United Way donations, which brought the total contribution for this campaign to more than a quarter of a million dollars. The final pledge results are a testament to members’ genuine concern for improving lives by giving their time, talent, and resources to advance the common good in their communities. 28 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Making a Difference Locally Women’s Service Day (WSD) is a one-day, annual event that serves women and children in West Michigan while promoting networking among women. Begun as a grassroots initiative in 2002, WSD volunteers help area agencies with organizing, yardwork, construction, painting, cooking, and many other acts of service. Haworth members Marcia Davis and Cindy DeGraaf have been leaders in organizing and promoting the event since its early days, and they have seen participation blossom year after year. This year, more than 175 participants turned out, including an enthusiastic group of Haworth women who took advantage of company-offered paid time off that encourages member volunteerism. One of the major impacts of Women’s Service Day is the “ripple effect”—as Making Waves to Fight Cancer participants learn about agencies, they take their involvement to a new level, often building relationships with the nonprofit Haworth Business Group Director, Nick Hobson challenged himself organization and volunteering on their own time, extending the to a Lake Michigan swim of over 20 miles to raise money for the Pink reach of Women’s Service Day into the community. Fund, a Michigan-based non-profit that provides financial assistance to patients undergoing cancer treatment. Nick swam in honor of his mother and triumphantly completed the swim in a little over 10 hours, meeting his fundraising goal with the help of contributions from many fellow Haworth members. Tour DaVita Fundraiser In September of 2018, Haworth's Andy Paterson and Mitch McElroy (Sales Director for Central Mountain States Territory, and Sr. Business Development Manager, respectively) pedaled more than 250 miles through Virginia's rainy Piedmont and Coastal Plain to help raise money for kidney disease research and patient care. The annual Tour DaVita three-day bicycle ride began in 2007 and has been held each year in different parts of the United States. Proceeds from the event support the Bridge of Life, a nonprofit organization founded by DaVita, whose mission is to strengthen healthcare globally through sustainable programs that prevent and treat chronic disease. Photographic Exhibition Raises Scholarship Funds In November, Haworth Shanghai co-hosted “China in Color,” an exclusive charity photo exhibition with St. James’s Place Charitable Foundation in the Haworth Organic Workspace® in the center of Shanghai city. The exhibition featured selected works by photographer and philanthropist Dr. Astrid Kyehan and a raffle with prizes offered by three other generous sponsors. With the support of volunteers from local charity Shanghai Sunrise and Haworth, the event raised over RMB 30,000 (more than $4,000 US) in educational funds for Shanghai Sunrise’s high school and university scholarship program to benefit underprivileged and at-risk young people in Shanghai. 29 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Global Reporting Initiative Index 30 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Sustainable Global Reporting Initiative GRI Content Index UN Global Compact Development Goals Report Page Haworth publishes an annual Corporate Responsibility GRI 102: General Disclosures Report. This report includes data from fiscal year Jan. 102-1 1 1, 2018 to Dec. 31, 2018 unless otherwise noted for all regions: the Americas, EMEA (Europe, Middle East, 102-2 3-4, 10 and Africa), and Asia Pacific (excluding independently102-3 7 owned Haworth dealerships). 102-4 7 This report was prepared in accordance with the 102-5 3, 31 Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability 102-6 5, 7 Reporting Standards: Core option. 102-7 5, 7 Haworth, Inc. continues to support the ten 102-8 Labor 8, 10 24 principles of the UN Global Compact with respect to Human Rights, Labor Rights, Anti-Corruption, and 102-9 Human Rights, Labor, 8 Environmental Protection. As a private company, we Environment, Anti-Corruption take great pride in our corporate values that include 102-10 3, 5 valuing people and the world we live in. We continue 102-11 6 our commitment to our business strategy, culture, and operating processes. We continue to work in our 102-12 Human Rights, Labor, 6, 29-30 supply chain to advance these principles beyond the Environment, Anti-Corruption walls of our facilities and into the communities in 102-13 6 which we operate. 102-14 3 All financial information is reported in US dollars (unless 102-15 3, 5, 8 otherwise noted). 102-16 Anti-Corruption 16 5, 29-30 Measures are English unless indicated. 102-17 Anti-Corruption 16 24-25 Questions regarding content should be directed to: 102-18 5 Haworth Sustainability 102-19 5-6 One Haworth Center 102-20 5 Holland, Michigan 102-21 16 5-6, 8 49423 USA sustainability@haworth.com 102-22 5, 16 5-6 102-23 16 5 102-26 5 102-27 4 3, 5 102-28 3, 5 102-29 16 3-6, 8 102-31 3, 5-6, 8 102-32 3, 5 102-33 3, 5, 8 31 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Sustainable Global Reporting Initiative GRI Content Index UN Global Compact Development Goals Report Page 102-40 5-6, 8 102-42 5, 8 102-43 5, 9, 12, 14, 18, 21, 23 102-44 3, 5, 8, 10-11, 13, 26-27 102-45 30 102-46 3, 5, 8, 29-30 102-47 3, 5, 8 102-49 3, 29-30 102-50 30 102-51 31 102-52 30 102-53 30 102-54 30 102-55 29 GRI 103: Management Approach 103-1 3, 8 103-2 Environment, Human Rights 1, 5, 8, 16 4-6, 8 103-3 3, 9-28 GRI 201: Economic Performance 201-1 2, 5, 7-9 5 GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 203-1 2, 7, 9, 11 24, 27-28 203-2 1-3, 8, 10, 17 10-11, 13, 22 GRI 205: Anti-Corruption 205-2 Anti-Corruption 16 13, 23, 25 GRI 301: Materials 301-3 Environment 8, 12 22 GRI 302: Energy 302-4 7-8, 12-13 15, 17, 20 302-5 Environment 7-8, 12-13 10-11, 13, 16-17, 22 32 Sustainability at Haworth | Design | Supply Chain | Manufacturing and Logistics 2018 Corporate Responsibility Report Usage and Performance | Continued and After Use | People and Community | GRI Index Sustainable Global Reporting Initiative GRI Content Index UN Global Compact Development Goals Report Page GRI 304: Biodiversity 304-3 Environment 6, 14-15 26 GRI 305: Emissions 305-1 Environment 3, 12-15 15 305-2 Environment 3, 12-15 15 305-4 Environment 13-15 15 305-5 Environment 13-15 15 305-7 Environment 3, 12-15 15 GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment 308-1 Environment 13 308-2 Environment 10-11, 13 GRI 401: Employment 401-1 Labour 5, 8, 10 24 GRI 403: Occupational Health and Safety 403-2 3, 8 26 GRI 404: Training and Education 404-2 8 24-26 GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity 405-1 Labour 5, 8 24 GRI 412: Human Rights Assessments 412-1 Human Rights 4, 24-26 GRI 413: Local Communities 413-1 Human Rights 24, 27-28 GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 414-1 Human Rights 5, 8, 16 13 GRI 416: Customer Health and Safety 416-1 10-11, 13, 17, 19 GRI 417: Marketing and Labelling 417-1 12, 16 19, 22 Haworth is a registered trademark of Haworth, Inc. © Haworth, Inc. 2019 05.23 haworth.com | 800.344.2600
