2019 Communication on Progress United Nations Global Compact ROBERT HALF Statement of Continued Support From Our Chief Executive Officer I am pleased to reaffirm my commitment, and business practices, operations, company culture the commitment of Robert Half International and community programs. We are proud of Inc., to the Ten Principles of the United Nations these actions and are committed to sharing this Global Compact in the areas of human rights, progress report with our stakeholders. labor, environment and anti-corruption. These Sincerely, principles align with our own motto of more than 70 years, “Ethics First,” a guiding philosophy that reminds us to act as a socially responsible corporate citizen in everything that we do. Harold M. Messmer, Jr. Our first Communication on Progress outlines Chairman and Chief Executive Officer the various ways we’ve begun to integrate the Global Compact and its principles into our Chairman and CEO Max Messmer 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ROBERTHALF.COM 1 ROBERT HALF Human Rights OUR COMMITMENT OUR PROGRESS Goal 2: Provide a safe and reliable process At Robert Half, we believe that all individuals Goal 1: Clarify our support for human rights for reporting human rights violations Principle 1 are entitled to basic human rights, freedoms Action: Developed new Global Human Action: Expanded the reach of our reporting Businesses should support and standards of treatment. Our definition Rights Policy platforms of human rights is consistent with the United and respect the protection Robert Half’s board of directors recently Robert Half established a formal process to Nations Guiding Principles on Business and enable employees, temporary professionals, of internationally proclaimed Human Rights and the Universal Declaration approved a new Global Human Rights clients, contractors, candidates and vendors to human rights. of Human Rights. We consider human rights Policy, which prohibits any form of human trafficking, slavery, child labor, harassment or report human rights concerns or allegations of to include the right to life and liberty, freedom policy violations. Our U.S. toll-free hotline is from slavery and torture, freedom of opinion discrimination. The policy applies to all Robert Half employees and contingent workers, all of operated by the Robert Half Human Resources and expression, and the right to work and Office of Compliance, while our global education. While Robert Half has experienced Robert Half’s direct and indirect subsidiaries Principle 2 worldwide, and Robert Half’s suppliers and reporting hotline connects to an independent no human rights controversies and has never third-party service via telephone and a webBusinesses should make sure that engaged in any human rights abuses since vendors. Robert Half sought stakeholder input in developing the policy and will seek ongoing based reporting portal. they are not complicit in human our founding in 1948, we have nonetheless input regarding the policy’s implementation and Robert Half commits to promptly investigate rights abuses. taken steps to further codify our commitment to upholding human rights within our sphere evaluation. reports of rights abuses and to pursue of influence. Outcome: A new Global Human Rights reasonable and appropriate action to Policy and a commitment to assess remediate any violations substantiated by an and manage our exposure to human investigation. Robert Half does not tolerate rights abuses retaliation against anyone who reports violations of our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics or any law or regulation applicable to Robert Half. Outcome: An updated and enhanced compliance and ethics hotline 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ROBERTHALF.COM 2 ROBERT HALF Labor Principles OUR COMMITMENT OUR PROGRESS Goal 2: Clarify our stance against forced As a global staffing firm, we specialize in Goal 1: Increase employee awareness about and child labor, and codify our support for workplace safety, inclusion and diversity, and Principle 3 matching people with gainful employment our Code of Business Conduct and Ethics freedom of association Businesses should uphold the and believe that everyone should have access Action: Launched a new global Code of to dignified work. Since our founding, we’ve Action: Included the following policies in our freedom of association and Business Conduct and Ethics training program demonstrated our commitment to fair labor comprehensive Global Human Rights Policy: the effective recognition of the practices by building a work environment In November 2018, we launched a new 1. Policy Against Sexual Harassment right to collective bargaining. where our employees feel safe, respected and employee training module covering our Code engaged. Our new Global Human Rights of Business Conduct and Ethics. In 2019, 2. Policy Against Human Trafficking, Slavery Policy, as well as our Code of Business Conduct we expanded the training to international and Child Labor and Ethics and our Supplier Code of Conduct, employees and translated the curriculum into 3. Policy on Freedom of Association and confirm our commitment to maintaining a safe French, German, Dutch and Portuguese. As of November 2019, close to 100% of our global Collective Bargaining Principle 4 and positive workplace for our employees and employees have received the training. 4. Policy on Workplace Safety Businesses should eliminate all forms supporting fair labor practices beyond our operations. of forced and compulsory labor. We also expanded access to our ethics and 5. Diversity Policy compliance reporting platforms, which now 6. Non-Retaliation include a suite of country-specific phone numbers, as well as an online reporting portal Outcome: A new suite of policies that that is offered in over 50 languages. collectively address fair labor practices and human rights Outcome: New Code of Business Conduct and Ethics training rolled out in 20 countries, reaching over 16,000 employees 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ROBERTHALF.COM 3 ROBERT HALF Goal 3: Support fair labor practices among manager support, physical workspace, Action 2: Conducted a pay audit for all our suppliers community involvement and organizational Corporate Services Employees culture. Employee feedback gives us visibility Principle 5 Action: Established a Supplier Code of Conduct Every year, Robert Half conducts an affirmative into how we can continue to grow, evolve and Businesses should uphold the In 2018, we approved a Supplier Code of action audit to better understand our workforce bring our brand promise to life. In 2019, we demographics. This exercise allows us to effective abolition of child labor. Conduct, which outlines the expectations expanded the survey to all our offices, reaching we have of our suppliers in North America. see how our Corporate Services employees an additional 8,353 employees. compare to employees in other similarly sized A “Supplier” is defined as any individual or company, including their employees, agents, Outcome: In 2019, over 10,000 companies in terms of diversity indicators and pay. It also helps us set specific goals subcontractors and representatives, that Robert Half employees surveyed globally Principle 6 provides goods or services to Robert Half. to support women and minorities in the company. For example, from our 2019 audit, Businesses should eliminate Among other conditions, the Supplier Code Goal 5: Support women’s leadership in we found that 56% of our leadership, which discrimination in respect of of Conduct prohibits child labor and modern the workplace includes all senior managers, directors, vice employment and occupation. slavery in all its forms. Action 1: Signed a statement of support for presidents and above, are women. This is well Outcome: Our Supplier Code of Conduct the Women’s Empowerment Principles (WEPs) beyond the national average and reflects our now referenced in all supplier contracts efforts to support women’s leadership within In 2018, Robert Half signed a statement of support for the joint initiative of the United the company. However, we also learned that Goal 4: Increase employee engagement Nations Global Compact and UN Women. 42.5% of our technical staff are women, which The seven WEPs build on the United Nations is just below the national average. This finding Action: Expanded the reach of our Employee inspired us to set a new goal to increase Experience Surveys Global Compact’s principles by providing best practices for advancing gender equality women’s representation among our IT and Since 2018, Robert Half’s Corporate Services other technical teams. and empowering women in the workplace, employees in North America have participated marketplace and community. Outcome: Participation in a global network in an employee experience survey twice a year. to advance gender equality and a new goal The survey includes questions on collaboration, to increase the number of women in our IT functions in 2020 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ROBERTHALF.COM 4 ROBERT HALF Environment OUR COMMITMENT interdepartmental collaboration and help Goal 3: Identify ways to decrease our We are committed to decreasing our identify where improvements can be made environmental footprint across the enterprise. Principle 7 environmental impact. As our Global Action: Improved efficiency across our Businesses should support a Environmental Policy outlines, all employees of Outcome: Developed a new Environmental operations Robert Half are required to conduct business Committee Charter to guide our precautionary approach to Among other examples, we recently replaced in a manner that protects the environment, environmental initiatives starting in 2020 environmental challenges. nearly 3,000 fluorescent lights with more conserves resources and ensures sustainable efficient LEDs at our San Ramon, Calif., office development. The policy provides guidance on and reduced the energy use of our lighting by the various ways we can improve efficiencies Goal 2: Improve environmental tracking and approximately 70%. We followed suit at our within our operations and business practices. reporting offices in Pleasanton, Calif., and Birmingham, This includes reducing paper use and business Action: Reported environmental performance England, reducing the energy consumption Principle 8 travel, and increasing energy efficiency and Businesses should undertake data to environmental, social and governance of our lighting at these locations by 70% and digital processes. Robert Half and its employees (ESG) stakeholders 72%, respectively. We also reduced paper initiatives to promote greater also support external conservation efforts In 2019, we increased our capacity to track consumption across all offices by transitioning environmental responsibility. through donations to local and international our environmental footprint, evaluating the to digital documents whenever possible. nonprofits. impact of our leased offices, transportation Between 2013 and 2018, we reduced the and business processes. As our environmental amount of paper purchased per employee by OUR PROGRESS tracking efforts have improved, so too has our 77%. In 2018 alone, we avoided printing and environmental reporting. In 2019, we provided mailing over 38 million sheets of paper by Principle 9 Goal 1: Strengthen environmental oversight more comprehensive emissions data to CDP using e-signature technology. Action: Instituted an environmental committee Businesses should encourage and shared this information with many other Outcome: 113 short tons of solid waste We recently formed an environmental the development and diffusion of ESG benchmarking groups. and 1,480 metric tons of CO2 emissions committee to help monitor our environmental avoided in 2018 through reduction in environmentally friendly technologies. Outcome: Improved environmental footprint and to prioritize high-impact efficiency paper consumption reporting to external benchmarking groups initiatives. The committee will facilitate 2019 COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS ROBERTHALF.COM 5 ROBERT HALF Anti-Corruption OUR COMMITMENT OUR PROGRESS updates on our Data Privacy and Security Robert Half’s business model is built around Policy, our mandatory harassment and Goal 1: Strengthen anti-corruption risk discrimination training, and global antiPrinciple 10 personal connections and trust, and we will management corruption policy training, which includes realBusinesses should work against not tolerate corruption within any part of our Action: Continued to provide annual Board world examples of cases prosecuted by the U.S. corruption in all its forms, business. We comply with all anti-corruption of Directors updates on Compliance and Ethics Department of Justice. laws and regulations, including the U.S. Foreign including extortion and bribery. Program Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and the UK Bribery Leveraging the auditing expertise of our Act. We ensure compliance with these laws and Once a year, our senior vice president and subsidiary, Protiviti, we also recently developed regulations through our FCPA Guidelines and corporate compliance officer presents an a new methodology to evaluate risks and risk Global Anti-Corruption Policy. We also address update to the Board of Directors on the control efficacy, including those associated this in our Code of Business Conduct and priorities and status of our Compliance with corruption. Ethics, which directly prohibits corrupt or illegal and Ethics Program. Directors are provided Outcome: Developed a new risk practices, including the payment of bribes or information on relevant policies, procedures assessment model kickbacks, insider trading, and self-dealing. and trainings. In 2019, this included key Learn more about Robert Half’s corporate responsibility programs and ESG mission statement at roberthalf.com/about-robert-half/corporate-responsibility © 2019 Robert Half International Inc. An Equal Opportunity Employer M/F/Disability/Veterans. RHI-0919 All referenced trademarks are the property of their respective owners.
