2018 Sustainability Report HESS VALUES Our purpose is to be Integrity the world’s most trusted People Performance energy partner. Hess Values set the framework Value Social and establish the ethical Creation Responsibility standards by which we Independent conduct our business. Spirit Integrity Independent Spirit We are committed to the highest level of integrity in We are committed to preserving the special qualities all our relationships. and unique personality that have made us a successful independent enterprise. Performance We are committed to a culture of performance that Value Creation demands and rewards outstanding results throughout We are committed to creating shareholder value based our business. on sustained financial performance and long-term profitable growth. Social Responsibility We are committed to meeting the highest standards People of corporate citizenship by protecting the health and We are committed to attracting, retaining and energizing safety of our employees, safeguarding the environment the best people by investing in their professional and creating a long-lasting, positive impact on the development and providing them with challenging and communities where we do business. rewarding opportunities for personal growth. REPORTING STANDARDS AND INDEX OF REPORTING ASSURANCE INDICATORS GLOBAL REPORTING INITIATIVE (GRI) IN ACCORDANCE OPTION An index of our sustainability reporting indicators, including This report has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards: those from the GRI Standards, with cross reference to the Core option. Our declaration of conformance with the GRI Standards has Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact, been reviewed and confirmed by our external verifier, ERM Certification IPIECA (the global oil and gas industry organization for and Verification Services. See the assurance statement on page 62. environmental and social issues) sector-specific guidelines and Sustainability Accounting Standards Board oil and gas UNITED NATIONS GLOBAL COMPACT industry metrics, can be found at hess.com/sustainability/ ON THE COVER COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS sustainability-reports/GRI-Index. The index includes all Drilling Operations, This is our Communication on Progress in implementing indicators required for a GRI Standards Core report, as well North Dakota the principles of the United Nations Global Compact. We as a number of additional indicators for which we are able to welcome feedback on its contents. provide supporting information. TABLE OF CONTENTS 11 35 39 2 19 53 MESSAGE FROM SOCIAL ENVIRONMENT THE CEO RESPONSIBILITY Responsible management of Our CEO’s view on building A review of social responsibility our environmental footprint a sustainable enterprise as our way of doing business 4 27 60 ABOUT HESS SAFETY AND HEALTH PERFORMANCE Our company operations Aiming to get everyone, DATA in brief everywhere, every day, home safe 5 35 62 APPROACH TO OUR PEOPLE INDEPENDENT REPORTING Creating a company culture ASSURANCE A description of our materiality and high-quality workforce that STATEMENT assessment, reporting innovates, leads and learns framework and boundaries 6 39 63 PROGRESS CLIMATE CHANGE AWARDS AND AND GOALS AND ENERGY RECOGNITION A snapshot of our progress Balancing the world’s growing and path forward energy needs with our costeffective greenhouse gas emission reduction policy 42 Carbon Asset Risk 11 63 Assessment HOW WE OPERATE MEMBERSHIPS AND Evaluating sustainability risks The values that define our ASSOCIATIONS and global scenarios in expectations for sustainable making strategic decisions management and performance 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 1 MESSAGE FROM THE CEO Our company’s purpose is to be the world’s most trusted energy SAFETY partner. We are committed to building a sustainable enterprise Our company’s No. 1 priority is the safety of our workforce that helps meet the world’s growing energy needs in a safe, and the communities in which we operate, so we work closely environmentally responsible, socially sensitive and profitable way. with our employees and contractors to continuously improve In 2018 we continued to execute a strategy that positions Hess to our performance toward our ultimate goal of zero incidents. deliver visible and low-risk production growth, increasing financial In 2018 we achieved the lowest severe safety incident rate in returns and accelerating free cash flow well into the next decade. our company’s history – a 43 percent reduction from 2017. Our strategy aligns with the energy transition needed to achieve Severe safety incident rate is a key metric for incidents with the the International Energy Agency’s Sustainable Development potential to result in severe consequences. Another key metric scenario, where oil and gas will continue to be essential to is total recordable incident rate or TRIR, which measures the meeting the world’s growing energy demand through 2040. number of recordable injuries or incidents by annual workforce hours. Our 2018 TRIR of 0.31 was up slightly from the prior In line with this strategy, we have built a balanced, focused year’s historic low of 0.24, primarily due to an increased rate of portfolio that is positioned to deliver a breakeven of less than contractor incidents. We are emphasizing the vital importance $40 per barrel Brent oil by 2025, with Guyana and the Bakken as of safety through companywide leadership site visits, refreshed our growth engines and the deepwater Gulf of Mexico and the safety leadership training and an expanded behavioral safety Gulf of Thailand as our cash engines. We expect to allocate about observation program. 75 percent of our capital expenditures through 2025 to Guyana and the Bakken, among the best investments in the oil and In 2018 we reduced our number of process safety events for the gas industry. fourth consecutive year. We also pursued program enhancements based on the outcome of the enterprisewide assessment of our We believe sustainability practices create value for our process safety systems completed in 2017 including a multiyear shareholders and position us to continuously improve our process to standardize our approach to competency assurance business performance. Our commitment to sustainability and training for safety-critical positions across the company. therefore starts with our Board of Directors and senior management and is reinforced at every level. Our Board is ENVIRONMENT AND CLIMATE CHANGE climate change literate and actively engaged in overseeing Climate change is a significant global challenge that requires Hess’ sustainability practices, working alongside senior governments, businesses and civil society to work together on management to evaluate various risks and global scenarios cost-effective policies. We believe climate risks can and should in making strategic decisions. The Board’s Compensation be addressed while also providing the safe, affordable and Committee has tied executive compensation to advancing reliable energy necessary to ensure human welfare and global the company’s environmental, health and safety goals. economic development in the context of the United Nations Our 2018 Sustainability Report shows how sustainable practices (U.N.) Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). are integrated into our long-term strategy and daily operations. Hess is committed to developing oil and gas resources in an Hess’ environment, health, safety and social responsibility environmentally responsible and sustainable way. Our business strategy is focused on several key areas of our operations, which planning includes actions we will undertake to continue are described below. Detailed information on our programs and reducing our carbon footprint in keeping with the findings of the performance is provided in this report and on our company U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change and the aim website at hess.com. of the Paris Agreement to limit global average temperature rise to well below 2°C. Our Board of Directors and senior leadership 2 W  e believe sustainability is fundamental to our longterm strategy and performance, which supports our purpose to be the world’s most trusted energy partner. have set aggressive targets for greenhouse gas (GHG) U.S. Gulf Coast region in 2018, Hess joined the Gulf of Mexico emission reductions, and over the past 11 years our company Alliance’s Gulf Star program, which leverages public and private has reduced our Scope 1 and 2 equity GHG emissions by funding to address issues such as improved habitat conservation approximately 64 percent. and water resource management. Our climate change strategy is aligned with the recommendations PEOPLE of the Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures Hess relies on a world-class workforce and a company culture (TCFD) established by the G20 Financial Stability Board. In line defined by our values. In 2018 we continued to refine our policies with the TCFD framework, we have tested the robustness of to promote a flexible and dynamic work environment in which Hess’ portfolio under the supply and demand scenarios from the a diverse and multigenerational workforce can thrive. We also International Energy Agency (IEA), including the ambitious GHG piloted Unconscious Bias training and supported professional reductions assumed within the IEA’s Sustainable Development organizations that are helping to make our industry more diverse. scenario. Our current asset portfolio is resilient, and our pipeline of forward investments provides strong financial returns even under In 2018 we further reduced the size of our workforce in line the carbon-constrained future assumed in the IEA’s Sustainable with our focused portfolio. To foster employee engagement, our Development scenario. leadership team regularly shares strategic updates, explains the rationale for business decisions and listens to the views of our SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY workforce through a robust employee communications program. Social responsibility is one of our company values and Every employee below senior executive level was granted 85 fundamental to the way we do business. We have endorsed shares of Hess stock in 2018 in celebration of our company’s or formally joined a number of international voluntary initiatives 85th anniversary. designed to advance transparency, environmental protection, human rights and good governance, including our continued ENVIRONMENTAL, SOCIAL AND GOVERNANCE support for the U.N. Global Compact and the Global Compact DISCLOSURE U.S. Network, which share best practices in sustainable We believe transparency in reporting is a vital part of being business conduct across the private sector. We are also guided a trusted energy partner. In 2018 our company continued to in our activities by the U.N. SDGs, and in 2018 we mapped the be recognized for the quality of our environmental, social and SDGs to issues identified as part of the materiality assessment governance disclosures, reinforcing our position as a topdescribed in this report. quartile performer in our industry. Being a trusted energy partner means making a positive impact We are proud of the progress made in executing our longon the communities where we operate. Hess’ community term strategy in line with our purpose and values. The ongoing investments support programs in a variety of areas, with a support of our employees, communities, customers, business particular focus on education, workforce development and partners and investors is key to our success in building a environmental stewardship. For example, in 2018 we expanded sustainable enterprise, and we thank them for their partnership. our LEAP (Learn, Engage, Advance, Persevere) program, which helps at-risk students in Houston’s Greater East End stay in school. In Guyana we are working with our joint-venture partners to build capacity among the local workforce and supplier companies, including through the Centre for Local Business John B. Hess Development established by the joint venture in 2017. In the Chief Executive Officer 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 3 ABOUT HESS Hess Corporation is a leading global independent energy company engaged in the exploration and production of crude oil and natural gas. Hess Portfolio of Operations 2018 Highlights •O 11.5 277,000 1,192  ur company continued to have remarkable exploration success offshore Guyana, where Hess has a 30 percent Years of Barrels of Oil Equivalent per Day Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent interest in the Stabroek Block. In 2018 Reserve Life Total Net Hydrocarbons Produced Proved Reserves we participated in five major discoveries, bringing total discoveries on the block to 10 as of year-end 2018. The block is currently estimated to contain gross recoverable resources of more than 5.5 billion barrels of oil equivalent, with multibillion barrels of additional exploration potential remaining. • L iza Phase 1 development, offshore Guyana, continued to advance toward first production by early 2020. Planning was undertaken for the second and third phases of development on the Stabroek Block. Production • In the Bakken, through field trials and Midstream independent study in 2018, we confirmed Developments that our planned transition to plug-andExploration perf completions from our previous 60-stage sliding sleeve design is PRODUCTION expected to increase the asset’s net present value by approximately $1 billion. Operated assets include the Bakken in North Dakota; Baldpate, Conger, Penn State, Stampede and Tubular Bells in the Gulf of Mexico; South Arne in • Hess’ operated rig count in the Bakken averaged 4.8 in 2018, compared with Denmark and North Malay Basin in Malaysia. Nonoperated assets include 3.5 in 2017. We ended the year with the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development Area, Shenzi and Llano in the Gulf six rigs and brought 104 new wells on of Mexico and the Waha Concessions in Libya. production. • As part of our portfolio reshaping, MIDSTREAM we successfully closed on the sale of Assets operated by Hess Midstream Partners LP include a natural gas our joint-venture interests in the Utica shale play. processing plant, a rail-loading terminal and associated rail cars, a crude oil truck and pipeline terminal, and crude oil and natural gas gathering systems, all in North Dakota. 2018 Key Economic Metrics $ MILLIONS DEVELOPMENTS Recordable Supplier Spend $3,500 Activities are focused on the nonoperated developments on the Stabroek (Exploration & Production) Block, offshore Guyana. $2,340 Capital and Exploratory Expenditures EXPLORATION Income Tax Expenses $335 Activities are focused on the Atlantic Margin and include nonoperated interests Wages and Benefits (U.S.) $598 offshore Guyana, Suriname and Canada, and both operated and nonoperated Royalties and Other Payments $468 interests in the Gulf of Mexico. Dividends $345 Note: Divestitures in 2018 are not shown on the map. For the purposes of this report, Hess Midstream Interest Expenses $399 Partners LP is considered a subsidiary of Hess Corporation. Boundaries and restatements of data A portion of capital and exploratory expenditures included in this report are discussed in the Approach to Reporting section. may include payments to suppliers. 4 APPROACH TO REPORTING In this report, we provide descriptions • Transportation Impacts our operated assets, joint ventures and of Hess’ 2018 strategy and performance nonoperated facilities in which we hold • Emergency Preparedness regarding material economic, environmental a significant interest. We include in our and Response and social issues. Our annual report, U.S. workforce metrics contractors whose Securities and Exchange Commission • Process Safety and Spills hours we track. Form 10-K filing and proxy statement detail • Community Engagement See our expanded performance data at our financial and governance information hess.com/sustainability/performance-data/ • Climate Change and Greenhouse key-sustainability-metrics and can be found on our website. Gas (GHG) Emissions Additional sustainability and investor RESTATEMENTS information is available at hess.com/investors • Stakeholder Engagement We believe our approach to restating data • Transparency in Business Conduct complies with the GRI Standards’ principle REPORTING STANDARDS • Human Rights and Security of comparability and specific disclosure This report was prepared in accordance These material issues have informed our regarding restatements of information, as well with the Core option of the Global environment, health, safety and social as IPIECA guidance. For GHG emissions, in Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards. responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy and cases of acquisitions and divestitures and It was also informed by the Oil and helped to define the boundaries of this other source ownership and control changes, Gas Industry Guidance on Voluntary report. While we validate these issues we adjust our base year emissions if the Sustainability Reporting developed by on an annual basis, we are planning to change exceeds 10 percent of the original IPIECA, the American Petroleum Institute update our materiality assessment in the base year emissions total. The exact and the International Association of 2019–2020 timeframe as part of a review timing of the adjustment depends on Oil and Gas Producers; the United of our EHS & SR strategy. several factors, as described in the Hess Nations (U.N.) Global Compact’s Ten GHG Inventory Protocol. We also review Principles; key environmental, social and See reporting boundaries for each of these issues at hess.com/sustainability/approachand adjust targets included as part of our governance ratings; recommendations to-reporting/boundaries-for-material-issues annual incentive plan formula to account from the Task Force on Climate-Related for divestitures as needed. Financial Disclosures; and oil and gas BOUNDARY SETTING industry metrics from the Sustainability Access the Hess GHG Inventory Protocol at Included within the scope of this report hess.com/sustainability/climate-changeAccounting Standards Board (SASB). are the principal facilities and assets energy An index of GRI, IPIECA, SASB and U.N. Global operated by Hess Corporation and our Compact reporting indicators is available ASSURANCE at hess.com/sustainability/sustainabilitysubsidiaries during calendar year 2018, reports/GRI-Index unless otherwise indicated. Data presented In order to evaluate accuracy and are gross figures from operated facilities, reliability, we conduct quality assurance/ MATERIALITY unless specified otherwise. The report quality control reviews and validation of Consistent with GRI’s materiality includes partial-year data for the following both aggregated and facility-level data. guidance, we identified and prioritized assets that were divested in 2018: Individual numbers in the charts, tables new and emerging issues important to and text may not precisely sum to the • Utica shale operations in Ohio. Period of our stakeholders when developing the total amounts shown due to rounding. data included: January−August 2018. content for this report. Through a survey All currency in the report is in U.S. dollars. of select industry peers and external • Ghana development. Period of data This report, including our sustainability stakeholder groups, as well as an annual, included: January−May 2018. data and self-declared GRI “in document-based assessment of key We report GHG emissions on both an accordance” status, was assured stakeholder perspectives and Hess’ operated and equity-share basis in by ERM Certification and Verification operational and regulatory risks, we accordance with the GRI G4 Oil and Services (see page 62). This external identified the 10 most material issues Gas Sector Supplement and the IPIECA review helps to ensure consistent and for our company: Petroleum Industry Guidelines for objective data collection and reporting of • Regulatory Assurance Reporting GHG Emissions (3rd edition, our sustainability performance. • Water Management 2015). We report social investments for 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 5 PROGRESS AND GOALS This section offers a snapshot of our progress and path forward with respect to our most material sustainability programs and initiatives; as such, it provides an indication of our commitment to improve performance across a range of issues. Through continued implementation of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy, we are improving how we understand and manage nontechnical risks in our day-to-day operations while addressing the material sustainability issues facing Hess and the oil and gas industry at large. Our strategic efforts planned for 2019 will build on our progress to date. Elements of our EHS & SR strategy are included in the summary table that follows, along with our key accomplishments in 2018 and select targets and metrics that we have established to measure how effectively we are implementing our strategy. Our progress and goals are categorized according to the six sections of the report in which they are discussed. HOW WE OPERATE DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2018 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2018 GOALS FOR 2019+ (PAGE #) Complete assurance on embedded As our regulatory compliance Further enhanced the mobile application for regulatory compliance system, systems are becoming embedded our compliance tracking tool for field including standard work evaluation and in daily operations, begin to shift 58–59 assurance personnel by synchronizing it with equipment repair root cause analysis; focus to more formal assurance of our work order system begin pursuing a compliance standard Hess’ EHS management system* for the enterprise in 2019* Regulatory Launch a regulatory tracking Assurance system that aligns regulatory Established a regulatory tracking system to Continue providing our assets with priorities with our risk registers; support the asset risk registers and began routine updates and discussions on further enhance U.S. offshore issuing monthly regulatory reports for our emerging regulatory risks and 12–13 regulatory coordination through U.S. onshore assets; U.S. asset regulatory changes through the use of existing quarterly presentations to offshore teams met on a routine basis to discuss communication methods and leadership, aligned with their emerging regulations operating rhythms in 2019* established operating rhythm* Publish our 2017 Sustainability Published our 2017 Sustainability Report Report in accordance with the with the GRI Standards Core “in Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) accordance” option and included disclosure Continue to refine our sustainability Standards and aligned with the on alignment with TCFD recommendations; disclosures to align with stakeholder 5, 39–41 Task Force on Climate-Related conducted a gap analysis on the expectations in 2019 Transparency Financial Disclosures (TCFD) Sustainability Accounting Standards Board’s in Business recommendations oil and gas industry metrics Conduct Improved our Global Trade Compliance Continue to enhance our Global Program by enhancing policies and Implement a third-party online due Trade Compliance Program and procedures and updating third-party diligence system and conduct implement training on our revised 14–15 screening processes; launched a revised compliance risk assessment and Code of Business Conduct and Code of Business Conduct and Ethics analysis on select assets in 2019 Ethics online training module Centralized sourcing and contracting Continue to develop model contracts Continue to enhance activities to promote standardization and for key spend areas to enhance risk Supply standardization and alignment on consistency in our approach to contractor management; further evaluate the Chain and contractor selection, contracting selection; further revised our Procurement supplier relationship and performance 16–17 Contractor and management processes across Policy to include a Contract Governance management processes as part of the Management our assets Board process to provide oversight of Hess Operational Management high-value, high-risk contracts System initiative (HOMS) in 2019 Expand Lean deployment across Certified almost 100 employees as embedded Continue expanding Lean Hess, including developing Lean Lean leaders (ELLs) enterprisewide; existing deployment across Hess, including leaders in our offshore ELLs continued local business improvements development of new ELLs in assets organization; implement Lean with and provided coaching to other employees and central support functions and 14 our key Stampede contractors, and contractors in their work areas; further development of those already including at the offshore drill ships, conducted a “Take Work Out” initiative, which trained; continue to use a structured to apply Lean improvements to resulted in over 200 improvements to reduce Lean approach to identify “Take Work routine drilling activities waste in routine activities Out” opportunities in 2019 Management Approved one new EHS global standard Systems Continue to develop and (Excavation and Trenching) and completed Continue progressing the EHS global implement EHS global standards 12 gap assessments for the standard at standards project through 2020 on a prioritized basis selected assets Continue to measure effective Continue to measure effective Continued tracking individual EHS & strategy implementation through implementation of the EHS & SR SR initiatives through project-specific 2020; begin a refresh of the strategy 6–9 strategy through established work plans as part of our business in 2019 through an updated materiality targets and metrics* operating rhythm assessment* *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. 6 Offshore Real-Time Monitoring Center, Houston, Texas SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2018 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2018 GOALS FOR 2019+ (PAGE #) Review governance framework and processes to ensure alignment with Governance our business strategy and geographic Completed further analysis and Monitor and assess ongoing social and footprint; build on prior efforts to mapping of the SDGs, with results investments to help ensure focus and 19 Management map business activities and social included in the Social Responsibility alignment on areas that overlap with Approach investment to the United Nations’ section of this report the SDGs in 2019* Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs)* Completed a review and refresh of our enterprise-level stakeholder planning and engagement process and aligned Institute a semiannual cadence to it with our Risk Management Standard; Community review stakeholder outreach and Continue to expand implementation maintained our formal grievance and refresh stakeholder mapping; increase of stakeholder engagement and mechanism in North Dakota, which 20–22 Stakeholder focus on asset retirement obligations grievance mechanism processes* – with the sale of our other onshore Engagement in North Dakota in cooperation with production assets in West Texas (2017) regulators in 2019* and Ohio (2018) – will be the focus of our formal grievance mechanism moving forward Conducted risk assessments in North Continue to monitor potential human Continue to monitor potential risks and Dakota, the Gulf of Mexico and rights risks and conduct risk conduct risk assessments if needed Malaysia as part of our risk 22–23 assessments if needed based on based on activity levels in 2019 and management assessment and activity levels* beyond* mitigation planning Continue to conduct human rights Conduct human rights training as Conducted training for the North Malay Social Risk training as needed based on identified 22–23 needed based on identified risks* Basin asset as planned in 2018 Management risks in 2019 and beyond* Continue to track the number of Brought the training for the North employees and contractors Malay Basin asset up to date; continued completing human rights training at Continue to track implementation of to monitor contracts to confirm 17, 22–23 high-risk assets, as well as the these efforts in 2019 and beyond* inclusion of human rights clauses and percentage of new contracts with alignment with Hess policies human rights clauses* *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 7 PROGRESS AND GOALS SAFETY AND HEALTH DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2018 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2018 GOALS FOR 2019+ (PAGE #) Build on our work with integrity critical Continue to drive progress in critical equipment (ICE) through critical maintenance compliance by expanding maintenance compliance (i.e., inspect, our annual incentive plan metric from test and maintain ICE to ensure it is Achieved established targets for ICE safety-critical equipment only to 30–31 performing as expected); actively critical maintenance compliance include all equipment with manage risks identified through the performance standards in our asset integrity assessments through work order system in 2019 quarterly reviews* Complete implementation of our Progressed implementation of bow tie Complete implementation of bow tie enhanced barrier management diagrams at North Malay Basin; diagrams at North Malay Basin and approach at North Malay Basin and implementation at our South Arne 30–31 pursue an alternative barrier management South Arne through the use of “bow asset was put on hold due to the (at approach at South Arne in 2019* Process tie” diagrams the time) planned sale of that asset Safety Progressed improvement programs and Spills Pursue improvement programs based highlighted through the process safety on recommendations from the 2016–17 assessment, including developing Related strategic actions for HOMS, ICE process safety assessment, mainly HOMS, enhancing our enterprisewide and CAT are covered by other goals in 12, 30–31 around deeper integration of our EHS competency assurance and training this section and operational management systems (CAT) strategy and driving continuous and increased focus on integrity risks* improvement in integrity risk Completed audits and consulting Continue to perform assurance Continue to conduct audits and activities per the Board-approved activities according to the 2019 assessments under the tiered EHS Corporate Audit plan and in line with Board-approved plan and in line with assurance program; continue to the tiered EHS assurance program; our assurance program; continue to 27, 30–31 develop our enhanced enterprisewide established a five-year journey map develop our enhanced CAT strategy, CAT strategy* and began developing the with phased implementation slated to enterprisewide CAT standard begin in 2020* Did not meet this internal target – our Meet a workforce total recordable TRIR of 0.31 was up slightly from 0.24 Meet a workforce TRIR target of 0.28 incident rate (TRIR) target of 0.20 or in 2017; see the Safety and Health 28–29 or below in 2019 below section for details on our safety Occupational performance improvement programs Health and Safety Surpassed our target, achieving a severe Achieve a 10 percent reduction from Meet a severe safety incident rate safety incident rate of 0.13; expanded our 2018 actual severe and significant 29 target of 0.16 or below** this key metric to include “significant” safety incident rate in 2019 safety incidents beginning in 2019 OUR PEOPLE DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2018 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2018 GOALS FOR 2019+ (PAGE #) Offered four Supervisory Essentials Continue to build high-quality leaders Program and Managerial Essentials by refreshing and formalizing the Offer four Managerial Essentials Program courses for supervisors and resources available to them, on topics 36–37 programs managers; offered eight professional such as inclusion and diversity, development programs for innovation, Lean and coaching and nonmanagers feedback training, in 2019 Leverage our newly implemented Introduce a revised talent philosophy succession planning technology to Utilized our succession planning and associated succession planning identify, develop and track the technology during preparations for the technology more broadly in 2019, 36 Employment progress of our high-potential talent executive talent review beginning with senior leaders and then Practices and future leaders cascading to other managers Implement a new grading structure that includes additional grades to provide more career growth opportunities and Implemented a new grading structure, Expand diversity (Unconscious Bias) improve internal equity between incorporating changes in job scope training across our U.S. and 35–36 different jobs; provide a consistent where applicable international locations in 2019 evaluation framework for jobs across the company; address job scope changes due to portfolio adjustments *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. **Target adjusted to exclude the Utica asset, which was divested in 2018, on a prorated basis. See our Approach to Reporting section online for additional detail. 8 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2018 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2018 GOALS FOR 2019+ (PAGE #) Assess opportunities to integrate EHS Disclose the results of our portfolioDeveloped a scenario planning deliverables into the value assurance specific carbon asset risk scenario Risk guidance document; conducted a process for new projects; conduct a planning exercise; incorporate scenario 13, 39–45 Management portfolio-specific scenario planning portfolio-specific carbon asset risk planning into our regular business exercise in 2018 and early 2019 scenario planning exercise* planning cycle in 2019* Continue to invest in additional Pursue additional infrastructure Hess Midstream Partners LP continued midstream infrastructure and increase projects that will continue to help expansion of the Bakken midstream compression capacity; complete with flaring reduction in the Bakken, gas gathering infrastructure, including construction and commissioning of the 48–50 including an additional compressor additional gas compression facilities, joint-venture gas plant (Little Missouri station and a new joint-venture gas natural gas liquids and gas gathering Four) operated by Targa Resources plant lines and a new joint-venture gas plant in 2019 Continue to make progress toward our 2020 goal to achieve a 25 percent Reduced our GHG emissions intensity reduction in greenhouse gas (GHG) by 17 percent compared with our 2014 emissions intensity (tonnes per baseline; reviewed the 2020 GHG Continue to make progress toward our thousand barrels of oil equivalent target and determined that adjustment 2020 goal to achieve a 25 percent (BOE)), versus our 2014 baseline* to the target was not needed; however, reduction in GHG emissions intensity 46–48 restated the baseline and five-year (tonnes per thousand BOE), versus our historical emissions intensities to Review and – if needed per the Hess 2014 baseline* exclude recently divested assets that GHG Inventory Protocol – adjust the exceeded the threshold in our GHG Strategy, 2020 GHG intensity reduction target protocol Metrics based on asset divestitures* and Targets Observed an increase in our relative methane intensity in 2018 due to the Continue to improve performance sale of our joint-venture interests in the Continue to make progress against related to reducing methane Utica shale play, but are on track to ONE Future sector-based 2025 51 emissions, through ONE Future achieve the 2025 targets through targets* sector-based targets* planned flaring reductions and the phaseout of high-bleed pneumatic controllers in North Dakota Continue to make progress toward our Reduced flaring intensity by 41 percent 2020 goal to reduce flaring intensity compared with our 2014 baseline; (standard cubic feet per BOE) by reviewed the 2020 flaring target and Continue to make progress toward our 50 percent, versus our 2014 baseline* determined that adjustment to the 2020 goal to reduce flaring intensity 48–50 target was not needed; however, (standard cubic feet per BOE) by Review and – if necessary – adjust the restated the baseline and five-year 50 percent, versus our 2014 baseline* 2020 flaring intensity reduction target historical flaring intensities to exclude based on asset divestitures* recent divestitures ENVIRONMENT DISCUSSION CATEGORY 2018 GOALS PROGRESS IN 2018 GOALS FOR 2019+ (PAGE #) Continue to evolve our water data Develop a risk assessment toolbox for Continued to improve the water data collection process to automate offshore water discharge in 2019; collection methodology for the North 53, 55 collection for trending and future continue to work toward automated Dakota and Gulf of Mexico assets target setting* data collection in 2019 and beyond* Completed water risk planning efforts Conduct water risk assessments for the Conduct water risk assessment for the North Dakota and Gulf of South Arne and North Malay Basin Water workshops for the North Dakota and Mexico assets, including identifying assets and complete water risk ranking 53, 55 Management Gulf of Mexico assets* the water lifecycle for each operational and resource evaluation (e.g., oil activity and mapping key stakeholders recovery per water use) in 2019* Did not complete pilot studies as Conduct water-related pilot studies No pilot studies are planned at this planned due to vendor scheduling to assess alternative practices for time, but may be considered in the issues for the onshore recycling efforts — improving operating efficiencies in future as additional technologies are and operational constraints regarding both onshore and offshore assets evaluated the offshore work Surpassed our target, achieving a Process severe environmental incident rate of Achieve a 10 percent reduction from Achieve a severe environmental Safety 0.013; expanded this key metric to our 2018 actual severe and significant 57–58 incident rate target of 0.020** and Spills include “significant” environmental environmental incident rate in 2019 incidents beginning in 2019 *Denotes a key goal or target of our EHS & SR strategy. **Target adjusted to exclude the Utica asset, which was divested in 2018, on a prorated basis. See our Approach to Reporting section online for additional detail. 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 9 Offshore Operations, Gulf of Thailand HOW WE OPERATE Hess is committed to helping meet the performance or reputation. The EHS shareholder views on various topics, world’s growing energy needs in a way Subcommittee has also developed including EHS & SR. that protects the health and safety of our recommendations for the Audit Our Vice President of EHS met regularly people, safeguards the environment and Committee and the full Board on policies, with the EHS Subcommittee and the contributes to the sustainability of the programs and practices to address such Chair of the Subcommittee in 2018, communities where we operate, while strategies and risks. The Subcommittee and going forward will meet with the also delivering long-term value to our met four times in 2018, and each EHS Committee, to prioritize actions shareholders and other stakeholders. Subcommittee member attended at least on a number of topics, including EHS The Hess Values and our company 75 percent of the meetings. performance and strategic priorities; culture help us meet these high In June 2019 the EHS Subcommittee was enterprise risk management; regulatory standards of corporate citizenship. elevated to a fourth standalone committee matters; environment, social and The six Hess Values support our purpose of the Board of Directors, underpinning governance reporting; climate change to be the world's most trusted energy our commitment to evaluate sustainability strategic actions; and progress against partner. Our Code of Business Conduct risks at the highest level. All references to greenhouse gas and flaring targets. and Ethics (Code of Conduct), Social the EHS Subcommittee that follow reflect Each member of the EHS Subcommittee Responsibility (SR) Policy, Human the responsibilities and planned activities (and the newly elevated EHS Committee) Rights Policy and Environment, Health of the newly elevated EHS Committee. is independent and qualified under and Safety (EHS) Policy build on our Board Accountability standards established by applicable law, Values to define internal expectations The Audit Committee oversees the stock exchange listing standards and for sustainable management and integrity of the company’s financial Hess’ Corporate Governance Guidelines. performance at Hess. We apply these statements, financial reporting practices, Subcommittee members have extensive principles to key company processes and systems of internal accounting and oil and gas industry experience, including initiatives, as described in this section. financial and disclosure controls, and other operations, research and development, GOVERNANCE financial matters such as tax planning, and financial expertise. To supplement The highest level of oversight at Hess compliance and reporting for income their expertise, Hess brings in outside rests with the Board of Directors, which taxes. It also oversees compliance and subject matter experts to brief members had three principal committees in 2018: risk management matters. on current and developing issues relevant the Audit Committee, the Compensation to our business, such as climate change. Until June 2019 the Audit Committee, and Management Development Members, together with our executive through the EHS Subcommittee, also Committee and the Corporate leadership, have also participated oversaw EHS & SR matters. Going Governance and Nominating Committee. in field visits to Hess-operated and forward, through the newly elevated EHS nonoperated assets to better understand S  ee Hess’ committee charters and Corporate Committee and the Board as a whole, Governance Guidelines at hess.com/investors our key EHS strategies and risks. In 2018 Board members will continue to actively Subcommittee members visited two The EHS Subcommittee of the Board’s oversee Hess’ sustainability practices, offshore platforms in Asia – one operated Audit Committee was established in working alongside senior management (North Malay Basin) and one nonoperated 2013 to assist the Board in identifying, so that sustainability risks are taken (Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development evaluating and monitoring EHS strategies into account when making strategic Area (JDA)) – to observe how Hess and and material risks with the potential decisions. Our independent Chairman the operator for JDA are managing and to affect the people, environment or periodically accompanies our CEO and mitigating EHS risks. communities where we operate or other members of senior management our company’s business activities, to meet with investors to solicit 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 11 HOW WE OPERATE Executive Oversight value enterprise initiatives. It is anticipated and production operations to maximize The company is managed by an Executive they will continue to help us design efficiency, reliability, integrity and Committee, which is composed of Hess’ and implement key enterprise initiatives surveillance; optimize production most senior executives and chaired by by fostering collaboration across and costs; and drive continuous our Chief Executive Officer. The Executive Hess’ global resources and creating improvement, including improvement to Committee focuses on operational, standardized methodologies supported EHS performance. This is an evolution strategic, financial, EHS and social issues by tools and processes. and culmination of improvement efforts and is the highest approval body before that have been implemented over the last Over the past several years, we have the Board. The Executive Committee several years through initiatives such as been working on a number of initiatives holds regularly scheduled meetings, and Operations of the Future and Lean. to enhance our operational effectiveness our President and Chief Operating Officer and EHS performance. For example, Additional detail can be found at hess.com/ chairs an operational subcommittee of sustainability/how-we-operate/key-initiatives we have been working to formalize an the Executive Committee that also meets enterprisewide operational management KEY ENTERPRISE PROCESSES routinely to discuss these and other matters. system to integrate the standards, We apply a number of key processes in See  information on our approach to procedures and guidance documents in sustainable tax policy at hess.com/ our company that help to identify and sustainability/how-we-operate/tax-practices use throughout our operations into a single mitigate risks in potential, new and existing system. We expect that implementation operations; achieve operational excellence; KEY INITIATIVES of this Hess Operational Management and evaluate investment opportunities. We continue to evolve and advance System (HOMS) will help us continue to our management systems in a manner While these processes are focused on our manage risks associated with a changing that aligns with Hess’ portfolio and operated assets, it is important to note organization; utilize technical expertise, organizational structure. As part of this that we have also established internal standards and processes across the process, in 2018 we reorganized into expectations for reviewing potential risks organization; and align asset-level teams of functional leaders (e.g., EHS, in Hess’ nonoperated assets. We prioritize operations with enterprisewide corporate Wells, Human Resources, and Supply four main objectives: building respectful standards and business priorities. We Chain), which will help us continue to relationships; influencing project expect to complete development of the improve oversight and assurance across outcomes by focusing on issues with the formalized system in 2019, with asset the company and provide expertise in greatest potential impact; establishing implementation beginning in 2020. key functional areas within each asset. governance structures and project In support of HOMS, we have assurance plans; and documenting and Each leader is responsible for overseeing also continued development and internally sharing high-value lessons activities in their functional area across the implementation of EHS standards that learned. As these assets represent a company, verifying that relevant standards formalize enterprisewide expectations and significant portion of Hess’ capital spend, are applied as appropriate and working accountabilities and support a globally we have continued to conduct targeted, with each asset to optimize safety, quality, consistent approach to operational high-level reviews of nonoperated delivery and cost. Leaders are supported excellence. These standards, which activities, including production operations, by technical authorities (TAs) – many of address key areas of EHS risk and facilities and designs. whom are embedded directly into our performance, are scheduled to be fully assets. Functional leaders and additional implemented by 2020. Enterprise Risk Management TAs as needed meet monthly to support Hess applies a comprehensive, enterprisewide initiatives, promote Equipment reliability has been another standardized approach to identifying transparency of activities and optimize area of continuous improvement. and managing risks of all types across synergies across our functions and assets. We have established an organization our operations. Our enterprise risk and put processes in place to drive The functional leaders have replaced the management (ERM) program, which proactive maintenance of our production prior Operational Excellence Network in includes consideration of EHS & SR equipment. To support this, in 2018 providing cross-functional, companywide risks, provides a framework that enables we began implementing organizational guidance on the development of highHess’ Board of Directors and executive changes to better align maintenance 12 leadership to work together to strengthen and assess their likelihood and potential asset’s or project’s risk plan. Examples the consistency of risk consideration in impact to people, the environment, our include identifying and validating concept making business decisions. Our Board reputation and our business. selection or confirming the technical basis of Directors has ultimate oversight over of design for a facility. Our Risk Management Standard, which the ERM process and is charged with applies to all assets and major capital Climate risks are considered throughout understanding the key risks affecting projects, helps to align and integrate risk both enterprise and functional risk the company’s business and how management across our operations and assessments from the perspective of those risks can be managed. Our functional areas.The standard establishes potential financial, physical, reputational Chief Financial Officer (CFO) reports a risk framework, accountabilities and and regulatory impacts. Further discussion to the Board regularly on the status of expectations across the organization to of Hess’ approach to managing climate risk management controls within the provide a consistent and integrated risk risks can be found in the Climate Change company. Periodically, our Chief Risk management process across our assets, and Energy section of this report. Officer (CRO) provides the Board’s projects and business functions. Audit Committee with a comprehensive Value Assurance review of Hess’ enterprise-level risks, As part of our ERM process, all assets Major investment opportunities are the status of the ERM program, and risk are required to have a risk assessment assessed through our value assurance management strategies utilized under our in place that is refreshed on an annual process. This process helps to provide corporate risk policy. The CFO and CRO basis. In addition, major capital projects increased objectivity by including those oversee day-to-day implementation of the and new opportunities that go through who are not directly involved with the asset ERM process, including developing and the value assurance process (described or project in internal reviews. Following verifying compliance with relevant policies at right) must have risk assessments this process helps to provide assurance and standards. completed prior to each value assurance that our capital allocation and portfolio stage gate. Risk registers and reports management decisions are based on Hess’ ERM process is used to develop that are generated through these independently reviewed, high-quality input. a holistic risk profile for each asset and processes are reviewed and updated major capital project, drawing input from The value assurance reviews focus on periodically as part of the asset and major subject matter experts, performance economics, subsurface and facility design, project operating rhythm meetings. data, incident investigations, lessons safety, environmental and socioeconomic learned and recent internal audits. In We also require that functional-level considerations, regulatory requirements these risk assessments, we identify risks risk assessments be included in each and other nontechnical risks. In order to VALUE ASSURANCE PROCESS INCEPTION OPTIMIZED VALUE FRAME SCREEN REFINE IMPLEMENT OPERATE • Determine objectives • Evaluate and rank • O  ptimize preferred • Deliver refined option • Meet/exceed options option sanction metrics DECISION DECISION DECISION DECISION • Confirm technical and economic viability  • Reduce risks and • Develop  execution  eet Production •M uncertainties plan Excellence expectations • Select  preferred • Allocate budget option FRAMING WORKSHOPS, VALUE ASSURANCE REVIEWS OPERABILITY AND OPERATIONAL READINESS REVIEWS POST-PROJECT REVIEWS PEER ASSISTS AND TECHNICAL/FUNCTIONAL REVIEWS 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 13 HOW WE OPERATE evaluate the potential impact of carbon Lean business results for their respective assets cost on project economics, we apply At Hess, Lean is not a short-term program or functions. We plan to train and certify a carbon price of $40 per tonne to the for achieving cost savings, but rather a 100 additional ELLs in 2019. forecasted greenhouse gas emissions holistic cultural shift, changing the way  See examples of success stories on the Lean from significant new projects. section of our website at hess.com/leanwe think and act. Central to this shift has advantage been encouraging our leaders to learn In 2018 we refreshed our value assurance fundamental Lean skills and then apply BUSINESS CONDUCT process (see figure on the previous page) them to business problems. The leaders In the Hess Code of Conduct, we as a result of the company’s restructuring then coach and develop employees describe the business conduct and early in the year. We transitioned from and contractors to generate solutions behaviors we expect of our employees, having a centralized value assurance themselves. The result is a distinctive Lean officers, directors and contractors. Any organization to bringing in technical culture in which continuous improvement individual or company working on behalf experts from across the company, comes from the entire workforce – our of Hess or our subsidiaries is expected to chosen based on how their skills and “army of problem solvers.” follow similar principles. Failure to comply experience contribute to the project under review. Including experts from across the For nearly a decade, we have been with the Code of Conduct and related organization creates learning opportunities implementing Lean principles across our policies, or applicable laws, may result in for participants to take back to their operations to eliminate waste, create disciplinary action, including termination. assets and functions and apply to future value and drive reliability and continuous Hess’ compliance policies and procedures assurance processes. improvement for our shareholders, all stem from our Code of Conduct. business partners, employees and other These policies and procedures are The value assurance process is closely stakeholders. In 2018 we conducted communicated to and available for aligned with our ERM process so that we a “Take Work Out” exercise, which all employees globally. Our Global can apply consistent methodologies and encouraged all workers to closely evaluate Compliance team establishes, maintains criteria to risks across our company. their work activities to eliminate “waste” or and enforces the compliance policies New Country Entry unnecessary tasks. The initiative resulted and procedures, as well as other Our new country entry process helps us in over 200 completed improvements to processes and initiatives to prevent and assess nontechnical, aboveground risks reduce waste in routine activities. detect compliance violations. Our aim when evaluating opportunities in a new is to promote an organizational culture We use a standard process for selecting, country of operation. The process also that is committed to ethical conduct training and developing embedded Lean helps the project team mitigate identified and compliance with the law. The Chief leaders (ELLs), who, after completing the risks once a commitment is made to Compliance Officer informs the Audit process outlined in the figure below, help enter a new country. Ultimately, the Committee of the Board of Directors on a to train their teams in basic Lean skills, process is complementary to our ERM regular basis regarding certain business improve processes and eliminate waste in and value assurance workflows, utilizing conduct issues. their respective work areas. We certified the necessary information at key decision approximately 100 employees as ELLs in To continuously enforce compliance points in our investment and project 2018, bringing the total number of ELLs to controls and embrace best practices, planning processes. 160 enterprisewide. ELLs participated in our Global Compliance team focuses on S  ee more detail on these processes at hess. multiple kaizen (Japanese for “improvement”) internal investigations and anti-bribery com/sustainability/how-we-operate/keyenterprise-processes workshops held across our value stream and anti-corruption (ABAC) programs, to provide sustainable improvements to as well as other enterprise programs EMBEDDED LEAN LEADER (ELL) CERTIFICATION PROCESS ELL Skill Development ELL Candidate ELL and Manager ELL Immersion ELL PostHealth Assessment and Selection Preparation Training Certification Check Certification Cycles 14 Production Operations, North Dakota and systems. In 2018 our Global part of this effort, our Global Compliance had completed the Code of Conduct Compliance team investigated all issues team has developed in-depth online training, and 97 percent had completed and allegations referred to the team trainings on our Code of Conduct and our the ABAC training. through the various channels available to ABAC Policy and Procedure. The trainings POLITICAL ENGAGEMENT our workforce, including our dedicated include examples of how employees can compliance hotline. In addition, Global translate the Hess Values into on-the-job HessPAC Compliance continued to manage the actions. All employees who are active at HessPAC serves as the political action company’s automated approval systems the time training is launched, as well as committee of Hess’ U.S. employees and – which are used to review and approve all new employees and certain contracted acts in full compliance with U.S. federal and higher-risk transactions and relationships staff, are required to take these trainings state campaign finance and election laws. with our business partners – including and certify compliance with the Code of HessPAC is used to promote the interests our system for the disclosure, review and Conduct and other applicable policies of Hess Corporation. In 2018 HessPAC approval or mitigation of potential conflicts and procedures. entered its third full cycle of operation, of interest. Throughout 2018, Global generated approximately $64,000 in To support the launch of our new Code of Compliance also continued to partner member contributions and distributed Conduct in 2018, the Global Compliance with key functions across the company, $71,500 in political contributions in a team developed and deployed an updated including Legal, EHS, Human Resources bipartisan manner to candidates at both version of our online training. This training, and Corporate Audit, to review potential the state and federal levels. which was delivered through an enhanced, issues and implement appropriate HessPAC publicly discloses all of its modular-based platform, highlighted key remediation steps. contributions to political candidates, concepts from the new Code of Conduct. Providing employees with effective training parties and committees. Its federal The Global Compliance team conducts on the Hess Values is a key element of contributions are accessible via the U.S. audits and ongoing monitoring to help strengthening our culture and helping to Federal Election Commission’s website ensure that all employees complete ensure that employees understand and (www.fec.gov). State contributions from these online trainings. At year-end embody the Values in their daily work. As HessPAC are also publicly available 2018, 99 percent of active employees on the appropriate website of each 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 15 HOW WE OPERATE respective state where HessPAC is active. 501(c)(6) of the Internal Revenue Code) to ensure that Hess will continue to As legally permitted, Hess corporate that include our industry peers and other operate at the highest level of integrity and funds were used to provide administrative companies in related sectors. Trade transparency and remain compliant with all support for HessPAC. Both direct and associations provide forums through which reporting requirements. indirect corporate political contributions companies across the oil and gas industry As part of the regulatory assurance are prohibited by Hess company policy. can develop unified public policy agendas, element of our EHS & SR strategy, we HessPAC permits political contributions exchange technical and industry best aim to align our advocacy priorities with only through voluntary employee-funded practices, and approach issues relevant to our established processes related to PAC contributions. our business with a common voice. Hess ERM and EHS. We also conduct ongoing requires all trade associations to publicly Advocacy assessments of our global advocacy disclose all expenses related to lobbying Hess is in regular communication with an priorities to drive improvements to our activities, as outlined by the Lobbying array of stakeholders in the public policy process for tracking and informing our Disclosure Act. Our trade associations’ arena, including legislators and regulators advocacy efforts. lobbying activities accounted for 27 percent both in the U.S. and internationally. of our total lobbying spend in 2018. SUPPLY CHAIN Hess executives and our External Affairs Our business partners, suppliers and function engage with legislative and In 2018, none of Hess’ membership contractors are critical to Hess’ overall regulatory institutions to offer a unique fees or dues were used by any of our success and our ability to maximize the perspective on energy policy issues, associations for direct or indirect political efficiency of operations while minimizing to better understand federal and state advocacy. Furthermore, no payments operational risks. In 2018 we purchased requirements applicable to our operations made by Hess to 501(c)(6) or 501(c)(4) approximately $3.5 billion in commercial and to mitigate potential risks to the organizations were used for political goods and services from approximately company’s license to operate. purposes. A list of memberships and 3,600 suppliers, whose workhours associations that received more than Consistent with Hess principles and comprised nearly 70 percent of our total $50,000 from Hess in 2018 can be values, our legislative and regulatory workforce hours. found on page 63. engagement is done in accordance with We work collaboratively with our suppliers all applicable laws and regulations. We recognize that our positions do not to improve performance and create always align with all formal positions Hess’ commitment to transparency also shared value. We jointly review processes, of the associations, organizations and means that the company fully complies procedures and data with many suppliers collaborative working groups in which with all lobbying reporting requirements to help drive the right actions and foster we participate. Our funding should not outlined in the Lobbying Disclosure Act continuous improvement. be considered a direct endorsement of of 1995 and all amendments made to the the entire range of activities undertaken While this section describes our general law by P.L. 110-81, the Honest Leadership by these associations, organizations or approach to engagements with our and Open Government Act of 2007. In collaborative working groups. To address suppliers, these practices may differ 2018 the company’s lobbying expenses concerns related to potential misalignment, in certain instances if necessary to totaled approximately $493,800. This we publish our positions on key comply with applicable local laws and includes fees and expenses for external sustainability issues in this annual report. requirements or if otherwise appropriate. consultants and trade association dues used for lobbying purposes, as required Hess’ Vice President of External Management Approach by the Lobbying Disclosure Act. Hess Affairs is responsible for approving and We continue to enhance our capabilities also complies with any and all relevant overseeing employee engagement with to categorically manage our suppliers state and foreign legal and regulatory elected officials or regulators when these with a cross-functional team that works requirements concerning direct and employees act as official representatives collaboratively to reach safety, quality, indirect lobbying activities and contacts. of the company. This strict internal policy delivery and cost targets. extends to Hess employees who serve Hess belongs to a number of trade Our Procurement Policy specifies who on trade association committees that associations (organized under section should participate in the evaluation of advocate for policy changes. This helps 16 tenders, management of contracts industry prequalification systems for requirements for their activities. Suppliers and ongoing procurement of goods our areas of operation in the U.S. and are also required to meet the expectations and services. It also includes code of Europe. Outside of these areas, we use a set forth in our Code of Business ethics and conflict of interest guidelines standardized process with a questionnaire Conduct and Ethics and Hess’ Voluntary and states that employees who violate based on our 14 EHS & SR management Commitments regarding labor and human the Procurement Policy are subject to system elements. Further detail on our rights. Standard contract clauses include disciplinary actions. A central goal of EHS-related qualifications review during requirements with respect to ethical our supply chain management system, procurement can be found in the Safety business practices, human rights, social including our Procurement Policy, is to and Health section. responsibility, business integrity, search help ensure that suppliers understand and and seizure, EHS and quality of materials We are working to standardize the way abide by our high ethical, safety and other and services. we engage contractors based on their risk performance standards, while helping profiles and are developing a formalized, Local Content us avoid unexpected commitments and enterprisewide procedure. To support Internationally we often prioritize local leverage our spend more effectively. this and maximize the overall efficiency suppliers when performing under Hess follows a standardized approach to and performance of our supply chain, production-sharing contracts or other evaluate and measure the performance in late 2018 we implemented a new agreements with host countries. These of key potential and current suppliers digital platform for integrating supplier agreements vary, but may include use of on the basis of total value, including information and processes. an approved supplier list, requirements safety, quality, delivery and cost. We for government approval of suppliers The companies that supply Hess with employ a systematic prequalification or threshold specifications for local goods and services must comply with all and selection process to help ensure companies or workers. applicable laws and regulations, including we are working with qualified and safe S  ee more on Hess’ expectations and in areas such as EHS, conflicts of interest suppliers. Where appropriate, potential requirements for suppliers at suppliers.hess. and anti-corruption, and must maintain com and hess.com/sustainability/how-wesuppliers – as determined by a riskoperate/supply-chain any applicable licensing or permitting based decision matrix – undergo a risk review, an anti-bribery, anti-corruption and legal compliance review and a review of EHS performance and programs. In addition, our procurement staff reviews where appropriate the potential suppliers’ insurance, tax and quality information. If discrepancies with our applicable requirements arise, the relevant function within Hess conducts an additional review and develops mitigation plans as needed. Contracts that involve higher risk, due to either the number of workhours the supplier is expected to work for Hess or the scope of work, are subject to an EHS review during the procurement process that covers training qualifications, safety programs and performance, environmental management systems and measurement, and emergency preparedness and response, among other topics. As one Offshore Operations, Gulf of Mexico part of the EHS review, we use recognized 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 17 Fulbright English Teaching Assistant Program, Malaysia SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY Social responsibility (SR) is one of the six The Sustainable Development Goals Hess Values, reflecting its importance to our company and our stakeholders. U.N. member countries have adopted a set of 17 goals – called the Sustainable Development Goals, or SDGs – as part of the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development. The Hess Value of social responsibility The U.N. has sought to advance cooperation among governments, civil society and the commits us to meet the highest standards private sector, all of which play a critical role in achieving the ambitious SDGs. of corporate citizenship by protecting We have continued to work on defining what the SDGs mean in the context of our the health and safety of our employees, business and to better articulate our efforts through transparent reporting. In 2018 we safeguarding the environment and creating further evaluated Hess’ alignment with the SDGs by mapping the goals to the issues we a long-lasting positive impact on the identified as part of our materiality assessment (see page 5 for more on that assessment). This exercise has allowed us to identify where our strategic actions and communities where we do business. ongoing operations have the greatest potential to impact the goals. As part of the refresh of our environment, health, safety and social responsibility (EHS & SR) strategy Our approach to SR emphasizes proactive planned for the 2019–2020 timeframe, we will consider opportunities to more fully stakeholder engagement, social risk integrate the SDGs into our regular business planning and reporting. and impact management, and strategic The following table summarizes the SDGs that we believe align with our material issues social investments that provide direct and and identifies where discussion of those topics can be found in this report. indirect benefits to the communities where we operate. Our SR activities help us to RELEVANT SDGS HESS MATERIAL ISSUES DISCUSSION (PAGE #) generate economic opportunities for our •H  uman Rights and 22–23 stakeholders, create valued partnerships SDG 3: Ensure healthy lives and promote Security and maximize value for shareholders. well-being for all at all ages • Process  Safety and Spills 30–33, 54–55, 57–58 • Transportation  Impacts 29 GOVERNANCE FRAMEWORK SDG 4: Ensure inclusive and equitable quality • Community and 23–25 Hess’ Code of Conduct is fundamental to Stakeholder Engagement education and promote lifelong learning our Hess Values and underscores our opportunities for all commitment to ethical and responsible business practices. The Code describes SDG 6: Ensure availability and sustainable • Process Safety and Spills 21, 30–31, 54–55, 57–58 management of water and sanitation for all • Water Management 53, 55–56 the business conduct and practices we expect of our employees, officers, directors • Climate Change and 39–51 and contractors, including our adherence Greenhouse Gas Emissions SDG 7: Ensure access to affordable, reliable, to the highest human rights standards. • Regulatory Assurance 58–59 sustainable and modern energy for all • Transparency in Business 12–13 We have endorsed or formally joined a Conduct number of voluntary initiatives designed SDG 8: Promote sustained, inclusive and • Community and 17, 35 to protect the environment, promote sustainable economic growth, full and Stakeholder Engagement human rights and encourage financial productive employment and decent work transparency. We collectively call these our for all “Voluntary Commitments.” They include: SDG 13: Take urgent action to combat • Climate Change and 39–51 • The Universal Declaration of climate change and its impacts Greenhouse Gas Emissions Human Rights SDG 14: Conserve and sustainably use the • Emergency Preparedness 30–32, 57–58 • The International Labour Organization’s oceans, seas and marine resources for and Response sustainable development Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work SDG 15: Protect, restore and promote • Community and 30–32 sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, Stakeholder Engagement • The United Nations (U.N.) Global sustainably manage forests, combat • Process Safety and Spills 30–32, 57–58 Compact desertification, and halt and reverse land • Regulatory Assurance 58–59 degradation and halt biodiversity loss • Water Management 53, 55–56 • The Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 19 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY These Voluntary Commitments inform our STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT documented internal accountabilities for SR, Human Rights, and Security and In line with our purpose to be the world’s managing each key issue – including Human Rights Policies. Hess’ SR Policy, most trusted energy partner, we help identification of a Business Owner (i.e., an for example, obligates us to demonstrate deliver the energy the world demands individual from senior management with high standards of ethics and integrity and – energy that is fundamental to advancing accountability for the issue) and an Issue outlines our commitments to the economic progress and improving living Manager or Managers (i.e., individuals communities where we operate and to standards. We endeavor to partner as responsible for managing the ongoing our workforce. Our Human Rights Policy appropriate with resource owners, strategy and engagement to mitigate specifically prohibits child labor, forced communities and stakeholders from across stakeholder impacts). In step three, each labor and workplace harassment in our civil society to develop oil and natural Issue Manager, with support from our operations; it also covers key issues gas resources in a manner that is External Affairs function, documents the relating to our supply chain and environmentally and socially responsible. relevant stakeholders, and then in step community engagement. Our Security We prioritize safety, integrity and four outlines the engagement strategies and Human Rights Policy sets forth transparency and aim to treat all our for those stakeholders. The final step is guidelines governing the use of force by stakeholders with respect. We actively monitoring and tracking the key issues, Hess employees and private security seek out dialogues with stakeholders – with updates to the Business Owner and, contractors engaged by Hess, when such specifically local communities, employees, as required, other senior management at security is needed. These policies are contractors, suppliers, customers, industry least twice a year. supported at the local level through members, governments and investors – to Grievance Mechanisms training, toolkits and procedures specific share our values, vision and goals and to We believe that developing strong and to the needs of our operational locations. seek feedback. transparent relationships with the In early 2018 we initiated a review of the Stakeholder Planning and communities in which we operate and company processes that support our Engagement Process addressing potential issues early – before Voluntary Commitments, to align them In 2018 we completed a review and they mature into more severe challenges – with our changed asset portfolio and risk refresh of our enterprise-level stakeholder helps to avoid incidents. At the same time, profile. Later in this section we describe a planning and engagement process, which formal grievance mechanisms provide refreshed approach to stakeholder is aligned with and included in the Hess engagement that facilitates integrated Risk Management Standard. Based on the oversight of our Voluntary Commitments learnings from that review, we have been INTEGRATED STAKEHOLDER across the enterprise. working to establish a clearer link between ENGAGEMENT PROCESS our stakeholder identification and STEP 1 Organizational Structure engagement activities and the key external Hess’ External Affairs function provides issues impacting each asset. Specifically, Identify Risks & Issues a central SR support organization that we have developed individualized External coordinates resources with our assets and STEP 2 Affairs and Stakeholder Plans for each of project teams. The support organization Hess’ operated production locations (i.e., develops governance, reports companyEstablish Internal Accountabilities Denmark, Gulf of Mexico, North Dakota wide social performance, provides and North Malay Basin). STEP 3 technical and functional support to the assets and project teams, and provides Each plan outlines a five-step process, Identify Key Stakeholders assurance across these efforts. The asset as shown in the graphic to the right. The and project resources report into the first step involves understanding the STEP 4 business line management structure and specific risks faced by each asset as are responsible for developing and identified in the asset-level risk register Outline Engagements executing assetor project-specific SR and heat maps and then prioritizing those STEP 5 plans. SR activities are integrated and risks to identify the issues that are the aligned between our central organization most important to Hess’ license to Monitor & Track and global locations. operate. In the second step, we establish 20 External Stakeholders Collaborating with stakeholders helps us to identify opportunities for beneﬁting our host communities while improving our business and strengthening our license to operate. We engage with a wide range of external stakeholders – from local landowners and governments to community service agencies and indigenous groups. Recent examples of our stakeholder engagement activities are provided below. CATEGORY EXTERNAL STAKEHOLDER GROUPS RECENT EXAMPLES OF ENGAGEMENT Continued to work through our Bakken grievance mechanism to increase Residents, landowners, communication with stakeholders. Conducted annual meetings with Land Users/Landowners commercial land interests, landowners. Continued monitoring of pipelines after construction to detect farmers, ranchers potential issues. Donated to Farm Rescue, a nonprofit that supports farming and ranching families in crisis in North Dakota and surrounding states. Mineral rights owners, water Made additional improvements to our SMS so that landowners and mineral Resources Users/ rights owners and users, hunters/ rights holders can more easily access forms and view their monthly Rights Holders fishers/gatherers payment details. Met with the U.S. Ambassador to Guyana. Hosted representatives of the Local, regional and national Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis on a tour of our North Dakota authorities, national militaries, operations. Also, hosted a group of North Dakota state government Governments international governing officials on a tour of our operations, including the Tioga Gas Plant and authorities Tioga Rail Terminal. A Hess representative serves on the North Dakota Oil and Gas Research Council, a public–private partnership. In December 2018, held an Investor Day attended by over 450 participants, in person and via live webcast, to discuss Hess’ strategic priorities, portfolio and plans. Continued the Job Experience Training program in Investment partners, vendors and North Dakota, providing valuable work experience to students from Direct Economic Interests suppliers, contractors, unions, Bismarck State College. Through our joint venture in Guyana, continued shareholders supporting the Centre for Local Business Development, to promote the establishment and growth of local businesses in that country. (See pages 24–25 for more on the latter two initiatives.) A Hess representative joined the board of directors of the newly formed American Chamber of Commerce Guyana. Our President and Chief Operating Officer served on the board of directors for the Greater Houston Partnership. A Hess representative served on the executive committee of IPIECA. Leaders of Hess’ EHS and External Affairs functions actively participated in IPIECA and International Association of Oil and Gas Chambers of commerce, industry Producers working groups and stakeholder engagement activities focused External Business Interests organizations, local businesses, on topics such as social responsibility, water, climate change, EHS and sustainability initiatives sustainability reporting. Hess representatives serve on the advisory board for the University of North Dakota’s Petroleum Engineering Program; the executive committees and boards of directors of the American Petroleum Institute, the North Dakota Petroleum Council and the Louisiana MidContinent Oil and Gas Association; and the boards of directors of the Greater North Dakota Chamber of Commerce and the newly formed North Dakota Petroleum Foundation. Joined the Gulf of Mexico Alliance Gulf Star Program, which aims to invest in projects that support a healthy and productive Gulf of Mexico (see page Nongovernmental organizations, 53). A Hess representative served on the board of the North Dakota Special Interest Groups religious groups, cause-oriented Outdoor Heritage Fund, a governor-appointed position. In partnership with nonprofits, community groups the YMCA in North Dakota, supported a Summer Unplugged program for kids, which involved once-a-week activities designed to provide an alternative to TV and computer screens. Conducted a joint emergency response drill with local emergency responders onboard an operations support vessel at our Tok Bali Supply Base in Malaysia. Hess employees assisted with the purchase and delivery Local police/fire/emergency of supplies – including 70 mattresses, bed frames and bedding donated by medical services, health care Community Services our employees – to help more than six dozen families who lost their homes services, education, human to a tornado in Watford City, North Dakota, lessening the burden on local service agencies emergency managers. Participated in the Bakken Rocks CookFest, a family-friendly event that seeks to strengthen relationships between the local community and oil and gas operators. Formally recognized groups, tribal coalitions, government supporting Supported Healing Horse Ranch on the Fort Berthold Indian Reservation in Indigenous Groups agencies, indigenous advocacy Parshall, North Dakota. groups 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 21 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (SMS) – to track these grievances from start to completion. (The SMS also supports our stakeholder engagement process, described previously.) The response team strives to complete their investigation within 14 days of the original report and provide a response and/or resolution within 30 days. As a final step before closing a case, we contact the stakeholder to confirm they feel the issue has been adequately addressed. Trending data on grievances are reported upward to the Bakken Leadership Team, comprised of key senior decision-makers for the Bakken asset, as part of our regular operating rhythm. As we continue to work toward the Planning Meeting, Houston, Texas integration of formal grievance mechanisms at additional assets, we are relying on our stakeholders with a means for sharing stakeholders. We may also receive existing manual tracking process at those feedback with companies on their feedback on workplace, procurement, assets to resolve issues in a timely manner. operational impacts, while also helping supplier and EHS issues. The most companies respond to and act on that commonly raised topics include issues Separately, we maintain a grievance feedback through an established process. such as road conditions, erosion, land mechanism for landowners and mineral Through the use of our grievance reclamation, fencing, cattle guards and rights holders associated with our U.S. mechanisms, we aim to strengthen our weeds. In 2018 we received 171 onshore assets. Specifically, we have a relationships with communities and grievances through this process. telephone hotline, webpage and email landowners and respond more effectively address through which these individuals When alerted to a potential issue, the to their concerns. can ask questions and share concerns and response team draws employees from complaints. Our Owner Relations and The grievance mechanism we maintain various disciplines within Hess – such as Owner Support teams manage this system, for our Bakken asset in North Dakota, EHS, drilling, completions, operations, and they use the SMS to track open issues which was launched in 2015, accepts maintenance, civil construction and and help ensure they are resolved. In 2018 complaints (anonymously, if desired) human resources – that are best able to these teams received and responded to through several access points, including respond to the concern and reach a nearly 17,000 emails and 2,800 phone via our Grievance Officer, Hess Owner resolution. For example, safety concerns calls, 4,326 of which developed into SMS Solutions team, North Dakota front desk are forwarded to Hess’ EHS function; cases to be tracked and addressed. staff and Surface Land team. We have individual worker complaints are handled reached out to community members by Human Resources; and business SOCIAL RISK AND IMPACT through forums such as community integrity or ethics complaints are referred MANAGEMENT meetings to share information about this to our Code of Business Conduct and When Hess enters a new country, grievance mechanism and explain how to Ethics hotline. By engaging each discipline commissions a new development or contact us if they perceive a problem. as appropriate, we escalate management expands an existing facility, we engage of the grievance upward in the company with stakeholders to proactively identify, Through this mechanism we receive and as necessary to help resolve the issue. mitigate and manage aboveground risks address concerns relating to employee that can impact our activities or the and contractor performance, behavior We maintain an internal database – communities where we operate. As part and activities toward external the stakeholder management system of our strategic planning processes for 22 these activities, we examine the social, We also utilize an online human rights political and reputational environment to training module for employees that 2018Social 2018 SocialInvestment InvestmentSpend Spend by byCountry Country identify nontechnical risks and mitigation explains the concept of human rights and $ Thousands $ Thousands activities. Where our operations are why they are important for Hess, reviews 1%1% ongoing, we regularly conduct “heat map” our Human Rights Policy, offers guidance 2%2% reviews that take into account new and on integrating respect for human rights 6% 6% emerging risks and develop recommended into employees’ daily work and provides mitigating actions. directions on how to report suspected human rights violations. We address human rights considerations throughout these processes, including COMMUNITY BENEFITS AND during due diligence and social risk CAPACITY BUILDING identification, mitigation and management. As part of Hess’ commitment to be a 91% 91% We also have a Security and Human responsible corporate citizen, we aim ■ ■U.S.U.S. $6,295 $6,295 Rights Toolkit that we utilize locally for to create positive, mutually beneficial Guyana ■ ■Guyana $392 $392 Ghana ■ ■Ghana $107 training security personnel on human relationships with our host communities. $107 Malaysia $100 ■ ■Malaysia $100 rights issues. We focus on creating shared value in local communities and a favorable Human Rights 2018 environment for our operations. At the 2018Social SocialInvestment InvestmentSpend Spend We remain committed to building trusted bybyType TypeofofInvestment Investment local level, our assets create, maintain $ Thousands $ Thousands partnerships and treating all citizens with and implement strategic social dignity and respect wherever we operate. 2%2% 2% 2% investment programs tailored to each Our strategy is to prevent human operation and community. rights-related incidents by engaging with stakeholders to proactively address We evaluate our programs to confirm a 21% 21% potential issues. The complex environments balance of strategic investment and in which we operate present an opportunity support of local organizations, which 41%41% to make positive and lasting contributions helps us evolve along with the changing in the areas of governance, transparency, development needs of the communities 34% 34% respect for rule of law, and social and where we operate. Hess focuses on economic development. established partnerships with key ■■ In-Kind In-Kind $2,815 $2,815 organizations and projects best aligned ■ ■Education Education $2,376 $2,376 We have worked to align our business ■ ■Community Community $1,437 $1,437 with the business and social risks ■ ■Environment Environment $123 $123 practices with our SR, Human Rights, identified through risk assessments. We ■ ■AllAllOther* $143 Other* $143 and Security and Human Rights Policies. integrate this strategy into our business, *Other *Othersocial investment social investment categories categories include disaster include relief, disaster health, relief, health, Human rights issues are analyzed at civic andand civic employee, employee, artsarts andand andand culture. culture. enhancing investment visibility and all phases of our business activities, Note: These Note: charts These include charts include social all all investments social in 2018, investments including in 2018, including leveraging volunteer opportunities for those associated those associated joint-venture withwith joint-venture operations. operations. beginning with new country entry. our employees. Hess is committed to educating our Local Program Highlights Our social investment programs contribute personnel on the importance of respecting Hess’ global assets and Houston to education improvement and work skill human rights as well as raising internal operational headquarters engaged in a development, which are fundamental to awareness of best practices outlined in variety of local social investment, capacity sustainable economic growth. We also our Security and Human Rights Policy. building and infrastructure improvement seek to identify opportunities in our supply Over the years, we have used our internal opportunities in 2018. chain to provide lasting economic benefit Global Security team or invited external through local job creation. experts to provide human rights training to Expanding Education Resources our employees around the globe. In 2018, In 2018 our social investments totaled nearly in Houston for example, we conducted human rights $6.9 million, with approximately $2.4 million Hess continues to support LEAP (Learn, training in Malaysia. going toward education projects. Engage, Advance, Persevere), an 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 23 SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY educational program managed by the and supplies to reach Port Fourchon, Additional funding has come from other Greater Houston Community Foundation. which in turn is the jumping off point for oil and gas companies and matching LEAP aims to keep at-risk middle school moving those workers and supplies to government grants, with the remainder students in school and aspiring toward offshore oil and gas platforms in the Gulf to be paid through tolls from road college or vocational training. After of Mexico. LA1 is also the only landusers over the next 35 years. The new concluding a successful pilot in 2016, based hurricane evacuation route for elevated roadway is expected to enhance we launched LEAP 2.0 – an expanded, Port Fourchon and nearby Grand Isle, a emergency response capability and three-year program that engages students barrier island renowned for its fishing and improve the evacuation route. In addition, at three elementary schools, one middle birding habitat. Historically, the low-lying beneficial sediment disposition to be school and one high school. Among roadway has been impacted by storm performed during construction will create other activities, the program gives books surges during each hurricane season; for 100-plus acres of wetlands. For more to elementary-aged students; offers example, LA1 was closed for four days information, see www.la1coalition.org. a summer program for middle school during Hurricane Isaac in 2012, which Apprenticeships in North Dakota students that focuses on science, was a direct hit to the Louisiana coast. In December 2018 our Job Experience technology, engineering and math (STEM); Currently, the roadway often floods even Training (JET) program was recognized by and provides collegeand careerduring lower-level storms. the U.S. Department of Labor as an official readiness training to high school students. Hess is a member of the LA1 Coalition, Registered Apprenticeship Program – the New for 2018, we funded year-round a public–private partnership composed first such program in North Dakota’s oil internships for two students from the of representatives from oil and gas and gas industry. JET is an apprenticeship high school through the GenesysWorks companies, government agencies for reliability operators developed by Hess program. Hess is contributing more than and the local community. The group in 2017, in collaboration with Bismarck $700,000 annually to LEAP 2.0. has spearheaded efforts to replace State College, to develop local, qualified Improving Critical Infrastructure a major portion of LA1 near Leeville, personnel in North Dakota. Through JET, in Louisiana Louisiana, with a 19-mile bridge. Hess apprentices are trained in our corporate The LA1 state highway in coastal has contributed $300,000 to the project, culture and way of operating, and they Louisiana is the primary route for workers which is now about half complete. “earn while they learn,” gaining job experience while pursuing their education. Since the program’s inception, 15 apprentices have entered the JET program, five have completed the apprenticeship and three have been converted to Hess employees. As a result of the Registered Apprenticeship Program designation, all JET apprentices will earn a U.S. Department of Labor credential formally recognizing their efforts. Hess Toy Truck STEM Program in North Dakota Hess collaborated with state education officials and the governor’s office to transform Hess toy trucks into teaching tools. The innovative program bundles our toy trucks with a STEM curriculum that was designed by Baylor College of Medicine’s Center for Educational LEAP Program, Houston, Texas Outreach. In January 2019 Hess shipped 24 Capacity Building in Guyana Through our joint venture in Guyana via the operator, Esso Exploration and Production Guyana Limited, Hess is focusing on three key areas of social investment: spending with local suppliers, developing local resources and investing in the community. The joint venture supports a Centre for Local Business Development, for example, which aims to further the capabilities of local Guyanese businesses by helping them build their capacity and improve their competitiveness; providing opportunities for procurement, as well as mentoring, coaching and financial support; and providing information on safety and technical standards. In 2018 the Centre Hess Toy Truck STEM Program, North Dakota held training sessions for Guyanese residents on waste management, incident 24 toy trucks and STEM kits to each students improve their proficiency in response, air-quality monitoring and other of the 336 elementary schools in North English while also promoting goodwill safety, security, health and environmental Dakota. The materials will help children between the ETAs, students, teachers topics. The joint venture has committed learn about energy efficiency, kinetic and their communities. In 2018 Hess a total of $4.5 million to the Centre over a energy and other STEM-related lessons. supported 10 Fulbright ETAs in Kelantan, three-year period. Also, more than 1,000 Malaysia, who taught more than 5,000 Guyanese are now employed in joint venture Malaysia Fulbright English Teaching students in the classroom and reached activities (either as direct employees or Assistant Program an additional 1,000 students in ETA-led contractors), and the joint venture is using In November 2018, Hess Malaysia “English camps.” Hess employees also nearly 500 Guyanese vendors for goods was recognized as one of the top contributed by volunteering at the English and services, spending $58 million with corporate citizens in the country by camps throughout the year. Guyanese companies in 2018. the American Malaysian Chamber of Commerce (AMCHAM) at the annual MY AMCHAM CARES event, which honors AMCHAM members that have shown a commitment to best practice in corporate social responsibility. Hess was commended for its sponsorship of and involvement with the Fulbright English Teaching Assistant (ETA) Program, which places graduating seniors from U.S. universities in underserved Malaysian secondary schools for 10 months. Administered by the MalaysianAmerican Commission on Educational Exchange in coordination with the Malaysia Ministry of Education, the Fulbright ETA Program helps Malaysian Centre for Local Business Development, Guyana 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 25 Offshore Operations, Danish North Sea SAFETY AND HEALTH At Hess, our first priority is the safety to “everyone, everywhere, every day, safety risk – such as energy isolation, of our workforce. Through our safety home safe.” When a site’s workforce dropped objects and confined space entry programs and practices, we seek to includes contract workers, managers – and promote leadership, awareness, maintain a culture in which employees from our contractor companies will often consistency and accountability across all and contractors keep each other safe accompany our leaders on these visits. levels of the organization. We also have on the job, so that everyone across our a set of seven basic global requirements Also in 2018 we refreshed our safety operations returns home safe every day. for safe work practices that we call the leadership training program so that it Hess Rules. In 2019 we will work toward Our commitment to occupational and more precisely aligns with our operations. updating and expanding these rules, which process safety begins at the top of We brought the program in-house so were first introduced in 2011, so they align our organization and is reinforced at that the content could be developed by with the newly completed EHS standards. every level. For example, we include internal Hess personnel, address specific key enterprisewide safety metrics in Hess expectations and processes and be Through our EHS assurance program, we our annual incentive plan formula for delivered to frontline leaders by our own review conformance with our external and executives and employees. In July asset operations and Environment, Health internal obligations, including regulations, 2018 we held our 10th Global Safety and Safety (EHS) staff. Throughout 2019, policies, standards and procedures. Appreciation Day, an annual event that we will schedule workshops in our Bakken The program operates in three tiers, as provides an opportunity for the Hess region to train over 200 frontline leaders shown in the figure below. At the Tier I workforce to stop and reflect on safety to be safety role models. A member of level, and as an independent assurance issues and discuss how we can further the Bakken Leadership Team will be and consulting function, Hess Corporate embed safety in the Hess culture. And designated to attend the kickoff session Audit conducts annual EHS audits and each year, our Chief Executive Officer for each class to demonstrate leadership consulting services following a risk-based and our President and Chief Operating support, set expectations and model plan that covers various EHS topics, Officer present awards for safety the behaviors outlined in the workshop. including occupational safety and health; excellence to the Hess teams and Content developed under the refreshed drilling, completions and production individuals who exemplify outstanding program will then be rolled out to other process safety; and management of safety performance. assets using a phased approach. environmental impacts. Corporate Audit’s In 2018 we completed more than MANAGEMENT APPROACH 192,000 leadership site visits and safety We aim for continuous improvement in observations, which we track as leading safety performance, with the ultimate goal EHS ASSURANCE STRUCTURE indicators of our safety performance. Also, of zero safety incidents. Hess’ 14-element in line with Hess’ commitment to Lean Environment, Health, Safety and Social TIER I practices, we began the year with a “Go Responsibility (EHS & SR) Management Corporate Audit: to Gemba” event to engage our workforce System Manual serves as a framework Evaluates risk and control structure in conversations about safety, with a focus for managing and measuring our safety on our ongoing efforts to improve preperformance. TIER II job planning and job safety assessment Central EHS: For the past several years, we have been tools and techniques. Gemba means “the Verifies compliance working to formalize and standardize to standards real place” in Japanese and, in practice, many of our EHS practices across “Going to Gemba” means having leaders the company through our global EHS TIER III from Hess visit our worksites to talk with Assets and Facilities: standards project. Hess’ safety standards Tests systems and barriers workers to better understand safety and procedures address key areas of challenges and reinforce our commitment 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 27 SAFETY AND HEALTH site visits, hazard observations, drilling rig Highlights of Local Safety Performance inspections, and other reviews occurred The real test of our safety programs is how thoroughly and effectively they are throughout the year. implemented each day at the local level – and whether they correlate to strong safety performance. The following are some examples of outstanding safety performance Managing change in people, equipment across our assets. and processes is another important way In Malaysia, Hess’ Tok Bali Supply Base has been operational for three years and has that we address safety risks. As part of the never had a lost time injury. The supply base, which provides logistics support for our company’s restructuring that took place in North Malay Basin offshore production operations, has had a rigorous EHS program from the start – including monthly safety and health committee meetings and weekly 2018, we followed a formal management and monthly hazard hunts, among other activities. of change process to help ensure that the In addition, our North Malay Basin asset operated between May 2017 and July 2018 roles and responsibilities of safety-critical with no injuries of any kind. That means that more than 400 days and 3.3 million personnel were assessed and actions workhours – often involving high-risk activities, including construction, production, implemented to address identified gaps. offshore hookup, commissioning and drilling – were completed without injury. In early 2018 Hess Malaysia was given an award from the national oil and gas company OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY PETRONAS for Best Drilling HSE Performance in Malaysia. Hess emphasizes a culture of ownership In the Gulf of Mexico, the Paul Romano – a semisubmersible rig operated by Noble and over occupational safety by tasking workers performing drilling operations at multiple Hess leases – achieved notable safety metrics in its last two-and-a-half-year tenure for Hess. The rig experienced no severe safety with identifying and mitigating the safety incidents in 2016, 2017 or 2018; no recordable incidents in 2017 or 2018; and no dropped issues most relevant to their operations. object incidents in 2018. Hess credits teamwork, leadership, alignment and collaboration between Hess and Noble for this performance. Our Behavioral Safety Observation Program The Gulfstar 1 production platform operated by Hess in the Tubular Bells Field (Gulf of (BSOP), for example, has helped to reinforce Mexico) achieved two years without a recordable incident as of September 2018. The our global safety performance objectives platform’s safety team met with representatives from other Hess assets in the region to by training workers to conduct peer-toshare their experience and the daily practices that enabled them to achieve this safety record. In particular, the team highlighted the importance of good communication and peer workplace observations in order to attitudes among crewmembers, as well as a readiness to use stop-work authority. identify and trend safe and at-risk behaviors. Finally, in North Dakota, our Subsurface Maintenance, Reliability and Integrity (MRI) Immediate feedback is given to workers team achieved its lowest total recordable incident rate in three years in 2018, while also who have been observed, and behavioral reducing losses of primary containment by 75 percent. This result was facilitated by trends are analyzed to identify broader developing and implementing standard work instructions (SWIs). SWIs describe the sequence of steps needed to do a particular task correctly and safely. They are an organizational improvement opportunities. example of Lean processes in action, and are used as a baseline for continuous Behavioral safety programs have been in improvement. The Subsurface MRI team, which is responsible for 22 workover rigs and 15 separate contractor companies, built the SWIs from the ground up, with contractor place at our U.S. onshore assets since input and involvement, and continually refines them as new lessons are learned. 2011, and best practices developed at those assets were codified into Hess’ enterprisewide BSOP Standard in annual plan is reviewed and approved by level constitutes routine self-assessments 2017. In the Gulf of Mexico region, we the Audit Committee and EHS Committee by assets against corporate EHS implemented the standard at the Hessof Hess’ Board of Directors, while the standards, corporate and asset-level operated production platform in the audit results are reported to and reviewed procedures, and regulations. Tubular Bells Field in 2017 and at the by the EHS Committee. At the Tier II level, In 2018 Hess’ Corporate Audit function Hess-operated production platforms in the working collaboratively with Hess assets, conducted Tier I EHS audits and Baldpate and Stampede Fields in 2018. subject matter experts and technical consulting activities in accordance with The program promotes a continuous and authorities conduct assessments to the Board-approved plan for the year. collaborative sharing of best practices and evaluate conformance with corporate and Based on asset requests, Hess subject safety information across Hess assets in asset EHS standards and procedures, matter experts also completed various the Gulf of Mexico region. In 2019 we plan as well as with regulations, and assist Tier II assessments in 2018. At the Tier to implement the program at our operated the assets in addressing identified III level, self-assessments in the form of assets in Denmark and Malaysia. improvement opportunities. The Tier III behavioral safety observations, leadership 28 Transportation is another key focus of our to monitor the safe operation of aircraft safety performance. We require that occupational safety efforts at Hess. We used to support our operations. While our information concerning near-miss address land, aviation and marine safety aviation contractors have experienced no incidents be reported internally and through a variety of programs. Hess-related aviation accidents or injuries recorded into our incident management in more than 25 years, we continuously system. Hess’ enterprisewide annual Hess’ Land Transportation Standard work with these contractors to further incentive plan metrics include a target outlines the three pillars of land reduce risk. Through these efforts, over aimed at reducing the rate of severe transportation safety at Hess: driver the past five years our aviation contractors safety incidents, which includes neartraining and competency, the use have moved more passengers with fewer miss incidents with potential high/severe of in-vehicle monitoring systems for flights, reducing the number of flights consequences. company-owned vehicles, and journey supporting our operations by 35 percent management planning. Hess workers 0.6 and overall flying hours by 25 percent. take proactive driver training prior to the first time they operate a motor vehicle Our approach to marine transportation Employee and Contractor 0.5 Safety Performance on company business, with refresher safety is addressed under the Contractor Cases per 200,000 Hours training required every three years. Management heading later in this section. 0.50 0.4 Our key contractors are required to Key Performance Metrics comply with Land Transportation Safety 0.41 0.3Practice, Report No. 365, Based on our total recordable incident Recommended rate (TRIR) of 0.24 in 2017, which was the 0.31 published by the International Association best in our company’s history, we set a of Oil and Gas0.2 Producers (IOGP). 10 percent improvement target for 2018. Our Land Transportation team publishes Unfortunately, we observed an increase 0.1 0.10 0.09 0.09 weekly safety bulletins that address key in our TRIR, with a year-end result of topics, such as distracted driving, safe 0.31, and did not achieve our target. This 0.0 technology. These parking and safety upward trend was primarily driven by an 2016 2017 2018 bulletins are also provided to many of increase in our contractor incident rate. ■ Employee Total Recordable Incident Rate (TRIR) our contractors. ■ Contractor TRIR We did, however, achieve a historical In 2018 we updated the in-vehicle best rate in one of our other key safety monitoring systems in all Hess-owned metrics, our severe safety incident Workforce Safety Performance* Cases per 200,000 Hours vehicles. These updated systems monitor rate, which incorporates incidents that driver performance 0.40 in greater detail have the potential to result in severe 0.39 than prior systems and provide realconsequences. This was supported by 0.35 time feedback to drivers. This feedback a decrease in severe dropped object 0.31 0.30 has correlated with overall improved incidents in 2018, which comprised the 0.24 0.25 performance in our main land transportation majority of our severe incidents in 2017. 0.20 metric, which includes driver acceleration, We experienced no lost time incidents deceleration and0.15 time over speed. among employees in 2018, and our 0.13 0.10 0.08 0.08 Hess’ aviation safety program is based workforce lost time incident rate was the 0.05 on our Corporate Aviation Safety same as in 2017. Also in 2018, there Management 0.00 System and our EHS & SR were no workforce fatalities among 2016 2017 2018 Management System Manual. Our aviation either employees or contractors. ■ Workforce TRIR standards and procedures frequently We believe that tracking leading ■ Workforce Lost Time Incident Rate (LTIR) exceed national regulations in our safety indicators – such as near-miss *H ess’ workforce data includes both employees and contractors. countries of operation, and we regularly incidents that have potential high/severe When calculating LTIR, calendar work days are used. A lost time incident involves one or more days away from work, excluding the day conduct aviation contractor safety consequences – is as important as of the incident. Occupational illness and occupation-related disease for current employees are included in our companywide safety totals. audits, site visits and readiness reviews tracking lagging indicators to improve 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 29 SAFETY AND HEALTH PROCESS SAFETY Local Efforts Hess’ process safety program aims to prevent unplanned or uncontrolled loss Our assets around the globe demonstrate their commitment to process safety every day, whether by achieving outstanding results or continuously improving their processes. of primary containment of any material, including materials that are nontoxic and In 2018, for example, our Stampede team achieved top results on a two-and-a-half-day, in-depth inspection by the Bureau of Safety and Environmental Enforcement (BSEE), nonflammable (e.g., steam, nitrogen, one of the federal agencies charged with regulating offshore oil and gas facilities. compressed air), that could result in an BSEE’s annual inspection, which looked at more than 400 safety-critical devices and incident such as an injury, fire, explosion, procedures on the production platform in the Stampede Field, issued zero incidents of noncompliance. This clean inspection puts Stampede in the top quartile of compliance toxic release or environmental impact. among Gulf of Mexico facilities. Our efforts focus on understanding and Separately, the Stampede team in 2018 placed special focus on validating the reliability identifying key points within process and availability of blowout preventers (BOPs) – the high-pressure safety devices that safety systems that could impact integrity are critical for safe offshore drilling operations. To accomplish this, the team utilized a and the safe and proper operation of new BOP Reliability Database that more effectively collects and analyzes BOP performance and reliability data. The database, which was functionally designed to equipment, as follows: allow expansion to other assets globally, provides a single source of quality information • Design integrity – reducing risks in the on the performance of Stampede’s BOP systems. design and construction of facilities In North Dakota in 2018, Hess began collaborating with other pipeline operators to support new technologies that have the potential to prevent and detect pipeline leaks. • Technical integrity – inspecting, We are a founding member of a research and development project known as the testing and maintaining hardware and Intelligent Pipeline Integrity Program (iPIPE), which seeks to eliminate pipeline leaks software barriers through innovation. See the Environment section for more information. • Operational integrity – working within operational design parameters competencies. Standardization of these inspections and maintenance that help Key Initiatives programs will allow us to have common to ensure each ICE barrier is effective, Across Hess operations, our approach competency assessment and training and we have substantially completed to process safety involves identifying, programs as well as a common electronic maintenance and testing plans for managing and mitigating risks. We do competency management system. In individual pieces of ICE. To build on our this by raising awareness of risks among mid-2018 we kicked off what is expected efforts from prior years, we included a our workforce, providing strong safety to be a multiyear process to standardize target in our 2018 annual incentive plan leadership and maintaining a commitment our approach to CAT for safety-critical to measure whether maintenance on to continuously improving our process positions across the enterprise and link ICE was scheduled and performed as safety procedures, systems and it to the Hess Operational Management planned. We surpassed our target of standards. System (HOMS). (See the How We 98 percent by completing more than In 2018 we built on the outcome of the Operate section for more on HOMS.) 9,200 critical maintenance work orders. enterprisewide assessment of our process Another strategy we have pursued “Barrier thinking” also continues to safety systems, which was completed to minimize process safety risk is to be a key part of our ongoing process in 2017. The assessment was designed enhance our integrity management safety efforts. Barrier thinking involves to identify improvement opportunities program. Our assets have identified understanding the role of barriers in directly relevant to each asset, as well as integrity critical equipment (ICE), which relation to hazards, threats, events and systemic, enterprisewide opportunities. acts as a barrier for the occurrence of consequences. In 2018 we continued to One of the actions that resulted from the incidents through isolation, containment, use “bow tie” diagrams to help employees assessment is to standardize and build prevention, detection, control, mitigation and contractors visualize threats, barriers upon the competency assurance and or emergency preparedness and response and consequences. During the year we training (CAT) programs that have already within our facilities. We have established used bow tie models within our Gulf of been implemented at several of our assets ICE performance standards, which set Mexico organization to test awareness of to define, assess and develop workforce specific expectations and criteria for the presence, use and effectiveness of 30 barriers (both preventative and mitigative) power events. An example of a Tier 4 KPI Preparedness at Hess involves our designed to guard against major accidents. is the execution of required maintenance response organization (illustrated We expect to complete bow tie project on ICE, which was an indicator added below), engagement with officials and implementation at our North Malay Basin to the 2018 annual incentive plan bonus communities, emergency facilities and asset in 2019. calculation for employees. response plans. We hold trainings and, as mentioned previously, exercises to Key Performance Metrics EMERGENCY PREPAREDNESS define and clarify roles, responsibilities Hess collects information on process AND RESPONSE and resources. Continuous improvement safety key performance indicators (KPIs) At Hess, our safety programs are is an essential element of our Emergency pursuant to the IOGP’s Process Safety designed to help prevent incidents Preparedness and Response Standard — Recommended Practice on Key from occuring. However, we also by which we incorporate lessons learned Performance Indicators, Report No. 456, diligently prepare to respond effectively from incidents and exercises into our November 2018. Categorized as Tier 1 to any emergency that may occur. preparedness planning, training and and Tier 2 KPIs, these are reported at an We regularly participate in emergency future exercises. enterprisewide level in both internal and preparedness and response exercises external reports. with our employees and key stakeholders, HESS EMERGENCY RESPONSE ORGANIZATION including our contractors, ranging from Our goal has been to continually reduce our notification drills (in which personnel number of process safety events (PSEs), practice the communication protocols Incident Support Team and in 2018 we achieved that goal for the IST required in case of an emergency) to fullHOUSTON fourth consecutive year. We experienced scale equipment mobilization exercises. In three Tier 1 events in 2018, compared with the event of an incident, Hess’ emergency seven in 2017. Likewise, we had 10 Tier TIER 2 Incident Management Team preparedness and response program IMT 2 events in 2018, down from 22 in 2017. ASSET is designed to respond to actual or This positive trend reflects the significant threatened injuries to people, spills and effort we have put into developing and releases to the environment, damage to TIER 1 Emergency Response Team implementing process safety systems ERT our assets and impacts to the company’s FACILITY and programs within our operations. reputation – in that order of priority. Process Safety Events Baldpate Life Extension 2016 2017 2018 In 2018 the Hess-operated production platform in the Baldpate Field of the Gulf of Tier 1 Mexico (Baldpate) reached its 20-year design life – that is, the time period over which 11 7 3 PSE Count it was expected to function without any major repairs or replacements. Back in 2012, Tier 2 well in advance of this deadline, Hess engineers and contracted, independent experts 30 22 10 PSE Count began an intensive structural integrity assessment of Baldpate. Our goal was to provide assurance to BSEE that we could continue to operate the facility after 2018 in a manner safe for our workers and the environment. Hess also tracks Tier 3 and 4 KPIs, which Life extension for Baldpate was a complex process, as the platform sits in 1,600 feet are leading process safety indicators of water and is one of only five structures like it in the world. The integrity primarily designed to monitor risk control assessment involved extensive computer finite-element modeling and analysis systems and process safety barriers at based on 17 years of environmental data collected by accelerometers placed on the platform when it was first built, as well as observational data collected by remotethe facility, asset or enterprise level. We operated vehicles underwater. use these KPIs to support continuous Ultimately, the assessment showed that the Baldpate platform design is structurally improvement at particular facilities or within robust and can be safely operated through the projected end of its economic life (i.e., company systems. For instance, our global about another 25 years). Another key outcome of this multiyear effort was, in Drilling and Completions team tracks Tier 3 coordination with BSEE, the development of a best-in-class, risk-based structural integrity management and monitoring program for Baldpate and our other assets in KPIs specific to its operations, such as well the Gulf of Mexico. control system performance and loss of 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 31 SAFETY AND HEALTH As an example of our ongoing efforts at team members and better understanding CONTRACTOR MANAGEMENT the local level, our Bakken asset held each other’s roles by instituting a weekly Contractors comprise nearly 70 percent two equipment mobilization exercises in briefing. The briefings consist of a “role of our total workforce hours and perform 2018 in North Dakota. Both drills involved call” to confirm all Incident Management key tasks in our operations. Our EHS deploying oil spill containment booms on Team roles are accounted for, an operations Management System addresses contractor Lake Sakakawea, to ensure key personnel briefing to discuss any high-risk activities capabilities and competencies, and, knew how to effectively and accurately use or conditions (such as inclement weather), as part of this framework, we have the booms and all associated equipment in an equipment check to confirm members implemented a Contractor Management case of a spill that threatened a water body. understand what tools are at their disposal Standard at most of our assets. In Separately, our Bakken asset also held a during a response, and a training session 2018 we continued implementation of tabletop exercise to test our North Dakota to help maintain member competencies. the Contractor Management Standard Business Continuity Plan, working through Members of the Gulf of Mexico Incident across our international assets, as well as the steps that would be undertaken in the Management Team also visited some of development of asset-specific procedures. event of a tornado passing through our our partner oil spill recovery and response Our Contractor Management Standard Tioga Office Complex. organizations to observe oil spill recovery includes requirements for both current equipment and offshore vessel operations. At our Gulf of Mexico asset in 2018, the and potential new contractors to whom This gave the team a better understanding asset’s Incident Management Team focused the standard applies. For example, we of the use and limitations of the equipment, on enhancing communication between use a recognized industry safety database if it were ever to be deployed. to standardize our prequalification Cross-Industry Collaboration on Contractor Training processes across multiple sites for our U.S. operations. This enables us to more Around the globe, oil and gas operators working in the same regions often utilize the clearly communicate requirements and same contractor companies, requiring employees at those companies to go through expectations to our contractors and share similar safety orientations – often multiple times per year. To minimize that redundancy and reduce associated inefficiencies and costs, Hess and others in the industry have information more efficiently across Hess increasingly been working together to standardize and share contractor safety operations. We also audit contractors orientations. In 2018 we made progress on such efforts in North Dakota, the Gulf of to verify compliance with their own EHS Mexico and Malaysia. programs and local, state and federal In North Dakota, the safety committee of the North Dakota Petroleum Council (NDPC), requirements as well as applicable of which Hess is a member, began developing a Bakken-wide standardized contractor safety orientation program called One Basin – One Way. The committee is currently industry standards and best practices. gathering orientation curricula from the 12 participating operators to determine core In addition, new contractors working on needs for the program. Once a common curriculum is established, it is anticipated the Hess-controlled worksites must take part NDPC will contract with appropriate safety training providers and then commence the in an enhanced onboarding process. program. Those trained through the program will be given a card, similar to a driver’s license, that will identify them as ready to work in the Bakken. The orientation sessions Our contractor management process are expected to begin in 2019. gives contractors a letter grade based on Similarly, Hess Malaysia is part of an industrywide initiative led by the Malaysian factors such as past EHS performance national oil company, PETRONAS, to develop pan-Malaysian standardized EHS training requirements, which are expected to be recognized by all operators in Malaysia. Hess and existing safety management systems. has been appointed by PETRONAS to lead the development of a workstream on If a contractor receives an unsatisfactory defensive driving. The syllabus and specific requirements for this workstream have grade based on EHS criteria, the asset been agreed to by the relevant committee, and Hess is now leading an assessment of training provider centers. We expect these trainings will be underway once approval vice president or director must endorse has been granted by the initiative’s Standardization Committee. a safety improvement action plan before In the Gulf of Mexico, we worked with eight other operators in 2018 to increase that contractor may be approved for consistency in the minimum safety requirements for contractors working in the region. procurement or provide services on a Specifically, the group jointly developed a protocol for skills and knowledge verification Hess-controlled work location. If an for contractors. The protocol is now being used to verify compliance with regulatory training requirements within the common industry safety database we utilize to operational situation (such as an manage our contractor data. emergency) requires the use of a 32 contractor that has not completed the prequalification process or that has received an unsatisfactory EHS grade, the asset vice president or director must approve the use of the contractor, and asset management must provide increased oversight. For the evaluation of marine contractors and vessels, we use our enterprisewide marine assurance framework as well as the Offshore Vessel Management and Self-Assessment program, a tool developed by the Oil Companies International Marine Forum. This program helps to ensure a clearer and more consistent communication of our needs and expectations to our marine contractors and enables us to review the qualifications of marine contractors from around the world using an internationally accepted, standardized approach. Also as part of the program, we rate our marine contractors’ performance and use the resulting scores to determine where improvement plans may be needed. HEALTH AND WELLNESS We continue to look for ways to help Midstream Operations, North Dakota our employees and contractors stay healthy on and off the job. We provide annual on-site flu vaccines, first aid and required by the U.S. Department of on-site studies at Hess locations on cardiopulmonary resuscitation training, Transportation and U.S. Coast Guard. occupational health and industrial hygiene and health and wellness fairs for our In early 2018 we approved a Drug and topics, including, for example, taking a workforce. Our health and wellness fairs Alcohol Testing Standard, which updates comprehensive look at the presence of bring local vendors directly to workers and expands upon our prior Drug and chemicals in the atmosphere at a worksite during business hours and provide many Alcohol Procedure. from start to finish of a drilling operation. options for improving personal health, Separately, Hess’ industrial hygienist Health risks are considered as including meal plans developed by a studied reliability operator job tasks, technologies in drilling and operations nutritionist, exercise programs shared by looking at the use of solvents and common evolve. In North Dakota, Hess has worked personal trainers and outdoor events to oilfield chemicals in our operations to with the National Institute for Occupational increase physical activity. better understand potential exposures Safety and Health (NIOSH) – a branch of from such use. These types of studies help We maintain a random drug and alcohol the federal Centers for Disease Control and Hess continue to improve work practices, testing program for employees and Prevention – to stay abreast of changes raise awareness among oilfield workers of select contractors at our U.S. facilities. to regulations and trending health topics potential hazards, and find and promote This effort includes the management and to promote the health of workers. ways of reducing risks in our operations of regulatory drug testing programs In 2018 NIOSH conducted in-depth, and throughout the industry. 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 33 Hess Office, Houston, Texas OUR PEOPLE The heart of our company is our Workplace Policies and training (for U.S.The proportions of our female and minority employees, and the culture in which based managers), other human resources employees – as defined by the U.S. they work each day is critical to our policies and our Human Rights and Social Department of Labor – decreased slightly success. We are deliberate in shaping Responsibility Policies. from 2017 to 2018. our work environment, focusing on Hess’ Inclusion and Diversity Council quality leadership, continuous learning, 2018 Employees by Region provides executive leadership and employee engagement, and diversity direction to our hiring, work environment Americas 1,475 86% and inclusion. and development activities. Asia-Pacific 140 8% The execution of Hess’ strategy has Internally, we are committed to fostering required significant changes in recent years, Europe 90 5% an inclusive work environment where each including the reshaping of our portfolio and Africa 3 0.2% person is a valued team member who a reduction in our workforce. In keeping continually learns and grows. Our Life with our imperative to remain an employer at Hess initiative, for example, is helping of choice, we have engaged our workforce 2018 Women and Minority* us to consider the various elements during this transition through a new initiative Representation that create a high-quality experience for called Life at Hess, which is discussed in employees, and we continue to refine our WOMEN more detail later in this section. (U.S. AND INTERNATIONAL) policies to promote a flexible and dynamic EMPLOYEE DEMOGRAPHICS work environment in which a diverse and Total JOB Employees in Number of Percent Hess began last year with 2,075 multigenerational workforce can thrive. In CATEGORY Job Category Women Women employees, and as of December 31, 2018 we piloted Unconscious Bias training Executives and 2018, we had 1,708 employees. At for our Houston-based senior leaders Senior Officers 31 5 16% year’s end, approximately 86 percent of and Human Resources professionals, to First and Mid435 90 21% employees were located in the U.S. and highlight the natural biases we all have and Level Managers 14 percent were in international locations. equip us to think and act more inclusively. Professionals 816 266 33% In 2019 we are expanding this training to DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION all of our U.S. and international locations. Other 426 79 19% Hess is committed to diversity and equal Externally, we support professional TOTAL 1,708 440 26% employment opportunities for all employees organizations that are helping make and job candidates regardless of race, MINORITIES our industry more diverse. In 2018, for (U.S.BASED EMPLOYEES) color, gender, age, sexual orientation, example, our outreach efforts included gender identity, creed, national origin, engagement with organizations such as the JOB Total Number of Percent genetic information, disability, veteran CATEGORY Employees in Job Category Minorities Minorities National Business & Disability Council at status or any other protected status the Viscardi Center, the National Diversity Executives and in recruitment, hiring, compensation, Senior Officers 30 3 10% Council, the U.S. Business Leadership promotion, training, assignment of work, First and MidNetwork, the National Action Council for 360 66 18% performance evaluation and all other Level Managers Minorities in Engineering, the Women’s aspects of employment. Professionals 707 188 27% Energy Network (WEN), Lean-In Energy, We do not tolerate any form of workplace the Society of Women Engineers and the Other 378 63 17% harassment, including sexual harassment. Veteran Jobs Mission. We also continue We reinforce these expectations through our to support additional membership-based TOTAL 1,475 320 22% Code of Conduct, our Equal Employment organizations that promote a diversity of *As defined by the U.S. Department of Labor Opportunity and Harassment-Free expression and thought. 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 35 OUR PEOPLE We remain committed to fostering the years. For example, the percentage of local Learning – houses computer-based professional growth of women and nationals increased from 87 to 99 percent training modules and supporting materials minorities at Hess. As an example, Women in Denmark and from 74 to 90 percent in for instructor-led courses. It also tracks Inspiring Success and Excellence (WISE) Malaysia during this period. and records employee training and – a Hess networking group that grew to measures training effectiveness through TALENT MANAGEMENT three chapters (Houston, New York and surveys and evaluations. Hess takes a strategic and deliberate North Dakota) by year-end 2018 – has approach to talent development across In 2018 we launched our new a vision to “help promote and cultivate the enterprise. We work to ensure that Professional Development Program, leadership skills, business practices, career all employees receive development building on a 2017 pilot. Among the opportunities and personal contacts for opportunities, and we continue to identify practical skills employees learn in women.” In 2018, WISE relaunched as and grow future leaders. this new program are how to give a “Lean-In Circle,” utilizing workshop presentations, manage projects, master modules from Lean-In Energy, the newly CareerManager, our human resources new software and be a better supervisor. formed industry chapter of the national system, provides a common platform to These classroom-based courses are organization based on Sheryl Sandberg’s manage talent development and offers offered in Houston on a regular basis bestselling book, Lean In. To underscore a range of development tools. In 2018 and in other Hess locations based on our commitment to gender equality, we greatly simplified the electronic forms employee need. our Vice President, Offshore became a we use to assess performance and member of Lean-In Energy’s board of create individual development plans. We Throughout the year, individual operating directors, and Hess was a sponsor of its also introduced a streamlined approach and support functions within Hess new web-based mentoring platform. Our to tracking performance feedback in encourage knowledge-sharing through relationship with the Lean-In organization CareerManager called Performance “lunch and learns” and other informal provides Hess employees with external Notebook, which enables employees gatherings. Employees also regularly opportunities for enrichment, development, and managers to record the outcomes engage with trade associations, attend networking and mentoring. of real-time performance feedback and conferences and enroll in external courses. development conversations. Also new for 2018, we provided employees New Hires and Early-Career Programs at all of our U.S. locations with a corporate Integrating Lean as a Way of Employees new to Hess benefit from membership to WEN; we sponsored Working our onboarding and orientation program, WEN’s annual science, technology, In 2018 we continued to advance our Passport to Hess. This program is engineering and mathematics (STEM) goal of establishing a distinctive Lean designed to facilitate a smooth assimilation Charity Luncheon in Houston; and we took culture across the enterprise. Our Hess into the company through close interaction part in the Forum on Women in Energy Way of Working competencies outline between supervisors and new employees. 2018 held in Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. multiple expectations for employee and The experience begins with access to a The forum was organized by the Malaysia leadership behavior that support Lean pre-hire portal that enables new employees Women in Energy group, in collaboration operating principles, organized around to learn about their work location prior to with the Malaysian Gas Association. People, Direction and Results. Employees their first day on the job. After beginning are encouraged to participate in training their jobs at Hess, employees can access a In keeping with our aim to foster diversity and engage in coaching and mentoring structured, on-demand learning program and cultivate leadership, we employ a to support their development. Embedded that explains our culture and values. high number of local nationals in our Lean leaders – employees who are highly In addition, supervisors receive tools international operations and report publicly trained in this area – help ensure we put and coaching to guide them in helping where the number of employees is 100 Lean principles into practice effectively. new hires successfully integrate into or more. Overall, the percentage of local their work teams. The Passport to Hess nationals, as well as the proportion of Learning and Development program intersects with our employee nationals holding managerial or professional Hess supports continuous learning for the engagement activities (discussed on the positions, has increased significantly at our entire workforce. Our enterprisewide learning next page) to help new hires get to know international operations over the past five management system – CareerManager our senior leadership. 36 Early-career engineers and geoscientists Hess Houston Corporate Run can also take part in our Foundation Program, which helps prepare them for In 2018, Hess became title sponsor of the Hess Houston Corporate Run, a 5K event held their careers through focused training, at Memorial Park that raised $60,000 for the Memorial Park Conservancy through registration and sponsorship revenue. More than 150 companies and 4,150 people, mentoring and on-the-job assignments. including 191 Hess employees, participated in the event. The Memorial Park The Foundation Program maintains Conservancy maintains and manages Memorial Park in a public–private partnership relationships with universities that align with the Houston Parks and Recreation Department. with our values, standards and business operations. As a part of our commitment engagement tools, including one-on-one After completing the focus groups, we to education in the engineering and and small-group discussions, focus made several changes in 2018 to help geosciences fields, Hess leaders serve groups, town hall meetings and interactive support and amplify our employees’ work as members of the academic advisory webcasts. We also utilize the company – in the office and in our communities. committees of some of these universities. intranet and digital signage at our major We enhanced our Volunteer Policy, to locations to share information in a timely formally allow employees, with manager BENEFITS manner, and we conduct regular pulse approval, to participate in companyHess provided more than $91 million in polls to learn how we should check and sponsored volunteer events during benefits to our U.S. employees in 2018. adjust our internal communications. business hours, as well as our Matching During the year, we also restructured Gifts and Volunteer Grants Policy, so that some of our benefit offerings as part of For example, our Chief Executive employees can request matching gifts a long-term strategy to improve service Officer and our President and Chief of up to $5,000 annually for personal and value for employees. We increased Operating Officer host small-group donations and up to $500 annually for employee awareness of company-provided sessions, called Leadership Dialogues, qualified charities they support on their rewards through a new Total Rewards to discuss enterprise opportunities and own time. Previously, matching gifts were Portal and introduced more options in challenges. In 2018 Hess convened 34 only available for educational charities; our savings plan to encourage retirement Leadership Dialogue sessions at our now the list is much broader. readiness. We also introduced new and Houston operational headquarters and improved short-term disability, long-term at our regional offices in North Dakota We continue to make a lasting, positive disability, maternity, and paid parental and and Malaysia, reaching more than 530 impact on our communities through family leave policies. We enhanced our employees. volunteering and giving. We designated employees’ user experience by moving the month of October in Houston as our the administration of our health savings In 2018 we held three global town hall Season of Giving – a time to bring all of account to the same financial platform as meetings that were webcast to offices our resources together to help those in our savings and pension plans and our and offshore platforms in the U.S., need, with a special focus on our adopted employee stock ownership programs. Europe and Asia. Many more were held “Hess Neighborhood,” the area around And, we continued to provide seminars on locally in Denmark, Houston, Malaysia our Houston operational headquarters. financial and health-related wellness topics. and North Dakota. We use town halls to The campaign raised more than $325,000 provide updates on business priorities and Finally, in celebration of our company’s 85th (in employee donations plus company performance, reinforce strategy and values, anniversary, every employee below senior match) and included nearly 1,000 hours share information about upcoming activities executive level was granted 85 shares of of volunteer time. As part of this effort, and answer questions from our workforce. Hess stock in 2018 – a gift intended to employees sorted 30,000 books for 10 reward employees and engage them in the As part of our Life at Hess initiative, 32 elementary schools and donated 500 future success of the company. focus groups were conducted to help pounds of canned food to the Houston assess our employee value proposition and Food Bank to feed the homeless. All EMPLOYEE ENGAGEMENT identify areas of strength and opportunity. told in 2018, our employees spent Hess regularly shares information with and More than 15 percent of our employees nearly 6,500 hours volunteering and solicits feedback from employees about at nine locations around the world donated more than $240,000 through our our business performance, programs participated in the dialogue about rewards, matching gift program. and processes. We use a range of career, culture and company reputation. 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 37 Tioga Gas Plant, North Dakota CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Hess’ Climate Change Position Climate change is a significant global challenge that requires Our strategy aligns with the energy transition needed to achieve governments, businesses and civil society to work together on the Sustainable Development scenario, wherein oil and gas will cost-effective policies. We believe climate risks can and should continue to be essential to meeting the world’s growing energy be addressed while also providing the safe, affordable and demand. Our current asset portfolio is resilient, and our pipeline reliable energy necessary to ensure human welfare and global of intended forward investments provides strong returns under economic development in the context of the United Nations the Sustainable Development scenario. (U.N.) Sustainable Development Goals. Our business planning includes actions we will undertake to Hess supports the aim of the Paris Agreement to limit global continue reducing our carbon footprint consistent with the average temperature rise to well below 2°C. Hess’ Board of findings of the U.N. Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change Directors and senior leadership have set aggressive targets for and the aim of the Paris Agreement. We will continue to take greenhouse gas (GHG) emission reductions, and over the past 11 steps to monitor, measure and reduce our GHG emissions years our company has reduced our Scope 1 and 2 equity GHG through the following actions: emissions by approximately 64 percent. • Setting and disclosing our targets to reduce the carbon Hess is committed to developing oil and gas resources in an intensity of our operations environmentally responsible and sustainable manner. Our Board • Applying technological innovation and efficiency to decrease is climate change literate and actively engaged in overseeing energy use and GHG emissions across our operations Hess’ sustainability practices, working alongside senior management to evaluate sustainability risks and global scenarios in • Accounting for the cost of carbon in significant new making strategic decisions. We are committed to transparency, investments and our strategy is closely aligned with the recommendations of • Incorporating carbon risk scenario analysis into our business the G20 Financial Stability Board’s Task Force on Climateplanning cycle Related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). • Working with government and industry partners to advance We have tested the robustness of Hess’ portfolio under the the development of a range of low-GHG emissions pathways, energy supply and demand scenarios from the International including technological advancements Energy Agency (IEA), including the ambitious GHG reductions assumed within the IEA’s Sustainable Development scenario. EXTERNAL ENGAGEMENT members by engaging with stakeholders this sustainability report in accordance We engage with key stakeholders – and governments on climate changewith the Global Reporting Initiative’s including government agencies, investors, related topics. It enables collaborative Standards at the Core reporting level private landowners and communities – on work with stakeholders by promoting and establishing our alignment with the select issues, including climate change, an understanding of the key role the oil TCFD recommendations, we participate and we will continue to communicate our and gas industry should play in providing in a number of voluntary initiatives performance on these topics in our annual innovation, global reach, knowledge and related to climate change disclosure. sustainability report and the sustainability technical expertise to help develop and Hess has been recognized for climate section of our company website. implement feasible future energy solutions. change stewardship, achieving leadership status in the CDP’s 2018 Global Climate Hess is an active member of IPIECA on Hess has consistently been recognized Analysis for the 10th consecutive year. sustainable development issues such as a leader in the oil and gas industry for Hess is the only U.S. energy company as climate change, biodiversity impacts our disclosure and transparency relating to achieve leadership status, earning an and access to energy – issues that are to sustainability, and we remain committed A-. As shown on the following page, the too complex for individual companies to our goal of top-quartile performance CDP Score Report allows companies to to tackle alone. IPIECA represents its in this regard. In addition to preparing benchmark and compare their progress 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 39 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY we estimate the likelihood and potential CDP Scoring Levels impact that the identified risks, including A transition and physical climate change risks, could have on our business. ALEADERSHIP: ASector Average: C We compile all identified risks on an B Regional Average: C integrated risk register that catalogs Bactions for managing or mitigating each risk. All new significant projects are C rigorously screened for transition and Cphysical risks (as described below) to D verify they meet or exceed established threshold return-on-investment criteria to Dbalance risk and return and meet Hess’ CDP Scoring Levels (Disclosure, Awareness, Management, Leadership) demonstrate a company's level of capital discipline philosophy. environmental stewardship and its actions and approaches in managing climate change. Hess received a score of A-, which is within the leadership band. This is higher than the oil and gas sector average of C and higher than the North Transition Risks America regional average of C. Transition risks are the risks associated with the rate of change in policy actions, technologies or market conditions toward environmental stewardship against The Environmental, Health and Safety aimed at the emission reductions, peers. Hess obtained an Aby earning (EHS) Committee of the Board is tasked energy efficiencies, subsidies or taxes high marks in many of the leadership with assisting the Board in identifying, that may be needed to achieve climatecategories critical to the TCFD, which evaluating and monitoring EHS risks and related aims. Evaluating the IEA’s GHG confirms, through an external review, our strategies with the potential to affect the reduction scenarios in our carbon asset alignment with TCFD recommendations. people, environment or communities risk assessment enables us to take into Access our latest CDP Climate Change where we operate or our company’s account a broad range of transition risks. response at hess.com/sustainability/climatebusiness activities, performance or change-energy We conduct portfolio-specific carbon reputation. The Hess Board is routinely asset risk scenario planning, through For the ninth consecutive year, we briefed by experts to ensure they remain which we apply the IEA’s carbon prices, were included in the Dow Jones climate change literate and that climate which range from $8 per tonne in 2025 Sustainability Index (DJSI) North America, change-related risks are considered in the to $140 per tonne within the planning which highlights public companies development of company strategies and cycle, to evaluate the potential impact with outstanding performance across policies. Our Vice President of EHS also on our portfolio. The details of our first economic, environmental and social met regularly with the EHS Subcommittee portfolio-specific analysis are discussed factors, including those related to climate in 2018, and will meet with the EHS later in this section. change. Based on our disclosure through Committee moving forward, to provide the DJSI survey, we received the additional progress updates on climate changePhysical Risks distinction of being included in The related issues and strategic initiatives, to Hess considers the physical risks Sustainability Yearbook 2018, meaning review external drivers for strategy and associated with climate change – such that Hess was in the top 15 percent of reporting and to prioritize ongoing and as increased severity of storms, drought reporters in our industry. future actions. See the How We Operate and flooding – for both new projects section for more detail on governance. and existing operations through our GOVERNANCE ERM and value assurance processes. Hess’ Board of Directors works alongside RISK MANAGEMENT For example, meteorological and senior management and actively oversees Through our enterprise risk management oceanographic studies undertaken for Hess’ sustainability practices, so that (ERM) process, we have developed risk offshore developments include modeling sustainability risks – including those profiles for each of our assets that identify that incorporates assumptions from the related to climate change – are taken into key risks – including those related to latest climate change science. Mitigations account when making strategic decisions. climate change. For each risk scenario, 40 to address changing storm magnitude We also assess how climate change may effects resulting from a sudden and are incorporated into the design of our impact water availability and water stress accidental pollution event, excluding facilities, and severe weather management in the areas we operate using the World Atlantic Named Windstorm coverage, for and business continuity plans are Resources Institute’s Aqueduct Tool. which we are self-insured. The amount maintained for severe weather events of insurance covering physical damage We also maintain insurance coverage such as Hurricane Harvey, a Category 4 is based on the asset’s estimated for physical damage to our property and storm that caused widespread flooding replacement value or the estimated liability related to negative environmental and damage to the Houston area in 2017. maximum loss. The Task Force on Climate-Related Financial Disclosures Many corporations, lenders, investors and shareholders are integrating climate change risks and opportunities into their future financial planning. The TCFD provides a universal framework to communicate companies’ responses to the physical and transition risks of climate change. Moreover, the TCFD is gaining momentum as the benchmark approach for climate disclosure. Through widespread adoption of the TCFD recommendations, climate-related risks and opportunities are meant to become a natural part of companies’ risk management and strategic planning processes. We believe that Hess’ climate change strategy is aligned with the TCFD recommendations to evaluate the potential impacts of climate change-related risks and opportunities on our organization’s operations, strategy and financial planning. The TCFD guidelines are very clear in laying out the corporate disclosures being sought. Broadly, disclosures should fall under four categories: governance, strategy, risk management, and metrics and targets. TCFD FRAMEWORK: HESS’ ENVIRONMENT, HEALTH, SAFETY AND SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY (EHS & SR) STRATEGY: DISCUSSION CORE ELEMENTS CLIMATE CHANGE ACTIONS (PAGE #) • Elevate the Board of Directors’ EHS Subcommittee, which oversees our climate change strategy and other EHS matters, to the EHS Committee in 2019 Governance • Continue to brief the Board of Directors on climate change matters, to help ensure they remain climate 3, 11, 40 change literate and that climate change-related risks are considered in the development of company strategies and policies • Maintain a Climate Change Position, and update as needed to align with internal initiatives and stakeholder expectations • Support the aim of the Paris Agreement • Continue to take proactive steps to measure and manage GHG emissions and evaluate emission Strategy reduction opportunities; set targets to reduce GHG emissions, methane and ﬂaring 39–51 • Continue environmental, social and governance disclosures, such as our annual sustainability report and the CDP Climate Change survey • Purchase renewable energy credits and carbon offsets to mitigate a portion of our annual Scope 1, 2 and 3 emission totals, increasing the scope of our investment in 2018 and 2019 • Utilize an enhanced enterprise risk management process to manage climate change-related risk • Screen new projects to balance risk and return on investment, including applying a $40 per tonne carbon price Risk • Continue to publish a carbon asset risk analysis (ﬁrst published in Hess’ 2013 Sustainability Report) that 12–13, Management evaluates the most ambitious GHG reduction scenarios from the IEA 40–45 • Conduct scenario planning to test the resilience of our portfolio against various alternative views of future market conditions (the results of our first portfolio-specific scenario planning analysis are summarized later in this section) • Continue to track progress against Hess’ three global targets that align with the TCFD’s considerations for target-setting; i.e., whether the target is absolute or intensity, timeframes over which the target applies, base year against which progress is measured, and key performance indicators used to assess Metrics progress against targets 46–51 and Targets • Maintain our 25 percent GHG intensity reduction target (established in 2015), which is aligned with the IEA’s 2018 World Energy Outlook Sustainable Development scenario projection of a 21 percent carbon intensity reduction by 2030 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 41 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Carbon Asset Risk Assessment Ever since the second half of 2014, energy commodity markets test portfolio resilience – in other words, a scenario under have been defined by significant levels of volatility. From levels which global warming is kept to within 2°C of preindustrial of over $100 per barrel between early 2011 and mid-2014, Brent levels. Such scenarios usually feature reductions in demand for oil prices fell to around $25 per barrel in early 2016, before oil, natural gas and coal; growth in clean technologies; and a rebuilding to the current range in 2019 of around $60 to $75 per reshaping of trade flows, among other assumptions. The barrel. Tight oil has revolutionized the supply side of the Sustainable Development scenario in the IEA’s 2018 WEO business, and the issue of decarbonization has risen to greater (discussed further below), which is part of Hess’s modeling, fits prominence. An energy transition to a lower-carbon economy within this recommendation. appears to be underway, but there are multiple pathways to Considerations for Scenario Planning achieve this transition, which creates some uncertainty as to the In 2018 Hess senior management approved a scenario planning pace and scale of change. Climate-related issues have evolved study to test the resilience of our portfolio against various views from an environmental concern to also include financial of the market. This exercise established a range of energy supply considerations. Our stakeholders have expressed an interest in and demand; oil, natural gas and carbon prices; and emissions understanding how Hess’ oil and gas portfolio might be estimates that are projected to prevail under different publicly impacted by a transition to a lower-carbon economy. available, long-term scenarios for environmental policy and To help quantify climate-related risks and opportunities – and market conditions. address investor concerns – many companies are using Scenario planning can be approached in a stepwise fashion. For scenario planning as a tool to assess portfolio resilience over Hess, the first step was to assess transition risks under divergent the long term. Scenarios allow the testing of a variety of oil, natural gas and carbon price trajectories. In the next iteration alternative views of the market as a means to identify areas of of this analysis, we plan to consider expanding it to include potential risk and opportunity worthy of further, more detailed looking at physical risks to our business (e.g., infrastructure) and analysis and monitoring. The scenario approach allows reputational risk. Going forward, we plan to incorporate carbon companies to communicate to their investors that they asset risk assessment via scenario planning into our regular understand and have considered future risks and opportunities, business planning cycle. which are derived from modeled changes in energy demand, the potential emergence of new technologies, and proposed To evaluate potential exposure to our portfolio in a modeled changes by policymakers to curb GHG emissions. carbon-constrained future, we began by considering the long-range outlook for energy supply and demand. We used Because the TCFD recommends transparency around key the IEA’s 2018 WEO to examine various supply and demand parameters, assumptions and analytical choices, Hess has scenarios through 2040 (see www.iea.org/weo2018/). These chosen to model the three main scenarios detailed in the IEA’s scenarios are recognized as an industry benchmark worldwide, 2018 World Energy Outlook (WEO) against our own base case, and are, therefore, an appropriate choice for an oil and gas which is explained later in this section. Furthermore, the TCFD producer such as Hess. recommends that organizations use a 2°C or lower scenario to The 2018 World Energy Outlook’s Three Main Scenarios • Current Policies – the business-as-usual case • New Policies – incorporates existing energy policy as well as an assessment of the results likely to stem from the implementation of announced policy intentions (chieﬂy the Nationally Determined Contributions – i.e., the emission reductions agreed to by individual countries under the Paris Agreement) • Sustainable Development – reﬂects a pathway to achieving key energy-related components of the U.N. Sustainable Development Agenda, including universal access to modern energy by 2030, urgent action to tackle climate change and measures to improve poor air quality; and is fully aligned with the Paris Agreement’s aim to hold the increase in the global average temperature to well below 2°C Note: While the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change (IPCC) published a report in October 2018 that suggests that net emissions of carbon dioxide must fall 45 percent by 2030 and reach “net zero” by 2050 to limit global temperature rise to below 1.5°C, the IEA has yet to develop energy demand scenarios that reflect the IPCC’s assumption. Additionally, there are no known regulatory proposals for achieving the IPCC’s suggestion. 42 25 20 20 50 20 40 The charts just below depict the 2018 WEO’s world 15 energy by increased 15 demand from the petrochemical, truck and demand and carbon dioxide (CO2) emissions under the IEA’s aviation sectors, which will dominate future oil demand growth 15 30 three main scenarios. and continue to create robust demand for oil through the 10 10 projection period. In the New Policies 10 scenario, which is the IEA's central scenario, 20 worldwide energy use will grow approximately 25 percent In the Sustainable Development scenario (consistent with 5 5 between 2017 5 and 2040. Energy demand for oil and gas is limiting global temperature rise to less than 2°C), worldwide 10 projected to grow by 24 percent during the same period and energy use is projected to experience a modest decline of 0 percent of the energy mix in 2040, account for 53 0 down slightly 2 percent through 0 2040. Oil and gas are expected to account 0 2000 2017 2025 2040 2000 2017 2025 2040 2000 2017 2025 2040 from 54 percent today. for 48 percent of the energy mix, down from 54 percent today. The IEA has indicated that oil and gas are still critical to The figure at the bottom of the page shows changes in global meeting the growing energy demand and that the challenges of oil demand by sector in the IEA’s New Policies scenario achieving the Sustainable Development scenario are between 2017 and 2040. The chart illustrates that the expected substantial, requiring a major reallocation of energy-sector electrification of the passenger vehicle fleet is more than offset investment capital. World Primary Energy Demand by Fuel, and Energy-Related Carbon Dioxide Emissions, by IEA Scenario Current Policies New Policies Sustainable Development 25 50 Trillion Tons of Oil Equivalent Gigatons of Carbon Dioxide 20 40 15 30 10 20 5 10 0 0 2000 2017 2025 2040 2000 2017 2025 2040 2000 2017 2025 2040 ■ Coal ■ Oil ■ Gas ■ Nuclear ■ Renewables ■ Solid Biomass Carbon Dioxide Emissions Global Oil Demand by Sector in the IEA’s New Policies Scenario, 2017–2040 PetroPower Buildings Other Cars Industry Shipping Aviation Trucks chemicals 6 Million Barrels of Oil per Day 3 0 -3 -6 ■ Advanced economies ■ Developing economies ■ International bunkers Net change (i.e., not attributable to nation states) 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 43 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Carbon Asset Risk Assessment, continued Hess’ Approach to Scenario Planning Hess Strategic Priorities Hess has prepared internal guidance that details our approach to scenario planning. This guidance establishes a specified methodology, which we describe below. The guidance also serves Invest Only as a roadmap for our external verifier to review and verify that we in High-Return, followed our specified methodology when conducting the Low-Cost Opportunities scenario analysis. Hess’ approach was to establish a base case (i.e., $65 per barrel Brent oil and $3 per million British thermal units (MMBtu) Henry Prioritize Return Build a Focused & Hub natural gas, in 2019 real terms) and then run our current asset of Capital to Balanced Portfolio portfolio and intended forward investments through this model to Shareholders – Robust at Low Prices assess financial robustness. In addition, we applied a sustained COMMITMENT TO $40 per tonne cost of carbon to our assets and intended forward SUSTAINABILITY investments. Hess’ base case was then compared against the various oil, natural gas and carbon prices in the IEA’s three main scenarios: Current Policies, New Policies and Sustainable Development. Grow Free Cash Maintain Financial While we included the three IEA cases in our analysis, the Flow in a Disciplined, Strength and Reliable Manner Manage for Risk Current Policies scenario is not discussed in our disclosure that follows, as it only considers the impact from current legislation and does not include the likely effects of announced policies, including the Nationally Determined Contributions made for the Paris Agreement. Results of the Hess Scenario Planning Exercise The three charts below show the oil, natural gas and CO2 prices We have tested the robustness of Hess’ asset portfolio and under the IEA’s New Policies and Sustainable Development intended forward investments under multiple scenarios, scenarios and Hess’ base case. As these charts show, there is a including the IEA’s Sustainable Development scenario. We note wide divergence in oil, natural gas and carbon prices between that the latter is fully aligned with the Paris Agreement’s aim of the two IEA scenarios. For Hess, oil and natural gas prices (and holding the increase in the global average temperature to well the underlying demand that drives them) are likely to be the below 2°C. At the oil, natural gas and carbon prices established most immediate concern, while the impact of carbon pricing is in our base case, the Hess portfolio remains resilient, and our also relevant. pipeline of forward intended investments provides strong Our next step was to quantify the financial impact (delta) financial returns even under the Sustainable Development between the Hess base case and the IEA scenarios. The TCFD scenario, the IEA’s most challenging scenario in terms of GHG recommends that once a 2°C scenario is established, companies emission reductions. should define a base case or business-as-usual outlook for the While the Sustainable Development scenario projects lower oil future. The base case should use the same metrics as the 2°C demand in the 2040 timeframe, the IEA states that “continued scenario (e.g., oil demand, carbon prices and other market investment in oil and gas supply...remains essential even in the factors) and share the same fundamental economic foundations. Sustainable Development scenario to 2040, as decline rates at Establishing multiple scenarios allows measurement of the delta existing fields leave a substantial gap that needs to be filled with between metrics at future points to properly understand the new upstream projects” (2018 World Energy Outlook, page 51). envelope within which risk and opportunity may occur. Crude Oil Price Natural Gas Price CO2 Price 200 8 160 U.S. Dollars per Barrel, 2019 Real Terms U.S. Dollars per MMBtu, 2019 Real Terms U.S. Dollars per Tonne, 2019 Real Terms 150 6 120 100 4 80 50 40 Hess 2 IEA New Polices IEA Sustainable Development 0 0 0 2019 2024 2029 2034 2039 2019 2024 2029 2034 2039 2019 2024 2029 2034 2039 44 However, with potentially lower oil demand, competition may Oil Production with No New Investment from 2018 and Demand intensify, and some high-cost producers may be forced out of in the New Policies and Sustainable Development Scenarios the marketplace. 120 We believe our scenario analysis validates Hess’ strategic priorities (as shown in the figure on the previous page) to focus investment Million Barrels of Oil per Day 100 on high-return, low-cost oil and gas opportunities and to build a 120 focused and balanced portfolio, robust at low prices – thereby 80 100 providing competitive levels of returns to our shareholders. 60 We believe this strategy is consistent with the IEA’s Sustainable 80 Development scenario, which envisions a meaningful role for oil 60 40 and gas through 2040, when oil and gas are still projected to account for almost 50 percent of global primary energy demand. 40 20 Seventy-five percent of our investment capital through 2025 is 20 planned to be allocated to our assets in Guyana and the Bakken, where we have a deep inventory of investment opportunities with 2010 2020 2030 2040 2010 2020 2030 2040 predicted exceptional returns. Our discovery in Guyana (where IEA New Policies Natural Gas Liquids IEA New Policies Natural Gas Liquids Hess has a 30 percent interest in the Stabroek Block) is among IEA IEA Sustainable Sustainable Development Development Extra Extra Heavy Heavy Oil and Oil and Bitumen Bitumen the industry’s largest offshore oil discoveries in the past 10 years. Conventional Conventional Other Other The Liza Phase 1 development is projected to breakeven at Tight Oil Tight Oil $35 per barrel Brent oil, and the Liza Phase 2 development is projected to breakeven at $25 per barrel Brent oil. These are oil demand in the near term and a shortfall in new projects risks a anticipated to be the lowest breakeven costs for the industry’s sharp tightening of oil markets in the 2020s. The IEA estimates top 50 offshore developments and shale plays (source: RS Energy that almost $13 trillion of total oil and gas investment will be Group, Offshore First Class: The L.I.Z.A Framework, January needed for oil and natural gas supply between 2018 and 2040 to 2018). As a result of the low breakeven costs in Guyana and support the Sustainable Development scenario. aggressive cost-reduction activities in the Bakken, we plan to structurally lower our cash flow breakeven cost to less than $40 In summary, based on the results of our scenario planning per barrel Brent portfolio breakeven by 2025, so that even if the analysis, we believe it is highly unlikely that any of our assets market experiences reduced oil demand under the IEA’s would be stranded or significantly impaired by the CO2 pricing Sustainable Development scenario, Hess is well positioned to under the most ambitious of the IEA scenarios – the Sustainable retain our share in the marketplace as a low-cost producer. Development scenario, which is consistent with the aim of the Paris Agreement. Oil will continue to remain a key part of the Finally, using the lowest oil demand growth rate from the IEA’s world’s energy solution for many decades to come (2018 World Sustainable Development scenario, oil demand is still projected to Energy Outlook, page 27); and, based on this exercise and Hess’ be 70 million barrels per day in 2040. However, as the chart above strategic priority of being among the lowest-cost oil producers, right illustrates, without any new investment, oil production would we believe that during the projected period we can continue to halve by 2025. The IEA has repeatedly flagged that there has monetize our reserves and deliver robust financial performance been substantial underinvestment in future oil supply since oil under a wide range of market conditions. prices began their decline in 2014. This mismatch between strong 2018 HESS PROVED RESERVES 2018 HESS PROVED RESERVES 2018 Hess Proved Reserves by Region* RESOURCE BY2018 TYPE* Hess Proved BY Reserves by RESOURCE Resource Type** TYPE* 1,192 Million Barrels of Oil Equivalent 13% 13% 15% 28%15% 28% 31% 31% 72% 4% 12% 12% 59%54% 59%54% ■ Unconventional ■ Unconventional ■ Conventional (Including Acid Gas)(Including Acid Gas) ■ Conventional ■ Deepwater ■ Deepwater *H ess’ proved reserves consist of 75 percent liquids (light and medium crude oils, condensate ** is Deepwater is a conventional resource, but it is shown separately here to provide more clarity and natural gas liquids) and 25 percent natural gas. * Deepwater a conventional resourceisbut * Deepwater it is shown a conventional resource but below it is shown separately onhereourtoreserve more Deepwater providebase. clarity separately on to our here refers to reserves reserve provide base. more found 1,000 feet of water depth. clarity on our reserve base. Deepwater refers to reserves found below Deepwater refers1,000 feet found below 1,000 feet to reserves of water depth. of water depth. 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 45 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY 2018 OPERATED SCOPE 1 METRICS AND TARGETS emissions. The GHG emissions generated REENHOUSE 2018 OPERATED SCOPE 1 2018 GAS EMISSIONS Operated GREENHOUSE Scope GAS BY SOURCE 1 Greenhouse EMISSIONS Gas BY SOURCE As part of Hess’ climate change strategy, from the assets divested in 2017 and Thousand Tonnes EmissionsCO 2 eby Source Thousand Tonnes CO e Thousand Tonnes CO e 2 2 we have established three targets aligned 2018 represent almost 50 percent of our with the TCFD’s criteria for target-setting. 2014 base year emissions; therefore, 5% 5% We have committed to: we have restated our 2014 baseline and subsequent years of our GHG emissions • Reduce our GHG emissions intensity and flaring intensities. 43% 43% 52% 52% by 25 percent for our 2014 portfolio of operated assets, by 2020 (versus These baseline restatements have resulted a 2014 emissions baseline) in lower 2014 base GHG emissions and flaring, which will make it more difficult to • Reduce our flaring intensity by achieve our intensity reduction targets. 50 percent for our 2014 portfolio of However, Hess is fully committed to ■ Flaring 1,856 ■ Flaring1,546 1,856 operated assets, by 2020 (versus a ■ Fuel Combustion achieving our original 25 percent GHG ■ Other 175 2018 ■ Fuel Combustion 1,546 OPERATED SCOPE 1 2014 emissions baseline) 2018 1 OPERATED ■ Other 175 SCOPE intensity and 50 percent flaring intensity GREENHOUSE GASGAS GREENHOUSE EMISSIONS BY SOURCE EMISSIONS BY SOURCE • Lower methane emissions intensity to less Thousand Tonnes Thousand CO2eCO2e Tonnes reduction targets, and therefore no than 0.47 percent across our U.S. onshore 2018 Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions change is planned for those targets. by Country (Scopes 1 and 2) upstream operations by 2025 Thousand Tonnes CO2e In the next section, where we discuss 5050 The WEO’s Sustainable Development 4545 GHG performance, we reference our scenario requires an ambitious 21 percent 4040 absolute emission reductions year over carbon intensity reduction by 2030 in order 3535 year, which include the divested assets. 3030 to be consistent with a less than 2°C aim. We also provide our restated 2014–2018 2525 This 21 percent carbon intensity reduction 85% 85% performance, which removes the 2017– 2020 figure is derived from the Sustainable 2018 divestitures, to allow for comparison 1515 Development scenario’s CO2 emissions 10% 10% 1010 against our established targets. divided by primary world energy demand 55 5% 5% in 2030 versus 2017. Hess’ 25 percent GREENHOUSE GAS PERFORMANCE 2015 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 2020 2020 00 015 GHG intensity reduction target, referenced We report GHG emissions from our oil and ■ U.S. ■ 3,335 U.S. 3,335 ■ Malaysia 390 390 ■ Malaysia above, which was set in 2015 and is gas assets on both operated and equity ■ Denmark ■ Denmark195 195 based on our operated Scope 1 and 2 bases. Our GHG emission estimates GHG emissions divided by production, include carbon dioxide, methane and is aligned with the IEA’s Sustainable nitrous oxide – reported in units of Operated Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) Development scenario 2030 goal and is carbon dioxide equivalent (CO2e). In consistent with the Paris Agreement’s 2014 Hess began using global warming GHG Intensity (Tonnes per Thousand BOE) 66 5.6 5.6 5050 5.4 5.4 2°C ambition. potentials based on the values in the 4545 55 4.6 Fourth Assessment Report: Climate 4.6 40 40 During the second half of 2017, Hess 4141 4.1 Change 2007 (AR-4), prepared by the Million MillionTonnes Tonnes CO e 4.1 3.9 3.9 GHG GHG Intensity (Tonnes per per Thousand ThousandBOE) BOE) 3535 44 divested several operated assets, CO CO222ee 33 33 34 34 3030 Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Million Tonnes 33 33 34 34 including our interests in Equatorial 33 2525 Change, to estimate CO2e totals. Guinea and enhanced oil recovery assets Intensity (Tonnes 2020 22 in the Permian Basin in West Texas. Approximately 95 percent of Hess’ 1515 1010 Also, in August 2018, Hess divested our direct reported (Scope 1) operated 1 1 55 joint-venture interests in the Utica shale. GHG emissions are from stationary 00 00 According to the Hess GHG Inventory combustion sources such as flaring, 2014 2015 2014 2015 2016 2016 2017 2018 2017 2018 DivestedAssets Assets Protocol, which is published on our heaters, turbines and engines. The Divested CurrentHess ■■ Current HessPortfolio Portfolio company website, we restate our base factors used to estimate emissions for GHG Emissions GHG Emissions Intensity (IncludesDivested Intensity(Includes DivestedAssets) Assets) GHG Emissions GHG Emissions Intensity (CurrentHess Intensity(Current HessPortfolio) Portfolio) year emissions if divestitures exceed these sources enterprisewide are those 2020Target 2020 (31Tonnes Target(31 TonnesperperThousand ThousandBOE) BOE) 10 percent of the original base year prescribed by the U.S. Environmental 46 Protection Agency (EPA) in its GHG GHG emissions intensity (i.e., tonnes of Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 CFR Part emissions per thousand barrels of Equity Greenhouse Gas Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) by Country 98, Subpart C). The remaining 5 percent oil equivalent (BOE)) decreased by Million Tonnes CO2e 12 12 12 of our reported operated GHG emissions 17 percent in 2018 versus our 2014 12 10.8 10.8 are from a variety of noncombustion and baseline. This cumulative improvement 10 10 fugitive emission sources such as storage10 keeps us on track to achieve our 10 tanks, compressor seals, pneumatic 25 percent emissions intensity reduction pumps and valves. For such sources at 8 8target for 2020. 8 8 onshore facilities, we use the emission Equity Emissions (Scopes 1, 2 and 3) factors prescribed by the U.S. EPA in its 6 6 5.5 6 Since 2007 Hess has tracked GHG 6 5.5 GHG Mandatory Reporting Rule (40 CFR emissions from our operated and Part 98, Subpart W). Hess uses other 4.2 4.2 4.0 3.9 4nonoperated oil and gas assets based 4 4.0 3.9 appropriate regulatory or industry-specific 4 4 on our equity interest. The graphs factors to estimate fugitive emissions for 2at right detail our Scope 1, 2 and 3 2 all other facilities. 2 2 emissions from 2008 to 2018 on an We also report indirect emissions associated equity basis. These graphs show that 0 0 with purchased electricity (Scope 2) and 0 over 2008the2014 2014 past 201511 2016 2015years 2016we 2017 2017 have 2018reduced 2018 0 2008 2015 2016 2017 2018 2008 2008 2015 2016 2017 2018 other indirect (Scope 3) emissions. our absolute Scope 1 and 2 equity ■ U.K. ■ Gabon ■ Malaysia/ ■ U.K. ■ Gabon ■ Malaysia/ Thailand ■ Norway ■ Ghana Operated Emissions (Scopes 1 and 2) emissions from 10.8 million tonnes of ■ Norway ■ Ghana Thailand ■ Thailand ■ Denmark ■ Libya ■ Denmark ■ Libya ■ Thailand In 2018, of the estimated 3.9 million CO2e to 3.9 million tonnes, or 64 percent. ■ Algeria ■ Azerbaijan ■ U.S. ■ Algeria ■ Azerbaijan ■ U.S. ■ Equatorial ■ Russia ■ U.S. Virgin tonnes of gross GHG emissions During the same period, Scope 3 equity ■ Equatorial Guinea ■ Russia ■ U.S. Islands Virgin ■ Indonesia Guinea ■ Indonesia Islands reported from our operated oil and gas emissions decreased from 114 million assets, 3.6 million tonnes were 120 Scope 1 tonnes to 43 million tonnes of CO2e, or emissions, primarily from flaring and fuel 62 percent. In total, over this period, our combined Scope 1, 2 and 3 absolute Equity Greenhouse Gas combustion, and approximately 100 Emissions (Scope 3) 0.3 million tonnes were Scope 2 CO2e emissions have been reduced by Million Tonnes CO2e emissions, from purchased electricity. 62 percent through a combination of 120 80 114 Process operations (primarily fuel emission reduction initiatives, asset sales combustion) and flaring accounted for and refinery shutdowns. 100 Million Tonnes COCOe 2e 60 43 percent and 52 percent of our Scope Scopes 1 and 2 Equity Emissions 80 Million Tonnes 1 GHG emissions, respectively. Our major source of Scope 1 and 2 40 60 60 52 In 2018 our absolute GHG emissions emissions from nonoperated oil and gas 49 2 43 decreased by 0.2 million tonnes assets in 2018 was from the A-18 Block in 40 20 compared with 2017, due primarily to the Malaysia/Thailand Joint Development 20 a reduction of 1.1 million tonnes from Area. Our equity emissions from this asset 0 0 the sale of our assets in Equatorial 2008 2014 2016approximately 2015were 2017 2018 1.3 million tonnes. 2008 2015 2016 2017 2018 Guinea and the Permian Basin. This Major sources of emissions from our decrease was partially offset by increased operated assets in 2018 included those emissions of a reported 0.5 million from the North Dakota production asset, tonnes in our North Dakota operations, the Tioga Gas Plant and offshore Gulf 2018 Equity Scope 3 emissions Million tonnes CO2e a reported 0.2 million tonnes in our of Mexico, which altogether accounted Use of Sold Products 40.3 North Malay Basin operations and a for an estimated 2.1 million tonnes of reported 0.2 million tonnes in our Gulf of equity emissions. Our other operated and Processing of Sold Products 3.1 Mexico operations, all related primarily nonoperated assets made up the balance Total 43.4 to an overall 30 percent increase in of equity emissions at an estimated production year over year. Our restated 0.5 million tonnes. 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 47 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY Scope 3 Equity Emissions Although not material, we also track and EMISSION REDUCTION INITIATIVES Scope 3 GHG emissions are those report Scope 3 emissions associated In support of our GHG emission and generated from corporate value chain with employee business travel. flaring intensity reduction targets, we activities that are not accounted for and Combined emissions from employee track and monitor air emissions at each reported in our Scope 1 and Scope 2 business travel via commercial air carrier of our assets and undertake a variety of emissions. Unlike fully integrated oil and rail in 2018 were about 3,200 emission reduction initiatives. Our efforts companies that are positioned to offer a tonnes of CO2e, down approximately focus on our largest-emitting facilities and full range of energy products and services 30 percent compared with last year, as a on opportunities that are technically and to third-party customers, Hess, as a pureresult of reduced employee travel. economically feasible and where we are play exploration and production company, able to achieve stakeholder approval. Carbon Offsets has no direct control over our Scope 3 As an element of our EHS & SR strategy, Flaring emissions. Nevertheless, we disclose we have purchased carbon credits In 2018 flaring from Hess-operated assets these data on an equity basis. annually since 2010 to offset at least totaled 51 MMSCFD, a decrease of 9 This year, we have restated our historical 100 percent of our Scope 3 business MMSCFD compared with 2017. This Scope 3 emissions to follow the travel emissions (approximately 3,200 decrease was primarily related to reduced methodology established by IPIECA in its tonnes in 2018). We recently increased flaring of 21 MMSCFD from asset sales in 2016 report Estimating Petroleum Industry this commitment by also offsetting Equatorial Guinea, Ohio and West Texas, Value Chain (Scope 3) Greenhouse 100 percent of our Scope 1 emissions and partially offset by increased flaring of 20 Gas Emissions. This guidance, which is 350350 associated with operating the company’s 11 MMSCFD in North Dakota. 00 currently the industry 300 standard, is based 300 truck fleet, aviation activities (aircraft and On an intensity basis, we have reduced our on the World Resources Institute’s and helicopters) and personal and rental vehicle 80 250250 cumulative flaring intensity by 41 percent World Business Council for Sustainable miles driven while on company business 200 200 through 2018, compared with our 2014 60 Development’s Scope 3 guidance. (approximately 11,800 tonnes in 2018). baseline. While our flaring intensity remained 150150 40 Per the IPIECA guidance, we report Scope We purchased 15,000 tonnes of carbon essentially flat between 2017 and 2018, we 3 emissions for category 100100 11 “Use of Sold credits from First Climate Markets AG, are still on track to achieve our 50 percent 20 Products” by calculating 50 50 combustion for the retirement of offsets related to a reduction target by 2020. emissions for our oil, 0 0 natural gas and third-party landfill gas recovery project in 0 20152015 20142014 20172017 20162016 20182018 20202020 2014 20152016 20142015 20162017 20172018 2020 20182020 Our flaring increase in North Dakota was marketed oil products. We also report Ohio. This contribution offset 100 percent primarily related to enhanced completion Scope 3 category 10 “Processing of Sold of the GHG emissions we estimate were techniques in 2018 that increased and Products” emissions, which result from generated from our business travel in 2018 accelerated the productivity of our wells, refining of our crude oil production by others. (Scopes 1 and 3). as well as a 30 percent increase in the In 2018 we sold 553 million standard number of wells brought online in 2018 cubic feet per day (MMSCFD) of natural Hess Flaring Rates (from approximately 70 in 2017 to 100 in gas, which, when used by customers, 2018). The changes in technique allow accounted for an estimated 11 million 99 99 99 99 initial oil and natural gas production to Flaring Intensity (SCF (SCFper perBOE) BOE) 300300 Flaring Intensity (SCF per BOE) 100 100 tonnes of GHG emissions. We sold flow to the surface much more quickly 276276 250 250 185 thousand barrels per day (MBPD) of Flaring (MMSCFD) (MMSCFD) Flaring (MMSCFD) 80 80 74 74 and at higher temperatures than with prior Flaring Intensity Flaring crude oil, which accounted for another 60 60 60 60 51 51 200200 techniques, requiring additional short-term 192192 29 million tonnes of GHG emissions, for 174174 150 150 flaring to maintain safe operations. In order 164164 163163 an estimated total of 40 million tonnes 40 40 100 100 to mitigate this flaring we are introducing of Scope 3 category 11 emissions. This 20 20 additional cooling capacity during well 50 50 crude oil, when processed by refiners, completion and initial flowback. Although also resulted in an additional 3.2 million 0 0 0 0 20142015 2014 2017 2018 2016 2017 2015 2016 2018 flaring rates increased year on year, rates tonnes of Scope 3 category 10 emissions, Divested Divested Assets Assets have remained within regulatory limits. which brings our total Scope 3 emissions Current Current ■ ■ Hess Hess Portfolio Portfolio Flaring Flaring Intensity Intensity (Includes (Includes Divested Divested Assets) Assets) to 43 million tonnes. Flaring Flaring Intensity Intensity (Current (Current Hess Hess Portfolio) Portfolio) 2020 2020 Target Target (138(138 SCF SCF perper BOE) BOE) 48 In addition, at many of our production facilities Hess relies on third parties to provide the gas gathering and processing infrastructure that is needed to mitigate gas flaring. In 2018 the rate of gas capture by third-party gathering and processing facilities was significantly less than expected. We project an increase in thirdparty gathering and processing capacity in 2019. Through our subsidiary Hess Midstream Partners LP, we are committed to and are aggressively executing significant capital investment projects to increase gas capture rates in the region, including installation of gas capture units from GTUIT (discussed further below) and ColdStream, additional compression capability through brownfield and greenfield projects, and construction of the Little Missouri Four Gas Plant (LM4) through a joint venture with Targa Resources. Between 2012 and 2018, approximately $3 billion was invested in midstream infrastructure in North Dakota to capture and monetize natural gas produced from our operations and minimize flaring. In 2018 Hess Midstream Partners LP invested an additional $334 million for continued expansion of the Bakken midstream gas gathering infrastructure, including additional gas compression facilities, natural gas liquid (NGL) and gas gathering lines and construction of LM4. Approximately 31 MMSCFD of additional compression, along with high-pressure and low-pressure gas gathering lines, were added throughout the Bakken region. We are planning and executing continued expansion of the Bakken midstream Offshore Operations, Gulf of Mexico gas gathering infrastructure, including additional gas compression facilities and NGL and gas gathering lines, in 2019 and 2019. Longer-term gas gathering and Natural Gas Capture beyond. Approximately 100 MMSCFD processing investments are being Using technology developed through of additional third-party gas processing evaluated for future approval. These our partnership with GTUIT – a designer, capacity, through LM4, is expected to midstream infrastructure projects will leave manufacturer and operator of well site become available in 2019. In addition, Hess well positioned to reduce flaring natural gas capture and NGL extraction 92 MMSCFD of additional compression is intensity by 2020 in line with our target. equipment – we are recovering high-BTU expected to be brought online throughout 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 49 CLIMATE CHANGE AND ENERGY gas from locations in North Dakota that Hess is installing additional mobile units moved more passengers while reducing were previously flaring this raw, wet natural in 2019, increasing our capacity by 10 the number of flights by 35 percent and gas. The GTUIT equipment successfully MMSCFD. This project provides dual reducing overall flying hours by addresses some of the technical economic and environmental benefits, as it 25 percent. This emphasis on improved challenges associated with capturing converts gas into marketable products as logistics and flight management in the NGLs from the Bakken gas – the units well as reduces the amount of gas flared Gulf of Mexico operations has resulted in are modular and mobile, they can operate and the associated air emissions. a reduction in fuel usage of approximately reliably unmanned and they can adapt to  ee additional examples of emission S 103,000 gallons between 2017 and 2018, reduction initiatives at hess.com/ the ever-changing flow conditions of the sustainability/climate-change-energy/ resulting in a reduction of approximately well and the changing chemistry of the emission-reduction-initiatives 1,000 tonnes of CO2e. This represents associated gas. approximately 13 percent of Hess’ CO2e ENERGY USE In 2018 we operated 13 of these mobile emissions from aviation fuels, excluding the Reducing our energy use has the dual units (9 MMSCFD of capacity), allowing us Hess charter operated by United Airlines. benefit of lowering costs and GHG to capture 6 million gallons of NGLs. As a In 2018 our U.S. operations accounted emissions, and it is a central focus of result, more than 420 MMSCF of gas flaring for all of our purchased electricity – both our EHS & SR strategy and our Lean was avoided, and CO2e emissions were approximately 600,000 megawatt hours approach to managing the business. We reduced by an estimated 37,378 tonnes. (MWh), or a 23 percent decrease from generate and purchase energy primarily for last year, primarily attributable to the sale power, processing, heating and cooling. Energy Use of the Seminole Gas Plant (as part of the Thousand Gigajoules In 2018 energy consumption from HessPermian Basin asset). Based on U.S. operated assets was approximately electricity generation profiles, we estimate 40,000 38,246 31 million gigajoules, 7 percent lower that approximately 27 percent of this 35,000 33,121 than in 2017. This decrease was primarily 30,653 electricity was generated from renewable 30,000 related to reduced energy use resulting sources, primarily wind power. We also 25,000 from asset sales in Equatorial Guinea and support renewable energy through the the Permian Basin and partially offset 20,000 purchase of renewable energy certificates by increased energy use in our North 15,000 (RECs) equivalent to at least 10 percent of Dakota, North Malay Basin and Gulf of 10,000 the net electricity used in our operations. Mexico operations related to a 30 percent 5,000 In 2018 we purchased 70,000 Green-e production increase. Eighty-two percent of Energy certified RECs for wind power, 0 2016 2017 2018 Hess’ energy use was directly generated equivalent to 70,000 MWh or about ■ Direct from our operations, primarily at the Tioga ■ Indirect 12 percent of the electricity purchased for Gas Plant and at our production facilities our operated exploration and production in North Dakota, North Malay Basin, assets. In total, including the RECs, Denmark and the Gulf of Mexico. The 2018 Energy Use by Country approximately 39 percent of our indirect Thousand Gigajoules remaining 18 percent was indirect energy energy use came from renewable sources. (energy used by utilities to provide net In 2019 we are expanding our support 10% purchased electricity) purchased for the of renewable energy by purchasing North Dakota production operations and 15% enough RECs to offset 100 percent of our the Tioga Gas Plant. purchased electricity. We seek opportunities to promote energy S  ee more detail on our purchased electricity efficiency where feasible. As one example, use at hess.com/sustainability/climatechange-energy/energy-use 75% we have been working to streamline the management of flights to our offshore assets in the Gulf of Mexico. Over the past ■ U.S. 22,985 ■ Malaysia 4,563 five years our aviation contractors have ■ Denmark 3,106 50 Managing Methane Emissions The advancement in shale energy technology in recent years has In a related voluntary effort, in 2017 Hess became one of the initial resulted in an increased supply of abundant, low-cost natural gas. participants in the American Petroleum Institute’s Environmental The clean-burning characteristics of natural gas can play a critical Partnership. A key activity of the Environmental Partnership is role in the transition to a low-carbon economy. Although natural furthering action to reduce air emissions, including methane and gas burns cleaner than other fuels, there is considerable debate VOCs, associated with natural gas and oil production. To about fugitive methane leakage along the natural gas value chain, accomplish this, the Environmental Partnership developed three which may have the potential to reduce its climate beneﬁts. separate Environmental Performance Programs for participating companies to implement and phase into their operations starting Stakeholder interest in this issue has continued in recent years, January 1, 2018. Hess is implementing the two programs and in 2016 the U.S. EPA and the Bureau of Land Management applicable to our operations in North Dakota, as follows: ﬁnalized several regulations aimed at controlling fugitive methane and volatile organic compound (VOC) emissions. • Leak Program for Natural Gas and Oil Production Sources: However, those regulations are now subject to administrative Participants will implement monitoring and timely repair of reconsideration as well as litigation challenges. Industry fugitive emissions at selected sites utilizing detection methods generally maintains that these regulations are largely and technologies such as U.S. EPA Method 21 or optical gas unnecessary, as methane emissions have decreased at a time of imaging cameras. Hess conducted semiannual surveys at 407 growth in natural gas production and it is in industry’s best sites in 2018. interest to monetize gas to generate additional revenue. • Program to Replace, Remove or Retroﬁt High-Bleed Pneumatic One element of our EHS & SR strategy has been to pursue Controllers: Participants will replace, remove or retroﬁt highvoluntary reductions in methane emissions. As a result, Hess bleed pneumatic controllers with lowor zero-emitting devices became a founding member of the ONE Future Coalition, a group within ﬁve years. Hess has identified 246 high-bleed pneumatic of companies from across the natural gas industry focused on controllers remaining in our North Dakota operations. We plan identifying policy and technical solutions that yield continuous to phase these out by 2022. improvement in the management of methane emissions associated The third program, involving manual liquids unloading for natural with the production, processing, transportation and distribution of gas production sources, is not applicable to Hess, as we do not natural gas. ONE Future offers a performance-based, ﬂexible currently operate any natural gas-only production wells. approach that is expected to yield signiﬁcant reductions in methane emissions. The goal is to voluntarily lower methane In addition to these programs, the Environmental Partnership will emissions to less than 1 percent of gross methane production provide a platform for industry to collaborate with stakeholders across the U.S. value chain by 2025. ONE Future has also set and learn from one another. interim 2020 sectoral targets. Peer-reviewed analyses indicate that In order to meet both our ONE Future and Environmental a leak/loss rate of 1 percent or less across the U.S. natural gas value Partnership commitments, in 2018 we continued implementation chain provides immediate GHG reduction beneﬁts. of our leak detection and repair (LDAR) program across all of our To achieve this goal, ONE Future has established methane emission production facilities (existing and new) in North Dakota and Ohio rate targets for each sector of the natural gas value chain: (now sold) and at the Tioga Gas Plant in North Dakota. production (0.28 percent), gathering and boosting (0.09 percent), processing (0.11 percent), transmission and storage F urther detail on our LDAR program is provided in the Environment section of this report and at hess.com/sustainability/environment (0.30 percent) and distribution (0.22 percent), which cumulatively total to the 1 percent target. In 2017 the ONE Future members’ cumulative methane emissions intensity was 0.55 percent across Methane Emissions Intensity the U.S. onshore natural gas value chain. ONE Future ONE Future Hess 2018 SECTOR 2025 Target Hess has activities in three of the ONE Future sectors: 2020 Target Performance production, gathering and boosting, and processing. In 2018 our methane emissions rate for production was 0.45 percent, for U.S. Onshore Production 0.28 0.38 0.45 gathering and boosting it was 0.20 percent and for processing it U.S. Onshore Gathering and was 0.04 percent. Our onshore U.S. methane intensity was 0.09 0.08 0.20 Boosting 0.69 percent, which is slightly above the ONE Future combined 2020 interim target of 0.64 percent for those three sectors. Our U.S. Onshore Processing 0.11 0.18 0.04 relative methane intensity increased in 2018 due to the sale of our joint-venture interests in the Utica shale play. With our planned U.S. Onshore Upstream (Production, Gathering, Boosting 0.47 0.64 0.69 reductions to flaring and the phaseout of high-bleed pneumatic and Processing) controllers in North Dakota, we anticipate that we will achieve the ONE Future targets by 2025. U.S. Onshore and Offshore NA NA 0.31 Upstream Our combined U.S. methane emissions intensity across our onshore and offshore operations was 0.31 percent, while our Global Upstream NA NA 0.18 global methane intensity in 2018 was 0.18 percent. Note: Data exclude Utica production, which was divested in 2018. NA: Not applicable 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 51 Offshore Operations, Gulf of Mexico ENVIRONMENT Hess is committed to safeguarding by encouraging collaboration among FRESHWATER USE Million Cubic Meters the environment; this commitment is a government agencies, businesses, Freshwater Use Million Cubic Meters key aspect of the Hess Value of Social education providers and nongovernmental Responsibility. Striving for continuous 8 organizations. Investment through GoMA 8 7.6 7.7 improvement in our environmental will be focused on improved habitat 7 7 impacts – including water and energy conservation, higher-quality water 6 6 use, air emissions, waste and spills – is resources, increased natural resource a central focus of our work. We dedicate 5 stewardship and improved land use 5 3.8 significant staff and resources to help4 strategies. 4 ensure compliance with environmental3 3 We also voluntarily sponsor and participate laws and regulations, international 2 in the Environmentally Friendly Drilling 2 standards and voluntary commitments. To 1 (EFD) program, a partnership among 1 track our environmental performance and 0 oil and gas companies, academia and 0 drive improvement over time, we use key 2016 2017 2018 environmental organizations coordinated 2016 2017 2018 performance metrics – including several by the Houston Advanced Research ■ Groundwater factored into our annual incentive plan – ■ Municipal Water Center that aims to develop scienceat the asset and enterprise levels. ■ Surface Water based solutions to environmental issues We sponsor and actively participate in associated with oil and gas development. the Bakken Production Optimization WATER MANAGEMENT 2018 Freshwater Use by Program – a research program led by Facility/Business Function Water is an important resource for our the Energy and Environmental Research Thousand Cubic Meters onshore exploration and production Center (EERC) and funded by the North operations, where we primarily use it for 8% 4% Dakota Industrial Commission – that aims drilling and completions in our upstream 8% to improve Bakken system oil recovery 17% operations and cooling in our midstream and reduce the environmental footprint of 9% gas processing operations. We also know Bakken oil and gas operations. In 2018 that water is critical for the communities we worked with the EERC to help form and ecosystems in which we operate. the Intelligent Pipeline Integrity Program 75% In some areas, our water use may be (iPIPE), a consortium of oil and gas restricted by local limitations on water producers leading and funding research supply and disposal. Accordingly, water on innovative technologies to detect leaks ■ North Dakota Drilling and Completions 2,889 management has been identified as a ■ Tioga Gas Plant 359 and other pipeline integrity issues (see ■ Ohio Drilling and Completions 291 material issue for Hess, and it is a key All Other Operations 308 page 59). The iPIPE consortium is one of ■ element of our environment, health, safety several initiatives we are sponsoring that and social responsibility (EHS & SR) is designed to help meet North Dakota strategy. In 2018 we continued to develop Our total freshwater use for exploration Governor Doug Burgum’s challenge to our risk-based, lifecycle approach to and production in 2018 was less than achieve zero pipeline spills. in 2017, primarily due to the sale of our managing water and made associated Also in 2018, Hess joined the Gulf of enhanced oil recovery assets in West improvements to our water data Mexico Alliance’s Gulf Star program. Texas, which included the Seminole Gas collection process. The not-for-profit Gulf of Mexico Alliance Plant. In 2018, the largest driver of our  ee the Shale Energy section online for more S (GoMA) is a public–private partnership detail on our approach to water management freshwater use was our North Dakota that aims to enhance the ecological in our shale operations: hess.com/ drilling and completion operations. sustainability/environment/shale-energy and economic health of the Gulf region 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 53 ENVIRONMENT Lifecycle Approach to Well Integrity Maintaining the integrity of our wells – that is, preventing the commonly used barriers, and they require completion of a detailed uncontrolled or unintended release of oil, natural gas or produced well barrier diagram before undertaking activities in the field. An fluids to the surface or belowground to aquifers or between example well barrier diagram is shown below. We use a geologic layers within the Earth – is fundamental to protecting the combination of barriers – such as casing, wellheads, seal environment, the health and safety of our workforce and the assemblies, blowout preventers, cement, packers and bridge plugs communities in which we operate, and to safeguarding our product. – that work together to prevent uncontrolled flow. For example, we use cement in the annular space between the production tubing For all Hess wells, both offshore and onshore, we take a lifecycle and the underground formation as a key structural component to approach to integrity. In the initial design phase, we identify the protect aquifers. Hess requires a minimum depth of annular appropriate barrier systems for maintaining integrity throughout cement above and below potential flow zones that meets, and in the well lifecycle. We establish these barriers during construction some cases exceeds, applicable regulations. We also require and maintain and monitor them through production, and then we maintaining multiple and redundant barriers throughout the well add new barriers during abandonment. lifecycle, and our minimum requirements for the configuration of Our global drilling and completion standards outline the criteria for blowout preventers on drilling rigs meet, and in some cases installation, verification, maintenance and operating limits for exceed, applicable regulations. WELL DEVELOPMENT LIFECYCLE CONSTRUCTION MAINTENANCE SCOPE DESIGN (Drilling & OPERATION (Repair, Intervention ABANDONMENT Completions) and Workover) WELL BARRIER DIAGRAM, BAKKEN DRILLING EXAMPLE Drill Pipe Safety Valve RCD RCD COMPONENT CONDITIONS OF SATISFACTION RCD Spool Drill pipe safety valve Pressure tested to 5,000 psi upon installation (inside blowout preventer) Drilling BOP APR APR Drilling blowout preventer (BOP) Pressure tested to 250 and 5,000 psi upon installation and choke and kill (C/K) valves VBR VBR Drill pipe float valves Inflow tested while drill pipe is being run in-hole C/K C/K Valve Valve Pressure tested to 1,500 psi prior to drilling out of the 7-inch casing cement barrier Wellhead Pressure tested to 5,000 psi upon installation Wellhead WELL BARRIER ELEMENT ACCEPTANCE CRITERIA 16-inch Casing Primary Well Barrier Rotary control device (RCD) Pressure tested to 250 psi and 70 percent of working 9 5/8-inch and RCD spool pressure upon installation Casing Continuously monitored fluid system as identified by the Wellbore fluid drilling fluid program Secondary Well Barrier Annular preventer (APR) Pressure tested to 250 and 2,500 psi upon installation 7-inch Drill Pipe Float Casing Variable bore ram (VBR) Pressure tested to 250 and 2,500 psi upon installation 54 Water use for these activities increased in 2018, largely due to an increase in drilling activity during the year. We also changed our completions strategy to improve Deepwater Assets production, which required using more Deepwater assets, which include wells at a depth of more than 1,000 feet underwater, sand proppant, and therefore, more water can, in certain circumstances, present unique challenges compared to land-based wells. to move that proppant. In particular, because offshore wells tend to operate much deeper and under greater pressure, they present specific risks related to the containment of accidental discharges. In 2019 we plan to continue ramping Hess currently operates offshore production facilities in the Gulf of Mexico at the up activity levels and evolving our Baldpate, Tubular Bells and Stampede Fields – the latter of which achieved first oil in early 2018. These assets are subject to the U.S. federal government’s Safety and completions strategies in North Dakota, so Environmental Management System regulations, which provide a systematic approach we expect to see an increase in absolute for identifying, managing and mitigating hazards. water use this year. However, as our operational profile and practices continue to evolve, we are assessing the best ways We validate well components and barriers as part of the construction process to verify to reduce water use impacts across our they are working as designed. For example, we run digital well logs to validate correct cement placement between production tubing and the formation before hydraulically operations. For example, in North Dakota, fracturing our wells. our freshwater reduction strategy primarily In deepwater offshore wells, we verify cement installation with remotely operated vehicles involves reusing produced water – the for subsea wellheads. We also pressure test barriers and well components as part of the nonpotable water that is released from construction process, after first running computer models to confirm we will not deep underground formations along overpressure a component during testing. with produced oil and natural gas – for We monitor each well’s integrity from the initial drilling activity through plugging and production maintenance. The total amount abandonment. Offshore, barriers critical to well integrity are digitally monitored on a continuous basis. Onshore, annular pressures are routinely monitored as an indicator of of water we need for our operations and well integrity issues; however, we are in the process of transitioning to a remote, digital, our ability to reuse produced water varies continuous monitoring system. based on the geology of the formation, In 2018 we began a multiyear process of updating and enhancing our well integrity production levels and changes in hydraulic management system, which defines the organizational structure responsible for managing fracturing technologies, among other well integrity and the standards, procedures and risk management protocols that support well integrity. The enhanced system is expected to help us better manage integrity risks factors. We remain committed, throughout throughout the well lifecycle and help to ensure these risks are reassessed if material our operations, to evaluating ways to changes to a well’s design or changes to steps in the planned development process are reduce our water footprint. identified or anticipated. We also began a multiyear process to improve documentation, data collection and reporting on key performance indicators to measure compliance with Hess participates in two industry forums these procedures and to enhance the chain of communication as responsibility for the well focused on water management, to passes from one Hess team to another. advance our own performance and The enhanced management system will help to ensure that each stage of the well lifecycle contribute to industrywide knowledgeand associated field activity is supported by technical standards and procedures that specify minimum requirements for designing, constructing and operating Hess wells, along with the sharing and progress. First, we are active elements critical to well integrity, including the barriers that prevent or stop the uncontrolled participants in the IPIECA Water Working flow of well fluids. Moving to this structured and holistic approach to well integrity is in line Group, which aims to help companies with our commitment to operating safely and delivering value in our diverse global portfolio. improve their water use performance and reduce their water footprint by providing See the Shale Energy section online for specifics on our approach to well integrity in our shale sound analysis, assessment tools, operations, at hess.com/sustainability/environment/shale-energy good practices, credible data sources and appropriate indicators. We are also members of the Energy Water Initiative, a collaborative effort among 22 oil and natural gas companies to study, describe 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 55 ENVIRONMENT and improve lifecycle water use and We monitor the addition of new species Working Group of the American Petroleum management in upstream unconventional to the U.S. Fish and Wildlife Service’s Institute (API) to discuss oil and gas oil and natural gas exploration and national endangered and threatened development, with the goal of proactively production. In 2019 we will also continue species lists. In addition, we identify balancing development with environmental our partnership with the EFD program to locations where we may need to conduct decision making. review beneficial uses of produced water new biological risk assessments and, We also participate in the Cross-Sector in shale energy operations. where applicable, develop mitigation Biodiversity Initiative, a partnership of plans as a result of these listings. Also, BIODIVERSITY IPIECA, the International Council on where appropriate, we adjust drilling We are committed to conserving Mining and Metals and the Equator site locations to accommodate habitat biodiversity and habitats in the places Principles Association. This initiative features and priorities for certain species. where we operate. We consider the brings the mining, oil and gas and protection of biodiversity in our decision Hess utilizes third-party software programs, financial sectors together to develop and making and management from the earliest such as the Integrated Biodiversity share good practices for safeguarding stages of exploration and development Assessment Tool, to identify protected biodiversity and ecosystems. through production and closure at every areas and key biodiversity areas as well WASTE Hess location around the globe. as specific species listings. We maintain a We generate a variety of waste streams, list of IUCN Red List species with habitats We conduct formal environmental and including waste specific to drilling and that overlap with our operations. (See social impact assessments (ESIAs) on production activities. For each Hess asset, table below, which provides a snapshot of major capital projects as part of site we manage waste through specific waste relevant species at the time of publication evaluation, selection and risk assessment. management plans designed to comply of this report.) The IUCN updates the Red These ESIAs include biodiversity baseline with all applicable regulatory and Hess List species classifications regularly based studies as well as screenings of identified requirements for that location, as well as to on new information and improved data species using the International Union protect human health and the environment. from ongoing third-party studies, and we for Conservation of Nature (IUCN) Red These plans, which are developed to update our species list accordingly. List and other threatened, endangered align with the Hess Waste Management and protected species lists. We use We also identify IUCN protected Standard, require the application of our the results of ESIAs to create mitigation areas (categories I-III) adjacent to our waste minimization principles of “Remove, strategies, where appropriate. Even operations. In 2018 there were two such Reduce, Reuse, Recycle, Recover, Treat where the conditions or circumstances areas, both in North Dakota (Lostwood and Dispose” – with disposal being the do not call for a full ESIA, we still routinely Wilderness Area and Theodore Roosevelt least-preferred option. conduct biodiversity risk screenings and National Park). In 2018 we generated approximately impact assessments and undertake 47,000 tonnes of solid waste, appropriate mitigation activities. In IUCN Red List Species approximately 96 percent of which was addition, we conduct assessments when CATEGORY SPECIES (COUNT) classified as nonhazardous according to the classification of species and habitats Critically Endangered 10 applicable regulations. Our overall waste changes in areas where we operate. Endangered 28 generation volume was lower in 2018 As part of our goal to improve biodiversity compared with 2017 due to portfolio Vulnerable 140 management at Hess’ global assets, adjustments and a decrease in asset Near Threatened 168 we have been developing threatened retirement obligations. and endangered species field guides for We also disposed of approximately personnel to use during field activities. We We regularly work with our industry 82,000 tonnes of drill cuttings from our have completed guides for our Bakken peers on biodiversity-related issues. For North Dakota asset at licensed disposal asset and our Utica asset (now sold), with example, we are an active member of sites in 2018. These drill cuttings, as guides for other assets planned over the the Biodiversity and Ecosystem Services well as the discharges from our offshore next few years. Working Group of IPIECA. We also facilities (discussed in the next section), participate in the Endangered Species 56 are not included in our overall waste Sea operations. We steadily increased totals per IPIECA reporting guidance. reinjection volumes of produced water Oil in Produced Water Discharges to Sea 100 from an estimated 76 percent in 2014 We have continued our efforts to reduce 100 40 to 85 percent in 2017, and in 2018 Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) 87 Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) landfilled piping waste by decontami90 we achieved reinjection of 94 percent. Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes) Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes) nating it (i.e., removing technologically 80 80 While reinjection is somewhat driven by 70 30 enhanced naturally occurring radioactive 70 regulations, we have gone beyond what material or TENORM) and recycling it 60 60 is required, substantially reducing our instead. In 2018 we recycled 178 tonnes 50 produced water discharges over time. 18 17 20 of nonhazardous piping waste in North 40 40 Dakota due to these efforts. SPILL PREVENTION 30 10 S  ee the Shale Energy section online for more Hess maintains spill preparedness and 10 information on naturally occurring radioactive 20 20 13 materials (NORM) and TENORM: hess.com/ response plans and conducts emergency sustainability/environment/shale-energy 10 response exercises at each of our assets. 0 To support a swift and effective response 0 2016 2017 2018 0 DISCHARGES FROM OFFSHORE to any loss of primary containment (LOPC) ● Oil Mass in Produced Water (Tonnes) FACILITIES incident, we maintain strong relationships ● Oil Concentration in Produced Water (PPMV) Discharges from our offshore facilities with mutual aid and emergency response include drilling mud, drill cuttings and organizations at the local, regional and Hydrocarbon Spills HYDROCARBON SPILLS produced water. These waste streams are global levels. Hess’ international oil100 spill either reinjected for disposal or reservoir 350 response 200 needs are supported by our 90 350 200 management, discharged directly to 308 partnership 180 with Oil Spill Response80Limited 300 180 the ocean (when 300 allowed by applicable 160 1200 (OSRL),160an international, 45 industry-funded Volume of Spills (Barrels) Volume of Spills (Barrels) 70 245 regulations)250or transported to shore for 250 140 cooperative that responds 40 to oil spills Number of Spills Number of Spills 140 1000 treatment and disposal or recycling. 35 60 200 120 200 globally.120Our domestic needs are supported 100 800 100 30 50 In 2018 our150offshore facilities discharged by Marine Spill Response Corporation, 150 123 80 80 Clean Gulf Associates, Sakakawea40Area 25 to sea approximately 11,000 tonnes 600 of 60 100 46 52 60 100 20 nonaqueous drilling mud and cuttings, Spill Response 30 Bird Cooperative, Tri-State 29 40 40 50 400 15 which included 50 112 tonnes of nonaqueous Rescue20and Research, Wildlife Center 20 20 10 base fluid. 0 200 of Texas,0 and International SOS. Hess 10 0 2016 2017 2018 0 5 representatives serve on the board of 0 Offshore produced water discharges 0 0 ■ Volume of Spills directors of the OSRL and on the executive ● Number of Spills to sea totaled an estimated 1.3 million committee of Clean Gulf Associates, a notcubic meters in 2018. Produced water for-profit oil spill cooperative that supports Nonhydrocarbon Spills discharges had an average oil content the Gulf of Mexico. of 10 parts per million volume (PPMV), 1,200 45 1,104 totaling 13 tonnes of oil discharged. This Our international subsea preparedness and 40 data reflects a year-on-year decrease in response capabilities are supported by the 1,000 42 Volume of Spills (Barrels) 35 total oil discharged, mainly due to our Subsea Well Intervention Service and Wild Volume of Spills (Barrels) Number of Spills 800 30 Number of Spills 2017 divestitures and ongoing initiatives. Well Control. In the Gulf of Mexico, we 25 581 are members and serve on the executive 600 For example, we have been steadily 20 committee of the Marine Well Containment 22 20 reducing the amount of produced water 400 15 Company. These organizations provide discharged to sea at our South Arne asset 10 well capping, containment and dispersant 200 113 by instead reinjecting it into our wells 5 capabilities as well as equipment and to stimulate production. By reinjecting 0 0 personnel mutual aid. 2016 2017 2018 the produced water, we are able to ■ Volume of Spills offset our use of seawater and reduce We are also active members of the Oil ■ Volume of Spills ● Number of Spills ■ Number of Spills the environmental footprint of our North Spill Response Joint Industry Project 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 57 ENVIRONMENT organized by IPIECA and the International greater than one barrel and not completely 2018. In addition, our Bakken asset has Association of Oil and Gas Producers, contained within secondary containment. been handling more “sweet” natural gas and we contribute to the IPIECA Oil It is worth noting, however, that we still (i.e., with lower amounts of hydrogen Spill Working Group in support of our include data on all reported spills and sulfide), resulting in reduced emissions international assets. We served as chair of releases in our LOPC metric. of SO 2 from both natural gas-fueled the API’s Oil Spill Emergency Preparedness sources and flaring. In 2018, Hess continued a trend of yearand Response Subcommittee in 2018. over-year reductions in both hydrocarbon Absolute VOC emissions decreased Hess also participates in the Area Planning and nonhydrocarbon spills, even though our slightly from 2017 to 2018; however, Committee meetings for Regions 6 and production increased compared with 2017. normalized VOC emissions increased 8 of the U.S. Environmental Protection The number and volume of hydrocarbon somewhat due to lower production in Agency (EPA). spills decreased by 44 percent and 2018. Both absolute and normalized NOx We track LOPC events through our incident 50 percent, respectively. The number of emissions increased in 2018, primarily reporting system by size and material and nonhydrocarbon spills decreased due to increased drilling activity and report spills following applicable industry by 9 percent in 2018 compared with the associated combustion of diesel and regulatory guidance. We also use 2017, and the volume of spills decreased fuel (affecting absolute emissions) leading and lagging indicators to monitor by 80 percent. combined with lower production (affecting LOPC performance, including continuing normalized emissions). We have been working to implement a to tie LOPC performance to our annual range of programs to continue our focus REGULATORY COMPLIANCE AND incentive plan. on spill prevention. To address spills that LEGAL PROCEEDINGS In 2018 we changed our environmental result from corrosion and integrity issues, Strengthening our regulatory assurance spill definition to better align with global for example, we continue to enhance our program is one of the six components of industry reporting practices. While our inspection and surveillance programs, our EHS & SR strategy. Internal assurance performance data previously included all upgrade external corrosion protection and also helps us to ensure the effectiveness spills greater than one barrel, we have use of corrosion inhibitors, and replace or of our management systems. As part of restated our data to include only spills redesign pipes. We have also continued to our long-term compliance strategy, our expand spill prevention training and spillregulatory team continued to expand the related worksite controls, such as fluid use of a compliance tracking tool at our transfer checklists. In addition, we have U.S. assets in 2018. Key enhancements to Air Emissions enhanced the range of key performance Tonnes per Million BOE the tool in 2018 included further refinement indicators we use to track performance of a mobile application for field assurance 121.4 120 internally and increased internal personnel and synchronization of the 102.1 transparency and reporting. application with our work order system. Emissions (Tonnes per Million BOE) 100 87.5 AIR EMISSIONS As mentioned in the Climate Change and 80 77.2 86.4 The normal operation of fuel combustion Energy section, we continued our leak and processing equipment as well as detection and repair (LDAR) program 71.1 60 flaring activities results in air emissions of in 2018 across all of our U.S. onshore nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur dioxide (SO2) operations, as a way to achieve emission 40 28.6 and volatile organic compounds (VOCs). reductions as part of our ONE Future 24.1 20 Fugitive emission sources, including those and API Environmental Partnership 14.0 related to product loading and storage, commitments and to comply with a 0 also can contribute to VOC emissions. prior Consent Decree in North Dakota. 2016 2017 2018 We observed a decrease in absolute In our North Dakota production ● NOX Intensity ● VOC Intensity and normalized SO2 emissions in 2018, operations, the LDAR program helps to ● SO2 Intensity mainly due to divestitures in 2017 and decrease the turnaround time for repairs 58 identified through LDAR inspections, and our formalized process for assigning work material flows to field personnel helps increase accountability and the efficiency of any needed repairs. As an enhancement to our LDAR program in 2018, we implemented a preventive maintenance program for high-volume critical equipment, which includes subjecting certain fugitive emission components, as that term is defined by the U.S. EPA, to semiannual optical gas imaging inspections. This preventative maintenance program is helping to reduce the number of leaks identified during these inspections. F or a detailed description of our LDAR program, visit hess.com/sustainability/ environment We are also continuing a multiyear effort through the API’s Pipeline Safety Management System group to implement API Recommended Practice 1173, which is related to pipeline safety Production Operations, North Dakota management systems. A key aspect of our commitment to this initiative is Intelligent Pipeline Integrity the evaluation and enhancement of our integrity management systems In 2018 Hess helped form the Intelligent Pipeline Integrity Program (iPIPE), a collaboration of oil and gas operators, the Energy and Environmental Research Center pertaining to pipelines. – a nonprofit division of the University of North Dakota – and the North Dakota Industrial Commission (NDIC). Program participants are investing a total of $4 million Environmental Expenditures (a $1.6 million grant from the NDIC plus matching funds from participating operators) Hess received 103 alleged violations over the next four years to research and demonstrate emerging technologies that can totaling $75,000 in penalties during enhance pipeline integrity efforts and then encourage industrywide adoption of worthy technologies. 2018. The majority of our expenditures Each year, iPIPE members will review a range of technologies and choose a few winners on environmental fines and penalties for additional investment and testing. In 2018, iPIPE members chose to support two in 2018 – $41,000 – were the result of technologies. The first is a miniaturized pipeline sensor that can be run through new an alleged water supply violation with and existing pipelines to detect potential obstructions, magnetic features, geometric respect to a now-divested asset. Other defects, deposits, and corrosion and leak whistling. This type of sensor has the potential to help identify trouble spots or performance issues that could lead to expenditures were related to one alleged pipeline leaks or spills and to allow companies to take steps to proactively eliminate or offshore violation ($6,000) and various reduce the potential for incidents. The sensor may also provide an affordable option to alleged violations from U.S. Department better maintain pipeline performance and safety with no assessment-related downtime. of Transportation and Bureau of Land The second focus technology uses low-orbiting satellites to collect data that could be Management field inspections. used to identify pipeline leaks or other performance issues. This system includes proprietary algorithms and autonomous software to synthesize the massive amounts of data collected from thousands of miles of pipeline into simple visualizations and actionable alerts. iPIPE member operators are supporting further testing and refinement of these technologies in their own operations over the next few years. 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 59 PERFORMANCE DATA UNITS 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Business Performance Sales and other operating revenue $ Million 6,323 5,466 4,762 6,636 10,737 Net income (loss) attributable to Hess Corporation $ Million (282) (4,074) (6,132) (3,056) 2,317 Total assets $ Million 21,433 23,112 28,621 34,157 38,372 Total debt $ Million 6,672 6,977 6,806 6,592 5,952 Stockholders’ equity $ Million 10,888 12,354 15,591 20,401 22,320 Debt to capitalization ratio % 38.0 36.1 30.4 24.4 21.2 Exploration and Production Total net hydrocarbons produced Thousand BOE/D 277 306 322 375 329 Proved reserves (total) Million BOE 1,192 1,154 1,109 1,086 1,431 L  iquids (crude oil (light and medium oils), condensate & natural gas liquids) % 75 72 74 76 78 Gas % 25 28 26 24 22 Reserve life Years 12 10 9 8 12 Replaced production % 170 351 119 NM 158 Key Economic Metrics Capital and exploratory expenditures $ Million 2,340 2,168 2,154 4,338 5,606 Income tax expense/(benefit) $ Million 335 (1,837) 2,222 (1,299) 744 Royalties and other payments to governments $ Million 468 379 330 457 707 Cash dividends paid to shareholders $ Million 345 363 350 287 303 Employee wages and benefits (U.S.) $ Million 598 603 707 791 1,040 Interest expense before income taxes $ Million 399 325 338 341 323 Operating costs $/BOE 13 14 16 15 17 Supplier spend (approximate) $ Billion 4 5 6 7 8 Carbon and nitrogen oxides (NOX) taxes $ Million 0.2 0.8 0.8 5.5 3.0 Social Performance Total social investment $ Million 7 14 20 21 41 Education % 34 61 83 85 82 Community contributions (not in-kind) % 21 31 15 15 13 In-kind* % 41 2 1 <1 4 Environment % 2 6 1 <1 <1 All other** % 2 12 2 2 3 Our People Number of permanent employees # 1,708 2,075 2,304 2,770 3,039 U.S. % 86 85 83 79 78 International % 14 15 17 21 22 Part-time employees % <1 <1 <1 <1 1 Full-time employees % 100 100 100 100 99 Employee turnover – voluntary % 6 5 5 5 9 Employee layoffs % 20 13 18 8 20 Female employees (U.S. and international) % 26 28 27 27 28 Minority employees (U.S.) % 22 23 25 24 24 Employees represented by collective bargaining agreements % 2 2 2 3 1 Safety Performance Fatalities – workforce (employees + contractors) # 0 0 0 0 0 Hours worked – workforce Million hours 14.9 20.8 21.7 28.6 37.8 Employee total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.09 0.09 0.10 0.24 0.20 Contractor total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.41 0.31 0.50 0.39 0.45 Workforce total recordable incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.31 0.24 0.39 0.36 0.40 Employee lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.00 0.03 0.06 0.03 0.00 Contractor lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.12 0.10 0.15 0.10 0.14 Workforce lost time incident rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.08 0.08 0.13 0.08 0.12 Employee occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.13 0.06 0.00 0.09 0.00 Contractor occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.02 0.08 0.14 0.25 0.24 Workforce occupational illness rate Per 200,000 hours worked 0.05 0.08 0.10 0.21 0.20 Products with Safety Data Sheets % 100 100 100 100 100 NM: Not meaningful. *Includes company matching gifts. **Includes disaster relief, health, civic and employee, and arts and culture. 60 UNITS 2018 2017 2016 2015 2014 Greenhouse Gas Emissions Volume of flared and vented hydrocarbons MMSCF 18,797 22,009 26,991 36,121 35,987 Flaring intensity* SCF/BOE 163 164 174 192 276 Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) Million tonnes CO2e 3.6 3.7 4.1 5.1 4.8 CO2 Million tonnes CO2e 3.3 3.4 3.7 4.7 4.4 CH4 Thousand tonnes CO2e 283.0 313.4 296.9 403.7 403.1 N2O Thousand tonnes CO2e 2.7 2.7 2.3 2.7 28.4 Operated direct emissions (Scope 1) by source Flaring/venting % 52 52 52 63 61 Fuel combustion % 43 42 43 33 35 Other % 5 6 5 4 3 Operated indirect emissions (Scope 2) Million tonnes CO2e 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.6 CO2 Million tonnes CO2e 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.5 0.6 CH4 Thousand tonnes CO2e 0.8 0.9 0.2 0.2 0.3 N2O Thousand tonnes CO2e 1.6 1.9 2.4 2.4 2.7 Operated GHG emissions intensity* Tonnes CO2e/thousand BOE 34 34 33 33 41 Equity (Scopes 1 and 2) GHG emissions Million tonnes CO2e 3.9 4.0 4.2 5.5 6.0 Equity Scope 3 emissions Million tonnes CO2e 43.4 48.8 51.6 60.2 53.0 Energy Use Production energy intensity ◊ Gigajoules/BOE 0.26 0.27 0.29 0.23 0.23 Operated direct energy use Thousand gigajoules 25,064 25,831 29,973 27,506 25,829 Operated indirect energy use (gross) Thousand gigajoules 5,589 7,290 8,273 8,642 8,597 Net purchased electricity by primary energy source** Thousand MWh 606 790 896 936 865 Green-e certified renewable energy certificates (wind power) Thousand MWh 70 90 100 135 125 Freshwater Use Groundwater Million cubic meters 1.5 5.6 5.7 6.0 6.2 Municipal water Million cubic meters 0.8 1.2 0.6 1.2 1.9 Surface water Million cubic meters 1.6 0.8 1.2 1.7 2.2 Reused/recycled (estimated) % 4.0 7.7 14.5 12.0 9.0 Solid Waste Nonhazardous waste Thousand tonnes 45.4 154.4 92.5 252.5 118.8 Hazardous waste Thousand tonnes 1.7 2.6 0.9 0.4 1.1 Liquid Waste† Nonhazardous waste Thousand cubic meters 141.01 48.28 73.05 7,275 5,296 Hazardous waste Thousand cubic meters 0.00 0.00 10.52 18.44 0.50 Spills ¤ Hydrocarbon spills – number # 29 52 46 47 65 Hydrocarbon spills – volume Barrels 123 245 308 1,025 865 Nonhydrocarbon spills – number # 20 22 42 91 53 Nonhydrocarbon spills – volume Barrels 113 581 1,104 10,033 1,334 Air Emissions ◊ Sulfur dioxide (SO2) Tonnes 1,655 2,987 3,804 3,727 2,016 SO2 intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 14.0 24.1 28.6 23.6 13.7 NOx Tonnes 14,306 12,665 10,261 11,515 9,595 NOx intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 121.4 102.1 77.2 72.8 65.2 Volatile organic compounds (VOC) Tonnes 10,303 10,724 9,441 13,133 13,288 VOC intensity Tonnes/Million BOE 87.5 86.4 71.1 83.1 90.3 Exploration and Production Discharges Oil in produced water to sea Tonnes 13 70 87 81 70 Oil in produced water to sea PPMV 10 17 18 15 14 Produced water to sea Million cubic meters 1.3 5.7 6.4 6.5 6.0 Other Environmental Indicators Environmental fines and penalties – operated $ Thousand 75 842 24 25 84 Environmental expenditures – remediation $ Million 15 15 10 13 12 Environmental reserve $ Million 80 80 80 80 80 *GHG emissions and flaring intensities have been restated to reflect recent divestitures and are based on an adjusted annual gross operated hydrocarbon production (normalization factor) for 2018 of 114,344,323 BOE. See the Approach to Reporting and Climate Change and Energy sections for details. ◊ The annual gross operated hydrocarbon production (normalization factor) for 2018 was 117,803,360 BOE. **Third-party power generation. †Liquid waste totals include wastewater treatment and deep well disposal. ¤ Spill data have been restated to better align with global industry reporting practices. See the Environment section and the online Approach to Reporting section for details. 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 61 INDEPENDENT ASSURANCE STATEMENT ERM Certification and Verification Services (ERM CVS) was engaged by Hess Corporation (Hess) to provide assurance on the 2018 Sustainability Report (the Report). Engagement Summary Scope: Whether the Report is fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the reporting criteria. Reporting Criteria: The Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards 2016 (Core option). Assurance Standard: ERM CVS’s assurance methodology, based on the International Standard on Assurance Engagements ISAE 3000 (Revised). Assurance Level: Limited assurance. Respective Responsibilities: • Hess is responsible for preparing the Report and for its correct presentation, including disclosure of the reporting criteria and boundary. • ERM CVS’s responsibility is to provide conclusions on the agreed scope based on the assurance activities performed and exercising our professional judgment. OUR CONCLUSION Based on our activities, nothing has come to our attention to indicate that the Report is not fairly presented, in all material respects, in accordance with the GRI Standards 2016 (Core option). OUR ASSURANCE ACTIVITIES We planned and performed our work to obtain all the information and explanations that we believe were necessary to provide a basis for our assurance conclusion. A multi-disciplinary team of sustainability and assurance specialists performed the following activities: • A review of external media reporting relating to Hess to identify relevant sustainability issues in the reporting period. • Interviews with relevant staff to understand Hess’ sustainability strategy, policies and management systems. • Interviews with relevant staff to understand and evaluate the data management systems and processes (including IT systems and internal review processes) used for collecting and reporting the information. • A site visit to Hess’ Stampede asset in the Gulf of Mexico, and a remote verification of Hess’ operation in the North Malay Basin, offshore Malaysia, to verify the source data for the assets’ sustainability performance indicators for 2018 and to review sustainability management implementation at the asset level. • An analytical review of the 2018 data for the sustainability performance indicators from all assets and a check on the completeness and accuracy of the data consolidation at the Hess corporate level. • A visit to Hess’ head office in Houston, Texas, to review the consolidation process and the results of the internal data validation process, and to conduct interviews with subject matter experts regarding the content of the Report. • A review of samples of documentary evidence, including internal and external documents, relating to the assertions made regarding 2018 sustainability performance and activities in the Report. • A review of selected evidence related to the design, information collection and production of the Report in accordance with GRI requirements. • A review of the presentation of information relevant to the scope of our work in the Report to ensure consistency with our findings. THE LIMITATIONS OF OUR ENGAGEMENT The reliability of the assured data is subject to inherent uncertainties, given the available methods for determining, calculating or estimating the underlying information. It is important to understand our assurance conclusions in this context. OUR OBSERVATIONS We have provided Hess with a separate detailed management report including our observations. ERM Certification and Verification Services Inc., Atlanta www.ermcvs.com Email: post@ermcvs.com Jennifer Iansen-Rogers Head of Corporate Assurance 25 June 2019 ERM CVS is a member of the ERM Group. The work that ERM CVS conducts for clients is solely related to independent assurance activities and auditor training. Our processes are designed and implemented to ensure that the work we undertake with clients is free from bias and conflict of interest. ERM CVS and the staff who have undertaken this engagement work have provided no consultancy-related services to Hess in any respect. 62 AWARDS AND RECOGNITION SUSTAINABILITY WORKFORCE • CDP Climate Change leadership status for • MSCI ESG Indexes for seventh • Minority Engineer magazine’s Top 50 10th consecutive year consecutive year Employers • Dow Jones Sustainability Index North – MSCI ESG Leaders Indexes • Workforce Diversity magazine’s Top U.S. America for ninth consecutive year – MSCI SRI Indexes Employers – Industry Mover distinction in – MSCI KLD 400 Social Index • Hispanic Network magazine’s Best of the The Sustainability Yearbook 2018 • The Rocky Mountain Oil and Gas Best Employers • Corporate Responsibility Magazine’s (Individual) Award for Industry Leader • Black EOE Journal’s Best of the Best 100 Best Corporate Citizens for 11th • MY AMCHAM CARES Certificate of Employers consecutive year Recognition for Excellence in Corporate • Careers and the disABLED magazine’s – Leading oil and gas company Social Responsibility Top 50 Employers • STOXX Global ESG Leaders Index for sixth • Prairie Business magazine’s Top 50 Best consecutive year Places to Work MEMBERSHIPS AND ASSOCIATIONS • American Petroleum Institute • Extractive Industries Transparency Initiative • IPIECA • Center for Offshore Safety • Independent Petroleum Association • Oil Gas Denmark • Center for Strategic and International of America • National Petroleum Council Studies • International Association of Oil and • U.S. Chamber of Commerce • Council on Foreign Relations Gas Producers SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING REQUESTS FOR INFORMATION FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS For copies of our Environment, Health and Safety Policy, Social This report contains projections, future estimates, plans, Responsibility Policy or Human Rights Policy, or for more information expectations and other forward-looking statements, including regarding our operations, please visit our website at hess.com. information about sustainability goals and targets and planned We invite your questions, comments and suggestions regarding this social, safety and environmental policies, programs and initiatives. report. To send us your questions or comments, or to request more These statements reflect the company’s current views with respect information or additional copies of this report, please contact: to future events and the company’s performance. No assurance can be given that the development or continuation of any policy, program Vice President, or initiative expressed in any forward-looking statement will be Environment, Health and Safety achieved, and actual results could differ materially from those Hess Corporation expected for a number of reasons, including risk factors affecting the 1501 McKinney Street company’s business. A discussion of these risk factors is included in Houston, TX 77010 the company’s annual report of Form 10-K filed with the Securities You can also send us an email at sustainability@hess.com. and Exchange Commission. Sandy Alexander Inc., an ISO 14001:2004 certified The savings below are achieved when PCW Savings from the use of emission-free printer with Forest Stewardship Council® (FSC®) Chain of Custody, printed the Hess Sustainability recycled fiber is used in place of virgin fiber: wind-generated electricity: Report with the use of renewable wind power 84 trees preserved for the future 6,103 pounds of GHG emissions resulting in nearly zero carbon emissions. This report was printed on FSC®-certified Mohawk Options 6 pounds of water pollutants not created not generated paper, a process-chlorine-free 100 percent postconsumer waste (PCW) paper manufactured entirely 39,349 gallons of water saved Displaces this amount of fossil fuel: with 100 percent certified wind energy and containing 3.00 barrels of natural oil unused Design: incdesign.com 100 percent post-consumer recycled fiber. 2,209 pounds of solid waste not created 7,255 pounds of net greenhouse gases In other words your savings from the use of (GHGs) prevented wind-generated electricity are equivalent to: 38 million British thermal units of energy 3,128 miles not driven not consumed 34 trees planted 2018 SUSTAINABILIT Y REPORT 63 LEARN MORE AT WWW.HESS.COM/SUSTAINABILITY SOCIAL RESPONSIBILITY SAFETY AND HEALTH OUR PEOPLE A review of social responsibility as Aiming to get everyone, everywhere, Creating a company culture and our way of doing business every day, home safe high-quality workforce that innovates, www.hess.com/sustainability/ www.hess.com/sustainability/ leads and learns social-responsibility safety-health www.hess.com/careers/life-at-hess CLIMATE CHANGE ENVIRONMENT GRI CONTENT INDEX AND ENERGY Responsible management of our Performance against GRI Standards Balancing the world’s growing energy environmental footprint indicators needs with our cost-effective greenhouse www.hess.com/sustainability/ www.hess.com/sustainability/ environment gas emissions reduction policy sustainability-reports/GRI-Index www.hess.com/sustainability/ climate-change-energy www.hess.com
