2018 MYSC ANNUAL REPORT 8th MERRY YEAR INNOVATORS FOR INNOVATORS Contents 2018 Remembrance and Resolution 06 8th Merry Year Impact Summary 07 MYSC Summary 1) MYSC Value Proposition 09 2) MYSC Three Innovative Strategies 10 3) MYSC Intrapreneurs 12 MYSC Innovation Groups 1) MYSC Innovation Groups 18 2) MYSC In-house Committees 20 Impact Quantification Index 22 Awards · Certifications 24 and Socially Responsible Activities 8th Merry Year Impact Stories 1) Consulting 33 2) Accelerating 49 3) Impact Investment 59 4) Content Planning & Expansion 62 Media Coverage 65 0203 Opening Words Seagulls, as you know, never falter, never stall. To stall in the air is for them disgrace and it is dishonor. But Jonathan Livingston Seagull, unashamed, stretching his wings again in that trembling hard curve – slowing, slowing, and stalling once more – was no ordinary bird. Most gulls don’t bother to learn more than the simplest facts of flight – how to get from shore to food and back again. For most gulls, it is not flying that matters, but eating. For this gull, though, it was not eating that mattered, but flight. More than anything else, Jonathan Livingston Seagull loved to fly. Richard Bach, 1970 <Jonathan Livingston Seagull> 0405 2018 Remembrance and Resolution What do our jobs mean to us, as place where adults I would like to introduce to you the story of 2018, MYSC’s and members of society spend most of our days? Larry 8th Merry Year, titled “Innovators for Innovators”. In the Fink, chairman of BlackRock, the world’s largest asset midst of it all, you will be able to discover which various management company, received keen attention at the “flight skills” of social innovation our MYSC intrapreneurs beginning of 2019 when he sent out his annual letter to have refined. We have described this has the dynamic shareholders and investment firms under the title “Purimage and rhythm of “jazz.” pose & Profit.” In addition, we reaffirm MYSC’s support for the 10 prin<Jonathan Livingston Seagull> is a story about a group ciples of the UN Global Compact. The 8th Merry Year of ordinary seagulls and a different seagull, Jonathan also includes reports on how MYSC’s business strategy, Livingston. One could live a comfortable life by snatching culture, and daily operations are being integrated and the periodic flying bread crumbs and fish heads being improved with the Global Compact. thrown away at the fish market staying by the pier, but Jonathan Livingston did not halt his dangerous challengIn particular, MYSC has publicly announced that it has es. joined the innovative journey for the sustainability of humanity by participating in the “CEO Statement of He refined his skills on things that did not exactly help Support for the Sustainable Development Goals”, the him with eating and surviving, such as diving, flip-flops, environmental contribution initiative “1% for the Planet” flying low, spinning upside down, pinwheel circling, and and “RE100” for the promotion of renewable energy. so on. Jonathan Livingston understood that seagulls Furthermore, as impact investors, we are actively seeking have wings not simply to find food to survive but to fly and fostering social ventures that have clear goals to freely, fly the highest and see the farthest. achieve Sustainable Development Goals. To that end, we will create and implement impact funds for Sustainable For the members of MYSC, also known as intrapreneurs, Development Goals in the future. Thank you. 2018 was a challenge like that of Jonathan Livingston’s. The members of MYSC needed to become innovators in order to properly help innovators and innovative organizations struggling in various fields. This meant continuously taking on obscure and uncertain challenges, at times even gathering the courage to make innovative Yours truly, attempts that may not succeed. Jeongtae Kim 8th Merry Year Impact Summary Financial Performance MYSC was able to attempt more · Sales in 2018 increased by 103.6% compared to the previous year. significant social innovations · Business profits in 2018 increased 267.1% compared to the previous year. and create a stable business · Ability to design customer-orientated, integrated value propositions were environment through remarkable strengthened through the establishment of subsidiaries in a variety of specialized fields. financial growth. Extra-mile Communications (digital marketing/preliminary social enterprise), Favor Design (interior design), MYSF (F&B social franchise). Social Performance Focusing on SDGs (Sustainable · Goal 8 Development Goals), MYSC was Empowering young changemakers able to impact the following · Goal 9 social issues. Corporate social innovation Open innovation · Goal 10 Poverty Resolution Empowering vulnerable groups to resolve polarization Creating jobs for people with disabilities · Goal 17 Strengthening partnerships (collective impact) Ecological Responsibility Striving to become a responsible · Participation in the establishment of the corporation B Lab Korea leader for all to grow into an even Supported the establishment of a non-profit corporation that will lead the initiative of healthier social innovative ecoexpanding the B Corp culture movement in South Korea. system together, MYSC particiTo promote sustainable management in the private-sector so not only B Corp certified pated in the following programs business, but also people who want to create social and environmental values through in 2018. business can participate. · Participation in “1% for the Planet” and launching “1% Alliance” Joined the “1% for the Planet” initiative, where members donate 1% of their annual revenue to non-profit environments organizations to contribute to the environment. Launched 1% Alliance with domestic partners moving in a similar direction and want to share incentives (Patagonia Korea, D’LIGHT Law Group, Root Energy, etc.). Global Alliance MYSC has formed a global alli· Vietnam (KOICA Social Enterprise Acceleration and Impact Investment) ance with partners from various / Anna Kang, Jungho Park, Jeongtae Kim, Jihyun Hong, Junghwan Bae countries and has provided a · Singapore (AVPN Conference) / Jeongtae Kim, Jungho Park, Yeji Lee, Anna Kang positive influence to the global · Philippines (Asian B Corp Leadership) / Jeongtae Kim trend of social innovation. · Chile (Global B Corp Partner Assembly) / Jeongtae Kim, Jungho Park We also encouraged as many · Italy (GSVC Finals) / Sunmi Kim members as possible to partici· United States of America (SOCAP18 Conference) / Jain Yoo, Jiyeon Jeong, Saeeun Kim pate in overseas business trips in · Japan (Hana POWER ON CHALLENGE: Frontier Overseas Study) / Yeji Lee, Eunjin Lee, order to provide opportunities to Miso Na, Hyewon Kim, Yonghwa Park contribute to the global alliance · Japan (Design Overseas Insight Trip) / Jihyun Kim, Deokyu Kim, Miso Na, Yonghwa Park through fostering and develop· Nepal (Design Thinking Research with Hana Financial Group) / Anna Kang, Wonhee Kim, ing international senses. Jihyun Kim, Deokyu Kim, Hongil Kim, Miso Na 0607 MYSC Introduction 1) MYSC Value Proposition MYSC is an innovative company that helps innovation. The “merry year” in MYSC (Merry Year Social Company) stands for a world where social polarization no longer exists and all people can live decent lives. MYSC is putting into action the spirit of ‘merry year’. MYSC, as a partner to all organizations that want to contribute to social change through innovation, is creating social innovation through business. As social issues become another source of innovation, we help enterprises fulfill business innovations based on social issues. We also spread the leading indicators of social impact by accelerating and investing in social ventures that seek to solve social problems. MYSC believes that, as an intrapreneur organization, the growth and maturity of our members becomes the growth and maturity of the organization as well. Based on the ability of members to innovate and develop concepts, we are helping to advance and sustain the innovation of the innovator. 0809 2) MYSC’s Three Innovative Strategies Here are the three innovative strategies used to achieve the aforementioned MYSC value proposition. Tri-sector Collaboration Innovation In order to solve the root of social problems, cooperation is needed between the public, corporate, and social sectors, rather than having separate approaches. MYSC plans and operates various cross-sector projects through consulting, incubating, training, and investing, while understanding the inherent language and value of each sector. Human-centered Approach Innovation In order to develop sustainable solutions to social problems, there is a need for human-centered approaches that put the person directly concerned and stakeholders at the center, instead of skill or program-based solutions. MYSC provides consulting services to help clients redefine problems and develop human-centered solutions based on human-centered approaches, such as design thinking. Shared-value Creation Innovation In order for social problems to become the basis for new opportunities in the future society, shared values need to be operated between the for-profit and nonprofit entities involved in social problems. MYSC provides consulting and investing in large corporations and social ventures pursuing both financial value and social impact 1011 3) MYSC Intrapreneur Introductions Jeongtae Kim, CEO Yeji Lee, Principal Consultant Saeeun Kim, Consultant (Social Innovation Lab 2) (Sustainability Solution Lab 1) 80% of cultivating intrapreneurs is about happily embarking on Just as people depend on the Each day, I learn and grow with the path of adventure without firm axis of a compass to find the every step. I will make an effort losing your faith. The remaining way, I want to maintain balance for each small accomplishment 20% is to embark on that journey while continuously seeking for I make in my position to permewith amazing colleagues. MYSC the righteous way. I will strive to ate into our society and bring is a time and place that allows me be an intrapreneur who shares about virtuous growth. I will work to go on this thrilling adventure that direction with those around towards converting each moment with outstanding partners day me as I work in the midst of an of my concerns and efforts into after day. organization that grows and meaningful actions for others. changes with each year. Jain Yoo, CFO Miso Na, Designer (Business Planning Team) Jiyeon Jeong, / Senior Researcher Managing Consultant (Design Solution Lab 2) I would like to be an ascendable (Social Innovation Lab 1) hill rather than a high soaring I will create a beautiful world mountain. In that way, I will “Each problem we have has the through design, not for my own support small attempts that work ability to be solved. There just life, but for the lives of others. I towards creating a society where needs to be one person who hope to be used as a designer all can live happily together. devotes their life to solve that that helps people to their feet problem.” I work to discover opand communicate love to others portunities out of problems and through design. restore values that have disappeared from the world. Jihyun Kim, Creative Director (Design Solution Lab 1) Jungho Park, CSO When one finds their own self, (Sustainability Solution Lab 1) their proper place, that is when Eunjin Lee, Senior Researcher they shine. I want to be a person (Social Innovation Lab 3) Like a cup of coffee that has who helps others find their true been served with sincerity, I want colors and shine in their daily I learn and continue to learn how to present small solutions that lives. I will become a companion to resolve various complicated create change in society. I look to help find your lost self, emosocial issues by meeting various forward to these solutions betion, and place. stakeholders. I want to be able to coming movements and points of manage the tasks assigned to me change in society. Therefore, in while treating people and work the future, I dream that this world with sincerity. will be a place just as good, if not better, for my two daughters to live in. 1213 Hyewon Kim, Manager Hoiyoung Lee, Wonhee Kim, Researcher (Business Planning Team Senior Researcher (Social Innovation Lab 1) / Content Planning Team) (Design Solution Lab1) I try to be a person who thinks I want to do valuable work. I want I believe that making the obvious more about the “why” rather than to do work that is valuable to not so obvious, and a heart that the “how.” I try to be a person many people. As I eagerly await doesn’t settle for familiarity can who draws meaning from life. the day that these values change incite change. I will accompany This being the main principle of the world, I want to extend my efforts to create innovation by my life, I will actively move with small, but helping, hands. questioning, testing, and taking each moment. on challenges. Sunmi Kim, Senior Researcher Hongil Kim, Service Designer (Social Innovation Lab 2) Deokyu Kim, / Senior Researcher Branding Strategy Team Leader (Social Innovation Lab 2) Having faith in people and / Senior Consultant society, and pursuing the value (Design Solution Lab 2) I strive to create appropriate deof togetherness, I want to create signs for people by having a deep change with others. I will be a There are many restaurants in identification and understanding sincere person to whomever, Japan that have been loved by of them. By accumulating those whenever. the public for over 100 years. I designs, I desire to create a better believe that is a gift only brands culture and a better world. that have found their identity can have without instilling the idea of having to look good just for the time being. I want to create a loving and beloved brand that is sustainable for over 100 years. Anna Kang, Consultant (Sustainability Solution Lab 2) Yonghwa Park, Designer (Design Solution Lab 2) I eagerly await for sustainable changes, through social innoProper insight is needed when vation and impact business, to solving a problem. Without doing occur in the lives of everyone I so, the output of a product, meet and work with. I hope to Jungsun Lee, Manager time, or space cannot solve the live a life that satisfies the needs (Business Planning Team) problem. I want to create huof others and society by cultivatman-centered design by having ing my resources and strengths. I have met warm-hearted people the proper insight of a problem. While being thankful for each day at a warm place where their obthat is given to me, I will explore, jective is people over money. I will entertain, and encourage all the be a reliable supported encourmore every day. aging all of MYSC’s valuable work to create an even warmer world for us and our children to live in. Jihyun Hong, Researcher Hyeonjung Jung, Inhyo Ko, Researcher (Sustainability Solution Lab 2) Senior Researcher (Social Innovation Lab 3) (Social Innovation Lab 2) Nevertheless. I do what I can at There are people who discover this moment here to make toAs a supporter of changemakthe numerous issues and needs morrow a little better world than ers who are solving social issues that exist in the world and think today. through business, I will take part and actually create ways to solve in the innovation journey. “Don’t them. I will help and support open an umbrella today for rain them do that “work” more excitthat will fall tomorrow.” edly and “well.” Jungeun Kim, Staff (Business Planning Team) I want to help more social values Hyojin Park, Researcher Junghwan Bae, Researcher to be fulfilled and more social (Sustainability Solution Lab 1) (Sustainability Solution Lab 2) issues to be resolved. Walking along with others who have take I believe sustainability is to look I become one who ceaselessly the correct, yet rough path, I far and wide, but to also act thinks about what is an important will become a lamp that shines now. I would like to act now for value, and to fulfill that value brightly along the way to prevent the sustainability of myself and through my actions. I believe that others from tripping over rocks others. when proper vision and actions along the way. come together, the world can change. Jaewoo Jeong, Yunji Ha, Senior Researcher Senior Consultant (Social Innovation Lab 1) (Social Innovaiton Lab 2) Seungwon Oh, Senior Consultant Dreaming of a world where peo“It is not us that do great work, (Social Innovation Lab 3) ple, nature, and various members but doing small works with great of society can like harmoniously, love, a small but steady push to I want to give a small contribuI continue on the journey of the end, that is the path of the tion to creating a happier, better social innovation. I encourage all greatest life.” – Nohae Park world. Although it will not be an individuals and organizations that Working along wonderful people easy journey, I will continue to raise their voices and take action to create a better world, I will start steadily walk on, step by step, to resolve social issues. with the small works I can do with with vigor. small but steady pushes to the end. 1415 MYSC Innovation Groups Using “innovation” as a way of business, MYSC is comprised of groups such the Social Innovation Group, Design Innovation Group, Sustainability Innovation Group, and Business & Investment Innovation Group. Each group has the status of company-in-company, and they operate under the principles of responsibility and autonomy. MYSC innovation groups fulfill social innovation. To create social impact, these groups handle consulting, accelerating, design, investment, and other various fields with corporations, government, civil society, and all sectors within the country, as well as crossing borders to work globally. Within the MYSC innovation groups are subdivisions of labs that experiment the various hypotheses of social innovation, and teams that help execute specific tasks or help test those hypotheses for social innovation. 1617 1) MYSC Innovation Groups Social Innovation Group As the companion to the innovation journey, the Social Innovation Lab joins the client at the front lines of innovation. For clients taking their first steps towards social innovation, they will work together with the Social Innovation Lab to create and experiment various innovation hypotheses they have never attempted to before, as well as internalize learning and growth from the Innovation Journey. Social Innovation Lab 1 #openinnovation #collectiveimpact #corporatesocialinnovation Design Innovation Group As the developer for the innovation experience, the Social Innovation Lab 2 Design Solution Group shows a specific experience to the #socialventure #accelerating vague innovation their clients face. The Design Solution #socialcontributionprojects Group creatively displays innovation through design and branding, strengthens communication with stakeholders, Social Innovation Lab 3 and helps clients reproduce innovation. #socialvalue #jobcreation #regionregeneration #CSV Design Solution Lab 1 #servicedesign #socialdesign #designresearch Design Solution Lab 2 #visualdesign #branding #UX 1) MYSC Innovation Groups Business & Investment Innovation Group As the investor of Innovation Capital, the Business & Investment Innovation Group invests innovation capital, which includes financial capital, human capital, and social capital, needed to carry on the innovation of clients and MYSC’s company-in-company. Business Planning Team The Business Planning Team funds the project plans and the business objective establishment in order that the experiments and verification of each lab at MYSC can be concretely put into action. They are also responsible for Sustainability Innovation Group financial accounting and performance management. #financcialaccounting #performancemanagement #HR As the facilitator to the innovation culture, the Sustainability Innovation Group constructs and strengthens their Impact Investment Team client’s sustainable business foundation. They help lead The Impact Investment Team is responsible for the whole a longer term and positive change to the clients through process of impact investment, including deal sourcing, an organization culture that strengthens sustainability due-diligence, evaluation, and post-management. They and social impact measurement. are also responsible for managing invested companies, as well as the creation (GP & LP) and operation of largeSustainability Solution Lab 1 scale impact funds. #sustainable business #BCorp #IR #dealsourcing #fundoperations #impactmeasurement #CSR Content Planning Team The Content Planning Team plans and publishes various Sustainability Solution Lab 2 content to help make social innovation become a more #developmentcollaborationsocialventure universal language. They are responsible for the supply #SDGs #globalsocialinnovation and development of social innovation fields, such as design thinking and social corporations, and they are working on the dispersion of the social innovation language through various plans like magazine publication. #socialinnovationlanguage #publication #socialinnovationcontent 1819 2) MYSC In-house Committees In order for MYSC to become a healthier and sustainable organization the provides value through social environments, there are various active in-house committees that members have voluntarily proposed initiatives and lead action plans with the organization. Happiness Promotion Committee (alias “Haengchuwui”) As MYSC’s oldest committee, this group cultivates an organizational culture to create a happier workplace for all members. They celebrate the birthdays of members and holidays, prepare MTs (Membership Training) to promote teamwork, operate a “happiness box” to work out the difficulties members may have, plan group improvement workshops to discuss ways to create a healthier organization, as well as other several activities. Respect for Gender Committee (alias “Jongenwui”) As a committee to promote gender rights, the role of this group is to discover and improve the areas of discrimination the organization and members miss, and to create an institutional·cultural foundation where people respect and are considerate of each other’s differences regardless of gender. Activites such as making a diagnosis of the group’s current situation through a cooperation of related agencies and events within the company to practice respect and consideration are being operated. 2) MYSC In-house Committees Social Environment Committee Ethical Management Subcommittee (Social Contribution Task Force As the most recently formed committee, they have + Environment Task Force) begun the work of giving shape to MYSC’s tacit code of Based off of the voluntary motive to not only propose ethics into principles that anyone can distinctly agree to. social values to clients, but to also implement them In particular, this committee has lead a workshop where firsthand, the Social Contribution TF is primarily responall members of the company participated. They used sibly for performing voluntary work and giving donathe methodology of design thinking to define issues tions to welfare centers, non-profit organizations, and user-centered approach to raise the awareness of the other social corporations to help those left in the welfare members. “blind spot.” On the other hand, the Environment TF, which began with each member’s sense of responsibility to participate in the issue of the global environmental crisis, began by joining “1% for the Planet,” where 1% of the company’s sales are donated to an organization related to helping the environment. The members of this committee are planning larger-scale impact by taking the lead on environment protection campaigns, and organizing consultative groups with partners working in a similar direction. 2021 Impact Quantification Index 88 Accelerated Social Ventures 25 Public Institution Clients 7 Invested Social Ventures 25 Private Institution Clients 1,607 Participants in Directly-organized 49 Newly Created Jobs through Social Innovation Education and Direct Contribution Design Thinking 162 Participants in Directly-Organized 171 Social Innovation Content Publication Conferences and Forums (Book and Blog Publications) 13 Intrapreneur Accelerating Program Graduates (Prospective Intrapreneur School 1~2 Class, Prospective Leader School 1 Class) 2223 Awards·Certifications and Socially Responsible Activities Best for the World 2018 – Selected Honoree in the “Best for Workers” Category MYSC has been chosen for two years in a row since 2017 to be the best B Corp in the world in the “Workers” category, which is evaluated by B Lab. This is a symbol of encouragement given to B Corps who provide a sound organizational culture, fair hiring · promotion policy, proactive support towards building members’ capabilities, and much more. MYSC continues to ceaselessly reflect on the social responsibility we have on our members so they can continue to grow in a better environment. Best For The World 2018 Workers Honoree Awards·Certifications and Socially Responsible Activities Registration as an Accelerator (Startup Management Agency) by the Ministry of SMES and Startups MYSC’s registration as a professional social venture accelerator was officially finalized in December of 2018 by the Ministry of SMES and Startups. Through the accelerator qualification, MYSC has secured opportunities to participate in various accelerator management programs of public institutions. In particular, MYSC has acquired the qualification to create and operate the impact funds of the fund of funds through formation of private investment. 2425 Participation in the UNGC Commitment 10 Principles of the UNGC Communication on Progress (COP) Human Principle 1 : Business should MYSC operates an employee benefits system to respect human rights, which includes support and respect the meal expenses for overtime work during the week, meal expenses for working on holiRights days, self-authorized vacation days, alternative holidays, expenditure for the congratprotection of internationally ulations and condolences of employees, support for transportation expenses, family proclaimed human rights allowance, etc. We also operate a sperate grievance committee, composed of key executives and members, that provides a system to officially handle business-related issues that occur. Principle 2 : Make sure that In MYSC’s code of ethics, which internally prevents the infringement of human rights, they are not complicit in all considerations regarding human rights are included and intended to be applied to all business activities. The company will verify the areas to be managed and will conhuman rights abuses tinue to improve them based on ISO 37001, UNGC risk assessment guideline, international standards, and other means. Labour Principle 3 : Business MYSC actively supports the activities of the Labour Management Committee (applicashould uphold the freedom ble to the Pursuit of Happiness Committee), and regular meetings are held to collect the opinions of the Labour Management Committee (support for committee activities, of association and the regular evaluation meetings between key executives and Labour Management Comeffective recognition of the mittee, etc). right to collective bargaining Principle 4 : The elimination MYSC is unending in including the forced labour prohibition article (Act 64) in our of all forms of forced and employment regulations. MYSC also guarantees the work efficiency and the work-life balance of company members by adopting flexible and remote working, and reduced compulsory labour working hours in months of extreme heat (two months) and cold (two months) for a total of four months. Principle 5 : The effective MYSC includes the prohibition of child labour article (Act 64) in our employment reguabolition of child labour lations, and exhaustively eliminates child labour from all company work and direct and indirect businesses. Principle 6 : The eliminaAn article regarding respect of diversity (Act 5) is included in MYSC’s employment regtion of discrimination in ulations. When it comes to recruitment and hiring staff, no difference is made due to gender, age, race, skin tone, religion, social status, native region, alma mater, political respect of employment and affiliation, marital status, pregnancy, sexual orientation, disability, and medical history. occupation The Respect for Gender Committee was formed within MYSC, and they work to try to eliminate any sexist elements from communication between company members, company culture, and other areas. The ease of work for members with children is also guaranteed through parental leave and flexible work hours. EnvironPrinciple 7 : BusinessThrough the voluntary formation of the Social Environment Committee within MYSC, es should approach a an effort is to continue social contribution activities that support vulnerable classes ment and effectively protect the environment. precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 : Undertake MYSC created an environmental management policy in 2018 to decrease unnecesinitiatives that promote sary environmental burden through company activities (workspace energy reduction, resource reduction, purchase of environmentally friendly items, etc.), and to increase greater environmental the environmental sensitivity of company members. Beginning January 1, 2019, MYSC responsibility has joined “1% for the Planet,” and will donate at least 1% of company sales to an environmental organization. Principle 9 : Encourage the MYSC has included an article related to environmental business policy to increase development and diffusion investments towards social ventures that provide solutions for environmental protection like climate change, energy reduction, and reduction of hazardous waste in the of environmentally friendly environment. technologies Anti-CorPrinciple 10 : Business MYSC restricts the usage of entertainment expenses outside of company business ruption should work against purposes through the Code of Ethics and expense user guides. Even if expenses are corruption in all its forms used for business purposes, and what is spent for business purposes are only allowed including extortion and within a fixed range. Also, the expense range for the special events of company clients bribery and sponsors are strictly regulated to prevent corruption. The financial status of the company is also transparently disclosed to all members of the company each year, and an external audit of accounts are done each year to completely block off any corruption of the company’s finances. Awards·Certifications and Socially Responsible Activities Social Contribution Activities through the Social Contribution TF MYSC has been pushing forward social contribution and environmental activities since the formation of the Social Environment Committee in 2018. The Social Contribution TF, which is taking the initiative towards activities especially for vulnerable classes, visited Seong-Su Social Welfare Center, Seongdong Social Welfare Center, and Seongdong Welfare Center for the Disabled to provide voluntary services (bazaar events and cooking classes), and donate and delivery commodities. 2627 Awards·Certifications and Socially Responsible Activities 1% for the Planet Membership Under the mission of “we bring dollars and doers together to accelerate smart environmental giving,” 1% for the Planet is an environmental initiative that recruits businesses who want to donate at least 1% of their year’s sales to grassroots environmental organizations, and connects the organizations to them. As a registered member of 1% for the Planet, MYSC will donate 1% of their sales from 1 year to environmental organizations and environment-related initiatives beginning 2019. 2829 8th Merry Year Impact Story We introduce to you a portion of the projects MYSC has done in 2018. Consulting Social Value Creation Modeling Service Design Branding Open Innovation B Corp Certification Consultation Collective Impact Accelerating Social Venture Discovery Social Venture Accelerating Social Venture Sustainability Enhancement Impact Investment Social Venture Investment Content Planning & Distribution Social Innovation Insight Social Innovation Content and Methodology Presentation 3031 Consulting : Social Value Creation Modeling SK Telink Social Value Business Model Innovation Proposal Project Introduction : SK Telink’s vision and brand was set from a social value perspective and their business model was redesigned so that a basic foundation could be provided for the company to be established as an innovative company that is sustainable and beneficial to the world. Client Company · Partner Company : SK Telink, Korea Productivity Center Project Period : 2018.10 ~ 2018.12 Project Members : Jungho Park, Saeeun Kim, Hyojin Park, Jeongtae Kim Consulting : Social Value Creation Modeling Public Sector Social Value Creation Forum Project Introduction : An open forum was held for three days to acquire basic concepts for social value creation in the public sector, and to explore alternatives of the future by sharing practical cases and methodologies. Client Company · Partner Company : Center for Social Entrepreneurship Studies Project Period : 2018.06 ~ 2018.12 Project Members : Jungho Park, Saeeun Kim, Jihyun Hong 3334 Consulting : Social Value Creation Modeling Social Innovation Program for University Students, “H-Social Creator (4th Term)” Project Introduction : A program was operated where university students became the principle agent in suggesting creative ideas by discovering social issues firsthand through design thinking. In keeping with the proposed direction of Hyundai Motors, they took the subject of “eco-friendly / growth generation / culture and arts / transportation safety,” and they newly defined social issues and formed fresh ideas. Client Company · Partner Company : Hyundai Motors Project Period : 2018.05 ~ 2018.12 Project Members : Sunmi Kim, Hongil Kim Consulting : Social Value Creation Modeling SDGs X Design Thinking Convergence Education in Preparation for Unification from the Korean Peninsula and International Perspective Project Introduction : Through SDGs and design thinking, issues regarding future unification from the Korean peninsula and international perspective were discovered, and a storybook containing preparation ideas for the future unification was made. Client Company · Partner Company : UniKorea Foundation Project Period : 2018.05 ~ 2018.09 Project Members : Hoeyoung Lee, Wonhee Kim 3536 Consulting : Service Design Design Thinking Enhancement 3C Innovation Program Program Introduction : This is a customized innovation program that supports the design thinking empowerment of small and mid-sized manufacturing companies and design specialists to develop and implement sustainable growth models. With design thinking as the foundation, they pursued the 3Cs of Collaborative Project, Creative Business, and Collective Impact. Client Company · Partner Company : Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy / Korea Institute of Design Promotion Project Period : 2018.07 ~ 2018.11 Project Members : Jihyun Kim, Eunjin Lee, Yonghwa Park Consulting : Service Design Samcheok Energy Shared Value Creation Service Design Project Introduction : Research was done using the service design methodology to create an “energy innovation village” where residents of Gangwon Province could produce and utilize renewable energy and return the shared value of the village. Client Company · Partner Company : Ministry of Trade, Industry and Energy / Korea Institute of Design Promotion Project Period : 2018:12 ~ 2019.02 Project Members : Jihyun Kim, Hoeyoung Lee, Inhyo Ko 3738 Consulting : Service Design SK Telecom Flagship Store Design Research Project Introduction : Service design was done to create a flagship store that embodied the SK Telecom brand identity. Using the design thinking process, vast data collected through consumer observation, in-depth · focus group interviews, domestic and international flagship store case studies, global trends surveys, and competitor surveys was analyzed with various stakeholders to propose a solution in the most suitable form. Client Company · Partner Company : SK Telecom, SM C&C, BrandArchitects Project Members : Jihyun Kim, Jeongtae Kim, Deokyu Kim, Hongil Kim Consulting : Service Design Our Neighborhood’s Heart Living Lab Project Project Introduction : Neighborhood-based social service “Our Neighborhood’s Heart” uses a model where neighbors can give and take help from one another based on time through a mobile device. This project was one that searched for a point of discussion and improved the service of the mobile app “Our Neighborhood’s Heart Living Lab,” which was a prototype created by the service owner, provider, professionals, and other stakeholders. Client Company · Partner Company : Ministry of Health & Welfare, Seoul Media Institute of Technology Project Period : 2018.09 ~ 2018.12 Project Members : Jihyun Kim, Hoeyoung Lee, Inhyo Ko 3940 Consulting : Service Design Juan Media Culture Festival Service Design (Citizens Policy Design Group) Project Introduction : The “Media Culture Festival,” which is the representative regional festival of Michuhol-gu, Incheon, was planned by the Citizens Policy Design Group (a group that works with citizens to solve issues through a consumer-centered methodology called service design) and local residents to reflect the needs and circumstances of the younger generation. The festival was redesigned through the unique concept of “Michuholic” and participant-centered programs. Client Company · Partner Company : Michuhol-gu Incheon Metropolitan City District Office, Monster Record, Meader Project Period : 2018.05 ~ 2018.11 Project Members : Jihyun Kim, Hongil Kim, Hoeyoung Lee Consulting : Service Design Our House Energy Electricity Saving Bank Service Design (Citizens Policy Design Group) Project Introduction : Through the Citizens Policy Design Group activity of “an energy saving bank business that can save energy through the use of IoT devices and apps,” led by the Gangwon-do District Office, this project was operated to improve the service. After a total of 10 service design workshops, Our House Energy Saving Bank UX improvement, a resident community vitalization plan, and marketing strategy was established. Client Company · Partner Company : Gangwon-do District Office Project Period : 2018.05 ~ 2018.11 Project Members : Jihyun Kim, Hoeyoung Lee, Inhyo Ko 4142 Consulting : Branding Amsa-dong Café “Two Space Place” Branding & Interior Design Project Introduction : “Two Space Place” is a private café in Amsa-dong, Gangdong-gu. Its identity, naming, and key visuals were created through design thinking, and its interior design was done as a identity and value-centered café. Client Company · Partner Company : Two Space Café, Favor Design Project Period : 2018.06 ~ 2018.09 Project Members : Deokyu Kim, Yonghwq Park Consulting : Branding Social Venture Branding Project Introduction : MYSC supported the branding of social venture that wanted to fulfill social values. Social ventures that had a social mission, but had difficulty in establishing a clear direction for their business were interviewed. Then their identity was established and their BI, BX was established through branding workshops. Client Company · Partner Company : Color Stick, Ruby, Farmskin, art giver, Pippi Anne Lupin Project Period : 2018.01 ~ Present (2~3 months per project) Project Members : Deokyu Kim, Miso Na, Yonghwa Park 4344 Consulting : Branding Jeju Social Economy Social Venture Support Project “Nanggeneul” Branding Project Introduction : The Jeju Social Economy Social Venture Support Project “Nanggeneul” is a program that contributes to the social economy of Jeju Island and supports the growth of Jeju-style social ventures that can create impact beyond the region, both domestically and internationally, through innovative solutions. MYSC visually expressed the philosophy and values of “Nanggeneul” after establishing them to help spread the social innovation of Jeju henceforward. Client Company · Partner Company : Jeju Free International City Development Center (JDC) Project Period : 2018.11 ~ 2019.12 Project Members : Deokyu Kim, Miso Na, Yeji Lee, Sunmi Kim Consulting : Open Innovation Startup Support Project “AIA Group Open Innovation” Project Introduction : “AIA Group Open Innovation” was planned with the objective of accomplishing mutual growth between conglomerates and startups and creating shared values. Various projects were operated through a collaboration between the AIA Group and seven promising startups in the healthcare, InsurTech, and HR fields to created social values. Client Company · Partner Company : AIA Group Project Period : 2018.04 ~ 2018.11 Project Members : Jeongtae Kim, Hoeyoung Lee Consulting : B Corp Certification Consultation B Corp Certification Consultation for Businesses Project Introduction : MYSC is currently providing consultation to conglomerates, small and medium-sized businesses, and social ventures to supplement their social environmental impact and improve their sustainability while assessing the current situation of businesses interested in getting their B Corp certification and becoming the best for the world. Client Company · Partner Company : B Lab Korea, Companies desiring B Corp Certification (tella, OYORI ASIA, etc.) Project Period : 2018.01 ~ Present (about 3~6 months per project) Project Members : Jungho Park, Saeeun Kim, Hyojin Park, Anna Kang Consulting : Collective Impact Korea Health Industry Development Institute Collective Impact Consultative Body Management Project Introduction : MYSC has created an innovation ecosystem of the health industry field through sustainable methods to contribute to solving the various social issues in the health industry field and discovering ideas for improving regulations by establishing a social venture-type collective impact consultative body. Client Company · Partner Company : Ministry of Health and Welfare / Korea Health Industry Development Institute Project Period : 2018.09 ~ 2018.11 Project Members : Jiyeon Jeong, Wonhee Kim 4748 Consulting : Social Venture Discovery Social Venture Forum “A!ventures” Project Introduction : As a venture competition for young adults to resolve domestic and international issues through innovative business models, this program goes beyond the standard competition by providing professional mentoring for ventures to find their business’ objective and make their business one the world needs. Client Company · Partner Company : FWIA, CCF, THE WELLS INVESTMENT, Dongkook Pharmaceutical, MERIDIAN DNI, MAGNA INVESTMENT, GYUNGDO CHEMICAL, SPARKLABS, MEDISENSOR INC, ACCESSBIO, G&M Foundation, CGNTV, KUKMINILBO, etc. Program Period : 2018.05 ~ 2018.11 Project Members : Eunjin Lee, Wonhee Kim Accelerating : Social Venture Acceleration Jeju Social Economy Social Venture Support Project “Nanggeneul” Project Introduction : Through an innovative solution for resolving social issues in the Jeju Region, this is an accelerating program that supports the growth of Jeju social ventures that create social economic jobs and creates domestic and global social impact. Client Company · Partner Company : Jeju Free International City Development Center (JDC), JEJU SE HUB, Jeju Center for Creative Economy & Innovation Project Period : 2018.11 ~ 2019.12 Project Members : Yeji Lee, Sunmi Kim, Jihyun Kim, Hyeonjung Jung 4950 Accelerating : Social Venture Acceleration Job Creation for the Youth Project “Hana Power On Challenge : Social Innovation Frontier” Project Introduction : MYSC created jobs by connecting twelve beginner designers to twelve social venture that needed to hire designers in order to grow. MYSC also helped create the value of the businesses from a designer’s perspective. Client Company · Partner Company : Hana Financial Group, Korea Institue of Design Promotion Project Period : 2017.12 ~ 2018.12 Project Members : Yeji Lee, Eunjin Lee, Jeongtae Kim Accelerating : Social Venture Acceleration Social Venture Acceleration Support Project “Hana Power On Challenge : Social Innovation Entrepreneur” (SVCA) Project Introduction : SVCA (Social Venture Competition Asia), the nation’s first and longest social venture head-tohead competition, along with Hana Financial Group, supported ten social ventures that were established for less than three years and ten social ventures still in the idea stage. Promising social ventures were then selected to compete at the 2019 GSVC (Global Social Venture Competition), which will be held in the United States. Client Company · Partner Company : Hana Financial Group, Gyeonggi Creative Center for Economic Innovation, SEN, UC Berkeley Haas School of Business Project Period : 2018.05 ~ 2018.11 Project Members : Yeji Lee, Sunmi Kim, Jeongtae Kim 5152 Accelerating : Social Venture Acceleration Social Venture Growth Support Project “Hana Power On Challenge : Social Innovation Changemaker” Project Introduction : MYSC supported the growth and the creation of social value of businesses by aiding the social projects of five social ventures that completed the Pre-A and Series A stage of business model verification with the amount 1.2 billion won for operation costs and participation in AVPN (Asia Venture Philanthropy Network). Client Company · Partner Company : Hana Financial Group Project Period : 2018.04 ~ 2018.11 Project Members : Yeji Lee, Sunmi Kim, Jeongtae Kim Accelerating : Social Venture Acceleration Job Creation Project for People with Developmental Disabilities “Hana Power On Impact 2” Project Introduction : This was a program that supported the projects of social ventures wanting to solve the job issues of people with developmental disabilities by developing new positions and sustainable recruitment all on the foundation of collective impact. Client Company · Partner Company : Hana Financial Group, Social Economy Promotion Center, Seoul Vocational Training Center for the Developmentally Disabled, Career Plus Center Project Period : 2018.04 ~ 2018.12 Project Members : Jieyong Jeong, Eunjin Lee, Hoeyoung Lee 5354 Accelerating : Social Venture Acceleration KOICA Global Social Enterprise Accelerating Program Program Introduction : Unlike the traditional domestic development cooperation projects, this project discovers, accelerates, and invests in social businesses in developing countries (Vietnam, Indonesia) with an innovative model. MYSC regularly presents role models of social businesses from each country, and pushes forward businesses with the objective to build a sustainable social business ecosystem. Client Company · Partner Company : KOICA, Crevisse Partners, CSIP, UnLtd Indonesia Project Period : 2017.01 ~ 2020.03 Project Members : Jungho Park, Jeongtae Kim, Anna Kang, Jihyun Hong Accelerating : Social Venture Acceleration 2018 Social Venture Accelerating Project “EMA (Extra-Mile Acceleration)” Project Introduction : Under the philosophy of “going the extra mile” and doing more than what someone has asked, this project, based on platform business, provides and fosters six beginning social ventures with abundant resources for speedy growth. Client Company · Partner Company : Seoul Metropolitan Government Project Period : 2018.05 ~ 2018.12 Project Members : Jain Yoo, Hyeonjung Jung 5556 Accelerating : Social Venture Acceleration 2018 Project to Develop a Social Economic Resource Creation Model in the Culture and Arts Field Project Introduction : As a resource creation model development project to increase the sales and procure supplemental resources for ten social economic organizations in the culture and arts field, MYSC contributed in increasing the sustainability of these organizations to help them grow to a higher level. Client Company · Partner Company : Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism / Korea Arts Management Service Project Period : 2018.06 ~ 2018.11 Project Members : Jain Yoo, Hyeonjung Jung, Jeongtae Kim Accelerating : Social Venture Sustainability Enhancement Social Venture Sustainability Acceleration Program “HSB (Helping Sustainable Business) Season 1” Program Introduction : As a program to help the sustainable growth of domestic social ventures, it supported the financial · non-financial enhancement of social ventures in the target business of fashion (clothing, merchandise, textile, distribution, etc.). Client Company · Partner Company : HSBC Korea Project Period : 2018.04 ~ 2018.11 Project Members : Jungho Park, Saeeun Kim 5758 Impact Investment : Social Venture Investment Impact Investment (Equity Investment) : Extra-Mile Communications, inc. Project Introduction : Extra-Mile Communications supports social ventures through digital marketing and video production. Not only was the company designated as an early social enterprise with a business model of a social venture support service and education in September 2018, it is continuing to create social values through projects such as creating jobs for people with developmental disabilities (Keyword Search Company). Client Company · Partner Company : SK Innovation, HUMANAID, etc. Program Period : 2018.05 Project Members : Jain Yoo, Jeongtae Kim Impact Investment : Social Venture Investment Impact Investment (Equity Investment) : ART IMPACT, inc. Project Introduction : ART IMPACT distributes products from social economic organizations · young designers · artists through shops and popup stores. They are also a social venture that contributes to creating a value chain by helping the product planning · design · production · market opening of partner brands they work with. MYSC anticipates providing social ventures the opportunity to grow, the opportunity for them to choose to create a better world, by expanding the value-consumption market through ART IMPACT. Project Period : 2018.09 Project Members : Jain Yoo, Jeongtae Kim Impact Investment (Equity Investment) : WEHUDDLING, inc. Project Introduction : WEHUDDLING is a social venture that contributes to the formation of proper eating habits. They provide an eating habit care service through IoT and their chatbot “Ato.” Through WEHUDDLING, MYSC anticipates helping busy young adults, office workers, and modern people form proper eating habits, and contribute to increasing the basic level of health, increasing the quality of live, and decreasing medical expenses. Project Period : 2018.09 Project Members : Jain Yoo, Jeongtae Kim 5960 Impact Investment : Social Venture Investment Impact Investment (Equity Investment) : Imagtor Project Introduction : Imagtor, an image editing company located in Hanoi, is a company that was accelerated and invested in through the KOICA Global Social Enterprise Accelerating Program. They create jobs so people with disabilities who have completed a computer program can grow into healthy members of society and have a stable work life. Through Imagtor, MYSC stands on the forefront of resolving the issue of the employment for the vulnerable class in Vietnam, and supports a higher growth through the cooperation of domestic institutions and connections to investment opportunities. Project Period : 2018.11 Project Members : Jungho Park, Anna Kang, Jeongtae Kim Impact Investment (Equity Impact) : Air Order, inc. Project Introduction : Air Order is a platform based social venture with the objective of utilizing cafés at the ease of people with disabilities to help the survival of cafés and employment of the vulnerable class. They provide an app service (bidaemyun) where people can order and pay from anywhere anytime without waiting. Through Air Order, MYSC anticipates securing the competitiveness of small merchants (privately owned cafés), stabilizing the employment of the vulnerable class, an reducing discrimination from the ordering process. Project Period : 2018.09 Project Members : Jain Yoo Content Planning & Distribution : Social Innovation Insight “Connecting Relationships Like Ivy : The Story of Innovators helping Innovators” Book Publication Project Introduction : Woven together with interviews of MYSC members, who help innovators, this book introduces MYSC by focusing on “the people” and not “the business.” It illuminates the meaning of social innovation from various angles through the honest stories of MYSC members, and conveys “the society in which people live like people” that MYSC members dream of in a simple language. Client Company · Partner Company : In-house planning Project Period : 2018.02 Project Members : Hyewon Kim, Saeeun Kim, Miso Na, Wonhee Kim 6162 Content Planning & Distribution : Social Innovation Content and Methodology Presentation “Design Thinking Guidebook : The Field Guide to Human-Centered Design” Book Publication Project Introduction : Translated from the contents published by the global innovation company IDEO, this book introduces various design thinking methodologies by steps in order to be utilized in the field. MYSC hopes to spread the social innovation language through the translation and publication of quality content published overseas. Client Company · Partner Company : IDEO.org Project Period : 2018.08 Project Members : Hyewon Kim, Miso Na Content Planning & Distribution : Social Innovation Content and Methodology Presentation ‘Community Designer Training Manual’ for Solving Regional Health&Welfare Problem with Public-Private Partnership Project Introduction : Discovering social issues based on the deep understandings of the region and benefit targets and turning them into opportunities of innovation, this manual was developed for community designers leading regional innovation projects based on collective impact with various stakeholders. Content Planning & Distribution : Social Innovation Content and Methodology Presentation Client Company · Partner Company : Ministry of Health & Welfare, Korea National Council on Social Welfare / CSR Center Project Period : 2018.10 ~ 2018.12 Project Members : Hyeonjung Jung, Eunjin Lee, Jiyeon Jung 6364 Media Coverage December 26, 2018, The Bell mid-July to the end of August. They worked six hours a day MYSC Registers as the First ‘Social Impact Specialized’ except one hour for lunch, but their salary was paid just as before. CEO of MYSC, Jeongtae Kim said, ”talks about MYSC, a social venture consulting firm and impact investwork and life balance were in full bloom around the time ment agency, finished their registration as an accelerator. the 52 hour work week began to be enforced, and overtime By utilizing their work in the field of social impact, they work is frequent for us being a consulting company, so plan on taking on the challenge of becoming an operator. we thought there was a need for improvement.” CEO Kim MYSC also plans to participate in the new fund of The Wells and his members discovered that there were offand Investment, the manager of the “Social Impact Investment peak-seasons after analyzing three years of work patterns. Project” recently announced by K-Growth (Korea Growth Work was relatively less in the summer. As the saying goes, Invest Corp.), as an LP. MYSC plans on contributing about 5 strike when the iron is hot, so they immediately set out on a Billion Won to this fund. Jeongtae Kim, CEO of MYSC, said, 30-hour work week experiment. “it has become important to receive the accelerator certification in connection with fund of funds or growth funds Member responses were great. A survey was taken after six in order to promote social impact investment activities”. He weeks and positive feedback was given, such as “I watched also commented that “there are plans to invest directly or an evening drama with my parents for the first time,” “the indirectly while acting in the role of LP and GP, along with subway at 5 pm was like heaven,” and “working effectively the continuous investment in equity accounts.” within a short amount of time allowed me to think about the value of my work.” On the other hand, there were responses such as “work had to be done at work when it December 14, 2018, Joongang Ilbo could not be completed within the hours,” and “in the inCompany Sales Increase as the CEO is Called by Nickstance of leader level members who had frequent external name in Book Discussions meetings, it was hard to leave work at 5 o’clock.” MYSC plans to conduct a second test next year in January to supHeyground of Ttukseom Station, Seoul. Social ventures and plement issues, and they plan on implementing a 30-hour startups, as well as investors who help them reside there. work week for five months of the year during off-season. MYSC is a social venture company that fits the building’s The salary and benefits of members will remain the same. characteristics perfectly. Jeongtae Kim CEO said, “To do this kind of work, members not only have to know well what business and innovation is, but they must also know society October 13, 2018, The Bell and understand corporate physiology. I believe there is MYSC will expand the “Connectivity of Social impact and nothing like reading that can cultivate those skills.” While Capital market” operating a strong reading program each career cycle, the focus is on unlearning; to dispel everything that has been MYSC plans on emphasizing mainstream capital market learned. It means to discern and throw away any fixed ideas connectivity more for the growth of social ventures. CEO or prejudices that already exists within your knowledge. Of Jeongtae Kim said, “the success of social ventures is a course, books and discussions are the tools in doing so. Kim meaningful indicator that social impact can generate sufand the five other members that participate in the meetings ficient profits and is necessary for corporate perpetuation”, upload their book reports on the company blog (blog.navKim also stated that “large corporations have already emer.com/blogmysc) in advance. Although it is called a book phasized the value of co-prosperity.” Kim continued, “large report, they are actually high-density reports. One cannot companies have begun to gain inspiration and collaborate help but think the discussion content is anything other than through social ventures, which are their leading models,” meaningful. and “MYSC works to connect them to one another, allowing them to spread their influence.” He said, “Companies will receive management reports as ‘a double bottom line(DOctober 30, 2018, Chosun Ilbo BL)’ that combines financial benefits and social impact,” “… We are in the Process of a “Good Job” Experiment because now is a generation that consumes thinking about the image of a company and the product they purchase.” They are experimenting by radically reducing the work week to 30 hours, as it has been universally in Europe. MYSC (Merry Year Social Company), a social innovative professional consulting company, implemented a 30-hour week work system as a trial for six weeks in the summer. All of MYSC’s members worked from 10 am to 5 pm from Media Coverage October 18, 2018 The Leader from Money Today investments and resources link to large companies. The Companies’ future assignment, B Corp is the answer accelerating program will be joined by the Seoul Metropolitan Government’s 2018 project to support and nurture The Korean committee for B Corp was organized in 2017 social ventures through collaboration with the private and Chung Eun-sung took the lead to promote B Corp. sector, including MYSC, with a budget of 1 billion won. Chung Eun-sung, who served as co-chairman of the MYSC was selected as the performance agency for the Serotonin Culture and director of Enactus, currently serves project and provide various programs such as providing as the head of ‘Everyoung Korea’, which is a social combasic education needed for social ventures, strengthening pany employs 500 seniors. Chung accepted the chairman business models, marketing support, mentoring by sectors because of the philosophy of B Corp which is ‘Best for the and follow-up investment links. In addition, through Social world’. He said, “The more I learned about B Corp, the more Progress Credit (SPC), incentives are provided based on I was eager to spread it to companies who is struggling the social performance generated by participating comwith their future business.” The Committee is leaded by its panies and help them create more social values. chairman and Merry Year Social Company (MYSC) as a B Corp Ambassador, which is the nation’s first social innovation consulting and impact investment agency. Jeongtae Kim (MYSC), who is a secretary-general of the Korean June 11, 2018, Kyosu News (Korean Professors’ NewspaCommittee for B Corp, serves as the special vice president per) of the Korea Venture Business Association. He is also a The role of new science-technology and companies is partner of all institutions who want to contribute to social to be “user-centered”and include “maximization of the innovation, a partner in the innovation journey, an architect shared value”. of innovation experience and a facilitator of innovation culture based on entrepreneurship. “Science is not my expertise, but I think technology gives what we need,” said Jeongtae Kim, CEO of MYSC, during his speech (The Role of Organizations in Social Economy October 18, 2018, Korea News System in Solving Social Problems with Science-technology). 13th Social Venture Competition Asia (SVCA) leads the He also referred to a paradigm shift saying, “In the 20th change of global market century, (the) company’s goal was to maximize shareholders’ interest. However, in the 21st century, the goal is The Northeast Asia Round of the 13th Social Venture to maximize shared value.” He added, “It is important to Competition Asia (SVCA) will be held on October 23 at be the best company for the world, rather than the best Heyground in Seongsu-dong, Seoul. SVCA has been held company in the world.” annually since 2006 and is also called the gateway to discovering social innovation enterprises who create financial and social values at the same time. Hana Financial Group, May 25, 2018 News 1 an official sponsor, planned ‘Hana Power on Challenge: Attention to Adidas and Patagonia for Vitalizing the Social Innovation Entrepreneurs’ as a special edition. Social Economy in Jeju Social Enterprise Network (SEN) and the Gyeonggi Center for Creative Economy and Innovation are Co-host of this On May 25, “A Seminar for Vitalizing Social Economy in event. In addition, Merry Year Social Company (MYSC), a Jeju” was held by Jeju Free International City Development consulting and impact investment agency specializing in Center(JDC), in the conference room on the 4th floor of social innovation, and Korea Impact Investment Network the JDC building. Jeongtae Kim, CEO of Merry Year Social (KIIN) will participate as partners for cooperation. Company(MYSC) suggested that the whole region of Jeju should turn into an “Innovation Lab of Social Economy” by applying Sustainable Development Goals(SDGs) of the UN July 1, 2018 News Prime to create Jeju’s social value. (MYSC was the first organiMYSC’s 1st Platform-Oriented Social Venture Acceleratzation that specialized in social innovation consulting and ing Program impact investing in Korea.) Presenting on “Social Innovation and Social Value,” he said, “Jeju is an island with opportuThe social ventures to be selected this time are ‘platnities to apply all 17 SDGs on ocean, forest, tourism, water form-oriented’ social ventures with high social value amresources, energy, economy, peace, and so on.” He also plification effect in each sector and will be actively helped added, “SDGs are a worldwide common language, so it can upgrading its value through subsequent impact connect hundreds of partners such as public institutions and enterprises.” 6566 This annual report uses 100% recycled paper without cutting down trees. It’s made from echo paper, and it’s also printed with soy oil ink that is safe from the risk of damaging chemicals to the Earth and people. MYSC tries to embrace social value during the annual report production process. Published June 1 2019 Contents Design : Anna Kang, Deokyu Kim, Saeeun Kim, Hyewon Kim, Miso Na Visual Design : Deokyu Kim Revision : Anna Kang, Saeeun Kim, and Hyewon Kim Translation : Aileen Nam Publisher : Merry Year Social Company(MYSC) Address : G402 Heyground, 5, Ttukseom-ro 1 na-gil, Seongdong-gu, Seoul, 04779, KOREA Tel : +)82-(0)2-532-1110 Fax : +)82-(0)2-6008-1126 Email : info@mysc.co.kr Website : www.mysc.co.kr Blog : blog.naver.com/blogmysc Facebook : facebook.com/MerryYearSocialCompany Copyright ⓒ 2019 by Merry Year Social Company. All rights reserved. For more information, please contact Merry Year Social Company through the contact information above. 6768 We’re intrapreneurs empowering entrepreneurs, working toward the best for the World!
