DTGO Corporation Limited Communication on Progress January December 2018 Our Commitment Dear stakeholder, As a participant in the United Nations Global Compact for the last three years, I would like to reaffirm our commitment to its 10 principles in human rights, labor, the environment, and anti-corruption. This second annual communication of our progress describes our actions in 2018 to further integrate the Global Compact into our strategy, culture, and daily operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our primary channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Thippaporn Chearavanont Ahriyavraromp Group Chief Executive Officer Organizational Profile Vision & Mission DTGO Corporation Limited is a social purpose business that is passionate about helping solve social and environmental issues through its business as well as its social contribution. Since its establishment in 1993, DTGO has contributed to wide range of social development programs with primary focus on underprivileged children. VISION To be a global, evolving, and living organization that fosters a community of smart and good-hearted people who care for society at large. MISSION  Nurture children in need of a better quality of life  Conduct business successfully with ethics and integrity  Be a community full of warmth and happiness  Be a dependable place for every member  Foster every community member to live a happy life with ethics and integrity Social Contribution Buddharaksa Foundation, a Thailand-registered charitable foundation set up in 1999, has worked with DTGO to spark transformative life changes among underprivileged children and youths in Thailand through helping them gain well-rounded educations that impart both wisdom and compassion. Buddharaksa Foundation’s scholarships currently help 693 orphans and children and youths from poor families to stay in education each year. The foundation’s support for raising educational standards in schools and academic institutions also benefits over 7,000 pupils and students each year. DT Families Foundation, established in Hong Kong in 2016 as a charitable associate for DTGO, works on environmental protection and sustainable development with global partners. Its recent engagement in the ‘Bhutan for Life’ project enhances DTGO’s capacity to address world sustainable development goals with integrated focuses on economic development, ecological enrichment, and community empowerment. Dhanin Tawee Chearavanont Foundation newly established in Thailand in early 2018 as a charitable associated for DTGO and as partner for DT Families Foundation, works on public health and early childhood development for disadvantaged groups in Thailand. Businesses DTGO aims to add value and enhance well-being in all its business operations. The group also dedicates 2% of its topline revenues to social causes. DTGO’s business falls into 3 main areas: Property development led by Magnolia Quality Development Corporation Limited (MQDC), a company dedicated to pushing the boundaries of property development to change society for the better through trend-setting design as well as innovative thinking in the interaction of behavioral psychology and materials and system technologies. Design and construction management led by DT Design Corporation, an integrated architectural design firm committed to improving people’s quality of life by incorporating the latest innovations and advanced research into its products and services, which range from urban planning to architectural design, interior design, landscape design, and design consulting. DT Plans provides professional consulting services in design and project and construction management in China and Thailand. Trading and commerce led by Dees Supreme, an international company focused on developing innovative commerce to sustainably serve evolving global lifestyles. Dees Supreme’s associates engage in a wide variety of advanced technologies such as innovative materials and technological solutions for real estate development. Employee Engagement As of December 2018, DTGO had 731 employees, or what the group refers to as ‘corporate members’. 2017 2018 Number of corporate members 585 731 Genders 49.5% Female 54.0% Female 50.5% Male 46.0% Male Nationalities 92.5% Thai 98% Thai 5% Chinese <1% Chinese <1% Korean <1% Korean <1% Taiwanese <1% Canadian <1% Canadian <1% British <1% British <1% German <1% German <1% Singaporean <1% Singaporean <1% Swedish <1% Swedish <1% American <1% Mongolian Age (average) 35 years old – Female 35.7 years old – Female 39 years old – Male 38.5 years old – Male Years of service 47% Less than 1 year 29% Less than 1 year 22% 1-4 years 45% 1-4 years 20% 5-9 years 16% 5-9 years 17% 10-20 years 9% 10-20 years 1% More than 20 years 1% More than 20 years Generations 6.2% Baby Boomer 4% Baby Boomer 39.5% Gen X 33% Gen X 54.3% Gen Y 63% Gen Y DTGO’s core values provide the foundation for serving stakeholders and benefiting society at large. DYNAMIC Honor our words, honor our time Our words reflect who we are and what we stand for. We commit to our promises. We understand the value of time and cherish every second as we know that time is a precious and finite resource. TEAMWORK Always be helpful Harmony in a team arises when members respect each other and value their differences. By drawing on a variety of talents and strengths, good teamwork enables people to complement and help each other, resulting in success for both teams and individuals. GOODWILL Good thoughts, good words, good deeds A person with a good and caring heart can bring out their own goodwill as well as influence goodwill in others. Goodwill must be exercised through all thoughts, words and actions. OPEN-MINDED Listen and think positively Being open-minded is the key to happiness in life and success at work. It helps broaden our capacities for active listening and positive thinking. Through active listening, one can tap into an endless stream of knowledge. Through positive thinking, one becomes a person of understanding, willing to embrace any new challenge and opportunity. HUMAN RIGHTS PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy, and Goals The company’s code of conduct announced since 2014 addresses the basic principles governed by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, primarily equality in dignity and rights without distinction of any kind. Emphasis is placed on: privacy recruitment employment and human resource management employee and stakeholder engagement practices. Our business entities have extended their activities to promote and support equality among their stakeholders especially those from disadvantaged groups. The audit team will further ensure compliance through internal control systems. Our charitable associate, DT Families Foundation helps promote good health and well-being for all by supporting the health initiative of the Global Fund, and advocacy program in health. Buddharaksa Foundation, has continuously worked to promote, the right to education by providing financial support to marginalized children and youths the right to a standard of living adequate for health and well-being by supporting disaster relief efforts and providing assistance to help underprivileged group gain essential care and access to social welfare. Implementation UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 1: DTGO 20 February 19 January, Ensuring that the UN Businesses Corporation 23 March, Global Compact’s Limited 18 May, principles are should support 21 June, and respect the (DTGO) implemented by the 9 August, company and all its protection of 25 December key stakeholders internationally Appointment of Corporate Social proclaimed Corporate Social Contribution Committee human rights Contribution functions to supervise Committee socialand human rightsrelated programs managed by the company, its subsidiaries and partners. 5 July 25 January, Ensuring that human 28 February, rights policy (which 28 March, is to be announced) is 25 April, implemented by the 7 May, 6 June, company and all its 10 July, key stakeholders. 25 July, 24 August, 26 September, 24 October 28 November, 20 December Appointment of Good Good Corporate Governance Corporate Governance Committee functions to Committee ensure all matters related to human rights are properly managed through policy development (being drafted) and implementation. 10 October Establishing a Group CEO attended the network of ‘Philanthropy Roundtable on philanthropists Gender Equality’ hosted by focused on gender the Bill & Melinda Gates equality. Foundation (BMGF) at Fairmont Sanur Beach Bali. 3 July, 13 February, Series of projects by 5 May, 15 May, members 8 August, 16 August, (employees) to 9 November 20 November support access to Blood donation Blood donation activities by proper health activities by our our members (employees) provision and living members (employees) standards for disadvantaged people in society UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 1: DTGO 8 May, 4 April, Series of projects by (continued) (continued) 9 May, 19 April, members 15 May, 4 May, (employees) to 26 May, 23 May, support access to 1 June 13 June proper health Lunch treat by our Lunch treat by our members provision and living members for for disadvantaged people standards for disadvantaged people disadvantaged people 14 February, 16 May, in society 17 August Fund raising activity among our members for charity arranged in house DTGO China – 4 June Series of as a DTGO DTGO China provided contributions to subsidiary school supplies for students reduce inequality gap in Yunnan in education Magnolia 11 August Series of Quality MQDC donated audio contributions to Development equipment for the reduce inequality gap Corporation blind in Wat Marua arising from (MQDC) – as a Khiri Wan, Nakhon disabilities DTGO Ratchasima subsidiary 9 October MQDC donated wheelchairs and funded eyesight tests for the community at Sattahip, Chonburi 13 January Series of MQDC’s Pattaya contributions to Worldmark project and Na reduce inequality gap Jomtien municipality hosted in education a children’s day at Pranang Jomtien at Sattahip in Chonburi. Over 1,500 children attended. Research & 4 November Series of projects to Innovation for RISC co-hosted support access to Sustainability TEDxBangkok Adventures proper health Center (RISC) 2018: Dis + Able provision and living by MQDC as Technology to find standards for a DTGO technology for social disadvantaged people subsidiary development in various in society. fields. UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 1: DT Families 1-8 March Ensuring that the (continued) Foundation DTFF sent its staff to practices related to (DTFF) – as a attend an International community work DTGO workshop on adhere to human foundation Participatory rights principles partner Monitoring and Evaluation 4 May Series of DTFF announced its contributions to partnership with APLMA to reduce inequality gap end malaria in Thailand by arising from illness 2030 31 May DTFF announced its partnership with Global Fund to combat malaria at the UBS Philanthropy Conference, Singapore’s Capella Hotel. 3 July DTFF joined the panel discussion on the private sector’s role in eliminating malaria at the 1st Malaria World Congress in Melbourne, Australia. 15 September Series of advocacy Co-hosted ‘The Givers activities to reduce Network 2018, Bangkok’ to the inequality gap promote collaborative giving through collaborative among givers. giving 12-13 November Ensuring that the DTFF attended UNICEF practices related to International Council social programs Meeting 2018 adhere to human rights principles UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 1: Buddharaksa All year round All year round Ongoing project to (continued) Foundation BUF carried out an BUF carried out an English provide access to (BUF) – as a English teaching teaching program for quality education in DTGO program for preprimary preprimary and elementary hard-to-reach areas foundation and elementary students students at the Border Patrol partner at the Border Patrol Police schools in Chiang Police schools in Rai, Nan and Payao Chiang Rai, Nan and provinces, Thailand Payao provinces, Thailand All year round BUF and DTFF brought in two Bhutanese scholars to improve the quality of English teaching at two schools in Thailand. 6,13,20,21,27,28 January, Collaborate with new 11,25 February, partners to expand 10, 17,25 March, Art4Worth activities 1,18,21,22,28,29 April, that will reach more 5,6,13 May, 9,10, 17,23,24 June, underprivileged 1, 7,8,15,21,22 July, children 5,18,26 August, 2,8,22,23,29 September, 6,13,20,27 October, 3,4,10,18,24 November, 2 December BUF conducted “Art4Worth” program with the objective of developing artistic talent in underprivileged communities to help children gain confidence and self-esteem. 16-18 February Series of training BUF provided leadership activities to enhance training for 39 scholarship the capacity of students underprivileged children 26 May, Routine visits by top 1 June management to BUF’s honorary implementation chairman and partners for ensuring chairperson visited access to education. partner schools Wat Sa Kaeo school and Dhammajarinee School, which accommodates 1,100+ and 800+ underprivileged students. UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 1: Buddharaksa 13 May 19 May Provide professional (continued) Foundation BUF provided 211 BUF provided 167 career development to (BUF) scholarships to students scholarships to students potential students. (continued) affected by HIV/AIDS affected by HIV/AIDS through Sem through Sem Pringpuangkeo Pringpuangkeo Foundation Foundation 18 July Enhance career BUF provided scholarships opportunities for the to underprivileged youth in underprivileged. Northern Thailand to train in primary care for the elderly. 12 April 26 March Series of projects to BUF provided houses BUF provided homes to support access to for earthquake victims underprivileged people in proper health in Chubu village, Kanchanaburi, Thailand provision and living Kathmandu, Nepal standards for disaster 25 May 18 July relief and/or BUF provided homes to BUF provided homes to disadvantaged people underprivileged people in Sa in society. underprivileged people in Sa Kaeo, Thailand Kaeo, Thailand 18 September 26 October BUF provided homes to BUF provided homes to underprivileged people underprivileged people in in Kanchanaburi, Prachinburi, Thailand Ratchaburi, Prachuap Khiri Khan, Thailand 8 November 18 November BUF provided home to BUF provided homes to underprivileged people underprivileged people in Sa at Khlong Sam Wa, Kaeo, Thailand Bangkok, Thailand 11 August 2 August Series of contributions BUF donated THB 1 BUF donated THB 1 million to reduce inequality million to flood victims to help victims of the dam gap arising from in Northeast Thailand collapse in Laos disasters/crises 12 August Series of projects to BUF granted educational support access to funding at Wat Thung proper health Hiang. The recipients are provision and living underprivileged monks, standards for novices, students and disadvantaged people youths. in society. UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 1: Buddharaksa 11 September Series of (continued) Foundation BUF partnered with RIECE contributions to (BUF) Thailand to reduce inequality reduce the inequality (continued) through early childhood gap in education education in Thailand 14 December Series of BUF donated a boat to contributions to Ladprao community as part reduce the inequality of community development. gap in urban communities Principle 2: DTGO 5 July All year round Targeting to audit 14 make sure that Corporation Appointment of Audit Appointment of audit team entities including they are not Limited Committee and the auditing of 9 entities support divisions and complicit in (DTGO) including support divisions business units and business units human rights 3 July Ensuring the abuses DTGO launched implementation of whistleblowing and Good Corporate complaints channels for both Governance policy, internal and external human right-related stakeholders. policies and code of conduct Magnolia 24 May Establishing a wellQuality MQDC initiated being program at a Development collaboration with UNICEF pilot site and Corporation and Baan Dek Foundation to developing MQDC (MQDC) – as a assess the living conditions guidelines to be DTGO of children in construction implemented at subsidiary camp sites. every construction camp site LOBOR PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy, and Goals Similar to human rights principles, labor principles are applied and stated in the company’s code of conduct. Specifically, the emphasis is on ensuring compliance with related laws and regulations for the company’s operations and our stakeholders. This year, the audit team appointment will ensure compliance with all labor principles through internal control systems. In addition, business entities have initiated an activity to promote the well-being of labor forces and their relations, while our associated charitable entities have social programs to provide opportunities for people in need to prevent potentially abusive circumstances in the future. Implementation UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 3: DTGO 5 July 19 January, Announcing and Businesses Corporation 23 March, communicating Limited 18 May Human Rights and should uphold Appointment of Human rights and good the freedom of (DTGO) Good Labor Good Corporate labor practice policy was Practice policy by association and Governance proposed and discussed in Good Corporate the effective Committee the Social and Governance recognition of Sustainability Committee Committee the right to prior to final proposal to collective Good Corporate bargaining Governance Committee 3 May 12 March, Enhancing 25 June, communication 10 September, platforms for 14 October corporate members Live webchat with DTGO executives meet to voice their executives members concerns 4 May, 13 July, 25 August, 28 December Staff meetings 7 February, 24 January, Ongoing activities 3 August 28-29 June to promote Annual corporate Annual corporate meetings collective meetings employees’ engagement at all levels Buddharaksa 16 November Providing a Foundation Buddharaksa Family platform for (BUF) – as a Association was scholarship students DTGO established. to participate in foundation managing partner programs/activities by the foundation. UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 4: DTGO 5 July 19 January, Announcing and The elimination Corporation 23 March, communicating Limited (DTGO) 18 May Human Rights and of all forms of Appointment of Human rights and good forced and Good Labor Practice Good Corporate labor practice policy was policy that includes compulsory Governance proposed and discussed in elimination of labor Committee the Social and forced labor by Sustainability Committee Good Corporate prior to final proposal to Governance Good Corporate Committee Governance Committee 5 July All year round Targeting to audit Appointment of Audit Committee 14 entities including Audit Committee appointed audit team and support divisions the auditing of 9 entities and business units including support divisions and business units Principle 5: DTGO 5 July 19 January, Announcing and The effective Corporation 23 March, communicating Limited (DTGO) 18 May Human Rights and abolition of Appointment of Human rights and good Good Labor Practice child labor Good Corporate labor practice policy was policy that includes Governance proposed and discussed in abolition of child Committee the Social and labor by Good Sustainability Committee Corporate prior to final proposal to Governance Good Corporate Committee Governance Committee Magnolia 24 May To include the Quality MQDC joined force with requirement for “no Development UNICEF and Baan Dek child labor” in the Corporation Foundation to promote the supply chain. (MQDC) – as a well-being of children in DTGO construction camp sites. subsidiary DT Families 15 September Series of advocacy Foundation Co-hosted ‘The Givers activities to reduce (DTFF), as a Network 2018, Bangkok’ the incidence of DTGO providing inspiration talks child labor foundation including Dr.Hannes partner Schmid, who shared his social development work in order to prevent child labor incidence in Cambodia. Buddharaksa All year round All year round Series of Foundation Provided 603 Provided 693 scholarships contributions to (BUF) – as a scholarships for for students to advance ensure at-risk DTGO students to advance their education children (e.g. foundation their education underprivileged partner Invited DTGO members to children) are speak as career role models properly placed in at 7 career day events at schools. partner schools. UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progresses Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 6: DTGO January-December The elimination Corporation Applying newly of Limited (DTGO) revised employees’ discrimination manual with an emphasis on the role in respect of and responsibility of employment superiors in and occupation ensuring nondiscriminatory practices in the workplace 21-22 September Ongoing activities Organized annual company to promote outing for all members. collective employees’ engagement at all levels ENVIRONMENTAL PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals Working largely in property development, the group faces key ongoing environmental challenges, which including: How to reduce our environmental footprint in the supply chain? How to develop more sustainable design and construction management? How to operate facilities with the least environmental impact? The company and its subsidiaries and charitable associates therefore work intensively in partnership with key stakeholders, to create innovation that tackle challenges in the business and in general. Knowledgesharing is another form of public advocacy conducted throughout the entire year. Internally, a sustainability framework has been drafted as a guideline for implementation within our business operations. Implementation UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 7: DTGO 1 February Strengthening the Corporation Environmental policy was implementation of Businesses Limited (DTGO) announced. environmental should support a policy. precautionary 15 August Series of approach to DTGO arranged the educational and environmental screening of the awareness-raising documentary ‘A Plastic activities among the challenges Ocean’ for its group’s members. members to raise awareness and spur action on the issue. 6 December DTGO joined COP23 global climate forum in Germany. DT Families 1 June Support for partners Foundation DTFF organized ‘Earth for for environmental (DTFF) as a Life’ advocacy session as protection DTGO foundation side event at UBS partner Philanthropy Conference 2018 11 November 26 September Ongoing support DTFF contributed DTFF’s director has been throughout 14 years USD5 million to the 14appointed the Bhutan for of project year ‘Bhutan for Life’ Life Fund’s Board of implementation. project to keep the Trustees meeting to Himalayan nation oversee the project carbon negative. implementation Blue Carbon 12 March Developing a Society (BCS) DTGO’s Group CEO network and As a DTGO together with Shellhut platform to conserve association Entertainment’s CEO marine and coastal partner established the Blue ecosystems. Carbon Society, an association dedicated to preserving and restoring marine and coastal ecosystems. 23 May Series of public Director of BCS advocacy activities participated in a panel for environmental discussion, on ‘Financial protection. Mechanisms for Managing Biodiversity’, to mark the International Day for Biological Diversity UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 8: DTGO 12 July Series of internal Corporation Sustainability working advocacy activities Undertake Limited (DTGO) team launched waste for environmental initiatives to segregation campaign protection. promote greater internally 3 August, environmental 20 August, responsibility 23 August Sustainability working team provided a series of communications on waste management. 9 August Series of internal DTGO’s office stepped up engagement its greening through the activities for use of bio-degradable environmental plastic for cups and straws protection. used by the cafeteria. Members’ activities 24 August Volunteering activity to clear a waterway of rubbish and water hyacinth 28 August Volunteering activity to plant new woodland at The Forestias project. 25 July Series of public Prof. Pongporn advocacy activities Sudbanthad, an advisor to for developing DTGO and MQDC, shared canal-side his experience of helping communities with canal-side communities at environmental the ‘MIT Sloan – Sasin protection. Action Learning Conference’ at the Sasin School of Management at Chulalongkorn University. UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 8: Magnolia Quality 7 July Series of public (continued) Development MQDC shared its presentations on Corporation experiences with over environmental Limited (MQDC) 200 civil engineering research and as a DTGO graduate students at applications. subsidiary Kasetsart University on the topic “Green Practices: Here…. And Now!” 15 January Annual public MQDC organized The engagement with Annual International Wellinnovation that Being and Sustainability support well-being Forum in Bangkok, and sustainable bringing in global experts development to explore how design can serve both humans and the planet. 17 February Series of public MQDC’s The Forestias activities for and the Bangkok Post environmental organized the “Fantastic protection. Green Rally 2018” taking a group of 250 participants to participate in treeplanting and dam-building activities at Khao Yai. 12 March Series of public MQDC sponsored a advocacy activities preview screening of the for environmental BBC wildlife documentary protection. ‘Earth: One Amazing Day’ at the launch of Blue Carbon Society (BCS) 27 July 24 March Series of internal MQDC donated MQDC joined the global engagement THB2.4m to Bangkok Earth Hour campaign by activities for Metropolitan WWF, helping dim all its environmental Administration to help property development protection. plant and restore projects on Saturday from mangroves at 8.30pm to 9.30pm to Bangkhuntien over 3 reduce carbon emissions years. and raise environmental awareness. UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 8: Research & 14 July 13 March Series of public (continued) Innovation for RISC spoke on building RISC spoke on innovative, advocacy activities Sustainability design for well-being at healthy and environmentfor environmental Center (RISC) by SCG Experience’s friendly materials on TV protection and wellMQDC as a Comfortable Residential program being Design seminar. 26 March DTGO subsidiary RISC gave a lecture on “Low Energy & High Quality Lighting for Workplaces: task – ambient lights” 30 March RISC presented on “WELL Standard Certification” at the seminar: Design Innovation for Health and Well-being. 5 August, 12 August, 19 August RISC’s chief advisor spoke for ‘Mee Palung-ngan Mee Khum-Sook’ documentaries on RISC’s new buildings standard and eco-material library. 28 September RISC spoke on ‘Smart City with Sustainnovation Concept for All Well-being: WHIZDOM101’ at ‘ECO Innovation Forum 2018: Toward the Smart Eco-City and Sustainable Urbanization’ 26 October RISC spoke at the Green Panda: Asia Environmental Knowledge-Sharing Forum in Beijing 26 December RISC spoke on ‘Way to Well-Being’ presenting how interior design can take into account sustainability and energy efficiency in the long run. UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 8: Research & 18 November 15 January, Series of public Innovation for 16 February, advocacy activities (continued) 21 March, Sustainability Center for environmental 5 April (RISC) RISC shared the RISC gave a presentation on the protection and well(continued) concept of eco-materials ‘For all well-being’ design being with Kasetsart concept to students from University postgraduate Thammasat University, architecture students. Chiang Mai University, Dhurakij Pandit University, King Mongkut’s Institute of Technology Ladkrabang, 30 August, 17 September, 19 September, 25 September, 5 November, 9 November RISC hosted and presented WELL Building Standard to lecturers and students from Architecture Faculty, Chulalongkorn University, Thammasat University, King Mongkut’s University of Technology Thonburi, King Mongkut’s Institute of Technology Ladkrabang, Chiang Mai University, Kasetsart University’s Department of Landsape Architecture 9 July, 4 September RISC hosted visits from Bhutanese students and Chiang Mai University students, to explore its research and eco material library. 21 August RISC hosted the first WELL Journey Thailand event, introducing Bangok-based architects and engineers to the healthier building initiative of the International WELL Building Institute (IWBI). 22 November, 29 November RISC presented the WELL Building Standards, air quality, waste recycling, and sound masking systems to corporate partners. UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 8: Whizdom by 23 June 6 July Series of public (continued) MQDC as a Whizdom arranged the 1st Whizdom organized the engagement activities DTGO subsidiary Reforest Program, in which 84 event bringing residents to for environmental volunteers from DTGO build 10 dams and plant protection. constructed a check dam to trees together with DTGO improve forest and prevent members and partners at flooding at Khao Yai National Khao Eto Forest in Park, Prachinburi. Prachinburi. WHIZDOM 101 31 August Series of public by MQDC as a WHIZDOM 101 spoke at the presentations on DTGO Autodesk University ASEAN environmental subsidiary 2017 conference in Bangkok research and on how MQDC’s use of applications. building information modeling (BIM) enables substantial quality, cost, time, and environmental gains. 14 September Series of public WHIZDOM 101 joined engagement activities Bangkok Metropolitan for environmental Administration (BMA) to protection. clean up Bang Aor Yai canal. 22 November Series of public WHIZDOM 101 welcomed presentations on over 70 academic staff and environmental students from Assumption research and University to learn about the applications. project’s energy-saving systems. The Forestias by 19 June Series of public MQDC as a “Forest Rescue” campaign advocacy and DTGO was launched to relocate activities for subsidiary trees from lands which are environmental to be cleared. protection. Pattaya 26 July 11 May Worldmark by Pattaya Worldmark and the Coral planting MQDC as a navy released to the sea 1,066 DTGO sea turtles and 66,000 other subsidiary animals from the Sea Turtle Conservation Center in Sattahip 10 August Pattaya Worldmark and staff from Na Jomtien’s health and environment department planted trees to mark Queen Sirikit’s 85th birthday. UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 8: Buddharaksa 29 November Ongoing campaign. (continued) Foundation BUF launched schools zero (BUF) as a waste project with 2 partner DTGO schools, Dhammajarinee foundation Wittaya and Wat Sakeo, to reduce the use of plastic bags partner at their co-op shops. Blue Carbon 25 May Series of internal and Society (BCS) BCS organized a ‘Blue public engagement as a DTGO Plogging’ event to spotlight activities for association marine pollution from daily environmental partner consumables protection. 8 June Series of public BCS supported and advocacy for contributed to a forum on environmental plastic ocean waste protection convened by the Ministry of Natural Resources and Environment on World Oceans Day. UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 9: Magnolia 30 November Ongoing research Encourage the Quality MQDC established collaboration through development Development research collaboration Research & Innovation Corporation with the MIT Energy for Sustainability and diffusion of Initiative to reduce Limited Center (RISC) environmentally greenhouse gas emissions (MQDC) as a friendly DTGO from property projects. technologies 27 June Developing a network subsidiary assessment, MQDC engaged in and partaking using collaboration with PTT environmentally policy and goals Global Chemical (GC), friendly materials in committing to using construction. ‘upcycled’ plastic waste in all property development projects. An initial use of the waste will be in concrete, involving plastic wastes that are currently excluded from recycling. Research & 23 August 2 May Innovating Innovation for RISC opened the new RISC and Kenzai Ceramic environmentally Sustainability research facility in the Industry Co.Ltd cofriendly materials in Center (RISC) center of Bangkok to host innovated protective the construction by MQDC as a testing facilities and 300 material and won a third industry designs for environmentprize at the Architect DTGO friendly items for public Expo’61 innovation subsidiary use. awards conducted by The Association of Siamese Architects under the Royal Patronage of His Majesty the King. 4 June Ongoing research RISC and Thailand’s collaboration for National Science and environmentally Technology Development friendly solutions in Agency (NSTDA) signed real estate the MoU to collaborate on developing sustainable and well-being living solutions such as indoor air quality monitoring systems or energy-efficiency awareness systems. UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 9: Research & 20 August Ongoing research (Continued) Innovation for RISC established research collaboration for Sustainability collaboration with MIT environmentally Center (RISC) Professor, Dr Michael S. friendly technologies by MQDC as a Strano on converting trees for well-being of the into self-powered, selfDTGO public repairing streetlights. subsidiary 29 October RISC established a collaboration with Charoen Pokphand Seeds (CPS) to develop green technologies for cities, a field the organizations call urbanical (urban + botanical). The objective is to research plants and develop technologies for green façades, green roofs, vertical gardens, and interior-scape. EEC DT Green 31 October Ongoing business Energy as a DTGO and EEC Group of conduct adhering to DTGO joint Companies established the dissemination and venture EEC DT Green Energy, a implementation of joint venture aimed at environmentally introducing the Thai friendly technologies market to ‘net positive’ energy approaches, involving onsite power with features such as cogeneration, providing heat as well as electricity. ANTI-CORRUPTION PRINCIPLES Assessment, Policy and Goals Since its establishment, DTGO has practiced anti-corruption principles and shared these with our stakeholders. In addition to the code of conduct published in 2014 and the anti-corruption policy announced on 1 February 2018, DTGO has established regulations on offering and accepting gifts or other benefits and entertainment as guidance for all members. (Appendix 1) While the policies and guidelines for procurement processes are rigorously applied, the appointment of the Audit Committee in 2017 and Audit Team in 2018 will ensure compliance through internal control systems. Implementation UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 10: DTGO 1 March Improving the Businesses Corporation Revision of Procurement transparency and Limited Policy accountability of the should work against (DTGO) procurement process. 16 March Improving the corruption in all Revision of Delegation transparency and its forms, of Authority accountability of the including financial, management, extortion and and operational bribery approval process. 1 February Strengthening the Anti-corruption policy implementation of the announced. anti-corruption policy. 19 December Campaign on offering and accepting gifts and other benefits launched. UNGC’s DTGO’s actions and progress Way forward principles Unit/Brand 2017 2018 Principle 10: DTGO 5 July 25 January, Overseeing the (Continued) Corporation 28 February, implementation of Limited 28 March, Good Corporate 25 April, (DTGO) Governance policy and 7 May, (continued) related policies and 6 June, 10 July, codes of conduct. 25 July, 24 August, 26 September, 24 October 28 November, 20 December Appointment of the Good Corporate Good Corporate Governance Committee’s Governance Committee meetings held continuously 5 July All year round Targeting to audit 14 Appointment of Audit Audit Committee entities including Committee appointed audit team and support divisions and the auditing of 9 entities business units including support divisions and business units MEASUREMENT OF OUTCOMES Overall We believe that the best way to assess our performance is through review by third parties. Our management agreed to apply for the World’s Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere in October 2018 which offers an evaluation of our performances in 5 aspects in line with the principles of the United Nations Global Compact: 1. Ethics and Compliance Program, 2. Culture of Ethics, 3. Corporate Citizenship and Responsibility, 4. Governance, and 5. Leadership and Reputation. DTGO Corporation Limited has been recognized as one of the honorees of the 2019 World’s Most Ethical Companies. Environmental Principles DTGO Corporation Limited has started an internal implementation program for environmental protection. This initiative includes a series of internal advocacy programs to create awareness among members, as well as to collect data for a dashboard of energy use, water use and solid wastes. With some limitations, data was collected for the head office in 2018, including fuel used in company cars, electricity bills and water bills. The raw data converted into CO2 equivalent presented as emission sources. Data collection will be extended to another office location in 2019. The information will provide a baseline for drafting guidelines for implementation strategy and be communicated in our subsequent COPs.
