American University of Beirut Medical Center Communication on Progress (COP) Report 2019 1 Copyright 2019 American University of Beirut. All rights reserved. MESSAGE FROM THE EVP DEAN When I first joined AUB, I had a strong conviction that I can make a difference; I believed that bold transformations required bold decisions, and this is exactly where the 2020 Vision was meant to go. As a medical institution, we could not soar high without building resilient and prepared health systems that ensure the most advanced service delivery. I took the promise to my heart: AUBMC deserved to re-affirm its position as the leading academic medical center and healthcare institution in the region by transforming medical education, research, and clinical care. In 2010, the journey started with the launching of AUBMC 2020 Vision. An ambitious and comprehensive initiative, the Vision aimed to affirm AUBMC’s position as the leading medical center and healthcare institution in the region. It was set into action based on the need to establish new clinical and research centers of excellence with state-of-the-art equipment and the application of best practices. It was our mission to redefine service excellence and advance healthcare while integrating regional and international partnerships. Building on my belief that “Leadership is about creating Leaders”, the main themes of the Vision integrate leadership, excellence, innovation, partnerships and expansion. A major pillar of the Vision was its academic component; we are not only a Medical Center but a center which delivers excellence in patient-centered care, outstanding education, and innovative research, all in one place. We are committed to educating and training medical students, residents, nurses, and healthcare professionals. Today, we are proud to have around 500 to a thousand-people training at different levels. In these past years, AUBMC has witnessed the establishment of state-of-the-art buildings like Souad and Wassef Sawwaf Building, the Diana Tamari Sabbagh Building (DTS), Medical Administration Building (MAB), and the Halim and Aida Daniel Academic and Clinical Center (ACC) in addition to centers of excellence in oncology, neuroscience, multiple sclerosis, and children cancer, as well as new clinical programs, services, and units. Moving forward, a new medical complex will also be established to house around 150 new beds. Since July 2009, the Faculty of Medicine has also been acclaimed for the recruitment of over 209 topcaliber, highly specialized and accomplished physicians and scientists; hence, reversing the brain drain. As an academic Medical Center, AUBMC has also been able to standardize and improve the ethical standards of human subject research aligned with the improvement of inter-disciplinary and interfaculty research initiatives. 1 Great successes require the right balance between strategic direction and creative energy, and it can never be culminated with a single effort that focuses at a single objective. As a prominent global partner on health, we have to ensure that we are continuously advancing strategically while focusing on delivering excellence in all aspects of education, training of future leaders, and patient care. Advancement can have different faces, and AUBMC’s 2020 Vision is but an attestation to our continuous and pioneering endeavor that would mark healthcare systems in Lebanon, the region, and beyond for many years to come. Mohamed H. Sayegh, MD Executive Vice President for Medicine and Global Strategy Raja N. Khuri Dean, Faculty of Medicine Professor of Medicine and Immunology American University of Beirut Regional Ambassador, AAHCI MENA Office Senior Lecturer, Harvard Medical School 2 THE AMERICAN UNIVERSITY OF BEIRUT MEDICAL CENTER (AUBMC) Since 1902, the American University of Beirut Medical Center (AUBMC) has been providing the highest standards of care to patients across Lebanon and the region. It is also the teaching hospital for the Faculty of Medicine (FM) at AUB. Established in 1867, the Faculty of Medicine has trained generations of medical students and physicians, and its graduates can be found at leading institutions around the world. The story of our medical center began 150 years ago in a small rented building in Zokak El-Blant in Beirut, home to the first classes of School of Medicine, which was established by the Syrian Protestant College (later known as the American University of Beirut –AUB). It became evident, and quiet quickly, that the School of Medicine would need to expand to meet the needs and demands of our region. In 1902, the College purchased a property across the street from AUB Medical Gate, and established a 200-bed hospital that provided ancillary services. The property housed an administrative building, homes for superintendents, nurses and student nurses, a kitchen, as well as multiple wards for gynecology, obstetrics and children’s disease. In 1905, the School of Nursing – the first of its kind in the Middle East – was founded. Over the years, the need for continued expansion became clear. In 1970, a new-state-of-the-art medical center, the American University of Beirut Medical Center, was inaugurated in the presence of then Prime Minister, Rashid Karameh. The new medical center was built with a 365-bed inpatient capacity, and elaborated outpatient facility, an emergency department, research “AUBMC is taking laboratories, classrooms and offices for the academic staff. healthcare delivery All the growth mentioned above has led us to where we are today: in Lebanon and the The Faculty of Medicine has graduated over 4,340 medical students and physicians (by 2015); the Rafic Hariri School of Nursing provides Middle East to levels excellent education for the nursing staff and the medical center of excellence unseen meets the health care needs of over 360,000 patients annually. before. Our steady Today, AUBMC is the first medical institution in the Middle dedication, together East to have earned five international accreditations of Joint with our commitment, Commission International (JCI), Magnet (Magnet Recognition Program®), the College of American Pathologists (CAP), Joint passion, and Accreditation Committee for EBMT and ISCT Europe (JACIE), indefatigable deterand the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education International (ACGME-I) attesting to its superior standards in mination have kept patient-centered care, nursing, pathology/laboratory services, the momentum of the and graduate medical education. AUBMC’s impact on the medical sector and on improving people’s lives is without equal in the AUBMC vision going.” Arab world. Fadlo R. Khuri, President, AUB 2 AUBMC’s impact on the medical sector and on improving people’s lives is without equal in the Arb world. With our magnanimous history comes tremendous responsibility to continue to provide the highest standards of excellence in patient-centered care, education, and research to the Middle East. In 2009, AUB secured a dynamic new leadership for AUBMC with the appointment of Dr. Mohamed H. Sayegh, Executive Vice President for Medicine and Global Strategy and Raja N. Khuri Dean of the Faculty of Medicine at AUB and Senior Lecturer at Harvard Medical School. Before then, Dean Sayegh was an Endowed Professor of Medicine and Pediatrics and Director of the Transplantation Research Center at Harvard Medical School. Shortly after his arrival, Dean Sayegh announced an ambitious new vision known as AUBMC 2020, which would propel the Medical Center and medical care in the region to new levels of excellence. Through academically driven innovations in clinical care, education, and research, AUBMC 2020 will ensure that the needs of patients, researchers, and healthcare professionals in the region are met with the same levels of excellence that AUB has been providing for more than 100 years. The American University of Beirut Medical Center, as the Medical Center of the American University of Beirut, is governed by a private, autonomous Board of Trustees. AUBMC MISSION STATEMENT The American University of Beirut Medical Center (AUBMC) is an academic medical center dedicated to the passionate pursuit of improving the health of the community in Lebanon and the region through the delivery of exceptional and comprehensive quality care to our patients, excellence in education and training, and leadership in innovative research. AUBMC VISION To be the leading academic medical center in Lebanon and the region by delivering excellence in patient-centered care, outstanding education and innovative research. 3 AUBMC CORE VALUES AUBMC has rolled out a new set of core values as part of the 2020 Vision. These values can be found all around the Medical Center so that patients, visitors, and staff alike know what our commitment to them is. 4 AUBMC 2020 VISION AUB is building on its strong foundations in medical education and health care through the AUBMC 2020 Vision. In addition to improving facilities and capacity, the AUBMC 2020 Vision will establish centers of excellence that will provide new medical options for the treatment of illnesses endemic in the Arab world, and it will expand access to the quality of care that families in Lebanon have depended on for generations. Launched in 2010, the AUBMC 2020 Vision is an ambitious and comprehensive initiative that affirms AUBMC’s position as the leading medical center and healthcare institution in the region. The AUBMC 2020 Vision is transforming medical education, research and practice, and most importantly, medical care in the region, bringing them to new levels of excellence. It consists of major new medical (clinical and academic) facilities, the establishment of clinical and research centers of excellence, investment in state-of-the-art equipment, recruitment of talented physicians and nurses, and regional and international partnerships. Six Main Paths to Achieving the AUBMC 2020 Vision 1. Providing Patients with the highest standards of patient-centered care. 2. Recruitment of top-caliber, highly specialized, and accomplished faculty. 3. Academic innovation through the creation of clinical and research ceters of excellence and the provision of outstanding medical education. 4. Establishment of strategic partnerships and collaborations locally, regionally, and internationally. 5. Investing in and expanding our facilities to meet the needs of the people of Lebanon and the region. 6. Supporting the health of local and regional patients in need by ensuring their access to care. Behind each of the paths are clearly deﬁned goals and key implementation items that, once accomplished, will allow AUBMC to realize its 2020 Vision. New Medical Main Medical Center Expansion Wassef & Souad Center Building Diana Tamari Medical Sawwaf Building Administration Sabbagh Building Building Building 56 Pierre Y. Abou Khater (Fahed) Building Specialty PolyClinics Building Issam Fares Lecture Hall Rafic Hariri School of Nursing SML Halim & Aida Med Café Daniel Academic & Clinical Center Map of the 2020 Vision with the new buildings. 5 AUBMC APPROACH TO THE 10 PRINCIPLES In May 2017, Executive Vice President Dr. Mohamed H. Sayegh signed up for the United Nations Global Compact Program while expressing AUBMC’s intent to implement the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact on human rights, labor, environment and anti-corruption. This pledge is aligned with AUBMC’s mission, vision and core values. As such AUBMC, leadership and community, implemented initiatives that focus on bringing awareness to individuals (faculty, staff, and stakeholders) and society (locally and globally) to ensure willingness to voluntarily implement strategies and build a culture and day-to-day operations of AUBMC to engage in collaborative projects which advance the broader development goals of the United Nations, particularly the Sustainable Development Goals. 6 HUMAN RIGHTS AND LABOR Human Rights Principles Principle 1 Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights Principle 2 Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Labor Principles Businesses should uphold the freedom of association Principle 3 and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining Principle 4 The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labor Principle 5 The effective abolition of child labor Principle 6 The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation AUBMC is committed to respecting and supporting human rights, including fair labor practices, in compliance with Article 9 of the Lebanese Labor Law. AUBMC mobilize its resources in the most effective manner. As such and towards this goal, the institution believes it should maintain fair and equitable personnel policies that attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees and workers. The personnel policies of the University are based on these principles consistent with its parallel responsibilities to its students, its patients, and the communities concerned. These policies are also designed to conform to the University’s statutory and contractual obligations. In order to provide necessary information and guidelines to the user community, these policies are published on the university website. 7 AUBMC COMMUNITY AUBMC believes that all its community deserve respect, support and equal treatment. Within the framework of Lebanese Law, the American University of Beirut is an equal opportunity employer that supports human rights and fair labor practices. These practices, are in line with the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDG) that include promotion of diversity and supporting the professional growth and development of our staff, in addition to policies that promote respect, dignity and safety in our workplaces. The American University of Beirut Medical Center promotes a positive culture and the continuous improvement of working conditions with respect to human rights. AUBMC supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights within its staff, including directors, executives, management, supervisors and employee, whether directly employed or contracted. 8 STAFF MANUAL AUBMC has developed a Staff Manual to protect the human rights of all employees according to global and national human rights proclamation and standards. Following policies and procedures are included in the manual: • General Policies • Chapter I Recruitment • Chapter II Placement • Chapter III Work Schedules • Chapter IV Holidays • Chapter V Vacations • Chapter VI Leave of Absence • Chapter VII Wages and Salaries • Chapter VIII Allowances • Chapter IX Continuous Services • Chapter X Safety and Sanitation • Chapter XI Medical Care • Chapter XII Disability Benefits • Chapter XIII Employee Training • Chapter XIV Transportation and Travel • Chapter XV Services • Chapter XVI Labor Relations • Chapter XVII Termination • Chapter XVIII Pensions and Death Benefits • Chapter XIX Organizational Changes, Restructuring, and Naming • Chapter XX Personnel Regulations • Chapter XXI Non-Lebanese Employees • Appendix I Personnel Regulations For Non-Academic Employees and Workers • Appendix II – Overtime Guidelines • Appendix III Educational Allowances • Appendix IV College or University Education • Appendix V Presentation of Service Emblems and Awards • Appendix VI Group Life Insurance Policy The handbook is available in English and some policies are available in Arabic to ease communication and maintain smooth compliance. 9 OCCUPATIONAL HEALTH AND SAFETY The American University of Beirut Medical Center will maintain an environmental health and safety program throughout the University designed to prevent accidents and fires and to protect the general health of all personnel. For this purpose, the University will take necessary measures to provide a safe and sanitary work place, furnish personal protective equipment, give physical examinations and inoculations when and where needed, and promote health and safety awareness. Management Objective: The University believes that the health and safety of employees is a major consideration in the operation of all facilities, and that concentrated, continuous effort should be exercised to provide and continuously maintain a clean, safe, and healthful environment. For this purpose, the University has established the Environmental Health, Safety, and Risk Management Center (EHS&RM). Sanitation Service Responsibility: The EHS&RM will be responsible for developing, implementing, and supervising sanitation inspection and advisory services in the fields of water supply, sewage disposal, food preparation, insect and rodent control, garbage and rubbish disposal, nuisance abatement, general sanitation, accident prevention, radiological hazard control, and related fields. EHS&RM will furnish technical advice to all concerned on all safety, health, and sanitation matters, conduct necessary inspections, and carry out or directly supervise correction and prevention of deficiencies involving technical procedures or the use of poisons, dangerous chemicals, or radioactive materials. Supervisory Responsibility: Supervisors are directly responsible for the safety of their operations and for the protection of personnel, equipment, and materials from injuries, damage, or loss. Supervisors are also responsible for taking corrective and preventive measures as determined by the EHS&RM. Employee Responsibility: Employees are expected to take an active part in the responsibility of protecting themselves, their fellow employees, and university property. Safety Rules: The American University of Beirut Medical Center has established life safety and fire prevention rules designed to eliminate or reduce the risk of accidents and fires to an absolute minimum. Life safety and fire protection and prevention rules established by the University shall be posted in conspicuous places at work locations designated by the department heads concerned. Health and Sanitation Rules: The American University of Beirut Medical Center has established health and sanitation rules designed to provide satisfactory standards for the protection of the general health of all personnel. Posting of Rules: Health and sanitation rules established by the University shall be posted in a conspicuous place at work locations designated by the department head concerned. 10 WELLNESS AND AGILE WORKING The University offers certain services and amenities designed to meet special circumstances and needs, as determined by the University from time to time. In determining such services and amenities, the University will be guided by the availability of required university facilities, prevailing practices in the labor market, and its legal obligations. Free Meals In accordance with the Lebanese law, the University offers free meals to registered nurses and designated personnel of the hospital Dietary Department and of the campus Food Service Department, as stated herein. The benefit consists of one free meal per day, while on duty, and at their place of work. Use of University Beach The AUB Beach is maintained as a private facility primarily for students’ use. However, it may also be used by employees and their dependents in accordance with the published rules and subject to the payment of the appropriate charges. Use of Athletic Facilities The University’s athletic facilities are intended primarily for the use of students. However, employees and their dependents may be granted access to the facilities in accordance with the rules established by the dean of student affairs, and subject to the payment of the appropriate charges. REMUNERATION It is the intent of the University to pay, on a fair and equitable basis, such wages and salaries that will attract and retain qualified personnel. The University will maintain an economically competitive level of compensation and provide a program which recognizes significant differences in the relative value of jobs, rewards employees for their performance, and encourages continuous service. The American University of Beirut Medical Center, in general, maintains a salary structure and pay rates consistent with the prevailing rates in the labor market. Salaries will be paid in Lebanese pounds based on the classification of the jobs and/or the provision of the employment agreements. In some special cases, salaries of other than Lebanese employees may be paid in US dollars, as specifically provided in their employment agreements. 11 HEALTH CARE BENEFITS It is the policy of the American University of Beirut Medical Center to offer to employees and their families the opportunity to participate in the university health insurance plan. AUBMC also provides out-patient medical care at the University Health Services to eligible personnel. University Health Services: The University Health Services will perform medical examination and give medical care to eligible personnel and family members in accordance with the Health Insurance Plan, the medical and maternity care branch of the National Social Security Fund, and the established policy of the University. Health Insurance Plan: In order to help employees to defray hospitalization expenses, the University offers a Health Insurance Plan under the terms and conditions provided in such plan. Said plan may be amended from time to time or suspended at will by the University. Participation: Employees under 65 years of age, who are engaged on half time basis or more and for more than nine-month contracts, may participate in the university health insurance plan. Married employees may also take on membership for their spouses and dependent children, in accordance with the provisions of said plan. GROUP INSURANCE Employees who are in active service are covered by group life and accidental death and dismemberment (AD&D) insurance through Bankers Insurance. The Policy Covers: 1. Death due to Accident or Sickness. 2. Accidental Permanent Total Disability (PTD) 3. Accidental Permanent Partial Disability (PPD) 4. Passive War Risk (Death + PTD + PPD) 12 The sum insured is as follows: Faculty and non-academic staff above grade 12 while in active service: a. For natural death, war death, and war disability: 2 x annual basic salary with a minimum of $30,000 and a maximum of $240,000. b. Accidental death and dismemberment: 3 x annual basic salary with a minimum of $45,000 and a maximum of $360,000. Non-Academic staff below Grade 13 while in active service: a. For natural death, war death, and war disability: 2 x annual basic salary with a minimum of $25,000 and a maximum of $50,000. b. Accidental death and dismemberment: 3 x annual basic salary with a minimum of $30,000 and a maximum of $75,000. Faculty, management, and non-academic staff below manager’s level have the option to upgrade their life insurance sum insured by a maximum of one annual salary, without exceeding the maximum limits allowed and thus subject to a declaration of good health. DIVERSITY AND INCLUSION NON-DISCRIMINATION POLICY AUB encourages a diverse student body and workforce, and is committed to the principle of equal opportunity in education and employment. In the administration of its educational, admissions, and employment policies, and other university programs and activities, AUB does not discriminate on the basis of race, color, religion, age, national or ethnic identity, gender or gender identity, marital status, disability, genetic predisposition or carrier status, alienage or citizenship status, political affiliation, or any legally protected characteristic, except as required by Lebanese law. In addition, in compliance with Title IX of the US Education Amendments of 1972, which prohibits sex discrimination in education and interprets sex discrimination as including sexual harassment and sexual violence, the University maintains a Title IX coordinator in the Office of the Provost and may appoint deputy Title IX coordinators as needed. Inquiries and complaints regarding sex discrimination, sexual harassment, and sexual violence may be directed to the Title IX coordinator, College Hall, 5th Floor, Beirut, Lebanon, or by email at integrityofficer@aub. edu.lb. The Office of the Provost maintains a resource page on Non-Discrimination, Harassment, and Title IX at www.aub.edu.lb/titleix. 13 HARASSMENT HEALTHY AND SAFE WORK ENVIRONMENT The American University of Beirut has developed these Policies Concerning Sexual and Other Discriminatory Harassment in order to promote a safe and ethical work and academic environment in which members of the AUB community are free from discrimination and harassment of all kinds. For the purposes of this policy, the “AUB community” includes students, faculty, staff, administrators, trainees, alumni, visitors, recipients of health services, and medical center interns/residents located on campus and at AUBMC and the Advancing Research Enabling Communities Center (AREC), or any other facility or program affiliated with the University. Also included are the dependents and domestic employees of faculty and staff dwelling on campus and at AREC. DISCRIMINATORY HARASSMENT Discriminatory harassment contravenes AUB’s Principles of Ethical Conduct, and the right of all members of the AUB community to study and work in an environment characterized by dignity and mutual respect. Discriminatory harassment is any conduct by a member of the AUB community, on or off campus or in cyberspace, which invokes a protected characteristic and has the intent or effect of unreasonably interfering with an individual’s or group’s educational or work performance; or of creating a hostile, intimidating, or offensive educational, work, or living environment. Conduct cannot be deemed hostile, intimidating, or offensive solely on the basis of the complainant’s subjective opinion. It requires objective confirmation. Discriminatory harassment may occur between people of the same or opposite gender and between people of equivalent status. It is especially serious, however, when it involves abuse of power or authority, such as by a faculty or staff member over a student, subordinate, or patient receiving services at the medical center. The University prohibits discriminatory harassment on the basis of race, color, religion, age, national or ethnic identity, gender or gender identity, marital status, disability, genetic predisposition or carrier status, alienage or citizenship status, political affiliation, or any other characteristic protected by law. Instances in which one person is discourteous or disrespectful toward another do not constitute discriminatory harassment unless one of these characteristics is invoked. However, improper or unfair treatment that reflects a serious and aggravated lack of civility may still form the basis of a formal grievance under the Grievance Policy and Procedures. Some examples of harassing behaviors are: verbal or written abuse or ridicule, including slurs and negative stereotyping; distasteful jokes and comments; the display or distribution of demeaning or offensive images; and threatening, intimidating, or hostile acts. 14 Discriminatory harassment does not include actions taken for a legitimate educational or administrative reason, such as constructive criticism provided in a performance review or a decision to move an employee’s work area or change his or her work assignments. AUB endeavors to strike a proper balance between academic freedom and our community’s right to study and work in a respectful environment. On some occasions, verbal utterances or written materials that could be interpreted as discriminatory or harassing may serve a necessary function in an academic, educational, or research context. Such expressions are protected forms of academic freedom so long as they are not abusive and do not contravene AUB’s Policies Concerning Sexual and Other Discriminatory Harassment. SEXUAL HARASSMENT Sexual harassment is a particular form of discriminatory harassment that diminishes the dignity of offenders and victims; damages their professional careers and educational experiences; and interferes with the University’s ability to achieve its mission. As such, it contravenes every one of AUB’s Principles of Ethical Conduct. The American University of Beirut Medical Center does not tolerate sexual harassment by any member of the AUB community, whether on or off campus or in cyberspace. The term sexual harassment includes many behaviors. Unwelcome sexual advances and verbal, physical, or other conduct of a sexual nature, including email and other written communications, are considered sexual harassment when a) submission to such conduct is made, implicitly or explicitly, a basis, term, or condition of a decision related to the administration of AUB’s educational, admissions, or employment policies, scholarship and loan programs, or other university programs or activities, including the provision of health care services; or b) such conduct interferes with an individual or group’s educational or work performance or creates a hostile, intimidating, or offensive educational, work, or living environment. For conduct to be deemed harassing under this policy, it must be perceived as hostile, intimidating, or offensive not only from the perspective of the complainant, but also from the perspective of an objective observer. Sexual harassment may occur between people of the same or opposite gender and between people of equal or unequal status. It includes the abuse of power or authority by a faculty or staff member over a student, subordinate, or patient receiving services at the medical center, as well as sexual advances aimed at influencing the decisions of another. Examples of sexually harassing conduct include, but are not limited to: repeated unwelcome flirtation, advances, or propositions; inappropriate and unnecessary physical proximity or contact; graphic comments about an individual’s physical attributes or appearance; sexually degrading language used to describe an individual; display of sexually suggestive objects or images in the workplace; sexually-oriented messages or images sent by SMS or email; all forms of sexual stalking; and sexual violence or assault. Sexual harassment does not require any intent to offend or intimidate. A joke, prank, or compliment may constitute or contribute to sexual harassment if a reasonable person would interpret the conduct in that way. In such cases, the offending party must cease the harassing activity as soon as the aggrieved party requests it. In compliance with Title IX of the US Education Amendments of 1972, which prohibits sex discrimination in education and interprets sex discrimination as including sexual harassment and sexual violence, the University maintains a Title IX coordinator in the Office of the Provost. Questions and complaints regarding sexual harassment, including sexual violence, may be directed to the Title IX coordinator upon his/her appointment. Interim measures are posted at https://www.aub.edu.lb/president/Pages/TitleIX.aspx. 15 PROFESSIONAL SUPPORT AND DEVELOPMENT It is the University’s objective to assist employees to develop their special interests and talents for the greatest mutual benefit of themselves and the University. Toward this end, the University provides job-related vocational, technical, and educational programs designed to improve the employees’ performance in their present assignments, and to meet present and future needs of the University. Human Resources at American University of Beirut Medical Center (AUBMC) shall follow a staff development plan that provides its staff with Continuing Professional Education (CPE) and training activities to meet the service requirements and patient care needs in line with its mission and vision statement. All CPE activities provided by Human Resources Department (HRD) at AUBMC shall be developed following “Learning Needs Assessment” and be in response to the unique educational needs of the target audiences, the job competencies and other training required by regulatory and accrediting agencies. The aim of staff development is to continuously develop the professional skills, competencies, and potential of the AUB workforce; to channel its work energy and improve its performance with respect to institutional development and the provision of more effective service to present and future stakeholders of AUB. Purpose of Staff Development Plan: • To provide AUBMC staff with effective learning opportunities and organization development strategies. • To help in creating high participation, performance-oriented work, and a positive learning environment within AUBMC, ultimately leading to professional growth. • To maintain high standards in the quality of care provided. • Meet educational standards set by the Medial Center and other regulatory and accrediting agencies. 16 RIGHT TO COLLECTIVE BARGAINING All employees at AUBMC have the freedom and right to join the Syndicate of AUB Employees which is represented by a Syndicate Council that represents the General Assembly of the Syndicate on Collective Labor Contract and is authorized by the required legal majority to execute agreements and to bargain collectively on their behalf with the institution. AUBMC respects this right and informs personnel that joining the Syndicate will not result in any negative consequences to them, or retaliation, from the institution. Furthermore, AUBMC shall not interfere with the establishment, operation and organization of the Syndicate. HUMAN TRAFFICKING: THE ELIMINATION OF ALL FORMS OF FORCED AND COMPULSORY LABOR The American University of Beirut Medical Center does not engage in or support the use of forced or compulsory labor as defined in Lebanese Labour Law. AUBMC doesn’t withhold any part of any personnel‘s salary, benefits, property, or documents in order to force such personnel to continue working for the company. Personnel employed by the institution shall have the right to leave the workplace premises after completing the standard workday, and be free to terminate their employment provided that they give the notice period stated by labor law. Employees are allowed to leave after their regular shift. They are not forced to remain at the work premises to work overtime hours – therefore all overtime work must be fully voluntary & paid at a premium rate. CHILDREN: THE EFFECTIVE ABOLITION OF CHILD LABOR The American University of Beirut Medical Center doesn’t engage in child labor at any level of the institution in line with Lebanese Labour Law. No worker is employed under the minimum age established by national law. According to AUBMC, employment age is at least 18 years. To eliminate incidences of child labor at AUBMC, we subscribe to the appropriate national and international legal standards, and also adopt some objectives at the time of recruitment of employees. 17 ENVIRONMENT Environment Principle 7 Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges Principle 8 Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Principle 9 Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies The American University of Beirut is committed to the provision and maintenance of a safe and healthy environment for its faculty, staff, patients, students, and the general public. For this reason, the Environmental Health, Safety, and Risk Management Department (EHSRM) was established with the authority to develop and implement a safety and risk management program for the University (Campus, Medical Center, and AREC). EHSRM MISSION The mission of EHSRM is to effectively address the University’s liability, financial, operational, compliance, and reputational risks; to promote work practices that achieve excellence in environmental stewardship; to comply with any and all rules and regulations pertaining to occupational health and safety; and to protect resources through sound administration of the University’s insurance coverage in support of the University’s teaching, research, community outreach, and service learning goals and objectives. EHSRM VISION The Vision of EHSRM is to continually improve its service to the University community, to support the academic and administrative functions, to protect the human, intellectual, physical and financial assets and resources, to help maintain a safe and healthy environment, to develop and facilitate emergency management best practices, to assist and educate departments in meeting regulatory responsibilities, to help ensure a safe and secure work and learning environment, to promote a risk conscious environment as well as the management of hazardous materials in an environmentally sound manner. 18 STATEMENT OF THE EHSRM POLICY The American University of Beirut is committed to providing a safe and healthful environment for its faculty, staff, students, patients, and visitors and managing the university in an environmentally responsible manner. Safety and environmental leadership is demonstrated by maintaining the highest standards and serving as an example to the community at large. EHSRM serves as the primary source of leadership in anticipating environmental health and safety requirements and risks and in developing mitigation strategies to minimize impacts to the university’s community, academic and research infrastructure, and operations. It provides services to the university community through technical support, information and training programs, consulting services, and periodic auditing of health and safety practices and regulatory compliance. EHSRM SERVICES 1. Biosafety and Sanitation 2. Health Physics (Radiation Safety) 3. Lab Safety, Hazardous Material & Hygiene 4. Life & Fire Safety 5. Occupational Safety 6. Risk Management 7. Emergency Response 19 LIFE SAFETY The American University of Beirut is committed to providing its employees, students, patients and visitors with an environment where life and fire safety principles are followed effectively to support the University’s mission of rendering education, research, patient care and public services. The Life Safety Unit of EHSRM is responsible for implementing the life and fire safety program as prescribed by the University’s Policy on Environmental Health, Safety and Risk Management by ensuring that campus operations comply with Lebanese and/or US National Safety and environmental regulations, building code requirements and standards. It offers AUB staff and students’ life safety and firefighting training sessions that are related to the nature of their work or building occupancy use, reviews plans and specifications to ensure compliance with applicable codes and standards, and can order the immediate evacuation of any occupied building deemed unsafe when such building has hazardous conditions that present imminent danger to building occupants. The Life Safety Technical Manual focuses on minimum requirements necessary to establish a reasonable level of fire safety and property protection from the hazards created by fire and explosion. The manual is partially comprised of limited text references extracted from NFPA codes and applicable standards in an effort to bring together useful information to the AUB community. The manual and other pertinent fire protection and fighting training information and training materials may be obtained from EHSRM. The Fire Protection service shall inspect any building or premises for dangerous or hazardous conditions or materials as set forth in the manual and shall order any person(s) to remove or remedy such dangerous or hazardous condition or material. Any person(s) failing to comply with such order shall be in violation of the requirements in the manual. RADIATION SAFETY The American University of Beirut is committed to providing its employees, students, patients and visitors with an environment where sources of ionizing radiation are used safely and effectively for medical, research and teaching purposes. 20 The Health Physics Services (HPS) Unit of EHSRM is responsible for implementing the University Radiation Safety Regulations as prescribed by the University’s Policy on Environmental Health, Safety and Risk Management by ensuring that campus operations comply with University Radiation Safety Committee, local regulations, and rules and regulations equivalent to the US Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC), US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the US Department of Transportation (DOT), the US National Council on Radiation Protection and Measurements (NCRP), the International Commission on Radiological Protection (ICRP), and the American Association of Physicists in Medicine (AAPM). The Radiation Safety Technical Manual focuses on minimum requirements necessary to establish a reasonable level of current policies and practices of the University Radiation Safety Committee (URSC) and (HPS). It specifies the procedures and requirements pertaining to the procurement, storage, use, and disposal of ionizing radiation sources which shall be applied to reduce, to a level As Low As Reasonably Achievable (ALARA), the amount of radiation to which any person may be exposed. It is intended to guide AUB personnel to prevent causing any individual to be exposed to radiation in excess of the limits defined in this handbook. It contains a series of provisions and recommendations which should be interpreted with scientific judgment in their application to a particular situation. Any relaxation of the provisions must be approved in writing by the University Radiation Safety Committee at the recommendation of the University Radiation safety officer based on assessment of the possibility of hazard, taking into account the nature of the radiation source, operations and working facilities. The manual and other pertinent sanitation training information and training materials may be obtained from EHSRM at the DTS Office. The Radiation Protection Program described in the Radiation Protection Handbook/manual represents the policies and procedures in the field of ionizing radiation and is intended to facilitate and control the use of ionizing radiation sources (Sealed and Unsealed Sources of Radioactive Materials as well as Radiation Producing Equipments) in teaching, research and medical applications, and to protect faculty, staff, students, patients and the general public from the potentially harmful effects of ionizing radiation. ENVIRONMENTAL SAFETY The American University of Beirut is committed to providing its employees, students, patients and visitors with an environment where general safety is practiced effectively for medical, research and teaching purposes. The Environmental Safety Unit of EHSRM is responsible for implementing the General Safety Regulations as prescribed by the University’s Policy on Environmental Health, Safety and Risk Management by ensuring that campus operations comply with Lebanese and/or US National Safety and environmental regulations, requirements and standards. It requires its students, staff, and faculty to adhere to basic General Laboratory Safety Rules in laboratories handling chemicals and other hazardous materials to minimize the potential exposure to hazardous materials. The Laboratory Safety Technical Manual focuses on basic general safety rules in laboratories handling chemicals and other hazardous materials to establish a reasonable level of safety and property protection from the hazards created in a laboratory setting, to ensure that laboratory employees are apprised of the hazards of chemicals in their work area, and that appropriate work practices and procedures are in place to protect laboratory employees/occupants from chemical health and safety hazards. The manual and other pertinent general safety training information and training materials may be obtained from EHSRM. The standard operating procedures (laboratory practices and engineering controls) recommended in the manual identify the safeguards that should be taken when working with hazardous materials. These safeguards will protect laboratory workers from unsafe conditions in the vast majority of situations. There are instances, however, when the physical and chemical properties, the proposed use, the quantity used for a particular purpose or the toxicity of a substance will be such that either additional, or fewer, controls might be appropriate to protect the laboratory worker. Professional judgment is essential in the interpretation of these standard operating procedures, and individual laboratories may modify these procedures to meet their specific uses and operational needs. 21 OCCUPATIONAL SAFETY The American University of Beirut (Campus, Medical Center, & AREC) is committed to providing its employees, students, patients and visitors with an environment where general safety is practiced effectively for medical, research and teaching purposes. EHSRM shall contribute to the strategic direction of the American University of Beirut Medical Center (AUBMC) and shall actively participate in the delivery of care of the medical center. EHSRM team shall achieve this by an ongoing commitment to the health, safety and welfare of the medical center staff, patients and visitors through the provision of appropriate and effective advice, support and guidance on all health and safety matters in order to facilitate a healthy and safe working environment. The Occupational Safety Unit of EHSRM is responsible for implementing the General Safety Regulations as prescribed by the University’s Policy on Environmental Health, Safety and Risk Management by ensuring that AUBMC operations comply with AUBMC Safety Plans as prescribed by the Joint Commission International (JCI), local regulations and rules and regulations equivalent to the US National Fire Protection Association (NFPA), US National Institute of Health (NIH), US Center for Disease Control (CDC), the US Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA). Moreover, Occupational Safety coordinates and provides necessary training information along with details on work practices, safety equipment and facility design. It is the responsibility of the department director or manager to ensure the safety and protection of personnel and property and that staff has attended the required safety sessions. The Occupational Safety Technical Manual focuses on minimum requirements necessary to establish a reasonable level of a safe, functional, supportive and effective environment for patients, staff and other individuals in the Medical Center. This document and other pertinent safety training information and training materials may be obtained from EHSRM, Medical Center Safety Office. RISK MANAGEMENT The American University of Beirut is committed to providing its employees, students, patients and visitors with risk management services including liability, financial, operational, compliance, and reputational risks that protect resources through sound administration of the University’s insurance coverage in support of the university’s mission of rendering education, research, patient care and public services. The Risk Management Unit of EHSRM is responsible for implementing the General Safety Regulations as prescribed by the University’s Policy on Environmental Health, Safety and Risk Management by ensuring that the University’s operations comply with Lebanese and/or US regulations, requirements, and standards. The success of Risk Management in fulfilling its responsibilities requires close coordination with, and cooperation from, the University Community at large for identification of potential risks and prompt notification of losses sustained. Risk Management mission is to minimize the adverse effects of loss due to accidents or other unforeseen events, which may be inflicted upon the physical and human assets of AUB. EHSRM is charged with the responsibility for the preservation of assets, both human and physical. This is accomplished by identifying, evaluating, and controlling loss exposures that the University may face. The Risk Management Technical Manual focuses on minimum requirements necessary to establish a reasonable level of safety and protection from hazards facing the University. The manual is partially comprised of limited text references extracted from different sources in an effort to bring together information useful to the AUB community. The manual and other pertinent risk management training information and training materials may be obtained from EHSRM. 22 SANITATION AUB is committed to providing an environment where sanitation principles are followed safely and effectively to support the University’s mission of rendering education, research, patient care and \ public services. The Sanitation Unit of EHSRM is responsible for implementing the Sanitation program as prescribed by the University’s Policy on Environmental Health, Safety and Risk Management by ensuring that the University operations comply with Lebanese and/or US codes, regulations and standards. The Sanitation Technical Manual focuses on the sanitation operational guidelines that are followed by EHSRM personnel who perform sanitation services for the University. Compliance with operational guidelines outlined in this manual will result in uniform interpretations as they relate to sanitation services. The manual is subject to continual review with updates, and corrections issued annually; it does not supersede local ordinances, policies, and procedures. The manual and other pertinent Sanitation training information and training materials may be obtained from EHSRM. 23 ANTI-CORRUPTION Anti-corruption Principle 10 Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery PRINCIPLES OF ETHICAL CONDUCT The American University of Beirut is deeply committed to ethical standards which are consistent with the institution’s founding values and ongoing mission to the peoples of the Middle East and beyond. AUB’s mission acknowledges the crucial importance of freedom of thought and expression to the pursuit of excellence in education, research, and service. Academic freedom is a precondition for the vibrant intellectual debates and exchanges involved in knowledge creation and transmission. Our mission also recognizes that fruitful dialogue requires adherence to certain principles, which it identifies, explicitly and implicitly, as equity, diversity, civility, and integrity (“Principles of Ethical Conduct” or “Principles”). As an institution and as members of a community, we endeavor to live by these Principles, which protect our right to study and work in an environment characterized by mutual esteem and respect. We derive university policies and procedures from these Principles and ask members of our community to abide by them in the spirit of fairness, good judgment, and good faith. We also depend on our community to help us to identify inequities so that we may strive to eliminate them. “EXPEDIENCY SHOULD NEVER COMPROMISE INTEGRITY.” 24 PRINCIPLES OF ETHICAL CONDUCT POLICY The American University of Beirut has developed the Principles of Ethical Conduct Policy to support ethical conduct amongst members of the AUB community. The goal of this policy is to strengthen our community by emphasizing our shared responsibility for ethical conduct, both as individuals and as members of groups. Each of us has a role to play in maintaining a dignified and respectful educational and professional environment. Responsibilities 1. Members of the AUB community are expected to: 2. Maintain a high level of personal and academic integrity 3. Value the unique nature of their fellows 4. Respect differences in personal characteristics and worldview 5. Behave courteously in everyday interactions and activities 6. Treat others with impartiality, avoiding favoritism or negative bias 7. Act in good faith and assume that others will do the same 8. Communicate respectfully, both verbally and in writing 9. Respect the property of the University and of others 10. Adhere to university policies and procedures 11. Comply with applicable laws and regulation 12. Refrain from abusing authority or power over others 13. Initiate action to correct behavior inconsistent with the Principles when it occurs We are all accountable to ourselves, to each other, and to the University for our behavior and actions. 25 CODE OF BUSINESS ETHICS Since its foundation in 1866, one of the keystones of the University’s success has been integrity in its dealings with people, both inside and outside the University. AUB is in a position of trust with respect to many external organizations and agencies. Additionally, all university personnel have a responsibility to the students, patients, donors, sponsors, and other sources of funds to use such funds prudently, ethically, and for the purposes for which they are designated. Ethical conduct has been and continues to be the very foundation of our institution. AUB administration, faculty, and staff (AUB personnel) are expected to assume personal responsibility and accountability for understanding relevant laws, regulations, and contract and grant requirements, and for ensuring compliance. Faculty members and researchers, in particular, have a duty to inform those under their supervision that they should comply with the applicable standards. AUB will fully comply with all such laws and contract and grant requirements, as well as with its own high standards of integrity and quality. The purpose of this code is to reiterate longstanding university-wide policies regarding the principles which govern the University’s business dealings. It is intended to complement, where necessary, and provide a general framework to the provisions of other specific policies or regulations. 26 GENERAL RESPONSIBILITIES A. Individual Responsibility Ethics and integrity are the responsibility of each individual. Therefore, every member of the faculty and staff, and any other person acting for or on behalf of the University, is responsible for ethical conduct consistent with this code and with AUB policies. All personnel in supervisory positions must assume responsibility for ensuring that their conduct and the conduct of those they supervise comply with this code. B. Business Activities Business activities undertaken for or on behalf of AUB with the public, the government, suppliers, students, and one another must reflect the highest standards of honesty, integrity, and fairness. Personnel must be especially careful to avoid even the appearance of misconduct or impropriety. C. Compliance with Laws AUB will transact its business in compliance with the laws of the jurisdictions in which it does business. In any instance where university policies appear difficult to interpret or apply, or where there may appear to be some conflict with AUB principles, its personnel should contact the office which has oversight responsibility for the policy, the provost, the dean of the relevant faculty, or the vice president of the relevant area. Questions about interpretation or application of laws and regulations should be referred to the Office of Strategy Management and Legal Counsel. D. Compliance with Contractual and Grant Obligations In addition to compliance with the relevant laws, AUB will observe its contractual obligations to the governments of the United States and Lebanon, donors, suppliers, and all others with whom the University transacts business. In any instance where particular contractual requirements are difficult to interpret or apply, AUB personnel should first consult with the office that signed the contract on behalf of AUB. Additional assistance may be obtained from the Grants and Contracts Office (GCO), or the vice president of the relevant area. Legal issues should be referred to the Office of Strategy Management and Legal Counsel. E. Compliance with Standards of Integrity and Quality AUB recognizes that it must earn and maintain a reputation for integrity, that includes, but is not limited to, compliance with laws and regulations and its contractual obligations. Even the appearance of misconduct or impropriety will not be tolerated. AUB must strive at all times to maintain the highest standards of ethics. Frequently, AUB business activities are not the subject of specific laws or regulations. In these instances, rules of fairness, honesty, and respect for the rights of others will govern the conduct of personnel at all times. This policy requires each individual to conduct university business transactions with the utmost honesty, accuracy, and fairness. Each situation shall be judged according to this standard. No unethical practice shall be resorted to on the grounds that it is customary outside of AUB or that it serves other worthy goals. 27 29
