GRI Document 2018 Sustainability reporting information Our approach to long-term value creation Table of contents Chairman’s statement Our communities 3 Chairman’s statement 83 Overview 83 Our contributions in 2018 Our strategy, business model and environment 85 Employee volunteering (Extract from the UBS Annual Report 2018) 85 Progress against target 6 Our strategy 86 Measuring impact 7 Performance targets and measurement 86 Impacting organizations in 2018 9 Our businesses 19 Our environment Our sustainability track record 22 How we create value for our stakeholders 88 Our sustainability track record Our governance and principles Assurance and certification 34 UBS in society organization 90 Independent assurance report by EY 34 Governance and policies 92 ISO 14001 and 50001 certificates 36 Sustainable performance and compensation 37 Our climate strategy – taking action to support a lowAppendix carbon economy 96 Our Code of Conduct and Ethics 100 Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility Our stakeholder engagement Committee 41 Our stakeholders 101 UBS in society constitutional document 44 Materiality under GRI Standards 104 Environment and social risk policy framework 111 Calculating and reporting on climate change-related Our clients financing and advisory activities 50 Sustainable investments 112 Health and safety statement 51 Stewardship / voting rights 113 Information for management approaches for material 52 Global philanthropy topics 53 Key sustainable investing products and services in 2018 114 Impact of material GRI topics 55 Suitability 115 UBS sustainability objectives and achievements 2018 56 Accessibility and sustainability objectives 2019 56 Financial literacy 123 UBS in society management indicators 124 Direct economic value generated and distributed by Our business UBS Group AG consolidated in 2018 57 Advancing sustainability in the financial sector – UBS’s 125 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 2018 key activities in 2018 143 Non-financial disclosures in accordance with German 59 Environment and human rights law implementing the EU directive 2014/95 59 Management of environmental and social risks 62 In-house environmental management 70 Responsible supply chain management 71 Combating financial crime 72 Ratings and recognitions 74 External commitments and memberships Our employees 76 The UBS workforce in 2018 76 Our workforce at a glance 82 Sustainability-related training and raising awareness 1 UBS Group AG consolidated About this GRI Document Contacts We strive to report openly and transparently about our firm’s UBS Corporate Responsibility Management sustainability approach and activities, consistently applying our The Corporate Responsibility team manages UBS’s sustainability firm's information policy and disclosure principles. The core disclosure and also acts as information provider for medium for our sustainability disclosure is this UBS GRI sustainability-related enquiries. Document, supplemented – as referenced in the GRI Content Index – by other relevant information, which can be found in the cr@ubs.com UBS Annual Report 2018. We have included the following sections from the UBS Annual Report 2018 at the beginning of this document: – Our strategy – Performance targets and measurement – Our businesses – Our environment – How we create value for our stakeholders Except where clearly identified, all of UBS’s sustainability information included in this GRI Document is presented for UBS Group AG and all its subsidiaries. Information on our consolidated subsidiaries can be found in Note 31 “Interests in subsidiaries and other entities” in our Annual Report 2018. UBS AG consolidated information does not differ in any material respect from UBS Group AG’s consolidated information. We use the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) as the basis for our sustainability reporting and apply a careful process weighing up the materiality and relevance of the information reported and the expectations of all our stakeholders. This document also includes our group’s disclosures of nonfinancial information required by Germany’s implementation law of EU directive 2014/95 (CSR-Richtlinie-Umsetzungsgesetz / CSRRUG) (nichtfinanzieller Konzernbericht). A table at the end of this document (page 143) provides the references to such nonfinancial information. This GRI Document has been reviewed by Ernst & Young Ltd (EY) against the GRI Standards (limited assurance). The content has been prepared in accordance with the GRI Standards, Comprehensive option, as evidenced in the EY assurance report. Both, the GRI content index and the assurance report, have been included in this document and can also be downloaded from www.ubs.com/gri. 15 March 2019 UBS Group AG and UBS AG Terms used in this report, unless the context requires otherwise “UBS,” “UBS Group,” “UBS Group AG consolidated,” UBS Group AG and its consolidated subsidiaries “Group,” “the Group,” “we,” “us” and “our” “UBS Group AG” and “UBS Group AG standalone” UBS Group AG on a standalone basis 2 Chairman’s statement These are key examples of activities that contribute to our firm’s approach to sustainability. As Chairman of the Board and Chair of our Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee, I have to ensure – together with my colleagues on the Board as well as Sergio Ermotti and his colleagues on the Group Executive Board – that we deliver on it. In order to do so, we must be very alert to how expectations by our most important stakeholder groups change, and we must adapt to and accommodate these changes. We recognize that it is important to understand key societal challenges and opportunities, to consider their relevance to UBS and to identify potential actions our firm may need to take. We apply various approaches to better understand which topics our stakeholders regard as most relevant, including through our annual UBS Materiality Assessment, as defined by the Global Reporting Chairman’s statement Initiative. In 2018, the CCRC again carefully considered the results of this assessment as it provides us with valuable insights In this statement, UBS Chairman and Corporate Culture and into how effective our firm’s efforts already are, and how we Responsibility Committee (CCRC) Chairman Axel A. Weber can continue our journey towards long-term value creation. provides his views on UBS’s long-term value creation UBS’s commitment to the UN Global Compact We see a strong business rationale for catering to the growing UBS was among the 44 companies that first signed the UN importance of and demand for sustainability. We have set Global Compact upon its launch in 2000 and is committed to its ourselves the goal to create long-term positive value for clients, principles on human rights, labor standards, the environment employees, investors and society. Our goal carries with it a clear and anti-corruption. We are also a member of the UN Global responsibility for taking a leading role driving change towards a Compact Network Switzerland. As reflected in detail in this positive future. document, we have a comprehensive set of commitments and Our approach is particularly apparent in the key subject of activities in place pertaining to the principles of the UN Global “sustainable investing.” UBS is developing sustainable and Compact. impact investing products, which combine a financial return with a “societal return.” Our long-term investment themes, for instance, look at important topics such as new technology, health, climate or retirement – and our experts analyze which companies help tackle these challenges and which ones might be more at risk of being negatively impacted by them. Other teams within our bank are also very actively working on making the world a better place, often together with our clients. This includes the UBS Optimus Foundation and our Philanthropy Axel A. Weber Advisory function. They are constantly exploring new ideas to Chairman of the Board of Directors help clients leverage their financial means to achieve social ends. Last but not least our Community Affairs teams, and all the employees around the globe that are involved in the Community Affairs programs, devote time, energy and resources to address pressing needs in local communities. 3 4 Extract from the UBS Annual Report 2018 Our strategy, business model and environment – Our strategy – Performance targets and measurement – Our businesses – Our environment – How we create value for our stakeholders 5 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2018 Annual Report) Our strategy Our strategy Attractive business model share during the further consolidation that is expected in the financial services industry. Our strategy is centered on our leading global wealth  Refer to “Industry trends” in the “Our environment” section of management business and our premier personal and corporate this report for more information on the expected industry banking business in Switzerland, complemented by our focused consolidation investment bank and global asset manager. We concentrate on capital-efficient businesses in our targeted markets, where we Cost efficiency have a strong competitive position and an attractive long-term We are a cost-conscious organization with objectives to improve growth or profitability outlook. our overall cost efficiency. Our aim is to keep costs, excluding We are the preeminent global wealth manager to high net performance-based compensation which is linked to revenues, worth and ultra high net worth clients, based on invested assets. broadly flat over the next three years, while growing our revenues. We have a strong presence in the largest market, the United We plan to continue to invest in technology to improve States, and the leading position in the fastest-growing region, efficiency and effectiveness, drive growth and better serve our Asia Pacific, based on invested assets. Our global wealth clients. management business benefits from its scale, which is difficult In order to further strengthen the business divisions’ ownership to replicate organically, and leading positions across the high net of Corporate Center costs and align Group and divisional worth and ultra high net worth client segments in an industry performance, we have adjusted our Corporate Center cost with attractive growth prospects. The partnership between our allocation methodology. A higher proportion of these costs will be business divisions is critical to the success of our strategy and a allocated to the business divisions from the first quarter of 2019. source of competitive advantage.  Refer to the “Significant accounting and financial reporting Capital strength is the foundation of our strategy and our changes” section of the Annual Report for more information on business model is capital-accretive and capital-efficient. the changes in cost allocations to business divisions Long-term value creation through costand capitalCapital efficiency efficient growth We remain disciplined when deploying capital across our businesses, aiming to cover the cost of capital where capital is allocated. We are managing UBS for the long term, focusing on We are improving transparency and accountability regarding sustainable profit growth and responsible resource deployment. the use of resources, allowing the business divisions to further We aim to balance growth opportunities with cost and capital optimize their capital usage and pursue growth opportunities in efficiency in order to drive attractive risk-adjusted returns and a capital-efficient manner. Consequently, we have adapted our sustainable performance. equity attribution framework and, from the first quarter of 2019, will further allocate to the business divisions resources Revenue growth that were previously centrally held. We believe we can grow our revenues at least at the rate of  Refer to “Equity attribution and return on attributed equity” in global economic expansion over the cycle, by executing our the “Capital management” section of the Annual Report for plans with discipline and by taking advantage of favorable more information on how equity is attributed to our business market and industry trends. Improved collaboration and divisions partnership across our business divisions provide further revenue  Refer to the “Significant accounting and financial reporting growth potential and enable us to better meet the needs of our changes” section of the Annual Report for more information on ultra high net worth and Global Family Office clients. the changes in resource allocations to business divisions Geographically, we expect the US and Asia Pacific to be the strongest contributors to future profit growth. We are already a Attractive capital returns strong player in the US and Latin America, with ambitions to grow further by capturing market share and benefiting from Our capital strength and capital-accretive business model allow us secular growth trends. We believe Asia Pacific, particularly to grow our business while delivering attractive capital returns to China, presents a significant long-term opportunity, given its our shareholders. economic expansion and wealth creation. Our competitive We aim to increase our ordinary dividend per share at a midposition in the region is strong and we are well positioned to to-high single-digit percentage each year. We also aim to return capture the growth opportunities across our businesses. In excess capital, after accruals for ordinary dividends, most likely in Switzerland, our home market, we intend to reinforce our the form of share repurchases. We consider our business leadership position. In Europe, the Middle East and Africa, we outlook and capital plan, as well as other developments, in want to leverage our existing capabilities to grow our market determining excess capital available for share repurchases. 6 Performance targets and measurement Targets, ambitions and capital and resource guidelines Group targets and ambitions Our Group targets reflect our overarching goal of growing our In October 2018, we refined our performance target framework, business while delivering attractive capital returns and introducing more specific targets and ambitions for the Group maintaining disciplined resource management. and business divisions. Our targets and ambitions are Regulatory capital plays an important role in how we manage underpinned by our latest three-year strategic plan. Our strategic our business. It drives our regulatory capital ratios, which are a plan reflects our strategic initiatives, management actions as well key input for defining our risk appetite and a primary constraint as certain economic and market assumptions. The changes take on our ability to invest or return capital to shareholders. We into account the effects of the changes in Corporate Center have therefore adopted return on common equity tier 1 (CET1) allocations and our equity attribution methodology, which came capital as a Group target, aiming at around 15% on a reported into effect on 1 January 2019. basis in 2019, with an ambition to improve to around 17% by Targets are measured on an annual basis, except our adjusted 2021. profit before tax growth targets for Global Wealth For our cost efficiency target, we believe adjusted financials Management, Personal & Corporate Banking and Asset better reflect our fundamental business performance than Management, and the adjusted return on attributed equity reported financials. Our reported and adjusted results have been target for the Investment Bank, all of which represent the converging as we have reduced restructuring expenses, and we average annual performance we aim to deliver over the cycle. expect this convergence to continue. We are targeting an The table on the next page shows the performance adjusted cost / income ratio of around 77% in 2019, with the targets, ambitions, and capital and resource guidelines for ambition to improve to around 72% by 2021. the Group and business divisions for the 2019–2021 period. Our targets represent what we expect to achieve in the short Divisional targets and ambitions term. Our ambitions reflect what we aim to achieve within Our divisional targets include measures of profitability, efficiency the next three years. and growth, tailored to the strategic objectives and market Both Group and business division performance against targets conditions of each business division, and underpin our Group are taken into account when determining variable compensation. targets.  Refer to “Performance and compensation at a glance” in the “Compensation” section of this report for more information on variable compensation 7 Our strategy, business model and environment Performance targets and measurement Targets, ambitions and capital and resource guidelines 2019–2021 Capital / resource Targets Ambitions guidelines FY19 FY19–21 FY19–21 1 Reported return on CET1 capital ~15% ~17% 2 Adjusted cost / income ratio1 ~77% ~72% Group 3 CET1 capital ratio ~13% 4 CET1 leverage ratio ~3.7% 5 Adjusted pre-tax profit growth 1 10–15% 2 Global Wealth 2 Adjusted cost / income ratio 1 ~75% ~70% Management 6 Net new money growth 2–4% 5 Adjusted pre-tax profit growth 1 3–5%2 Personal & Corporate 2 Adjusted cost / income ratio1 ~59% ~56% Banking 7 Net interest margin 145–155 bps 5 Adjusted pre-tax profit growth1 ~10%2 Asset Management 2 Adjusted cost / income ratio 1 ~72% ~68% 6 Net new money growth (excl. money markets) 3–5% 8 Adjusted return on attributed equity 1 ~15%2,3 Investment Bank 2 Adjusted cost / income ratio1 ~78% ~75% 9 RWA and LRD in relation to Group ~1/3 1 Refer to the “Group performance” section of this report for information on adjusting items. 2 Over the cycle. 3 Repositioned from a minimum return to a performance target. Definitions 1 Reported return on CET1 capital Net profit attributable to shareholders divided by average CET1 capital. 2 Adjusted cost / income ratio Adjusted operating expenses divided by adjusted operating income before credit loss (expense) / recovery. 3 CET1 capital ratio CET1 capital divided by risk-weighted assets as of period end. 4 CET1 leverage ratio CET1 capital divided by leverage ratio denominator as of period end. 5 Adjusted pre-tax profit growth Change in business division adjusted profit before tax between current and comparison periods divided by business division adjusted profit before tax in the comparison period. For Asset Management, this metric excludes the effect of business exits. For Personal & Corporate Banking, it is measured in Swiss francs. 6 Net new money growth Net new money for the period (annualized as applicable) divided by invested assets at the beginning of the period. 7 Net interest margin Net interest income (annualized as applicable) divided by average loans. 8 Adjusted return on attributed equity (RoAE) Business division adjusted operating profit before tax (annualized as applicable) divided by average attributed equity. 9 RWA and LRD in relation to Group Risk-weighted assets (RWA) or leverage ratio denominator (LRD) attributed to the Investment Bank divided by total Group RWA or LRD, as applicable. 8 Our businesses Working in partnership We operate through four business divisions – Global Wealth Our global reach and the breadth of our expertise are major Management, Personal & Corporate Banking, Asset assets that set us apart from our competitors. Combining our Management and the Investment Bank – as well as our strengths makes us a better firm. Initiatives such as the Group Corporate Center. Franchise Awards encourage employees to look for ways to build We see partnership as key to our growth, both within and bridges between areas and offer the whole firm to our clients. between business divisions. We are at our best when we combine our strengths to provide our clients with more comprehensive and better solutions. How we deliver the whole firm to our clients – examples 9 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2018 Annual Report) Our businesses Global Wealth Management We are the preeminent global wealth manager to high net single operating platform outside the Americas. In parallel, we worth and ultra high net worth clients, with USD 2.3 trillion in are working on creating the Wealth Management Americas invested assets. Our goal is to provide tailored investment advice Platform in collaboration with third-party software provider and solutions to private clients, in particular in the ultra high net Broadridge. This platform is anticipated to improve advisor worth and high net worth segments. productivity and support advisors in growing their businesses. At the start of 2018, Wealth Management and Wealth We expect the platform, scheduled to go live in 2021, to Management Americas were combined into a single unit designed increase efficiency and scalability. to better deliver our services to clients, realize meaningful  Refer to “Our focus on technology” in the “How we create improvements in efficiency and accelerate growth for our value for our stakeholders” section of this report for more shareholders. We combined the central functions of Chief information on the Wealth Management Platform and GroupInvestment Office (CIO), Investment Platforms and Solutions (IPS), wide technology spend Client Strategy Office (CSO) and Chief Operating Office (COO), which enables us to operate these central functions efficiently and How we operate effectively support the regional business units, which remain close to our clients with decentralized service delivery. The unification of We have a global footprint, with a strong presence in the the ultra high net worth business unit enables us to leverage best world’s largest and fastest-growing markets. The US is our practices in serving the wealthiest individuals globally and largest market, representing more than 50% of our invested supporting our growth ambitions by working closer together. We assets. We are the largest wealth manager in Asia Pacific and have established a referral and collaboration framework that the second largest in Latin America, based on invested assets.1 fosters cross-regional teamwork. In Switzerland, we maintain the leading market position and collaborate closely with Personal & Corporate Banking, Asset Our focus Management and the Investment Bank. Our broad domestic footprint in Europe enables us to provide We serve high net worth and ultra high net worth individuals, locally adapted offerings, while local offices across Central families and family offices around the world and affluent Europe, the Middle East and Africa keep us close to our clients. clients in selected markets. Our business is focused on the Collaboration with the Investment Bank and Asset high net worth and ultra high net worth segments, including Management allows us to offer ultra high net worth clients family offices. Our unified Global Wealth Management tailored institutional coverage and global execution. division helps us to better serve clients with global needs. We  Refer to “Working in partnership” in this section for more are already a market leader in the ultra high net worth information on the Global Family Office segment outside the US.1 We believe that Global Wealth Management can become the firm of choice for the We continue to control costs and are focused on identifying wealthiest clients both in and outside the US. We expect that new synergies across Global Wealth Management. We expect to increasing our market share with ultra high net worth clients reduce costs by USD 600 million over the next three years by in the US could generate approximately USD 70 billion of delayering and removing duplicate functions, reducing cumulative net new money from 2019 to 2021. replacement hiring and optimizing third-party spending. At the We expect that our business growth will occur primarily in the same time, we expect to make strategic investments totaling US, in part from the initiatives described above, and in Asia more than USD 1 billion through 2021, including USD 600 Pacific, where we are already the largest wealth manager based million in technology, to further improve client and advisor on invested assets. experience. We are focusing on increasing mandate and lending Our main competitors are either large US players, but with penetration with innovative solutions for our clients as well as less reach outside the US – including Bank of America, enhancing the advisors’ productivity in these regions by making Citigroup, JPMorgan Chase, Morgan Stanley and Wells Fargo – operational processes more efficient. Additionally, we aim to or geographically diverse firms without our scale or US exposure, maintain low attrition and to increase our share of clients’ such as BNP Paribas, Credit Suisse, Deutsche Bank, HSBC and business. Julius Baer. Our size and diversified client portfolio are As of 31 December 2018, approximately 80% of invested exceptional and would be difficult and expensive for other assets booked outside the Americas were on the Wealth wealth managers to replicate organically. Management Platform. We plan to eventually converge to a 1 Statements of market position for Global Wealth Management are UBS's estimates based on published invested assets and internal estimates. 10 What we offer We are continuously working to improve our offering. Key innovations launched in 2018 include enhancements to UBS By operating as a single business, we aim to offer our clients the Manage, which now incorporates mandate solutions with 100% best wealth management solutions, services and expertise sustainable investments, and two additional impact investment globally. solutions. In addition, we launched the Systematic Allocation We deliver our investment solutions through our IPS Portfolio in the US, a UBS Manage offering based on the UBS offerings, including flagship investment mandates, consisting of CIO World Equity Market Model, which analyzes economic and our innovative long-term themes and sustainable investment financial data to detect signs of improving or deteriorating offerings. Our core investment solutions consist of: UBS equity markets to adjust portfolio exposure dynamically. Transact, a self-directed account granting clients access to UBS execution capabilities and the UBS House View; UBS Advice, How we serve our clients which adds portfolio monitoring against an agreed investment strategy to self-directed accounts; and UBS Manage, a We serve our clients through local offices and dedicated discretionary mandate solution where we use our expertise to advisors. Our ultra high net worth business is managed globally invest clients’ assets according to a predefined investment across the regions. strategy. We provide our clients with investment analysis and We use a mix of digital and non-digital channels (including thought leadership and formulate our client investment marketing campaigns, events, advertising, publications and strategies through the CIO and the CSO. The CIO provides a digital-only solutions) to help drive greater awareness of UBS concise, comprehensive UBS House View, which identifies and among prospects and reinforce trust-based relationships communicates investment opportunities and market risks to help between advisors and clients. protect and grow our clients’ wealth over generations. The CSO aims at deepening the firm’s understanding of clients’ needs, How we are organized behaviors and preferences to tailor our offerings and better serve our clients. Our business division is organized into the regional business Clients benefit from our comprehensive set of capabilities and units the Americas, which includes the US, Canada and Latin expertise, including wealth planning, investing, lending, America; Europe, Middle East and Africa (EMEA); Asia Pacific; philanthropy, corporate and banking services as well as family and Switzerland, as well as the business unit for our ultra high office services in collaboration with the Investment Bank and net worth clients. Central functions for global capabilities Asset Management. supporting these business units are the CIO, IPS, the CSO and  Refer to “Working in partnership” in this section for more the COO. We are governed by executive, risk, operating as well information on collaboration between the business divisions as asset and liability committees. 4 regional business units The Americas, including the US, Canada and Latin America, EMEA, Asia Pacific, and Switzerland ultra high net worth business unit Serves clients globally across the regions 11 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2018 Annual Report) Our businesses Personal & Corporate Banking As the leading personal and corporate bank in Switzerland, we In the CIC business, our main competitors are Credit Suisse, provide comprehensive financial products and services to private, the cantonal banks and globally active foreign banks. We corporate and institutional clients. We are among the country’s compete in areas covering basic banking services, cash foremost players in the private and corporate loan market, with management, trade and export finance, asset servicing, a well-collateralized and conservatively managed lending corporate finance and lending, as well as cash and securities portfolio. Personal & Corporate Banking is at the core of our transactions for banks. universal bank delivery model in Switzerland. In the Swiss personal banking business, our competitors are Credit Suisse, PostFinance, Raiffeisen, the cantonal banks and Our focus other regional and local Swiss banks. We compete in areas including basic banking, mortgages and foreign exchange, as We are the premier personal and corporate bank in Switzerland, well as investment mandates and funds. providing superior client experience and combining technology with a personal touch. What we offer We have a strong pipeline of growth initiatives in both of our business areas. In Personal Banking, for example, we are further Our personal banking clients have access to a comprehensive life improving technology-enabled mortgage advisory and aim to cycle-based offering and convenient digital banking. We deliver improve efficiency by streamlining processes and introducing a broad range of basic banking products, from payments to new digital self-service tools. In Corporate & Institutional Clients deposits, cards, online and mobile banking, as well as lending (CIC), we are investing for growth with a focus on our SMEs, (predominantly mortgages), investments and retirement services. corporates and multinationals businesses and leveraging our The overall service range is complemented by our KeyClub transaction banking capabilities. We have recently launched a reward program. In close collaboration with Global Wealth number of innovations and digital solutions such as the UBS Management, we offer leading private banking and wealth Atrium investor portal, which allows institutional investors to management services. invest in mortgages directly, our vendor leasing solution and the  Refer to “Working in partnership” in this section for more trade finance platform we.trade, based on blockchain information on collaboration between the business divisions technology, which we developed as part of a consortium with other banks. Our corporate and institutional clients benefit from our Technology plays a key role in our client-centered operating financing and investment solutions, notably from access to model and we aim to expand our digital leadership. Our multiequity and debt capital markets, syndicated and structured year digitalization program enables us to further enhance the credit, private placements, leasing and traditional financing. Our client experience. On the basis of advanced analytics and transaction banking offers solutions for payment and cash blockchain technologies, we are able to offer clients new management services, trade and export finance, receivables products and to identify new cross-selling opportunities. finance, as well as global custody solutions to institutional  Refer to “Our focus on technology” in the “How we create clients. In real estate, we offer our mortgage platform UBS value for our stakeholders” section of this report for more Atrium, connecting institutional investors with Swiss mortgage information on our investment in technology holders to create a competitive offering and attractive investment opportunities for institutional investors. Operationally, we strive for superb execution, focusing on We collaborate closely with the Investment Bank to offer efficiency while improving our service quality and overall agility. capital market and foreign exchange products, hedging strategies and trading capabilities, as well as corporate finance How we operate advice. In cooperation with Asset Management, we also provide fund and portfolio management solutions. While we operate primarily in our home market of Switzerland, we also provide capabilities to support the growth of the international business activities of our corporate and institutional clients through our local hubs in Frankfurt, New York, Hong Kong and Singapore. 12 How we serve our clients For marketing campaigns, we use online media (including social media and search engine advertising), out-of-home media We are the recognized digital leader with the highest online and (posters and digital billboards) and, very selectively, print, TV, mobile penetration in Switzerland and continue to invest in a radio and cinema advertising. In line with our position as a multi-channel distribution strategy to further enhance our digital leader in Swiss banking, and because of the channel’s leading position. cost effectiveness, we follow a digital-first media strategy. More We are adapting existing branch formats to suit evolving than 50% of our media investment goes into online channels. client needs, converting some locations to smaller, more agile branches that serve as marketing and digital support hubs and How we are organized ensure a strong local presence. We aim to further reshape our physical footprint in an innovative and client-centric way, namely Our business division is organized into Personal Banking and by defining future branch formats with different purposes. CIC, and further into client and (for corporate banking) product In addition, we continue to shift basic banking services and segments. Geographically, our business and our 279 branches transactions from branches to contact centers and digital are organized into 10 regions, covering distinct Swiss economic channels, which already serve most of our 2.5 million personal areas. We are governed by executive, risk and operating banking clients. Dedicated client advisors serve personal banking committees, and operate mainly through UBS Switzerland AG. clients who have more individualized needs. Similarly, we bundle our digital offering for small businesses in our Digital Corporate Bank, which offers the convenience and leading digital solutions that small companies look for. 279 branches in Switzerland Personal Banking with 279 branches in Switzerland, of which 91 branches are shared with GWM and 60 branches are shared with CIC 13 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2018 Annual Report) Our businesses Asset Management Asset Management is a large-scale and diversified global asset These programs are expected to be completed by 2020. We manager, with USD 781 billion in invested assets. We offer also continue to optimize processes and leverage new investment capabilities and styles across all major traditional and technologies across our Client Coverage, Investments and alternative asset classes, as well as platform solutions and Products, Platforms & Specialists areas. advisory support to institutions, wholesale intermediaries and  Refer to “Our focus on technology” in the “How we create Global Wealth Management clients around the world. value for our stakeholders” section of this report for more information on our UBS Partner offering Our focus How we operate Building on our global reach and strengths across all major traditional and alternative asset classes, as well as our We cover the main asset management markets globally, with a differentiated client proposition, our strategy focuses on presence in 23 countries grouped in four regions: the Americas; capturing opportunities in areas with above-average industry Europe, Middle East and Africa; Switzerland; and Asia Pacific. growth and is based on six priorities. Our main competitors are global firms with wide-ranging In wholesale, which is a rapidly evolving and attractive capabilities and distribution channels, such as Amundi, segment, we aim to significantly expand our market share BlackRock, DWS, Goldman Sachs Asset Management, Invesco, through a combination of product innovation, the development JPMorgan Asset Management, Morgan Stanley Investment of strategic partnerships and increased leverage of our Management and Schroders, as well as firms with a specific comprehensive Platform Services capabilities. market or asset class focus. We continue to develop our award-winning1 Indexed and Alternative Beta business (including exchange-traded funds What we offer (ETFs) in Asia Pacific, Europe and Switzerland). Since the end of 2016, this business has grown by approximately 50% in terms We offer clients a wide range of investment products and of invested assets driven by continued product innovation and services in different asset classes in the form of segregated, our highly scalable platform. pooled or advisory mandates as well as registered investment Our Investment Solutions business provides access to the funds in various jurisdictions. breadth and depth of our capabilities across public and private Our traditional and alternative capabilities include equities, markets, and combines them to meet the needs of clients across fixed income, hedge funds, real estate and private markets, the globe, as few other firms can. To drive further growth, we indexed and alternative beta strategies (including ETFs) as well as are focused on delivering superior multi-asset strategies for sustainable and impact investing products and solutions. wholesale clients and providing components of the investment Our Investment Solutions business draws on the breadth of process to strategic partners. our capabilities to offer asset allocation and currency investment Sustainable & Impact Investing is a further key area, as clients strategies across the risk / return spectrum; customized multiare increasingly seeking solutions that combine their investment asset solutions, advisory and fiduciary services; and multigoals with sustainability objectives. We aim to establish ourselves manager hedge fund solutions and advisory services. as a leading provider through: product and service innovation; Our Platform Services capabilities include UBS Fondcenter, a dedicated research; integration of environmental, social and leading fund platform in Europe and Asia; Fund Management governance factors into our investment processes; leveraging Services, providing fund corporate governance and whiteour proprietary analytics; and active corporate engagement. labeling services; and UBS Partner, our innovative new offering Geographically, we are further expanding our onshore that provides banks with powerful tools and analytics to support business in China, one of the fastest-growing asset management their advisory offering. markets in the world, building on our extensive and longstanding presence in Asia Pacific. To support our growth, we have a continuous emphasis on increasing efficiency and effectiveness, driven through our operational excellence initiatives. This includes our flagship programs to replace our core IT platform, develop our data analytic capabilities and further evolve our operations platform. 1 Second largest Europe-based indexed player based on peers’ public reporting as of November 2018 (UBS calculation) and ranked fifth largest ETF provider in Europe as of December 2018 (source: ETFGI). 14 How we serve our clients How we are organized We deliver our investment products and services directly to Our business division is organized by the products and services institutional clients. High net worth and retail clients are served we offer: Client Coverage, Investments, Real Estate & Private through Global Wealth Management, third-party banks and Markets, Products, Platforms & Specialists, and the Chief distributors. Operating Officer area. While we are based in 23 countries Our clients require world-class holistic advice and global worldwide across four regions, our business is driven out of coverage. In order to enable our client relationship managers to eight main hubs: Chicago, Hong Kong, London, New York, provide the specialized advice our clients need, and to deliver to Singapore, Sydney, Tokyo and Zurich. them the full strengths of our firm, our Client Coverage teams We are governed by executive, risk and operating are aligned along global segments (institutional, wholesale and committees, supplemented by business unit-specific committees. Global Wealth Management). In addition, we believe it is equally important that our relationship managers are located near our clients to help ensure that our teams are best placed to build long-term relationships and develop a deep understanding of the challenges they face.  Refer to “Working in partnership” in this section for examples of areas of collaboration 23 countries Covering the main asset management markets globally 8 main hubs Connecting the full breadth of our investment insights across the world to serve our clients 15 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2018 Annual Report) Our businesses Investment Bank The Investment Bank provides a range of services to institutional, Partnership across the Investment Bank’s businesses and the corporate and wealth management clients to help them raise Group should also lead to growth by delivering global products capital, grow their businesses, invest and manage risks. We are to each region, leveraging our global connectivity across borders focused on our traditional strengths in advisory, capital markets, and sharing and strengthening our best client relationships. equities and foreign exchange, complemented by a targeted  Refer to “Working in partnership” in this section for examples rates and credit platform. We use our powerful research and of areas of collaboration technology capabilities to support our clients as they adapt to the evolving market structures and changes in the regulatory, How we operate technological, economic and competitive landscape. We aspire to deliver market-leading solutions to clients, using We have a global reach, with a presence in 33 countries and our intellectual capital and electronic platforms. We also provide principal offices in the major financial hubs. Our business is services to Global Wealth Management, Personal & Corporate geographically balanced, with 45% of adjusted profit before Banking and Asset Management, while managing our tax in 2018 coming from the Americas, 25% from Europe, balance sheet, costs, risk-weighted assets and leverage ratio Middle East and Africa (including Switzerland), and 30% from denominator with discipline. Asia Pacific. Competing firms are active in many of our markets, but our Our focus strategy differentiates us with its focus on leadership in the selected areas where we have chosen to compete, and a Our key priority is disciplined growth in the capital-light advisory business model that leverages talent and technology rather than and execution businesses, while accelerating our digital balance sheet. transformation. Our main competitors are the major global investment banks, Corporate Client Solutions is focused on deepening selected including Morgan Stanley, Credit Suisse and Goldman Sachs, as industry verticals, providing macro views complemented by well as corporate investment banks, including Bank of America, expertise within specific sub-sectors, and increasing senior-level Barclays, Citigroup, Deutsche Bank and JPMorgan Chase. We client interactions. In Equities, we aim to offer our clients a also compete with boutique investment banks and fintechs in range of products, innovative solutions, expert advice, access to certain regions and products. liquidity and seamless execution, as well as a continued flow of differentiated content. In Foreign Exchange, Rates and Credit, What we offer our focus is on delivering returns from recent investments made in talent and technology. We also plan to expand our Foreign Through our Corporate Client Solutions business, we advise our Exchange business and our Solutions business within Rates and clients on strategic business opportunities and help them raise Credit. We continue to build out UBS Evidence Lab Innovations capital to fund their activities. to concentrate on data-driven research. Our Investor Client Services business enables our clients to  Refer to “Our focus on technology” in the “How we create buy, sell and finance securities on capital markets across the value for our stakeholders” section of this report for more globe and to manage their risks and liquidity. information on Evidence Lab Innovations In Equities, we distribute, structure, execute, finance and clear equity cash and derivative products. Our digital strategy is led by our businesses, which harness Foreign Exchange, Rates and Credit provides execution technology to deliver superior and differentiated client service services and solutions, with an emphasis on electronic and content. We established UBS Investment Bank Innovation trading, and maintains high levels of balance sheet velocity. Lab to speed up innovation by enabling proofs of concept. In Foreign Exchange, we help our clients manage their We are also making efforts to digitalize our entire front-tocurrency exposures and to buy and sell precious metals, and back processes. are recognized as one of the leading foreign exchange Our balanced global reach gives us attractive options for market-makers. Rates and Credit encompasses sales, trading growth across various regions. In the Americas, the largest and market-making in a selected range of products, including investment banking fee pool globally, we are focusing on tailored financing solutions. increasing our market share in our Advisory, Equity Capital Furthermore, in Research, we offer clients key insights on Markets, Equities and Foreign Exchange, Rates and Credit major financial markets and securities around the globe. businesses. Separately, our team of experts in UBS Evidence Lab Innovations In Asia Pacific, we see opportunities primarily from expected specializes in creating insight-ready datasets for companies of all market internationalization and growth in China. We are sizes, spanning over 50 sectors and 30 countries. planning to grow there by further strengthening Corporate Client Solutions, both onshore and offshore. 16 We seek to develop new products and solutions that are In Equities, we use our execution capabilities, differentiated consistent with our capital-efficient business model. These are research content, bespoke solutions and our global platform to typically related to new technologies or changing market expand our coverage across a broad set of institutional and standards. Some examples are UBS Data Solutions, a centralized corporate clients. data processing and distribution platform, which was launched In Foreign Exchange, Rates and Credit, we deliver seamless to meet client demand for both financial and alternative data, client service through One Client. This is the evolution of our and UBS Evidence Lab Innovations, as mentioned above. client franchise coverage model, which aims to drive the best Since 2005, we have addressed increasing client demand for client outcomes through relationships, collaboration, sustainable investing by providing thematic and sector research. technology and data-driven client intelligence. We also provide investment solutions through socially In Research, we deliver high-quality differentiated research responsible and impact exchange-traded funds and index-linked to our institutional clients using a wide range of methods, notes. In addition, we offer capital-raising and strategic advisory including UBS Neo, our multi-channel platform. services globally to companies that make a positive contribution to climate change mitigation and adaptation. How we are organized How we serve our clients Our business division is organized into the following units: Corporate Client Solutions, Investor Client Services, and We use a variety of marketing channels, including online and Research and UBS Evidence Lab Innovations. We are governed face-to-face, to interact with our clients. by executive, operating, risk, and asset and liability In Corporate Client Solutions, we leverage our intellectual committees. Each business unit is organized globally by capital and relationships to deliver high-quality solutions for product and, within that, by region. our clients. 9 financial hubs In all major financial centers 33 countries Ensuring a global reach 17 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2018 Annual Report) Our businesses Corporate Center Our Corporate Center provides services to the Group through Corporate Center – Group ALM the Corporate Center – Services and Group Asset and Liability Group ALM manages the structural risk of our balance sheet, Management (Group ALM) units with a focus on quality, risk including interest rate risk, structural foreign exchange risk and mitigation and efficiency. Corporate Center also includes the collateral risk, as well as the risks associated with our liquidity Non-core and Legacy Portfolio unit. and funding portfolios. Group ALM also seeks to optimize financial performance by matching assets and liabilities. Group How we are organized ALM serves all business divisions and the other Corporate Center units through three main risk management areas, and Until the end of 2018, we reported Corporate Center as three its risk management is fully integrated into the Group’s risk separate units: Corporate Center – Services, Group ALM and governance framework. Non-core and Legacy Portfolio. Business division-aligned risk management activities include Beginning with our first quarter 2019 report, we will provide managing the interest rate risk in the banking book on behalf of results for total Corporate Center only and will not separately Global Wealth Management and Personal & Corporate Banking, disclose Corporate Center – Services, Group ALM and Non-core and managing high-quality liquid asset (HQLA) portfolios, as well and Legacy Portfolio. Furthermore, we will operationally as risk management of credit, debit and funding valuation combine Group Treasury with Group ALM and their net retained adjustments for our over-the-counter derivatives portfolio. Net operating income will be reported as a separate line item within income generated by these activities is fully allocated to the Corporate Center. associated business divisions and other Corporate Center units.  Refer to the “Significant accounting and financial reporting Capital investment and issuance activities consist of managing changes” section in the Annual Report for more information on our equity and capital instruments as well as instruments that the changes in the structure of Corporate Center contribute to our total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC). Revenues from investing the Group’s equity, and the incremental expenses Corporate Center – Services of issuing capital and TLAC instruments at the UBS Group AG Corporate Center – Services consists of the Group Chief level relative to issuing senior debt out of operating subsidiaries, Operating Officer area (Group Technology, Group Corporate are fully allocated to the business divisions and other Corporate Services, Group Human Resources, Group Operations and Group Center units. Sourcing), Group Finance (excluding Group ALM), Group Legal, Group structural risk is managed to meet overall objectives. Group Risk Control, Group Communications & Branding, Group These activities include managing the Group’s HQLA and longCompliance, Regulatory & Governance, and UBS in society. term debt portfolios. The net positive or negative income Specifically, in the areas of finance, legal, compliance and risk generated is allocated to the business divisions and other management and control, we aim to provide high-quality advice Corporate Center units based on their consumption of the while optimizing resources and mitigating risk. In other areas, underlying risks and resources. such as human resources, information technology, operations, and marketing and communications, we align services based on Corporate Center – Non-core and Legacy Portfolio demand and delivery of defined strategies. Non-core and Legacy Portfolio manages legacy positions from These functions partner with business divisions and Group businesses exited by the Investment Bank, following a largely ALM through a service-based operating model. Corporate passive wind-down strategy. It is overseen by a committee Center – Services allocates the majority of its operating expenses chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer. The portfolio also to the business divisions and other Corporate Center units, and includes positions relating to legal matters arising from determines cost allocations with them as part of the annual businesses that were transferred to it at the time of its business planning cycle. formation. In 2018, we aligned our Corporate Center more closely with  Refer to “Note21 Provisions and contingent liabilities” in the the business divisions, while keeping the benefits of a strong “Consolidated financial statements” section of the Annual Corporate Center. Increasing proximity between the business Report for more information on litigation, regulatory and and Corporate Center means UBS can be more agile and similar matters responsive to the needs of our clients, positioning us better to capture front-to-back opportunities in areas such as digitalization. By bringing the activities of the businesses and Corporate Center closer together, we also increase efficiency and create a working environment built on a culture of accountability and collaboration. 18 Our environment Current market climate Global economic developments in 2018 The Morgan Stanley Capital International (MSCI) All Country World Index – which by late September 2018 had climbed 6% The global economy maintained its pace of growth in 2018. year to date – saw a correction in the last quarter and ended the World GDP expanded by 3.8%, almost identical to the 3.9% year with a loss of 7.7%. This was the first year of negative growth of 2017. returns since 2011. Economic expansion was as broadly based as in 2017, with Safer assets, such as 10-year US Treasury bonds (USTs), no G20 nations in recession. The US provided much of the proved more stable to investors. Yields on 10-year USTs fell growth impetus, driven, in part, by its Tax Cuts and Jobs Act around 40 basis points in the last three months of the year. introduced in December 2017, which put the US on course for Uncertainty over the terms of the UK withdrawal from the EU 2.8% growth (up from 2.2% in 2017). The stronger economy captured headlines but had limited effect on global markets. and lower tax rates contributed to more than 20% higher corporate earnings, despite concerns over a potential trade Economic and market outlook for 2019 conflict with China. Growth was slower in the eurozone. However, the region The economic cycle is maturing. Potential setbacks such as trade managed to get through the year without major political or turmoil and monetary tightening could create obstacles for economic shocks. A dispute between the Italian government and investors. However, we do not think they will tip the global the European Commission was resolved, and the Greek debt economy into recession. The US-China trade dispute looks set to crisis, which in recent years seemed to threaten the integrity of remain a concern, but a major escalation that could end the the eurozone, was largely absent from the headlines. Overall, global economic expansion appears unlikely. eurozone GDP increased by close to 2% for the year. Outside of We do not expect the ongoing negotiations on the UK’s the eurozone, the Swiss economy did especially well, expanding withdrawal from the EU to exert a major influence over global 2.6% after 1.7% in the prior year. markets. Emerging markets faced mounting pressures. Efforts by China Equally, we expect the world’s main central banks to avoid to restrain domestic corporate borrowing cooled its economy, excessive tightening of monetary policy. For the first time since with growth slowing to 6.5%, from 6.9% in 2017. Other the 2008 financial crisis, central bank balance sheets are likely to emerging nations were also affected as the trade conflict be smaller at the end than at the start of the year. The between the US and China dampened business confidence. withdrawal of stimulus will remove a powerful force inhibiting Despite such obstacles, most emerging market economies market volatility. However, with inflation still under control, achieved solid GDP expansion – with the Indian economy even policy makers can afford to be gradual in tightening, reducing seeing growth improve to 7.3%, from 6.7%. the risk that they will undermine growth or unsettle markets This relatively benign backdrop and muted inflation pressures with accelerated rises. In the US, expectations about multiple allowed developed market central banks to continue gradually interest rate hikes during 2019 have diminished. tightening monetary policy. The European Central Bank We do not see signs of overvaluation in global equity announced it would end its quantitative easing program, while markets. As of the end of 2018, global stocks traded at a the Federal Reserve contracted its balance sheet by USD 50 discount to their 30-year average on a trailing price-to-earnings billion a month and increased its target overnight rate by 1 basis, reflecting the aggressive sell-off in the fourth quarter and percentage point in four steps during 2018. the higher earnings achieved throughout the year. For much of the year, US equities performed strongly in this Equity markets recovered at the start of 2019, supporting our environment of sound growth, rising earnings and only gradual view that the sell-off in late 2018 was excessive. central bank tightening of monetary policy. The strength of the US market helped lift global stock indexes, more than offsetting a muted performance from emerging market and eurozone indexes. However, markets turned volatile in October 2018. 19 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2018 Annual Report) Our environment Industry trends While our industry was heavily affected by regulatory developments New competitors over the past decade, technology is slowly emerging as the main driver of change going forward and is expected to affect the Our competitive environment is also evolving. In addition to our competitive landscape as well as our products and operations. traditional competitors in the asset-gathering businesses, new entrants are targeting selected components of the value chain. Digitalization However, we have not yet seen a fundamental unbundling of the value chain and client relationships, ultimately resulting in Technology is changing the way banks operate and we expect this the disintermediation of banks by new competitors. Over the to continue in step with exponential advances in computing longer term, we believe the entry into the financial services capability, evolving customer needs and digital trends. Technology industry of large platform companies could pose a significant spend is no longer solely considered a means to make banks more competitive threat, given their strong client franchises and efficient. Today, technology investment is the key to keeping access to client data. banks flexible and competitive in a digitalized world and creates the opportunity to develop new business models. Regulation We strive to deliver state-of-the-art digital tools and services to provide a better experience for clients and employees. In The measures set out by the post-2008 regulatory reform doing so, we are continuously improving the ability to transact, agenda are now largely in place. While some areas, such as perform day-to-day tasks and add value for the firm. UBS’s funding in resolution, must still be fully addressed, and digital ecosystem is powered by a growing number of implementation of certain standards, such as the Basel III capital automated systems and processes that generate data, which in rules, is continuing on a national level, the focus is shifting from turn drive our efforts in artificial intelligence. It is this regulation to supervision. In parallel, some regulators are convergence of automation, artificial intelligence and strong considering reassessing the efficiency of the new frameworks. human capital that will drive innovation and superior client In general, regulatory-driven change continues to consume experience, as well as enable business growth. substantial resources. In 2019, we expect further adjustments to the Swiss too big to fail framework, including concrete Consolidation proposals to implement the finalized Basel III standard at national level. We anticipate continued work on resolutionWe expect further consolidation in the financial services industry, related and derivatives reforms, and a sustained high focus on driven by ongoing margin pressure as well as the increasing scale conduct and anti-money laundering. advantages resulting from the fixed costs of technology and The overall context of these developments is a backdrop of regulation. Many regions and businesses are still highly increased protectionism and new regulatory hurdles, posing fragmented and the search for scale and cost efficiencies is challenges to the provision of cross-border financial services. expected to be a key driver for consolidation. Many banks are also Market access restrictions into the EU in particular would have a seeking exposure to regions with attractive growth profiles, such significant effect on Switzerland as a financial center including as Asia and emerging markets, through local acquisitions or UBS. Variations in how different countries implement rules, and partnerships. Lastly, the increased focus on core capabilities or an increasing national focus, bring a risk of additional regulatory geographical footprints and the ongoing simplification of fragmentation across the globe, which in turn may lead to higher operating models to reduce operational and compliance risks will costs for us and new financial stability risks. However, we believe also result in further disposals of non-core businesses and assets. the adaptations made to our business model and proactive management of regulatory change put us in a strong position to absorb upcoming changes to the regulatory environment.  Refer to the “Regulatory and legal developments” and “Capital management” sections of the Annual Report for more information 20 Wealth transfer Retirement funding Demographic and socioeconomic developments continue to Over recent years, the pension industry has faced two key generate shifts in wealth among age and gender groups. As a challenges: fundamental demographic shifts, such as aging result, the client base of the wealth management industry is populations, and lower expected returns. becoming increasingly diverse. The industry is therefore bound Beyond structural answers to these challenges, such as the to adapt its services and offerings to meet the specific needs and progressive shift from defined benefit to defined contribution expectations of growing client groups. We are working to pensions, we believe pension funds are reassessing their asset defend our status as the preferred wealth manager for these allocation approach. Indeed, many pension funds are now clients through our active segment management strategy. Our allocating a higher share of their portfolios to alternative wealth planning expertise is also supported by dedicated investments such as private equity, hedge funds, real estate and intergenerational wealth transfer services for all segments, such infrastructure in a search for higher-yielding exposures. as Great Wealth for ultra high net worth clients. Wealth Way is We see this development as positive for UBS as these funds another example that covers wealth transfer. This offering takes will likely need further support to define their investment a holistic view of our clients’ financial matters and covers needs strategy and target portfolio allocation. In addition, our private beyond their lifetime to support them in creating a legacy. banking and wealth management clients are expected to need further financial and retirement planning advice, which we are able to provide holistically through our wealth planning services. 21 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2018 Annual Report) How we create value for our stakeholders How we create value for our stakeholders Clients With clients at the heart of our business, we are committed to insights and a holistic approach to tailoring solutions. By building building and sustaining long-term relationships based on mutual long-term, personalized relationships with our clients and respect, trust and integrity. Understanding our clients’ needs and partners, we aim to achieve a deep understanding of their needs expectations allows us to serve their best interests and to create and to earn their trust. We draw on the breadth and depth of value for them. our global offering across asset classes and our Platform Services capabilities to deliver the solutions they need. With over 900 Our clients and what matters most investment professionals, our teams bring distinct investment styles and philosophies with one shared goal – to provide clients There is no archetypal UBS client. Our clients have varying needs, with best-in-class ideas and superior investment performance. but each of them expects outstanding advice and service, a wide The Investment Bank provides corporate, institutional and range of choices, and an excellent client experience. wealth management clients with expert advice, financial solutions, Global Wealth Management serves high net worth and ultra best-in-class execution, and comprehensive access to the world’s high net worth individuals, families, and family offices around capital markets. Our model is specifically built around our clients the world and affluent clients in selected markets. We provide and their needs. Corporate clients can access advisory services, these clients with access to outstanding advice, service, and debt and equity capital market solutions and bespoke financing opportunities from around the globe delivered by experts they through our Corporate Client Solutions business. Our Investor can trust. Global Wealth Management clients demand a bank Client Services business is focused on helping institutional clients that understands their unique needs and circumstances. A bank engage with local markets globally, offering equities and equitythat values long-term relationships built on trust and linked products, foreign exchange, rates and credit, and is dependability, and a bank that helps them maintain their underpinned by our research offering, which gives clients an edge lifestyles today, improve their lifestyles in the future, and when it comes to understanding markets. UBS Evidence Lab improve the lives of others. Innovations provides clients with access to insight-ready datasets In Switzerland, Personal & Corporate Banking serves for thousands of companies – the same evidence we provide to approximately 2.5 million individuals and 121,000 corporate and our UBS Research analysts. institutional clients, ranging from small and medium-sized companies to larger corporates and multinational companies. Enhancing the client experience through digitalization Personal & Corporate Banking clients look for financial advice based on their needs at each stage of their life cycle, as well as a We strive to personalize interactions with our clients, while comprehensive digital offering enabling them to bank at their streamlining and simplifying them through front-to-back convenience, wherever they are, whenever they want to. We digitalization. provide tailored advice, drawing on our broad product offering In Global Wealth Management we provide our clients with a in all relevant areas: basic banking services, investing, financing hybrid approach that preserves and enhances the value of (including mortgages), retirement planning, cash management, human relationships. Clients expect digital tools but say personal trade and export finance, global custody, and company time spent with advisors is more important than ever. This succession among others. means providing technology that empowers client advisors so In Asset Management, we deliver investment products and they spend more time with clients. And our clients want digital services directly to approximately 3,000 clients around the world tools that improve their experience – high end e-banking, access – including sovereign institutions, central banks, supranational to bespoke research that is tailored to their needs, and multiple corporations, pension funds, insurers and charities, as well as ways to communicate with their client advisors. Global Wealth Management and its clients, wholesale intermediaries and financial institutions. Our clients seek global 22 In Personal & Corporate Banking, more than 60% of our The Investment Bank strives to be the digital investment bank personal banking client relationships are now completely of the future, with innovation-led businesses that drive paperless and we pioneered video onboarding in Switzerland. In efficiencies and solutions. Our investments in new technologies addition, front-to-back digitalization enables corporate clients to and data science teams help us to better understand our clients’ create customized product bundles based on their specific investment processes and trading needs. This allows us to deliver needs. We also pioneered the new blockchain-based trade tailored sales and trading commentary, research, access to finance platform we.trade, together with other industry liquidity and prime brokerage products. We recently established participants, which allows corporate and institutional clients to the UBS Investment Bank Innovation Lab to help connect easily and safely create trade orders online and manage the business teams to leverage best practice, build and test proof of entire trade process from order to payment. concepts safely and quickly and inspire a culture of innovation. In Asset Management we are investing in new tools and We see increasing interest from clients in financial and technologies, as well as our alternative data capabilities, to alternative datasets that they can incorporate into their models. support our teams’ investment decision-making processes and In response, we set up UBS Data Solutions to meet those needs enhance client service. In addition, our flagship operational through a centralized robust data processing and distribution excellence programs are focused on building a scalable and platform. globally integrated operating platform to better enable our  Refer to “Our focus on technology” in this section for more teams to deliver the full breadth of our capabilities to clients examples on how technology is used for the benefit of our around the world. We also continue to develop our clients comprehensive Platform Services capabilities including UBS Partner, our new and innovative private-label technology solution, which will enable a step change in the advisory process and services offered by our wholesale clients. 23 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2018 Annual Report) How we create value for our stakeholders Our focus on technology As digitalization continues to transform the banking industry, improving the scalability of our systems and reducing the time to investment in technology plays a critical role in maintaining our market for innovative IT products. position as the largest global wealth manager. In 2018, we Additionally, we continued deploying robots (i.e., automated spent USD 3.5 billion on technology and we expect to maintain processes) to reduce manual work and ensure the stability of our around this level of spend through 2021. We gear our systems. We are growing capabilities for smarter cognitive investments toward technologies to enable business growth technologies including artificial intelligence (AI) to support more through innovation and superior client experience, and to insightful and faster decision making. continue to increase efficiency across the organization. Advanced technologies are used in our business divisions and Significant achievements in 2018 include laying the Corporate Center to enhance the client experience by increasing foundations for enterprise-wide Cloud adoption. We expect that front-to-back digitalization, improving product excellence and leveraging the Cloud will enable us to respond more rapidly to distribution, driving efficiency gains and maintaining platform market changes and client needs without compromising on security. Selected highlights are described below. security or efficiency. We aim to take advantage of the Cloud by 24 25 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2018 Annual Report) How we create value for our stakeholders Investors We build long-term value for our investors by executing our Alignment of interests strategy with discipline, striving for costand capital-efficient growth, long-term sustainable value creation and attractive We aim to align the interests of our employees with those of our shareholder returns. equity and debt investors. This is reflected in our compensation philosophy and practices. Costand capital-efficient revenue growth  Refer to “Our compensation philosophy” in the “Compensation” section of the Annual Report for more information Our ambition is to grow our Group revenues faster than global real GDP. Our Global Wealth Management business is well Communications positioned to take advantage of two secular trends: wealth creation and continued economic growth, notably in Asia, Our Investor Relations function serves as the primary point of where China is opening its financial markets. Each of our contact between UBS and the institutional investor community. businesses has initiatives to achieve revenue growth and improve Our senior management and the Investor Relations team operating efficiency in its area. regularly interact with investors, financial analysts and other  Refer to “Industry trends” in the “Our environment” section of market participants, such as credit rating agencies. Clear, this report for more information on wealth creation transparent and relevant disclosures, together with regular and direct interactions with existing and prospective shareholders, While we aim to increase revenues, cost efficiency is a form the basis for our communications. The Investor Relations strategic priority for us. Similarly, capital efficiency is of utmost team also relays the views of and feedback from the institutional importance for UBS overall and for each business division. To investor community on UBS to our senior management. provide further transparency and increase accountability on costs The Investor Relations and Corporate Responsibility teams and capital consumption, we have revised our cost allocation work together and interact with those investors focusing on methodology and equity attribution framework effective on sustainability topics relevant to UBS and society at large. 1 January 2019.  Refer to “Corporate governance” and “Information policy” in  Refer to the “Significant accounting and financial reporting the “Corporate governance and compensation” section of the changes” section of this report for more information Annual Report for more information  Refer to ”Society” in this section of the report for more Shareholder returns information on our sustainability efforts We aim to increase our ordinary dividend per share at a mid-tohigh single-digit percentage each year. We also aim to return excess capital, after accruals for ordinary dividends, most likely in the form of share repurchases. We consider our business outlook and capital plan, as well as other developments, in determining excess capital available for share repurchases. 26 Employees Our employees are crucial to our business strategy. Accordingly, and IT roles, and 151 trainees into our bank entry programs for our human resource (HR) strategy seeks to attract, develop and high school graduates. Our UK apprenticeship program hired retain talented people at all levels with the diverse skills, 57 school leavers across various roles. experience and commitment to effectively advise our clients,  Refer to www.ubs.com/employerawards for more information deliver innovative solutions, manage risk, navigate evolving regulatory requirements, and drive change. Our diverse and inclusive workplace Our corporate culture Our diverse workforce and inclusive culture are critical to our long-term success. We are committed to further increasing our A strong culture drives sustainable success and adds value at the diversity and to ensuring equal opportunities for all employees. individual, team and corporate levels. We invest in our We are especially focused on hiring, retaining and promoting employees and promote measures that build engagement and a more women across the firm, with a stated aspiration to cohesive, collaborative work environment. Our strategy and increase the representation of women in management roles to culture are underpinned by our three keys to success: our Pillars, one-third. Principles and Behaviors. These keys are the foundation for how Our award-winning UBS Career Comeback Program, already we manage our workforce, how we work with our stakeholders established in the UK, US and Switzerland, was extended to and each other, and how we make business decisions and India in 2018. The program offers permanent roles to deliver on our strategy. professionals wishing to return to corporate jobs after a career  Refer to the contents page of this report for more information break and supports them with on-the-job experience, classroom on the Pillars, Principles and Behaviors learning and mentoring. To date, Career Comeback has helped 102 women and 2 men at senior levels to relaunch their careers. Since 2013, we have embedded the three keys into our In addition to our strategic initiatives, every year we sponsor culture, including all HR processes, through transformative numerous activities to promote inclusiveness. For example, this initiatives like our firm-wide Senior Leadership Experience and, year we became a supporter of the UN Standards of Conduct for more recently, our Group Franchise Awards (GFA) program. The Business, a set of anti-discrimination guidelines. Additionally, our GFA program fosters cross-divisional collaboration and ideas for employee networks regularly host events regarding gender, simplifying our processes, with more than 14,300 business culture, ethnicity, LGBTI / Pride, disability, veterans, parenting, referrals and nearly 900 simplification ideas submitted in 2018. elder care and other topics. In 2018, we sponsored 43 employee We measure our culture-building progress through regular networks globally. employee surveys. In 2018, responses indicated that employee  Refer to www.ubs.com/diversity for more information engagement, appreciation for our talent management practices and pride in working at UBS were at, or above, the norm for Our integrated workforce strategy high-performing organizations. Throughout the year, the firm focused on enabling higher Employer of choice productivity, enhancing the client experience, building critical inhouse expertise and managing costs. Our integrated workforce We are widely recognized as an employer of choice, as strategy contributed to these achievements through a evidenced by the numerous external awards that we have combination of insourcing (especially in Group Technology) and received. Key to this is ensuring our employees can build regular hiring of staff. As a result, our Business Solutions Centers rewarding careers here. Internal mobility therefore remained a (BSCs) in China, India, Poland, Switzerland and the US grew priority in 2018, as it builds cross-firm connections, increases substantially. engagement and enables employees to leverage and develop Our BSC employee population increased by 3,115 in 2018 their skills. We further enhanced our suite of in-house through hiring or insourcing, including 1,893 in India and 822 in recruitment tools during the year to better match internal talent Poland. We also expanded our BSC presence in Switzerland with with open roles, and developed specialized training to increase the opening of a new BSC in Manno, focused on data analytics line manager effectiveness. and artificial intelligence. At year-end, offshore and nearshore We received nearly 847,000 applications and hired a total of employees accounted for around 29% of our global Corporate 13,249 external candidates in 2018. For our graduate talent Center employee population. As a result of insourcing initiatives programs, we hired 467 new university graduates and 585 and improved efficiency, we reduced our external staff in interns. In Switzerland, we hired 268 apprentices for business Corporate Center by 5,515. 27 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2018 Annual Report) How we create value for our stakeholders Personnel by region As of % change from Full-time equivalents 31.12.18 31.12.17 31.12.15 31.12.17 Americas 21,309 20,770 20,522 3 of which: USA 20,495 19,944 19,695 3 Asia Pacific 12,119 8,959 7,539 35 Europe, Middle East and Africa 12,620 11,097 10,746 14 of which: UK 5,782 5,274 5,206 10 of which: rest of Europe 6,670 5,662 5,373 18 of which: Middle East and Africa 168 161 167 5 Switzerland 20,840 20,427 20,581 2 Total1 66,888 61,253 59,387 9 1 The increase in workforce in 2018 was mainly due to insourcing initiatives and was more than offset by a decrease in external staff. Gender distribution by employee category1 Officers (Director and above) Officers (other officers) Employees Total By headcount, as of 31.12.18 Number % Number % Number % Number % Male 18,514 75 15,465 61 7,794 43 41,773 61 Female 6,078 25 10,059 39 10,428 57 26,565 39 Total 24,592 100 25,524 100 18,222 100 68,338 100 1 Calculated on the basis that a person (working full time or part time) is considered one headcount (in this table only). This accounts for the total UBS employee number of 68,338 as of 31 December 2018, which excludes staff from UBS Card Center, Wolfsberg and Hotel Seepark Thun. Developing and retaining talent recommended learning playlists enable employees to explore a wide variety of topics. Our permanent employees completed Our business strategy and culture are advanced through approximately 812,000 learning activities in 2018, including education and leadership development, with our in-house UBS mandatory training on compliance, business and other topics. University as the one-stop shop for all learning activities at This averaged to 11.9 sessions, or 1.76 training days, per UBS. Through our suite of development programs, business employee. skills and risk management classes, as well as lifelong learning Clear expectations, challenging goals, continuous feedback opportunities, we seek to ensure that all employees have the and a performance-centric compensation framework promote skills and expertise to meet client needs and grow their long-term success for employees, as well as for the firm. Since careers. Our Master in Wealth Management program remains we believe that how we achieve results is as important as the the pinnacle of development for client-facing staff in Global results themselves, our annual year-end reviews assess both Wealth Management. By the end of 2018, 208 senior client performance goals and the behaviors of integrity, collaboration advisors, desk heads and client-aligned managers had and challenge. Both ratings are then considered in development, successfully completed (or were on track to complete) the tworeward and promotion decisions. Our firm-wide talent year degree program. management and succession-planning processes, including In 2018, UBS University transformed its offering to connect accelerated development and internal mobility opportunities for employees with global trends, transform their businesses, lead key talent, support employee satisfaction and retention and help in a digital world and re-skill to prepare for the future. Monthly ensure our long-term success. 28 Our workforce at a glance1 29 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2018 Annual Report) How we create value for our stakeholders Society We want to promote global economic development that is Strategy sustainable for the planet and humanity. We have embodied the overarching objective of the 17 Sustainable Development Goals UBS in society (SDGs), which provide a roadmap to solve the common UBS in society is a dedicated organization within the firm, sustainability-related challenges of our society. focused on maximizing our positive effect and minimizing  Refer to the UBS World Economic Forum white paper 2019 any negative effects UBS has on society and the environment. under www.ubs.com/wef for more information It covers topics such as sustainable and impact investing, client philanthropy, environmental and human rights policies As the preeminent global wealth manager to high net worth governing client and supplier relationships, and our and ultra high net worth clients, we aspire to take a leading role community investment. Through UBS in society, UBS is in shaping the future. Our firm is in a powerful position to driving change that matters by using our firm’s expertise to contribute toward achieving the SDGs by integrating bring about sustainable performance. sustainability in our mainstream offerings, through new and The activities driven by UBS in society are overseen, at the innovative financial products with a positive effect on the highest level of our firm, by our Board of Directors’ Corporate environment and society, and by advising our clients on their Culture and Responsibility Committee (CCRC). The Group CEO philanthropic works. proposes the UBS in society strategy and annual objectives to We contribute to the setting of standards and collaborate in the CCRC, supervises their execution and informs the Group and beyond our industry. We do so through the management Executive Board and CCRC, as appropriate. Reporting to the of environmental and social risks, the management of Group CEO, the Head UBS in society is UBS’s senior-level our environmental footprint and our comprehensive representative for sustainability issues. sustainability disclosures. Information on all of these efforts  Refer to “Board of Directors” in the “Corporate governance” and commitments is provided in this Global Reporting Initiative section of the Annual Report for more information on the CCRC (GRI) Document, which can be downloaded from  Refer to the ”Our governance and principles” section for more www.ubs.com/investors (Annual reporting). The content of the information on UBS’s sustainability governance and UBS in GRI Document has been prepared in accordance with the GRI society Standards (“comprehensive” option) and with the German rules implementing the EU directive on disclosure of nonSupporting clients in their sustainability efforts financial and diversity information (2014/95/EU). Our reporting on sustainability has been reviewed by Ernst & Young Ltd At the heart of our approach to sustainability are both our against the GRI Standards providing limited assurance. clients and society at large. We support clients in their sustainability efforts through thought leadership, innovation and Code of Conduct and Ethics partnerships, and strive to incorporate environmental, social and governance (ESG) impacts into the products and services we In our Code of Conduct and Ethics (Code), the Board of provide, serving society through them. Directors and the Group Executive Board set out the principles We know that ESG topics are increasingly important to and practices that define our ethical standards and the way we society and our clients alike. Our research found that 58% of do business. These principles apply to all aspects of our business. high net worth investors expected sustainable investing to All employees must confirm annually that they have read and become the standard within 10 years, while 82% believed SI will adhere to the Code and other key policies, supporting a returns would match or surpass those of traditional investments. culture where ethical and responsible behavior is part of our Moreover, we are among the 2,200 signatories of the everyday operations. Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI), the world’s leading  Refer to the Code of Conduct and Ethics of UBS at proponent of responsible investment. The PRI works to support www.ubs.com/code for more information its signatories in incorporating ESG factors into their investment and ownership decisions. 30 Sustainable investing Climate action Sustainable investing (SI) is an approach that seeks to We believe the transition to a low-carbon economy is vital and incorporate ESG considerations into investment decisions. SI we are focused on supporting our clients in preparing for strategies seek to achieve one or more of the following success in an increasingly carbon-constrained world. We objectives: achieve a positive environmental or social impact, implement our climate strategy in four different ways: align investments with an investor’s personal environmental or – by seeking to protect our assets from climate change risks; social values or improve portfolio risk and return characteristics. – by supporting our clients’ efforts to assess, manage and We aim to be a leader in SI for private and institutional clients, protect themselves from climate-related risks; measurable by the size of SI assets under management (AuM). – by mobilizing private and institutional capital toward As of 31 December 2018, total SI assets represented investments that facilitate climate change mitigation and USD 1,110 billion (2017: USD 1,133 billion), or 35.8% (2017: adaptation, and by supporting the transition to a low-carbon 34.7%), of our total invested assets. Our core SI assets increased economy as a corporate advisor and / or with our lending to USD 313 billion (2017: USD 182 billion), representing 10.1% capacity; and (2017: 5.6%) of our total invested assets. Core SI products – by continuing to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions and involve a strict and diligent asset selection process through either increase the firm’s share in renewable energy. exclusions (of companies / sectors from the portfolio where the companies are not aligned to an investor’s values) or positive We regularly report on the implementation of our climate selections (such as best-in-class, thematic or ESG integration and strategy and follow the recommendations on climate-related impact investing). disclosures provided by the Financial Stability Board’s Task Force  Refer to the ”Our businesses” section of this report for more on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD). information on how individual business divisions incorporate  Refer to “Our climate strategy – taking action to support a lowsustainability into their approach carbon economy” in the “Our governance and principles”  Refer to the “Sustainable investments” table in the “Our section for our full climate-related disclosures clients” section for more information on SI Environmental and social risk Philanthropy – partnering with clients for good We consider environmental and social risk (ESR) management We believe our clients can make a meaningful, and measurable, critical to our sustainability strategy. Our comprehensive ESR difference for their chosen causes with advice from our framework governs client and supplier relationships and applies philanthropy experts and programs carefully selected through firm-wide to all activities, meets the highest industry standards our UBS Optimus Foundation. We increase social impact by (as recognized by ESG ratings) and is integrated in management combining our expertise with capital and networks. Together practices and control principles. with the UBS Optimus Foundation, our experts offer clients We have set ESR standards pertaining to environmental and unique access to social and financial innovation and human rights topics in product development, investments, philanthropic advice, as well as tailored program design, cofinancing and supply chain management. We have identified funding and co-development opportunities. certain controversial activities that we will not engage in at all, The UBS Optimus Foundation is an award-winning grantor only under stringent criteria. As part of this process, we making foundation that helps our clients use their wealth to engage with clients and suppliers to better understand their drive positive and sustainable social change for children. The processes and policies, and to explore how any environmental Foundation connects clients with inspiring entrepreneurs, new and social risks may be mitigated. technologies and proven models that make a measureable  Refer to the Appendix of this document for a full description of difference to the world’s most vulnerable children. In 2018, the our ESR management and framework Foundation’s work helped improve the well-being of 2.8 million children globally. Community investment  Refer to www.ubs.com/optimus for more information We recognize that our long-term success depends on the health and prosperity of the communities of which we are a part. We seek to redress disadvantages through long-term investments in education and entrepreneurship. We provide strategic financial commitments and targeted employee volunteering to drive change.  Refer to the “Our communities” section for more information 31 Our strategy, business model and environment (section from the UBS 2018 Annual Report) How we create value for our stakeholders Aims and progress We work with a long-term focus on providing appropriate returns to all of our stakeholders in a responsible manner. To underline our commitment, we provide transparent targets and report on progress made against them wherever possible. In 2018, we made good progress in delivering against the Group aims. We aim to be Our progress A leader in sustainable investing (SI) for private and institutional clients – The penetration of core SI assets increased to 10.1% (USD 313 billion) as demonstrated by the size of UBS’s SI AuM, for which UBS has: of our total invested assets in 2018, a 72% increase over 2017 – set the ambition to double the penetration of core SI assets by the end (USD 182 billion).1, 2 of 2020, from 5.6% (USD 182 billion) of our total invested assets at the – USD 1.9 billion of client assets were directed into SDG-related impact end of 20171; and investments3. – set a target of directing USD 5 billion of client assets into new impact investments for the SDGs by the end of 2021. A recognized innovator and thought leader in philanthropy as shown by the – 36% of our global workforce volunteered and 45% of the volunteer engagement with our key stakeholders and our work to support positive hours were skills based.4 social impact, for which UBS aims to: – UBS Optimus Foundation: USD 66.6 million in donations raised; – achieve 40% of employees volunteering by the end of 2020, of which USD 81.8 million grants approved; well-being of 2.8 million children 40% of volunteer hours will be skills based; and globally improved; three Development Impact Bonds in education and – pioneer new ways to bring substantial funding to the SDGs and health care launched. substantially increase donations to the UBS Optimus Foundation to improve the well-being of vulnerable children. An industry leader in sustainability by retaining favorable positions in key – UBS maintained its industry leadership in the Dow Jones Sustainability environmental, social and governance (ESG) ratings and driving Indices (DJSI). optimization in areas that are important to ESG investors. – MSCI ESG Research upgraded UBS to an AA rating. – Sustainalytics ranked UBS an industry leader. – CDP awarded UBS a position on the Climate A List. 1 Core SI are SI products that involve a strict and diligent asset selection process through either exclusions (of companies/sectors from the portfolio where the companies are not aligned to an investor’s values) or positive selections (such as best-in-class, thematic or ESG integration and impact investing). Refer to the “Sustainable investments” table in the ”Our clients” section. 2 The increase in core SI assets was mainly driven by the ESG integration strategy of Asset Management. Refer to the “Sustainable investments” table in the “Our clients” section. 3 Strategies, where the investment has the intention to generate measurable environmental and social impact alongside a financial return. 4 Refer to the “Our communities” section. 32 GRI-specific content 33 Our governance and principles Our governance and principles Our firm’s societal and corporate culture activities are overseen The BoD of UBS Group AG is responsible for setting our firm’s at the highest level of our firm and are founded in our Principles values and standards and ensuring we meet our obligations to and Behaviors. Our Board of Directors’ (BoD) Corporate Culture our stakeholders. Both the Chairman of the BoD and the Group and Responsibility Committee (CCRC) approves UBS in society’s CEO play a key role in safeguarding our reputation and ensuring overall strategy and monitors the current state and we communicate effectively with all our stakeholders. implementation of the Group’s programs and initiatives All BoD committees have responsibilities and authorities of pertaining to corporate culture and corporate responsibility. It direct relevance to our goal of creating sustainable value. The also regularly reviews stakeholder expectations and concerns Governance and Nominating Committee, for instance, supports about UBS’s societal performance and corporate culture. the BoD in fulfilling its duty to establish best practices in corporate governance across the UBS Group. The Compensation UBS in society organization Committee supports the BoD in its duties to set guidelines on compensation and benefits. The Risk Committee oversees and Our approach to sustainability is driven by our UBS in society supports the BoD in fulfilling its duty to supervise and set an organization. UBS in society covers all the activities and appropriate risk management and control framework (in the capabilities related to sustainable investing, philanthropy, areas of risk management and control, treasury and capital environmental and human rights policies governing client and management, as well as balance sheet management). supplier relationships, our environmental footprint, as well as The CCRC shoulders the main undertaking for corporate community investment. culture, responsibility and sustainability. The oversight role of the The Group Chief Executive Officer (Group CEO) proposes the CCRC has been embedded in the Organization Regulations of UBS in society strategy and annual objectives to the CCRC, UBS Group AG. supervises their execution and informs the Group Executive In view of the many environmental and social challenges Board (GEB) and CCRC, as appropriate. Reporting to the Group globally, these topics will continue to increase in relevance for CEO, the Head UBS in society is UBS’s senior-level representative banks. These developments therefore require regular and critical for sustainability issues. He chairs the UBS in society Operating assessment of our policies and practices, based on an accurate Committee, which is composed of representatives of the monitoring and analysis of societal topics of potential relevance business divisions and other pertinent functions. The to UBS. This process is the responsibility of a committee at Committee’s activities are focused on implementing and Group Executive Board-level, the Global Environmental and tracking the bold aims of UBS, to be a leader in sustainable Social Risk Committee, which sets the overall risk appetite for investing for private and institutional clients; a recognized the firm and resolves transactional and policy matters relating to innovator and thought leader in philanthropy; and an industry environmental and social risks and their associated reputation leader in sustainability. risks. It is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, who is responsible for the development and implementation of Governance and policies principles and appropriate independent control frameworks for environmental and social risks within UBS. Sustainability governance The GEB oversees our efforts to combat money laundering, The BoD decides on the strategy of the Group upon corruption and terrorist financing. These efforts are led by a recommendation by the Group CEO and is responsible for the dedicated financial crime team of anti-money laundering overall direction, supervision and control of the Group and its compliance experts. Also overseen by the GEB is our approach to management, as well as for supervising compliance with diversity and inclusion. Our global head of diversity and inclusion applicable laws, rules and regulations. The BoD exercises drives a group-wide strategy complemented by divisional and oversight over UBS Group AG and its subsidiaries and is regional initiatives. responsible for establishing a clear Group governance  Refer to the “Appendix” for the CCRC charter and the ESR policy framework to provide effective steering and supervision of the framework Group, taking into account the material risks to which UBS Group AG and its subsidiaries are exposed. The BoD has ultimate responsibility for the success of the Group and for delivering sustainable shareholder value within a framework of prudent and effective controls. 34 Key policies and guidelines The Code focuses on preventing the misuse of the financial system, including in relation to bribery. The specific antiCode of Conduct and Ethics corruption standards of conduct that apply to all employees are The UBS Code of Conduct and Ethics (the Code) sets out the also set out in the Group Policy Against Corruption. The policy principles and practices that UBS expects all of its employees and sets out our zero-tolerance stance towards corruption and directors to follow both in form and intention. The principles prohibits all forms of bribery by the firm and our employees, and standards set out in the Code should characterize all of including facilitation payments. UBS’s business activities and all its dealings with the firm’s Anti-corruption policies and procedures that aim to prevent stakeholders including clients, colleagues, shareholders, bribery occurring throughout our operations are in place for all regulators and business partners. It is the basis for all UBS business divisions. These policies are derived from the standards policies, guidelines and statements relating to each of the firm’s set out in the Group Policy Against Corruption and the Group employees’ personal commitment to appropriate and Policy on Gifts and Business Entertainment. responsible corporate behavior.  Refer to the “Our business” section for more information on  Refer to www.ubs.com/code and the “Appendix” section of this how UBS is combating financial crime document for the full text of the Code Global whistleblowing policy and procedures UBS in society constitutional document As set out in the Code, employees are required to immediately It is UBS’s ambition to be an industry leader in driving long-term report any potential violations of the Code to their line manager positive impact for clients, employees, investors and society. The or local compliance officer. Employees can also report them UBS in society constitutional document defines the principles confidentially to their Legal or Compliance & Operational Risk and responsibilities for promoting this commitment Control teams, using whistleblowing procedures. UBS’s global systematically across all relevant businesses and for whistleblowing policy and procedures offer multiple channels for implementing the ethical standards defined in the Code that staff to raise concerns, either openly or anonymously, about any govern UBS’s interaction with society and the environment. suspected breaches of laws, regulations, rules or other legal  Refer to the “Appendix” for the full text of the UBS in society requirements, or of the Code, policies or professional standards. constitutional document UBS will never punish or reprimand anyone for reporting these kinds of breaches or violations in good faith. Policies to combat financial crime We have developed extensive policies intended to prevent, Human Resources (HR) policies detect and report money laundering, corruption and terrorist HR has global and country-specific policies designed to ensure financing. These policies seek to protect the firm and our effective management of our workforce, a strong culture, and a reputation from those who may be intending to use UBS to safe and respectful working environment. An overarching global legitimize illicit assets. employment policy sets the minimum hiring and employment UBS applies a risk-based approach and has a framework in standards for all UBS locations. It aims at providing fair, place to identify and manage potential money laundering risks consistent and transparent treatment for our employees while associated with customers and transactions. With our systematic taking into account local legal requirements, market best assessment of money laundering risks we strive to arrive at the practices and shareholders’ interests. Country-specific employee appropriate level of initial and ongoing due diligence and handbooks supplement the global policies, providing local monitoring of transactions throughout the course of a information and clarification on the terms and conditions of relationship. For certain higher risk clients, face-to-face due employment and the applicable HR programs, policies and diligence requirements are mandatory. Our anti-money procedures. laundering (AML) policy sets out the processes and risk criteria pertaining to Politically Exposed Persons (PEPs). Global PEP clients are reviewed and reapproved on an annual basis by the responsible member of each divisional Executive Committee. 35 Our governance and principles UBS policies and principles pertaining to (political, charitable, Managing a high-performing workforce sponsorship) contributions Clearly, managing our people well is key for our long-term UBS has in place appropriate policies on political donations, success. Personal accountability and effective HR processes mean which set out the principles (including by referencing UBS’s antithat teams and businesses perform better, individuals can corruption standards) and approval processes for corporate advance in their careers, and ultimately, the firm can deliver its political donations made on behalf of UBS or its entities and strategy. their respective approval processes. Our global performance management process evaluates both UBS’s community interaction (i.e., charitable contributions performance and behavior, and employees receive two separate and employee volunteering) is guided by a global policy, which ratings in their year-end evaluations. This helps all of us take a governs the responsibilities for Community Affairs activities close look at how well integrity, collaboration and challenge (the within UBS and represents the official guidelines for all firm’s expected behaviors) are demonstrated in daily business employees to follow. It defines the governance, principles, activities. It also makes our management, promotion and reward responsibilities, focus themes, criteria (including on antiprocesses more transparent. For 2018, 99% of eligible corruption and anti-bribery), financial planning framework as employees received a performance review. well as due diligence requirements applicable to all Community Objectives focusing on our key corporate responsibility and Affairs activities and all financial contributions to non-profit sustainability commitments are set for managers and employees organizations and social enterprises made by UBS. in pertinent departments or units. Most notably, this would Our sponsorship activities are guided by a group-wide include managers and employees in investment, research and governance document which describes how the UBS policy on product development, UBS in society, anti-money laundering, brand & marketing should be implemented in sponsorship and human resources, environmental and community affairs events. The document clarifies roles and responsibilities functions. (including as regards anti-corruption and anti-bribery), describes To help us attract and retain our global workforce, our pay ways of working and is intended to ensure effective and efficient reflects differentiation by location, rank and role. We are cooperation among the various stakeholders. committed to ensuring that all employees are paid fairly, and perform regular reviews on this topic. Certain jurisdictions such Sustainable performance and compensation as the UK may require specific disclosure on this topic, which we fully adhere to. Total Reward Principles Our compensation philosophy is to align the interests of our Group Executive Board investors with those of our clients and employees, building on Annual performance awards for the Group CEO and the other our three keys to success – our Pillars, Principles and Behaviors. GEB members are based on the GEB compensation Our Total Reward Principles establish a framework that balances determination process and, in aggregate, subject to shareholder sustainable performance and prudent risk-taking with a focus on approval at the AGM. We assess the GEB members’ conduct and sound risk management practices. performance against a number of financial targets and goals Our compensation structure is aligned with our strategic related to Pillars, Principles, and Behaviors. The financial priorities. It aligns the interests of our stakeholders with those of measures for the Group CEO are based on overall Group our employees and encourages our employees to focus on our performance. For the other GEB members, they are based on clients, create sustainable value and achieve the highest both Group performance and the performance of the relevant standards of performance. Moreover, we reward behaviors that business division and / or region; for those who lead Group help build and protect the firm’s reputation – specifically functions, they are assessed on the performance of the Group integrity, collaboration and challenge. We strive for excellence and the function they oversee. and sustainable performance in everything we do. The weighting between Group, business division, regional Compensation for each employee is based on individual, team, and functional measures varies depending on a GEB member’s business division and Group performance, within the context of role. A significant weight is given to Group measures for all GEB the markets in which we operate. members. The achievements relative to goals related to Pillars Our Total Reward Principles apply to all employees globally. and Principles are additional factors for assessing the overall They may vary in certain locations according to local legal quality and sustainability of the financial results. The financial requirements and regulations. measures including Pillars and Principles account for 65% while Behaviors account for 35% of the assessment. 36 Board of Directors further align our disclosure within the five-year pathway outlined As set out in the Organization Regulations of UBS Group AG, by the TCFD and collaborate within the industry to close gaps. BoD members, as a group, must have the necessary UBS’s management publicly supports international, qualifications, skills and diversity to perform all BoD duties and collaborative action against climate change. Our Chairman is a must together possess financial literacy, experience in banking signatory to the European Financial Services Round Table’s and risk management, international experience, including statement in support of a strong, ambitious response to climate experience of international financial matters, and knowledge of change. Our Group CEO is a member of the Alliance of CEO the duties of directors. Climate Leaders, an informal network of CEOs convened by the At least annually, the BoD reviews, on the basis of an World Economic Forum and committed to climate action. Our assessment conducted by the Governance and Nominating Head Sustainable Equity Team at Asset Management (AM) is a Committee (which includes an appraisal by an external expert at member of the TCFD. least every three years), its own performance, as well as the In December 2018, AM joined other institutional investors to performance of each of the Committees. Such a review seeks to support a Statement on Climate Change, which was officially determine whether the Board and the Committees function presented to governments at the Conference of the Parties to effectively and efficiently. the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change The assessment evaluates the following dimensions, covering COP 24 meeting in Poland. The statement is asking public both formal and material aspects of BoD and committees: leaders to a) achieve the Paris Agreement goals, b) accelerate meeting structure, frequency and duration; composition; private sector investments into the low carbon transition and information timeliness, volume and quality; priorities; fulfillment c) commit to improve climate-related financial reporting as of duties, including succession planning; and dynamics. The suggested by TCFD. committees review their responsibilities and authorities against For the third year in a row, CDP, which runs a global the Organization Regulations. In addition, for a number of the disclosure system that enables companies, cities, states and committees a systematic comparison to best-practice standards regions to measure and manage their environmental impacts, is undertaken. has awarded UBS with the Climate A List, its highest ranking. The Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee (CCRC)  Refer to our CDP disclosure available at www.ubs.com/insociety members, as a group, must have the necessary qualifications for more details and skills to perform all of their duties. In particular the CCRC members are expected to: (i) commit such time to the role as Governance may be necessary for the proper discharge of their duties (an Our climate strategy is overseen by the CCRC as part of the UBS indication of the time expected for this purpose will be set out in in society governance. This oversight role of the CCRC is each of the CCRC members’ letter of appointment); and (ii) have embedded in the Organization Regulations of UBS Group AG. good knowledge of corporate culture and corporate Within the parameters set by the CCRC, climate-related responsibility and relevant societal issues and such other opportunities are overseen by the UBS in society Operating experience as the BoD considers desirable in order to enable the Committee, and climate-related risks by the Global ESR CCRC to perform its duties. The CCRC’s chairperson is expected Committee. In 2018, climate-related risks were also for the first to have good knowledge of the Committee’s relevant area of time discussed by a joint meeting of the BoD's CCRC and Risk responsibility together with such other experience as the BoD Committee. The CCRC regularly and critically reviews the considers desirable in the context of that Committee’s work. assessments and steps taken by these management bodies  Refer to the “Compensation” section of the UBS Annual Report towards executing the climate strategy. It approves UBS’s annual 2018 and the Organization Regulations of UBS Group AG for climate-related objectives and plans and decides on the further information progressive alignment of our climate action disclosure pathway with TCFD’s recommendations. These annual objectives and Our climate strategy – taking action to support a lowplans are managed as part of our ISO 14001-certified carbon economy environmental management system (EMS) with defined management accountabilities across the firm. We are supporting the shift to a climate-smart world. Our climate strategy underlines our commitment to the United Strategy Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) on affordable We believe the transition to a low carbon economy is vital and and clean energy and on climate action. We regularly report on we are focused on supporting our clients in preparing for the implementation of our climate strategy and follow the success in an increasingly carbon-constrained world. As a recommendations provided by the Financial Stability Board’s leading global financial services provider, we do this in four Task Force on Climate-related Financial Disclosures (TCFD) in different ways: June 2017. The recommendations call on companies to disclose the impacts of climate change on their businesses. This will allow investors and financial institutions to make better investment decisions with a common set of data to assess the climaterelated risks and opportunities of specific companies. We plan to 37 Our governance and principles Protecting our own assets We have also established standards in the forestry sector to We seek to protect our assets from climate-related risks by support our clients’ efforts to achieve “zero deforestation” in limiting our risk appetite for carbon-related assets and by their supply chains. estimating our firm’s vulnerability to climate-related risks using In order to manage our own, and our clients’, risk derived scenario-based stress testing approaches and other forwardfrom both the physical and transition risks associated with looking portfolio analyses. We have so far not found any climate change, we have performed both top-down balance significant climate-related financial risk on our balance sheet. sheet stress testing, as well as targeted, bottom-up analysis of specific sector exposures. In doing so, we identified challenges Protecting our clients’ assets ranging from the suitability of climate scenarios for banking risk We support our clients’ efforts to assess, manage and protect modelling to data availability. To address these challenges, we them from climate-related risks by offering innovative products have committed to work towards alignment and knowledgeand services in investment, financing and research. Our Asset sharing within the industry. Sixteen banks, including UBS, and Management division has developed a string of products the UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) have allowing its clients to identify the carbon intensity of their partnered to collaboratively develop analytical tools that help investments and / or to align them with the Paris Agreement. banks disclose their exposures to climate-related risks and opportunities as envisioned by the TCFD. This included further Mobilizing private and institutional capital refining scenario-based stress-testing methodologies. We mobilize private and institutional capital towards We tested the methodologies developed in this working investments facilitating climate change mitigation and group for both transition risk and physical risk. The transition risk adaptation and in supporting the transition to a low-carbon tool that uses a combined top-down and bottom-up approach economy as corporate advisor, and/or with our lending capacity. has mainly highlighted challenges of translating climate transition scenarios into banking risk models based on Reducing our direct climate impact macroeconomic factors. Bottom-up analysis is time consuming We continue to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions and and not suited for international, multi-sector analysis. The increase the firm’s share in renewable energy. physical climate risk methodology has highlighted additional challenges, mainly relating to lack of data related to climate risk Risk Management and its impact on production processes, and asset-level We manage climate-related risks and opportunities via our information of individual companies. certified EMS and we monitor implementation on an ongoing Overall, findings of this pilot confirmed what we had found in basis. The EMS helps us to systematically reduce environmental previous pilot stress tests that we have been performing on risks, seize climate/environment-related market opportunities climate since 2014: We have so far not identified significant and to continuously improve UBS’s climate/environmental climate-related financial risk on our balance sheet. We explain performance and resource efficiency. this by UBS’s relatively small lending book in exposed sectors and availability of insurance where we have relevant exposures Protecting our own assets to such sectors (e.g., Swiss mortgage lending book). Our standard risk, compliance and operations processes involve We should however continue to work on improving data procedures and tools for identifying, assessing and monitoring availability, scenario applicability and methodology development. environmental and social risks. These include client onboarding, As long as they are not reliably available, we cannot consider transaction due diligence, product development and investment respective financial risk analysis to be robust. decision processes, own operations, supply chain management The project was helpful to further raise awareness within the and portfolio reviews. These processes are geared toward financial sector for climate-related risk and to promote identifying clients, transactions or suppliers potentially in breach collaboration within and across the industry as well as with of our standards or otherwise subject to significant scenario and model developers in science and research. environmental and human rights controversies, including climate Addressing the mentioned challenges is a journey however and change. requires additional effort over the coming years. We continue to We are committed to: support international collaboration to address these challenges. – not providing project-level finance to new coal-fired power UBS is also involved in other activities to reduce gaps in plants globally; climate-related financial data. We support the CDP, as an – only supporting financing transactions of existing coal-fired investor member as well as a questionnaire respondent, in their operators (>30% coal reliance) who have a transition strategy aim to improve company disclosure of risks and opportunities in place that aligns with a pathway under the Paris related to natural resources. We were also on the advisory panel Agreement, or the transaction is related to renewable energy; of the Natural Capital Finance Alliance’s advancing – severely restricting lending and capital raising to the coal environmental management project. The project tool ENCORE, mining sector and not supporting coal mining companies which maps how industry sectors depend on nature, was engaged in mountain-top removal (MTR) operations. launched in November 2018.  Refer to the “Our documents“ page on www.ubs.com/insociety for an FAQ on the above commitments 38 Protecting our clients’ assets Mobilizing private and institutional capital We offer innovative products and services in investment, We mobilize capital to support environmental and social issues, financing and research. Examples include: including the transition to a low carbon economy. For example: – Our Asset Management (AM) business has developed the – We offer 100% sustainable discretionary mandates and asset capability for equity portfolio managers to examine the allocation funds based on a new dedicated SI Strategic Asset carbon footprint of their portfolios and comparing the relative Allocation for private clients in Global Wealth Management carbon footprints of their company holdings to that of the (GWM). benchmark. Carbon emissions data is also made available to – Our GWM in collaboration with AM is developing a range of all equity portfolio managers through the Portfolio new thematic and pooled impact investments. Optimization Platform, which allows portfolio managers and – Our GWM has committed to integrating ESG assessments, analysts to download carbon and carbon intensity data on including a dedicated climate dimension, into all fund and ETF over 6,000 companies. onboardings. – In 2018, AM followed its successful UK Climate Aware rules– We have set a target of directing USD 5 billion of client assets based fund with an Irish based fund that is available for into new impact investments for the SDGs by end of 2021. international investors outside of the UK. The portfolio is These investments include a significant climate component. oriented towards companies that are better prepared for a – We participated in launching Align17 ₋ a WEF Young Global low carbon future while reducing exposure to, rather than Leaders initiative ₋ an independent, third-party digital excluding, companies with higher carbon risk, in order to marketplace, which stands out in connecting a wider range of pursue strategic engagement with these companies. The public, institutional, and private wealth investors with SDGstrategy involves not only a reduction of the CO2 footprint of related investment opportunities. the portfolio but also an innovative approach to aligning the – Our AM and GWM businesses have in place a comprehensive portfolio with the two degree carbon reduction scenario in approach to environmental and social factors and to corporate the future. governance across investment disciplines. The 2018 GRESB – AM engages with companies in which it invests on behalf of (formerly Global Real Estate Sustainability Benchmark) awarded clients to discuss approaches to mitigating climate-related ten of AM’s real estate and infrastructure funds 5-star ratings, risk, as well as actively voting on shareholder resolutions to and seven funds ranked first in their respective peer groups. improve transparency and disclosure around climate-related – Our Investment Bank provides capital-raising and strategic reporting. Specifically in the context of the Climate Aware advisory services globally to companies offering products that fund, UBS Asset Management has implemented an make a positive contribution to climate change mitigation engagement program with 50 oil & gas and utilities and adaptation, including those in the solar, wind, hydro, companies underweighted in the fund. Dialogue with energy efficiency, waste and biofuels, and transport sectors. companies aims at improving companies’ disclosure and – We strive to be the preferred strategic financial partner performance alignment with the TCFD recommendations. relating to Switzerland’s Energy Strategy 2050. In 2018, our Engagement makes it possible to share the results of the Personal & Corporate business supported eight strategic quantitative and qualitative assessments included in the fund transactions in support of the strategy. And the UBS Clean methodology with investee companies too. This allows for the Energy Infrastructure Switzerland strategy offers institutional verification of company performance with additional investors unprecedented access to a diversified portfolio of information collected before and after meetings. It also Swiss infrastructure facilities and renewable energy means AM can collect feedback, explicitly communicate companies. Due to client’s demand, a successor strategy was objectives for change in corporate practices and further launched in September 2017. enhance the model used to inform the under/overweights in the strategy. Reducing our direct climate change impact We set quantitative targets and continue to reduce UBS’s Group-wide GHG emissions and increase our share in renewable energy in line with our commitment to RE100, a global initiative that encourages multinational companies to make a commitment to using 100% renewable power by 2020. This will reduce the firm’s GHG footprint by 75% by 2020 compared with 2004 levels.  Refer to the “In-house environmental management“ section for more information 39 Our governance and principles Climate-related metrics 2018 For the year ended 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Protecting our own assets Risks Identified significant climate-related financial risk on balance sheet1 None None Carbon-related assets (USD bn)2 2.7 6.6 Proportion of total net credit exposure (%) 1.2 2.8 Protecting our clients’ assets and mobilizing private and institutional capital Opportunities / products and services Climate-related sustainable investments (USD bn)3 87.5 74.0 Proportion of UBS clients’ total invested assets (%) 2.8 2.3 Total deal value in equity or debt capital market services related to climate change mitigation and adaptation (CCMA) (USD bn) 31.6 44.3 Total deal value of financial advisory services related to CCMA (USD bn) 24.9 5.5 Number of strategic transactions in support of Switzerland’s Energy Strategy 2050 8 4 Number of climate-related shareholder resolutions voted upon 43 34 Proportion of supported climate-related shareholder resolutions (%)4 88.0 82.0 Reducing our own climate change impact Greenhouse gas emissions GHG footprint (kilotons CO2e)5 132 148 Percentage change from baseline 2004 (Target: -75% by 2020) (%) (63.4) (59.0) Weighted carbon intensity of the Climate Aware equities strategy (in tons CO2e per million of USD revenue)6 95.6 117.45 Compared to benchmark (FTSE Developed World Index) (%) (55.7) (44.0) 1 Methodologies for climate-related financial risk are emerging and may change over time. In 2018, a group of 16 banks, including UBS, and UNEP FI have partnered to refine methodologies for climate-related risks and opportunities. 2 Total net credit exposure across Personal & Corporate Banking and the Investment Bank, includes traded and banking products. Net of allowances, provisions, and hedges. As recommended by the TCFD, carbon-related assets are defined as assets tied to the energy and utilities sectors (Global Industry Classification Standard). Non-carbon-related assets, such as renewables, water utilities, and nuclear power excluded. For grid utilities, the national grid mix is applied. 2018 Year-on-year drop attributed to planned reductions in Energy and Utilities lending exposure within the Investment Bank. 3 Invested assets of products such as sustainably managed properties and infrastructure, and renewable energy. 4 On all proposals that we supported, we voted against the recommendation provided by the issuer. 5 GHG footprint equals gross GHG emissions minus GHG reductions from renewable energy and GHG offsets (gross GHG emissions include: direct GHG emissions by UBS; indirect GHG emissions associated with the generation of imported / purchased electricity (grid average emission factor), heat or steam and other indirect GHG emissions associated with business travel, paper consumption and waste disposal). A breakdown of our GHG emissions (scope 1, 2, 3) is available in the in-house environmental section in this document. 6 Year-on-year decrease of carbon intensity is mainly driven by higher carbon targets of the investment strategy. Carbon intensity is based on scope 1 and 2 CO2 emissions of investee companies, which often rely on third-party estimates. 40 Our stakeholder engagement Our stakeholders improvement to client service and overall banking services. Having a wide variety of quality feedback from our clients We engage with our stakeholders, both key groups (clients, enables us to systematically evaluate and review our actions. By investors, employees and governments / regulators) and others, sharing their views, clients contribute to quality improvements at on a regular basis and on a wide range of topics. This all levels. engagement with stakeholders yields important information on UBS strives to respond directly to each individual who their expectations and concerns and offers critical contribution provides feedback. On significant topics and key developments, to our understanding and management of issues with potential UBS also provides a collective response in its external reporting. (positive and negative) relevance to our bank. By actively In 2018, key topics and enhancements included some targeted fostering such interactions we are in a position to address products and services mostly centering around the functionalities stakeholder expectations and concerns in an informed and of digital banking and stemming in particular from requests and effective manner. improvement suggestions for existing features and queries Our relationships with stakeholders are multi-faceted and regarding access and security. Moreover, certain client feedback include major stand-alone interactions with large groups (e.g., related to change in delivery of bank statements from physical to the employee survey), regular communications throughout the electronically (and debit/credit cards). year with representatives from a particular group (e.g., media), Feedback from employees (i.e., quality tips and ideas / as well as dialogue meetings with single individuals (e.g., client proposals that arise from their knowledge and experience in enquiries). improving and updating products, processes and services) helps to foster creativity and innovation arising from their knowledge Clients and experience in improving and updating products, processes Clients are the reason for our existence and hence at the center and services. of our activities. We are committed to building and sustaining relationships with clients based on trust and integrity. Having Shareholders / investors regular dialogs with clients and collecting their feedback ensures Investor Relations serves as the point of contact for UBS’s that we understand their expectations. investor community. Our senior management and the Investor Our clients increasingly want financial advice as well as the Relations team regularly communicate with investors, financial right products in order to use their resources to address societal analysts and rating agencies. The Investor Relations and issues. As the preeminent global wealth manager to high net Corporate Responsibility teams also interact with shareholders worth and ultra high net worth clients, we are well placed to focused on sustainability to discuss more holistic topics relevant provide this support, based on a consistent Group-wide to UBS’s long-term performance and to the society and approach. We use our manifold interactions with clients to environment in which it operates. UBS strives to achieve a better understand their needs. Client feedback (including that consistently fair valuation for its shares through best-in-class which is collected through our Quality Feedback management disclosure, transparency and communication practices. system) enables the firm to act and continuously improve products and client service standards in order to provide the best Employees client experience. Our employees are the link between us and our clients, and the key to achieving sustainable success. We therefore strive to Quality feedback management system ensure our employees are well informed and engaged as In Wealth Management and Personal & Corporate Banking, the partners in the firm’s long-term success. Quality Feedback system provides a comprehensive and As a responsible company and employer of choice, we inform systematic platform to receive and process feedback and employees about our strategy, priorities and policies, as well as suggestions from both clients and employees. Feedback is topics such as goal setting and regular feedback, career received in a wide range of formats, including written, development, new technologies and required training. We also electronic, verbal (e.g., comments made to employees in UBS highlight collaboration and efficiency initiatives such as our branches), through social media and via the Swiss banking Group Franchise Awards, key diversity initiatives like our UBS Ombudsman. Career Comeback program, and community efforts such our Client feedback, including complaints and suggestions, is of work with lower-income and first generation college-goers in crucial importance to UBS as it supports the development and the US through UBS NextGen Leaders. We communicate introduction of new products and services as well as the through a number of news and information channels such as adaptation of our offering in a client-oriented manner. By our intranet, UBS Connections (our internal social network), UBS addressing client feedback we strive to strengthen client TV, and interactive help / information sites. relationships, restore client satisfaction, and make a tangible 41 Our stakeholder engagement Direct interaction with employees also takes place through Grievances and whistleblowing protection personal meetings, emails, all-staff sessions, large and smallWe are committed to maintaining high legal, regulatory and scale employee surveys, and the firm’s Quality Feedback system. ethical standards. We have long-standing procedures in every In 2018, employees in all businesses and regions attended region to help us resolve employee grievances, and employees numerous town halls and small group meetings to discuss are strongly encouraged to speak with their line manager or HR relevant issues directly with senior management. For example, about any concerns. Our global whistleblowing policy and regular “Ask the CEO” events, attended in person by local procedures offer multiple channels (including a whistleblowing employees and broadcast live (and via replay) on our in-house and sexual misconduct hotline) for staff to raise concerns, either UBS TV channel, allowed all employees globally to learn about openly or anonymously, about any suspected breaches of laws, (and ask questions on) topics such as the firm’s strategy and regulations, rules or other legal requirements, sexual misconduct direction. Likewise, regular divisional, functional and regional or harassment, or any infringement our Code, policies or town halls enabled employees to learn about the firm’s strategy, professional standards. business priorities and collaboration opportunities. These events  Refer to the “Risk management and control” section of the UBS are generally live and also broadcast via UBS TV and questions Annual Report 2018 for more information may be asked live or be pre-submitted. We want our employees to be engaged and to share their Employee representation views on the status quo and our culture. We also want to give As a responsible employer, we maintain an open dialog with our them the opportunity to influence the firm’s future. Since 2016, formal employee representation groups, all of which are in we have regularly surveyed all our permanent employees to Europe. The UBS Employee Forum for Europe represents 16 capture their feedback on how we are doing as a firm. As such, countries and considers pan-European issues that may affect our in September 2018, all employees were asked to participate in a performance, operations or prospects. Local and regional work global survey, and 83% did. Of specific interest was employees’ councils discuss topics such as business transfers, pensions, views on whether our firm’s principles and behaviors are being workplace conditions, health and safety, and redundancies. lived up to, our strategy effectively communicated and a positive Collectively, these groups represent approximately 50% of our and empowering work environment provided, and responses global workforce. indicated that engagement, appreciation for our talent  Find out more about topics of interest to employees and management practices and pride in working at UBS were at or potential employees at www.ubs.com/careers above the norm for high-performing organizations. Employees were informed of the Group-wide results of the survey, as well Governments and regulators as divisional, regional and business area results, as applicable. Financial market stability is largely dependent on the overall The results are analyzed and leveraged to help us continuously economic, regulatory and political environment and the conduct improve, as it is our ongoing ambition to continue to have a of the firms within the sector. We actively participate in political highly motivated workforce that models integrity, collaboration discussions to share our expertise on proposed regulatory and and challenge in their daily work. We also want to be the clear supervisory changes. The regime set out by the post-2008 employer of choice in the financial services industry. Our goal is regulatory reform agenda is now largely completed with focus to maintain overall engagement ratings in the top quartile. shifting to final national implementation of key prudential rules In 2018, we sponsored 43 employee networks globally. Our such as the Basel III standards. networks help employees build cross-business relationships and With regard to corporate responsibility and sustainability support an open workplace. Our disability-focused networks in issues, we actively participated in governmental discussions the US, UK, Switzerland and Asia Pacific raise awareness of concerning the implementation of the commitments made at visible and invisible disabilities in the workplace, as well as our the Paris Climate Change Conference and in the SDGs. In management’s active support for hiring, development and addition, we contribute to the TCFD. On a regional basis, we retention of persons with disabilities in all our businesses. engaged with the EU High-level Expert Group on Sustainable Further, our Women’s Business Networks in support women’s Finance. In our home country Switzerland, we continue to personal and professional development through networking, actively contribute to pertinent sustainability discussions with mentoring and education. various government bodies. We also contribute our experience and knowledge to supervisors in their efforts to further thinking on new topics such as the appropriate regulatory environment for digital finance and the financial risks of climate change.  Refer to UBS’s quarterly reports and annual reports available at www.ubs.com/investors for more information on regulatory topics 42 Politicians and political parties Peers We maintain a regular dialogue with politicians globally and We actively engage in regular discussions on corporate strive to establish long-term relationships with political responsibility and sustainability issues with specialists in peer representatives. banks, and more widely through trade bodies and associations. UBS complies with legal requirements on disclosing political Sharing experiences and assessments of corporate responsibility donations, as applicable in the relevant jurisdiction. Outside of and sustainability issues helps us to compare and improve our Switzerland, UBS does not provide financial support to political strategy, approach and tools. parties. In the US, eligible employees may make financial UBS is a founding member of the Wolfsberg Group, an contributions through a federal Political Action Committee association of global banks that aims to develop financial (PAC), the UBS Americas Fund for Better Government. The PAC services industry standards regarding anti-money laundering, makes contributions to federal candidates. These employee Know Your Client and counter-terrorist financing policies. contributions do not constitute political donations by UBS. Meeting regularly, the Wolfsberg Group also works closely with the Financial Action Task Force. Support of the Swiss militia system Sixteen banks, including UBS, and the UN Environment Swiss citizens actively and voluntarily engage in political Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) have partnered to institutions at all three levels of the Swiss state (federal, cantonal collaboratively develop analytical tools that help banks disclose and local) as public officials (e.g., members of parliament, their exposures to climate-related risks and opportunities, as members of commissions and executive mandates), while they envisioned by the TCFD. continue to pursue other professional activities. This In 2011, UBS was a driving force behind the establishment of arrangement – citizens taking on public tasks and mandates on the Thun Group of Banks, which has published two papers that a part-time basis – is referred to as the militia system. seek to establish a framework to facilitate the identification of In this system, members of parliament in Switzerland are thus the key challenges and best practice examples for the banking (usually) not professional politicians and political parties do not sector’s implementation of the UN Guiding Principles on receive state funding. It is for this reason that UBS views the Business and Human Rights. The Thun Group maintains regular support of the militia system as a crucial component of its discussions, both in calls and in annual meetings at the UBS societal responsibility in its home market Switzerland. In Conference Center in Thun, Switzerland. recognition of the vital function of Switzerland’s political parties, UBS provided a total of CHF 0.5 million to political parties in Communities 2018 as a contribution to their operational costs. Financial At UBS, we recognize that our long-term success depends on contributions are calculated based on the number of the health and prosperity of the communities of which we are a parliamentary seats the respective party holds at the federal and part. Our approach is to build sustainable and successful cantonal level. Swiss parties are eligible to apply for a financial partnerships with non-profit organizations and social enterprises contribution if they commit to free competition, the market to help our contributions have a lasting impact. Our Community economy and to the Swiss financial center. They should Affairs programs seek to overcome disadvantage through longfurthermore have a national focus and either form a term investment in education and entrepreneurship in the parliamentary group in the federal parliament or be represented communities within which we operate. in at least one cantonal government. UBS views its contribution Through local execution and partnerships, which operate to political parties in Switzerland as a long-term commitment, under a global framework and with coordination across regions, which is, however, subject to regular reviews. we endeavor to deliver business and community impact by identifying innovative and high-quality programs that are aligned Annual “Political Forum” for employees who hold elected public to the business. We provide focused financial and human office in Switzerland support, including through the use of skills-based employee UBS expressly supports the political involvement of its volunteering programs and client participation where employees. About 300 employees currently hold political office appropriate. UBS is an active member of the London at federal, cantonal and local level. If necessary, employees may Benchmarking Group, an internationally recognized standard for spend a certain amount of their working time on their public measuring corporate community investment. duties. UBS organizes an annual “Political Forum” at which  Refer to the “Our communities“ section for further information senior management and political office holders discuss topics of and data of relevance to the communities we do business in relevance to UBS in Switzerland.  Refer to www.ubs.com/gov for more information on governmental topics pertaining to Switzerland 43 Our stakeholder engagement Suppliers Media In 2018, UBS spent USD 11.0 billion on a broad range of Our media teams maintain direct and long-term relations with products and services. A large proportion of this expenditure media representatives across all our business regions and provide comprises real estate, outsourcing, IT as well as consultancy and them with timely information on a wide range of global, legal fees. Our sourcing and procurement services are provided regional and local topics. Senior management (BoD and GEB by an external company, Chain IQ, which applies UBS’s level) also regularly gives account to journalists, predominantly responsible supply chain management (RSCM) framework and through interviews. In addition to the interviews at our firm’s processes. The experienced procurement and sourcing specialists corporate events (i.e., quarterly and annual reporting and at Chain IQ perform supplier due diligence and establish Annual General Meeting) senior management conducted many remediation measures, supported by a centralized team of other interviews in 2018. experts within UBS. We also communicated with media representatives – through We aim to ensure that our social and environmental values interviews or background talks – on a broad range of corporate are being followed throughout the supply chain. A firm-wide responsibility or sustainability topics such as climate change, RSCM guideline provides systematic assistance on identifying, human rights and environmental and social risks in general. assessing and monitoring supplier practices in the areas of  Refer to www.ubs.com/media for further information on UBS human and labor rights, the environmental protection and media relations corruption. A central component of this guideline is the UBS Responsible Supply Chain Standard to which our direct suppliers Materiality under GRI Standards are bound by contract. UBS expects its suppliers to apply the same standards in the relationships with their suppliers. GRI-based materiality assessment  Refer to “Responsible supply chain management“ in the “Our We put great emphasis on learning the views and values of our business” section stakeholders with regard to the business activities of UBS and its role in society. Every year, we conduct a materiality assessment, ESG rating and research agencies as defined by the guidelines of the Global Reporting Initiative We actively engage in dialog with analysts at rating and research (GRI), to collect stakeholder views on key topics pertaining to agencies. The assessment of specialized agencies helps to our firm’s economic, social and environmental performance and evaluate our sustainability performance and activities, and impacts. Our materiality assessment draws on formal and provides a useful means for benchmarking. informal monitoring, from our dialog with stakeholders and In 2018, we provided detailed information on our from relevant external studies and reports. sustainability performance to a range of agencies, either Requested and supervised by the Corporate Culture and in response to questionnaires or via meetings or calls Responsibility Committee (CCRC), UBS’s comprehensive (with environmental, social and governance analysts). Our materiality assessment process is managed by a UBS-internal, GRI Document regularly serves as a key source of information for cross-business division and cross-regional materiality assessment these agencies. team. The team consists of a group of experts who – due to their function – deal with stakeholder expectations and concerns Non-governmental organizations on a daily basis. The team is responsible for delivering the We regularly interact with non-governmental organizations outcome of the materiality assessment to the CCRC on an (NGOs) and appreciate their input and insight, as it helps the annual basis. firm consider its approach to, and understanding of, societal issues and concerns. NGOs have long established themselves as critical watchdogs of companies, both scrutinizing and challenging how we address a broad range of environmental, social and human rights concerns. In 2018, discussions with NGOs focused on the subjects of climate change (notably on fossil fuels) and human rights (including on indigenous peoples’ rights). 44 We also regularly invite stakeholders to directly share their cohesion and stability; Financial results; Macroeconomic and views. In 2017, we did so through an online survey that was political environment) were removed. completed by nearly 1,600 stakeholders (with clients making up Our materiality assessment also included a consultation of half of this amount). For the first time, we also included internal experts on our firm’s significant economic, a question on the SDGs in the survey. The SDGs are a set of environmental and social impacts. We concluded that these 17 non-legally binding goals “aiming to end poverty, protect the impacts are directly reflected in the topics deemed most material planet, and ensure prosperity for all by 2030,” as part of a in the GRI-based materiality assessment and that these impacts global sustainable development agenda. Stakeholders were are overwhelmingly concerned with economic impacts. These asked which SDG UBS should contribute most to and the most topics fall within two significant impact areas of our firm: frequent response was quality education followed by climate ensuring the provision of high-quality services to clients, and action. We plan to undertake a stakeholder survey again in actively managing potential major risks to clients as well as other 2019. stakeholders. Jointly, these two significant impact areas of our The overall result of the materiality assessment is expressed in firm are reflected in the highly ranked topics of Regulatory the UBS 2018 materiality matrix below. The matrix ranks topics compliance and Client experience. by their relevance to UBS stakeholders and their impact on UBS's  Refer to the Appendix for a detailed overview of the impact of sustainable performance. “Sustainable performance,” one of material GRI topics UBS’s three principles, means that we focus on the long term and work to provide consistent returns to our stakeholders. As shown in the matrix, stakeholders do not currently regard For the 2018 materiality matrix we have substantially reduced the impact of environmental and social topics as substantially the number of topics to 13 (from 21 in 2017). This is in influencing their assessments and decisions. The relevance of particular due to a new topic (Regulatory compliance) these topics is, however, acknowledged, as is the likelihood that subsuming a number of topics previously listed separately in the some of these topics, notably Climate action and Sustainable matrix (Combating financial crime; Financial stability and investing will be of increasing relevance to UBS in coming years. resilience; Cyber security; Conduct; Client protection). Among As in previous years, the overall result of the assessment was the 13 topics, Regulatory compliance is the most material, reviewed by the CCRC. It also becomes part of the decisionfollowed by Client experience (includes the previous topic making processes of this Board of Directors committee with a Quality and price). Other topics were merged (Demographic particular focus on those topics that were assessed as very development, Occupational health and well-being and Working relevant or have considerably increased their relevance since the conditions into the new topic Working culture and environment; preceding year. Shareholder participation rights merged into Corporate governance) while certain topics (Brand reputation; Social 45 Our stakeholder engagement UBS 2018 materiality matrix 46 Material GRI topics 2018 Additionally, we have identified material topics that are not part For the purpose of the GRI Standards materiality assessment we of the official GRI topics list. These are: map the GRI topics to UBS’s materiality matrix and we identify – Digital innovation the most material topics on the basis of their significance to – Operational efficiency and effectiveness stakeholders and their impact on sustainable performance. For – Client experience 2018, we have identified the following material topics: – Working culture and environment – GRI 201: Economic Performance – GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts All material topics are relevant to all entities consolidated – GRI 205: Anti-Corruption within UBS. Information describing any relevant impacts of the – GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior topics outside UBS is provided as part of the description of the – GRI 302: Energy respective GRI indicator or material topic in the following pages. – GRI 305: Emissions The following table provides an overview of all topics on the – GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment UBS materiality matrix and their subtopics. – GRI 401: Employment  Refer to the Appendix for relevant management approaches – GRI 404: Training and Education – GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunities – GRI 406: Non-Discrimination – GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment – GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling – GRI 418: Customer Privacy – GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance – GRI G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures: Product Portfolio – GRI G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures: Audit – GRI G4 Financial Services Sector Disclosures: Active Ownership 47 Our stakeholder engagement Material topics Sub topics GRI topics Governance Regulatory compliance – client protection: data confidentiality; transparency (clear terms and conditions of products); fair GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling pricing schemes; easy-to-understand products and services GRI 418: Customer Privacy – combating financial crime: anti-corruption and anti-money laundering; crime and manipulation GRI 205: Anti-corruption GRI 206: Anti-competitive detection processes Behavior – conduct: compliance with laws, rules and regulations; integrity of the financial system; code of GRI 419: Socioeconomic conduct and ethics; forward-looking engagement with risk topics and risk prevention Compliance – cyber security; data confidentiality and cyber security – financial stability and resilience: going concern leverage ratio (phase-in, %); common equity tier 1 capital ratio; manage risk-weighted assets within increasingly stringent risk framework; clear strategy Corporate governance – internal policies and guidelines GRI 102: General Disclosures – governance structure – strategy Financial and economics Digital innovation – innovation lab – digital transformation – digital product and service offering Operational efficiency and effectiveness – cost and process efficiency GRI 201: Economic Performance – focus on core competencies – flexibility to adapt to changing regulatory environment – outsourcing / nearshoring / offshoring – automation – location strategy – product and execution excellence Client experience – excellence – above-average performance – best services and practices Employees and workplace Compensation – compensation structure GRI 401: Employment – bonus and executive payments – reward long-term performance Diversity and inclusion – diverse work force GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity – inclusive culture GRI 406: Non-Discrimination – equal employment conditions and opportunities GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance – women in management – age diversity within teams – flexible working conditions – diverse client base Talent management – talent attraction GRI 404: Training and Education – employee training on particular skills – internal mobility – management of talent pipeline and succession planning – talent and leadership development programs – provision of apprenticeships and vocational training Working culture and environment – behaviors – flexible working times – availability of remote working and / or home office – occupational health and well-being: work-life balance; health protection; health and safety of employees 48 Material topics Sub topics GRI topics Environmental and social Climate action – commitment and strategy for the topic of climate change GRI 201 Economic Performance GRI 302: Energy – climate-related investments, financing and research GRI 305: Emissions – climate-related risk management Financial Supplement (FS) Product Portfolio – external disclosure on the topic – increasing energy efficiency and reducing our CO2 emissions – reduction of resource (energy, paper, water) consumption and increased resource efficiency Environmental and social risk – identify and manage potential negative effects on the environment and human rights FS Audit management FS Product Portfolio – standards in environmentally and socially sensitive industries and activities GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment – standards in product development, investments, financing and for supply chain GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment management decisions – responsible supply chain management Community investment – employee engagement through employee volunteering GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts – support of non-profits, charitable organizations and social enterprises (positive impact on communities) – supporting education and entrepreneurship in local communities – financial inclusion Sustainable investing – sustainable finance FS Product Portfolio FS Active Ownership – combination of societal and financial returns – sustainable investment criteria – impact investing – ESG integration – client foundation – philanthropy advisory 49 Our clients Our clients We strive to systematically incorporate the economic impacts of Sustainable investments environmental, social and governance (ESG) issues into the products and services we provide to clients. We support As of 31 December 2018, total sustainable investing (SI) assets corporate and institutional clients who want to generate positive represented USD 1,110 billion and core SI assets USD 313 environment and social impact using our corporate advisory billion, constituting 35.8% and 10.1% of UBS total invested expertise or by directing capital through our lending or assets respectively. In 2018, core SI assets increased 72%, up investment capacity. We assist private and institutional clients in from USD 182 billion in 2017. Major increases were the result of their desire to invest in accordance with their own social and growth in 'ESG integration' and 'sustainability focus' categories, environmental objectives and we are proactive in discussing up 255% and 56% respectively. It is our ambition to double the these issues with them. As a preferred partner for global penetration of core SI assets by the end of 2020, from 5.6% philanthropists, we work toward achieving the ambitious SDGs. (USD 182 billion) of UBS total invested assets at the end of Our experts and in-house foundation offer clients outstanding 2017. access to social and financial innovation and philanthropic advice, as well as tailored program design, cofunding and codevelopment opportunities. Sustainable investments1 Sustainable investing is an approach that seeks to incorporate environmental, social and/or governance For the year ended % change from considerations into investment decisions. SI strategies USD billion, except where indicated GRI2 31.12.18 31.12.17 31.12.16 31.12.17 seek to achieve one or more of the following Core SI products and mandates FS11 312.9 181.7 142.9 71.9 objectives: achieve a positive environmental or social impact, align investments with an investor’s personal Integration – sustainability focus3 FS11 20.0 12.8 5.8 55.7 environmental or social values, or improve portfolio risk and return characteristics. Integration – ESG integration4 FS11 224.5 63.2 53.6 255 Core SI are SI products that involve a strict and Impact investing5 FS11 4.7 2.8 2.1 47.9 diligent asset selection process through either Exclusions6 FS11 50.3 93 74.8 (45.9) exclusions (of companies/sectors from portfolio where the companies are not aligned to an investor's values) Third-party7 FS11 13.4 9.8 6.6 36.8 or positive selections (such as best-in-class, thematic or Norms-based screening8 FS11 797.3 951.5 815.8 (16.2) ESG integration and impact investing). Total sustainable investments FS11 1,110.2 1,133.1 958.7 (2.1) Norms-based screening includes all assets that are subject to restrictions under UBS policy on the UBS total invested assets 3,101 3,262 2,761 (4.9) prohibition of investments in companies related to SI proportion of total invested assets (%) FS11 35.8 34.7 34.6 anti-personnel mines and cluster munitions (includes all actively managed discretionary segregated 1 All figures are based on the level of knowledge as of January 2019. 2 FS stands for the performance indicators defined in the Global mandates and all actively managed retail and Reporting Initiative Financial Services Sector Supplement. 3 Strategies where sustainability is an explicit part of the investment guidelines, universe, selection, and/or investment process. Former “Integration“ sub-category refined to “Integration – sustainability focus“ subinstitutional funds). category to reflect implementation of the business divisional SI strategies. Added in 2018 are third-party products that went through a systematic GWM onboarding process. 4 Strategies that integrate environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors into fundamental financial analysis to improve risk / return. Former “Integration / RPI“ sub-category converted into “Integration – ESG integration,“ to reflect implementation of the business divisional SI strategies. Increase mainly due to Asset Management's efforts to mainstream ESG integration across active asset classes. 5 Strategies where the investment has the intention to generate measurable environmental and social impact alongside financial return. Minor restatement from previous years due to group alignment on impact investing classification. 6 Strategies that exclude companies from portfolios where they are not aligned to an investor’s values. Includes customized screening services (single or multiple exclusion criteria). Decrease mainly due to Asset Management’s ESG integration efforts (see footnote 4). 7 SI products from thirdparty providers applying a strict and diligent asset selection process including exclusions and/or different types of positive selection, such as best-in-class, thematic or ESG integration, and impact investing. Excludes third-party products that went through a systematic GWM onboarding process, now counted under “Integration – sustainability focus“ (see footnote 3). 8 Includes assets that are subject to restrictions under UBS policy on the prohibition of investments in companies related to anti-personnel mines and cluster munitions. Decrease mainly due to Asset Management’s ESG integration efforts (see footnote 4). 50 In its efforts to achieve UBS’s goal to be a leader in SI. In addition, our sustainability analytics offering enables sustainable investing (SI) for private clients, Global Wealth corporate and institutional clients to achieve full transparency by Management (GWM) provides clients with a robust set of SI screening their portfolio for industry exposure. We also support solutions in its mandate and advisory offerings as well as energy utilities in raising capital on international capital markets through impact investments opportunities. to progress their quest for renewable energy. Furthermore, we Enhanced UBS Manage offerings (tailored high-end support Swiss small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in their investment management solutions geared to UHNW clients' energy-saving efforts and transition to a low-carbon economy. investment requirements within an integrated end-to-end SMEs benefit from initiatives such as energy check-ups or leasing service) with 100% (excluding liquidity) sustainable and impact bonuses (financial contributions toward enhancing investments went live in early January 2018 and are available in environmental performance) for utility vehicles and production main Booking Centers globally. A US version of this offering was machines. launched in November 2018. These offerings are based on our Having the financial expertise, networks and access to the global Chief Investment Office’s (CIO) UBS House View and align capital required to build or support innovative financial products, to its sustainable investing strategic asset allocation. we remain committed to introducing and funding innovative Our global CIO regularly translates key societal and financial solutions. Examples include UBS Manage SI environmental concerns into investment themes as part of its (discretionary mandate), the Climate Aware Equity (TTF), the UBS Longer Term Investments series (sustainable investment themes Managed Portfolio of Sustainable Investments, and our aimed at investing in long term solutions to key environmental partnership with Align 17. and social challenges) and global Research-based Advice. In  Refer to the table Key sustainable investing products and 2018, some notable examples of this were the World Economic services in 2018 below for further information Forum white paper, the launch of Align17, a third-party digital marketplace of impact investments, as well as the development As of 31 December 2018, we also held green and social of a new development bonds index family (with Solactive). bonds in the amount of USD 723 million in our high-quality GWM also arranges platforms, roundtables and networking liquid assets portfolios under the management of Corporate events for our clients to exchange ideas and gather know-how. Center – Group Treasury. Asset Management is committed to integrating sustainability into its entire investment approach. We are convinced that Stewardship / voting rights sustainable and impact investing can add value to portfolios within the same risk / return profile. Investment strategies UBS Asset Management’s stewardship policy is our commitment customized to address particular sustainability objectives, such as to act as responsible stewards of assets held and managed on reducing carbon risk or tilting a portfolio toward specific behalf of our clients. We recognize that clients expect us to environmental, social or governance factors, in combination with ensure the alignment of our approach with their own traditional financial and risk / return expectations are increasingly investment beliefs, policies and guidelines. We have a strong popular. Over the last decade, Asset Management has interest in ensuring that companies in which we invest on behalf developed capabilities to provide customized solutions to meet of clients are successful, and through our stewardship activities the specific goals and needs of individual investors. It offers a we seek to encourage a high standard of corporate practices, wide range of SI strategies across various asset classes, develop a relationship with investee companies and an integrating sustainability and impact into its entire mainstream understanding of mutual objectives and concerns. In addition, offerings, including in active equities, fixed income, hedge where clients of Asset Management have delegated to us the funds, infrastructure and private equity, real estate and passive discretion to exercise the voting rights for shares they strategies. beneficially own, we have a fiduciary duty to vote such shares in The Investment Bank provides industry-leading thematic and the clients’ best interest and in a manner which achieves the sector research in ESG / Sustainable Investing through a widely best economic outcome for their investments. recognized team working closely with our global line-up of We maintain a comprehensive database of our meetings with outstanding expert sector teams, and UBS Evidence Lab’s companies and our voting activities. We review progress over primary research specialists. Our investment solutions include time and follow up on issues identified. In the 12-month period socially responsible and impact ETFs and Index-linked notes. We ended 31 December 2018, we gave instructions (based on Asset offer capital-raising and strategic advisory services globally to Management’s corporate governance principles) to vote on companies offering products that make a positive contribution 97,881 separate resolutions at 10,024 company meetings. to climate change mitigation and adaptation, including those in Information on such resolutions and company meetings is the solar, wind, hydro, energy efficiency, waste and biofuels, provided in the Proxy Voting Dashboard. and transport sectors. In 2018, the total deal value in equity or  Refer to www.ubs.com/am-sustainability and debt capital market services relating to these areas was USD vds.issgovernance.com/vds/#/MjU0/ for more information and 31.6 billion, and USD 24.9 billion in financial advisory services. for the Proxy Voting Dashboard. Personal & Corporate Banking clients have access to appropriate and relevant products from Asset Management and Wealth Management that follow our Group-wide approach to 51 Our clients Global philanthropy Effective philanthropy is about more than simply funding existing programs. It is also about long-term thinking. That is Philanthropy why the Foundation also supports partners in building their Building on our award-winning track record and 15 years of capacities, enabling them to reach more children more experience, we have a global team of in-house experts in place effectively and efficiently, funds research to better understand who specialize in all areas of philanthropy and strategic the issues that prevent children from thriving, and undertakes charitable giving. We support clients as they develop their own advocacy efforts with partners to promote wider adoption and philanthropic approach, from offering objective, independent scaling of the most promising programs. Building on our DNA and tailored advice, to providing them with implementation linked to a financial institution, we also believe harnessing solutions and the opportunity to attend dedicated events and private capital to complement traditional development efforts access a global network of like-minded individuals with whom to and funding streams is crucial to achieve the SDGs. That’s why collaborate and share their ideas and knowledge. the UBS Optimus Foundation has developed a social finance  Refer to www.ubs.com/philanthropy for more information vehicle aimed to attract new types of capital for social good as well making development work more efficient by paying for UBS Optimus Foundation social returns. The Foundation provides flexible capital ranging The UBS Optimus Foundation is an award-winning grant-making from convertible grants to debt and equity to social enterprises, foundation that helps our clients use their wealth to drive and innovates with new results-based financing instruments positive and sustainable social change for children. The such as impact bonds in which financial returns are obtained Foundation connects clients with inspiring entrepreneurs, new from reaching certain social targets – a return that is then technologies and proven models that help improve the lives of reinvested into further impactful development programs. children in a variety of ways. It selects and continuously monitors  Refer to www.ubs.com/optimus for more information programs that improve children’s health, education and protection and that have the potential to be transformative, scalable and sustainable. As UBS covers all of the Foundation’s costs, it guarantees that 100% of all donations go to the support programs. In 2018, the Foundation’s work helped improve the well-being of 2.8 million children globally. 52 Key sustainable investing products and services in 2018 (select)1 Initiative/ service Product Business Focus topic division Key/ activity featuresof UBS Role Key outcome of initiative in 2018 The Rise Fund Global Wealth USD 325 million raised Management (GWM) Invests in seven sectors – education, financial services, health care, infrastructure, energy, food and agriculture, and IT – with a dual mandate: generating competitive financial returns and measurable positive societal outcomes Rethink Impact Fund GWM USD 75 million raised Direct-access social impact private equity fund that invests in earlyto growth-stage, high-impact companies, primarily in the United States. The fund focuses on four themes: health care, economic opportunity, environmental sustainability, and education OrbiMed Asia Partners III GWM USD 85 million raised Growth investments in health care companies in China and India, focusing on biopharmaceuticals, medical technology and health care services Generation Partners Sustainable Solutions GWM USD 93 million raised Fund III Invests in transformative technologies providing disruptive solutions to global sustainability challenges Impact Direct Investing Offering GWM Initiated to address high demand for direct impact deals as well as UBS strong commitment to support the SDGs Complements the UBS SI Offering with direct impact investing opportunities ADM Cibus Fund GWM USD 125 million raised Aims to find investment opportunities arising out of the high-value food supply-demand imbalance faced by many developing economies, particularly in Asia and Middle East and North Africa UBS Manage SI (discretionary mandate) GWM Based on Chief Investment Office (CIO) SI (sustainable investing) Strategic Asset Allocation (SAA) (100% SI excl. liquidity allocation) AuM: USD 3.4 bn (of which USD 2.8 bn tracks new CIO SAA) UBS Managed Portfolio of SI GWM 100% aligned to CIO’s SI SAA SI-focused UBS Advice solutions GWM Expanded SI offering that includes mutual funds, exchange-traded funds, separately managed accounts, unit investment trusts, private equity and structured products ESG Portfolio Analyzer GWM Provides transparency and analysis of ESG topics in client portfolios Philanthropy Advisory GWM Over 400 ultra high net worth individuals or philanthropists attended UBS Philanthropy Forums in the Americas, Asia and Switzerland Align 17 GWM UBS-initiated third-party digital marketplace for impact investments that connects private wealth to vetted co-investment opportunities with diligence done by some of the world’s leading impact fund managers SI Strategy Fund GWM Based on CIO SI SAA and aligned to UBS Manage SI (discretionary mandate) AuM: USD 154 million UBS Long Term Themes Equity Fund GWM, Asset USD 1.96 billion held in Long Term Themes Fund and mandates UBS Long Term Themes Portfolio SMA Management (AM) Invests in companies that are solution providers for challenges such as water scarcity, emerging market infrastructure and health care, waste management and recycling Climate Aware Equity (TTF) AM Innovative rules-based equities strategy to address carbon risks and opportunities in portfolios Climate Aware Catholic Value AM Innovative rules-based equities strategy to address carbon risks for Catholic values-based indices Engagement for Impact Equities AM Strategy focusing on engagement as a key driver of impact and investment results 53 Our clients Product / service Business division Key features Multilateral Development Bank (MDB) AM Innovative product investing in Development Bank bonds to support the SDGs through high-grade fixed income exposure Sustainable Corporate Bonds AM Investment Grade USD/EUR/CHF bond portfolios with superior ESG profile Multi Asset AM Multi asset portfolio with enhanced ESG profile in asset categories where possible Voting (on behalf of clients) AM Provided instructions (based on AM’s corporate governance principles) to vote on 97,881 separate resolutions at 10,024 company meetings World Bank Index-Linked Sustainable Investment Bank (IB) Debt securities issued by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development, Development Bond / GWM with a return at maturity based on the performance of the Global Sustainability Signatories Index Provides investors access to a sustainable development bond issued by the World Bank and access to a global equity index with companies selected based on ESG ratings Green and sustainable bonds IB Nine green and sustainable bond transactions supported Global Sustainability Leaders index IB, GWM Companies selected include leaders with regard to the UN Global Compact principles Renewable energy and cleantech IB Participation in significant renewables and cleantech deals globally, for both established financing utilities clients and innovative growth-stage companies Energy check-up for SMEs Personal & Corporate UBS SME efficiency bonus for energy reduction plan with overall energy savings of (P&C) 48,000 MWh / a, equivalent to the annual energy consumption of approximately 2,500 single-family homes2 Preferred strategic partner for advisory and P&C Supports energy utilities in raising capital on international capital markets to progress financing transactions related to their quest for renewable energy Switzerland’s Energy Strategy 2050 Eight strategic transactions executed for Switzerland’s Energy Strategy 2050 UBS Optimus Foundation Corporate Center USD 66.6 million in donations raised; USD 81.8 million grants approved; two DIBs launched: the Education DIB and the Utkrisht DIB, the world’s first DIB in mother and child health care and the largest DIB (per end of 2018) 1 All information provided is as of 31 December 2018. 2 Information provided is as of 31 December 2017 54 Suitability – understand, propose, agree and implement, and review. This process is supported by a number of forms and tools at the Clients expect to be provided with products and services which disposal of the client advisors. In the first step (understand), are suitable for them. these forms and tools support the initial identification of a In nearly all countries in which we do business this client’s investor profile, including but not limited to investment expectation has been turned into a legal or regulatory objectives and risk ability. In a second step (propose), they serve requirement for banks acting as financial advisors. Most to help client advisors identify an appropriate investment jurisdictions also require the systematic assessment and strategy for a specific client portfolio. Furthermore, a number of documentation of the suitability of products (including thirdtools and platforms have been established to help client advisors party products) and services, including compliance with match a client’s investment strategies with appropriate applicable eligibility criteria and sales restrictions. These investment proposals and to support the review step. The IB and standards are reflected in local policies and procedures as well as AM have established cross-functional governance committees to the respective local control framework. The European Union’s ensure oversight for client suitability where specific criteria or Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID) and the Swiss triggers are met. Financial Service Act (FinSA) are examples of the reflection and implementation by UBS of specific standards required by a Product suitability regulator that are reflected in the applicable local control Advisory platforms and tools divide products according to their risk framework. Other locations apply similar standards as required characteristics and in doing so help clients and client advisors to by the relevant local regulators. properly assess the impact of investment products and services on a To meet both client expectations and regulatory client’s portfolio. Additional processes are in place to make product requirements, UBS has established comprehensive rules for documentation available to both client advisors and clients that assessing the suitability of products and services. These rules are contains adequate and easy-to-understand information on product designed to align the assets in the customer portfolio with the characteristics, balanced presentation of opportunities and risks, customer’s defined risk profile, and the customer is advised in target audiences as well as scenarios for which a product could be line with his/her needs (Client Suitability). In addition, the rules used. Finally, specific legal documentation is required for certain require that the product documentation contains appropriate products with specific risks (e.g., hedge funds). and easily understood information on the product characteristics, the target audience and the settings in which the Divisional approach to suitability product is used, as well as a balanced representation of the Primary ownership of suitability risk and the responsibility for opportunities and risks (Product Suitability). addressing suitability risk is owned by the business. Divisional policies in GWM and P&C, IB, and AM (EMEA) make this clear. Suitability framework UBS has accordingly pursued a divisional approach to ensure Global Wealth Management (GWM) and Personal & Corporate compliance with rapidly changing regulatory regimes, as well as Banking (P&C) have established a Suitability Policy applicable to to address particular suitability obligations and remediation of all their locations (excluding the Americas region). This sets out identified gaps relating to the divisions. the structured advisory process that governs the way UBS advises, implements agreed solutions and documents the steps Monitoring and controls taken during this process. It comprises requirements for Monitoring and controls for suitability follow a three-tiered monitoring and control activities that aim to capture tail-risks, approach. The first-level controls are conducted by origination amongst others purposes. A revised version of this Suitability under its Origination Control Framework, a set of controls Policy entered into force on 1 January 2018. The Investment designed to prevent / detect operational risks that arise in Bank (IB) and Asset Management (AM) take their guidance from origination and to ensure that residual risk corresponds to risk UBS's Suitability Principles and have implemented processes to appetite. The second-level controls are performed by ensure appropriate oversight of suitability requirements where Compliance & Operational Risk Control as Global Minimum applicable. Control Standards, which are part of the overall Compliance & In this framework, we distinguish between Client and Product Operational Risk Control Framework. These controls focus on Suitability. Client Suitability means the alignment between the both a check the checker approach, plus thematic, deep-dive Investor Profile of the client and the Products and Services which reviews. The third-level controls are exercised by Group Internal are recommended or made available to the client (or already Audit, as part of its annual audit plan. held in his/her portfolio), including risk information and disclosure. Product Suitability means a consistent set of After-sales communications standards applied by a product management unit to define for The UBS Client Experience also includes after-sales which specific investors a product may be suitable communication. This communication is, again, supported by a number of tools and platforms, including ready-to-use reporting Client suitability and presentation material. With regard to the UBS Client Experience, GWM and P&C have established a structured advisory process with four distinct steps 55 Our clients Accessibility Examples include: – Financial check-up for young people and students We aim to ensure that our facilities and services are accessible to – Saving tips for young people and students everyone regardless of disability, capability or technology. We are – Budget calculator for young people and students continuously optimizing our websites as well as e-banking and – Mortgage calculator mobile banking to fit the requirements for a AA rating for – Download center for SMEs offering a collection of our broad accessibility (WCAG 2.0). All cash machines have access key buttons range of publications, documents and resources, such as and PIN keypads that have been made usable for the visually succession planning checklists impaired. Additionally, approximately 750 ATMs are enabled with Services not limited to Swiss clients include: voice output through clients’ headphones, covering all functions – UBS Key Invest provides know-how about structured products including cash deposits. Around 100 ATMs are positioned especially – UBS Dictionary of Banking for people with restricted mobility. All of our 40 UBS free-standing – Chief Investment Office Wealth Management Research cash machines correspond to the recommendations made by – UBS Financial Education Program (for US clients only) Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines (ADAAG). UBS actively encourages people to focus on ability, not disability. Additionally, UBS runs various community programs globally that enhance financial literacy. Many of our skills-based Financial literacy volunteering activities across the key themes of education and entrepreneurship also contribute to the enhancement of The topic is mainly relevant in Switzerland, the only country financial literacy. Examples include: where we offer comprehensive financial products and services to – UBS Social Investment Toolkit retail and small / medium enterprise (SME) clients. Many of our – UBS Elevating Entrepreneurs products and services that contribute to the enhancement of financial literacy are therefore limited to our Swiss clients. 56 Our business This section includes key principles and activities that we are We recognize that we have a role to play in leading debates committed to in order to do business in a sustainable manner on important societal topics and, in collaboration with other that meets the expectations of our stakeholders. These include firms and industry bodies, in setting high standards in and our management of environment and social risks, our beyond our industry. Our key activities in 2018 in this regard are management of our firm’s environmental footprint, our set out in the following table. responsible supply chain management, and our approach to combating financial crime. Advancing sustainability in the financial sector – UBS’s key activities in 2018 Initiative Focus topic Role / activity of UBS Key outcome of initiative in 2018 Financial Stability Board Task Force Climate change Member of TCFD and aligning of UBS Update report on Climate-related Financial disclosure with TCFD recommendations Disclosures (TCFD) Alliance of CEO Climate Leaders Climate change Joint statement by UBS CEO and the alliance Continued support for the TCFD members to urge G20 governments to act on recommendations the recommendations of the TCFD UN Environment Programme Climate change Collaborates in developing approaches to help Scenario analysis and stress testing Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) banks disclose their exposures to climateapproach developed and disclosed in related risks and opportunities, as envisioned two publicly available reports by the TCFD Swiss Energy and Climate Summit Climate change Premium partner Key annual Swiss SME event on climate and energy topics Natural Capital Finance Alliance Natural capital Member of technical advisory panel of the Project completed and presented at the Advancing Environmental Management Project UNEP FI Global Roundtable in Paris Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF) Sustainable finance Member of SSF board Major events and projects to promote sustainable finance in Switzerland Association for Environmental Sustainable finance Member of VfU board Major events and projects to advance Management and Sustainability in sustainable finance in Germany, Austria Financial Institutions (VfU) and Switzerland Sustainability Accounting Standards Sustainable finance Asset Management was represented on SASB Launch of the world’s first set of industryBoard (SASB) Institutional Advisory Group and participated specific sustainability accounting in various committees on metrics standards Thun Group of Banks Human rights Convener of Group Thun Group input to OECD Responsible Business Conduct (RBC) project Organisation for Economic CoDue diligence Member of advisory group of OECD RBC Advised on development of draft OECD operation and Development (OECD) project RBC due diligence guidance in General Corporate Lending and Securities Underwriting 57 Our business Initiative Focus topic Role / activity of UBS Key outcome of initiative in 2018 Policy Outlook (POLO) platform Sustainability Co-convener of platform Regular exchange on key regulatory regulation Host and co-organizer of 2018 POLO devevelopments roundtable Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil Natural capital / palm Member of RSPO financial institutions task Launch of the updated RSPO Principles and (RSPO) oil force and on RSPO complaints panel Criteria at the RT15 Panel speaker at the 2018 RSPO Roundtable (RT 16 in Malaysia) Banking Environment Initiative (BEI) Soft commodities Member of BEI Soft Commodities Compact Bimonthly meetings Soft Commodities Compact implementation group Institute of International Finance (IIF) Sustainability Member of IIF SFWG and lead on policy and Outreach to Central Banks and Supervisors Sustainable Finance Working Group standards and regulatory engagement Network for Greening the Financial System (SFWG) regulation (NGFS) and BoE / PRA on draft climate change supervisory statement Global Impact Investing Network Sustainable finance Member of investor council Regular dialogue and event presentations Impact Management Project Sustainable finance Project partner Whitepaper on impact measurement and impact investing in a portfolio context Impact Management Principles Sustainable finance Member of sounding board Whitepaper for impact management principles, led by the World Bank’s IFC World Economic Forum: ESG Sustainable finance Member of steering committee Forthcoming proposal to harmonize ESG Ecosystem data disclosure for corporates to improve investor transparency Principles for Responsible Investment Sustainable finance Various, including members of SDG Advisory Proposals on how to measure SDGs for (PRI) Committee corporations MIT Sustainability Summit Sustainable investing Sponsor Foster SI by collaborating with academics (SI) and young people UBS 2018 European Conference Various Organizer Major panel on SI Global Research Alliance for Sustainable finance Sponsor Advance theoretical understanding of Sustainable Finance (GRAFSI) SI /ESG integration UK Investor Forum Stewardship Founding member Position stewardship at the heart of investment decision-making by facilitating dialogue, creating long-term solutions and enhancing value 58 Environment and human rights Management of environmental and social risks Our environmental management system covers the entire scope We apply an ESR framework to identify and manage potential of UBS’s products, services and in-house operations that may adverse impacts on the environment and to human rights, as give rise to an environmental impact. It is externally audited well as the associated environmental and social risks to which annually and re-certified every three years. our clients’ and our own assets are exposed to. UBS’s We view the proper management of our firm’s own comprehensive ESR standards are aligned with the principles environmental footprint and our supply chain as important proof expressed in the UBS in society constitutional document, govern points for how we do business in a sustainable manner. This is client and supplier relationships, and are enforced firm-wide. equally true of our comprehensive management of We have set ESR standards in product development, environmental and social risks (ESR). Our in-house environmental investments, financing and for supply chain management management, our responsible supply chain management decisions. As part of our due diligence process we engage with (RSCM), and our ESR standards and management are aligned clients and suppliers to better understand their processes and with the UBS in society strategy and enforced firm-wide. policies and to explore how any environmental and social risks We constantly strive to reduce our greenhouse gas (GHG) may be mitigated. We avoid transactions, products, services, emissions, our waste production, energy and paper consumption activities or suppliers if they are associated with material and water usage. environmental and social risks that cannot be properly assessed We aim to reduce negative environmental and social effects or mitigated. of the goods and services UBS purchases, and we engage with Our ESR standards include the description of controversial suppliers to promote responsible practices. Our RSCM principles activities and other areas of concern we will not engage in, or embed UBS’s ethics and values in our interactions with our we will only engage in under stringent criteria, as outlined suppliers, contractors and service partners. Since 2008, a firmbelow. In 2018, we updated our ESR policy and tightened our wide guideline has provided systematic assistance on identifying, coal-fired power standard. assessing and monitoring supplier practices in the areas of Our standard risk, compliance and operations processes human and labor rights, environmental protection and involve procedures and tools for identifying, assessing, reporting corruption. A central component of this guideline is the UBS and monitoring environmental and social risks. These include Responsible Supply Chain Standard to which our suppliers are client onboarding, transaction due diligence, product bound by contract. development and investment decision processes, supply chain We apply an ESR framework to identify and manage potential management and portfolio reviews. adverse impacts to the environment and to human rights, as These processes are geared toward identifying clients, well as the associated environmental and social risks to which transactions or suppliers potentially in breach of our standards, or our clients’ and our own assets are exposed. We are supporting otherwise subject to significant environmental and human rights the shift to a climate-smart world. Our climate strategy controversies. We use advanced data analytics on companies underlines our commitment to the SDGs on affordable and clean associated with such risks, integrated into our web-based energy and on climate action. We regularly report on the compliance tool, before we enter into a client or supplier implementation of our climate strategy and follow the TCFD relationship or transaction. This significantly enhances our ability recommendations on climate-related disclosures. to identify potential risks. In 2018, 2,114 referrals were assessed Both our firm’s approach to the environment and human by our ESR unit, of which 95 were rejected or not further pursued, rights and our commitment to our employees (as reflected in our 355 were approved with qualifications and 17 were pending. human resources processes and policies) are overseen by the  Refer to the “ESR policy framework“ in the Appendix for more Board of Directors, notably by the CCRC. Within the parameters information set by the CCRC, environmental and human rights issues at GEB-level are overseen by the Global ESR Committee. The CCRC We will not do business if We will only do business under regularly reviews the assessments and steps taken by the Global associated with severe stringent criteria in the following ESR Committee towards executing UBS’s human rights environmental or social damage to areas: commitment and climate strategy. or through the use of:  Refer to “Our climate strategy” in the “Our governance and – UNESCO world heritage sites – Soft commodities: palm oil, soy, principles“ section and to the “ESR policy framework“ in the – Wetlands, endangered species timber, fish and seafood Appendix for more information – High conservation value forests, – Power generation: coal-fired illegal logging and use of fire power plants, large dams, – Child labor, forced labor, nuclear power indigenous peoples’ rights – Extractives: hydraulic fracturing, oil sands, arctic drilling, coal mining, precious metals, diamonds 59 Our business Case studies on the management of environmental and human rights matters Environmental and social risk in trade client in Switzerland. This means we apply Panel. This is a contribution to further finance and commodity trade finance checks beyond our clients on all relevant enhance transparency and accountability counterparties in a transaction. We may of the sector and the RSPO. Why is trade finance relevant? ask additional questions to clarify the Trade finance supports about 20% of origin or the final use of the goods and What are our policy standards? world trade, playing a central role in we may approve or decline. With a fast Transactions related to soft commodities facilitating the global trade of raw moving underlying business (same day in trigger an enhanced due diligence and commodities and other goods. and out), additional in-depth due approval process. The objective of this Commercial banks support importers, diligence is limited on transactional level. process is to ascertain that operations of exporters and traders (for commodities) to It is however possible to perform clients active in the soft commodities secure or finance international enhanced due diligence during periodic business are sustainable. To that effect transactions. Trade may be exposed to Know Your Client reviews or with UBS requires companies producing palm heightened environmental and social separate deep-dive reviews in between oil, soy or timber in markets at high risk risks, especially when linked with transactions, which we conduct on a of tropical deforestation to be publicly extraction of raw commodities and / or periodic and ongoing basis. committed to achieving full certification specific projects. Depending on the type of their production, by 2020, against the of the trade, such risks may arise for the Our contribution to “zero net standards of recognized sustainability producer, the exporter and / or the deforestation” in soft commodity schemes, such as the RSPO, the importer of traded goods – as well as for supply chains Roundtable on Responsible Soy (RTRS), the bank providing the financing. and the Forest Stewardship Council (FSC). Why are soft commodities such a hot What do we do? topic? How do we execute our standards? UBS enables buyers, sellers and traders to It is estimated that more than 50% of Before doing business with any company successfully trade goods and tropical deforestation is due to the involved in soft commodity production or commodities, by guaranteeing deal production of palm oil, soy, timber and trading, our experts for environmental performance through a variety of financial beef. Deforestation and forest and social risk inquire how a company instruments. For example, in Commodity degradation can cause biodiversity to manages environmental and social Trade Finance, UBS offers structured, decline. Deforestation is, in fact, second challenges in its operations, as required short to mid-term loans that finance deals only to the energy sector as a source of by UBS’s standards for soft commodity trading metals, energy, and softglobal greenhouse gas emissions and production. Depending on the client and commodities between producers and end accounts for up to 20% of global the type of transaction that UBS is users. Recognizing the role that UBS pays emissions. Furthermore, as millions of confronted with, such as lending, trade in facilitating and growing global trade, people rely directly on forests for their finance, underwriting or advisory UBS implements its environmental and livelihoods, deforestation continues to mandates, due diligence may involve desk social risk framework in the context of cause severe societal challenges, research and interaction with the individual transactions. sometimes leading to violent conflict. companies, external experts, as well as global and local non-governmental How do we implement the ESR What is our commitment? organizations. Depending on the results, framework in trade finance, The magnitude of these impacts have led this can lead to a variety of actions, from commodity trade finance? a group of international banks, among requiring the client to certify its ESR controls are part of the standard which UBS, to endorse the Soft production or trading processes against transaction due diligence processes. Commodities Compact of the Banking the standards of relevant sustainability Based on our daily feed into the standard Environment Initiative, which seeks to schemes, to declining to do business with compliance tool, every transaction is align banking standards with consumer the client. checked against ESR. We use a risk-based goods companies that are committed to approach. This means for commodity support the transformation of soft trade finance, we focus on the originator commodity supply chains and achieve of the commodity. For trade finance, we zero net deforestation by 2020. focus on the counterparty and on projects In addition, we are a member of the that will use the goods involved, for Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil example machinery produced by our (RSPO) and also joined their Complaints 60 Case studies on the management of environmental and human rights matters Case study: Non-compliance with the What do we do? How does our ESR approach impact a standards of the RSPO Before doing business with any company particular case? involved in palm oil production or trading, UBS negotiated the commencement of a Why is palm oil such a hot topic? our experts for environmental and social relationship with a corporate client whose It is estimated that more than 50% of risk inquire how a company manages activities also included the palm oil tropical deforestation is due to the environmental and social challenges in its business. At that point the corporate production of palm oil, soy, timber and palm oil operations, as required by UBS’s entity was not a member of the RSPO, beef. Deforestation and forest standards for palm oil production. which is a requirement under the degradation can cause biodiversity to Depending on the client and the type of respective UBS standard. UBS therefore decline. Deforestation is, in fact, second transaction that UBS is confronted with, agreed to a conditional onboarding of the only to the energy sector as a source of for example lending, trade finance, corporate entity under the condition that global greenhouse gas emissions and underwriting or investment banking it adhered to the RSPO within a accounts for up to 20% of global advisory mandates, due diligence may predefined time period. After the agreed emissions. Furthermore, as millions of involve desk research and interaction with period had passed without the client people rely directly on forests, the companies, external experts, as well taking the necessary steps, UBS exited the deforestation continues to cause severe as global and local non-governmental relationship. societal problems, sometimes leading to organizations. Depending on the results, violent conflict. this can lead to a variety of actions, from requesting the client to certify its production or trading processes against the standards of the RSPO to declining to do business with the client. 61 Our business In-house environmental management Our environmental indicators (energy, waste, water, travel and paper) and related greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions data Introduction are externally verified on the basis of ISO 14064 standard. These Our environmental program has a history of more than 20 years comprehensive audits confirm that appropriate policies and and encompasses investments in sustainable real estate and processes are in place to manage environmental issues, and that efficient information technology, energy and water efficiency, they are executed in day-to-day practice. paper and waste reduction and recycling, the use of  Refer to the Appendix for both certificates environmentally friendly products, such as renewable energy or recycled paper, and business travel and employee commuting Targets reduction. To continuously improve our environmental performance, we set We manage our environmental program through an quantitative targets related to our environmental indicators environmental management system, in accordance with the ISO (energy, waste, water, travel and paper) since 2006. The current 14001 standard. In 1999, we were the first bank to obtain this quantitative objectives have 2004 or 2016 as a baseline and certification for our worldwide environmental management 2020 as target year. system. The management system covers the entire scope of UBS’s products, services and in-house operations that may give GHG emissions rise to an environmental impact. It is externally audited, on an In line with our climate strategy, which we established in 2006 annual basis with our last recertification taking place in 2017. and expanded over the past decade, we aim to reduce our GHG Additionally, we have further developed our Environmental and footprint by 75% compared to 2004 until 2020. Energy Management System in our European locations in order Our strategy to reduce GHG emissions is based on increasing to be compliant with ISO 50001. We received the first ISO energy efficiency, replacing fossil-fuel-based heating system with 50001 certification (energy management system standard) in renewable heating systems and increase the share of renewable 2017. energy. In various branches in Switzerland we replaced oil heating systems with geothermal heat pumps or district heating using heat from waste incineration plants. In 2018, we further reduced UBS’s GHG footprint by 11%, or 14% per full-time employee, year on year, a total reduction of 63% from baseline year 2004. Our Greenhouse Gas (GHG) footprint 62 Energy consumption LEED is a very well-known and widely spread standard across Energy consumption reached an all-time low in 2018. This was the globe. In the US we maximize our efforts to renovate each achieved by implementing our Group-wide real estate strategy, building after this standard. Across our global building portfolio, which includes: 13 projects achieved LEED certification in 2018. – Consolidating work space in larger and more energy-efficient We are proud to have achieved a LEED Platinum certification buildings with alternative workplace concepts, resulting in a for our global head office (in Zurich), a historic building over 100 smaller, less energy-intense real estate footprint of our years old and listed under protection. Although the renovation operations; restrictions were very complex and demanding, we were able to – Investing in energy-efficient infrastructure, such as obtaining reduce our energy consumption by 30% thanks to a strong green building certifications (Leadership in Energy and insulation of the building envelope, waste heat recovery, Environmental Design, LEED, or similar) for our flagship implementation of a sophisticated sensor system for optimal buildings and; regulation and an efficient LED lighting. Thanks to a strict – Implementing established energy reduction measures, such as environmental management concept during construction time, optimizing heating, air-conditioning and lighting controls in negative impact on air, water and noise was reduced. We were the buildings we occupy. conscious about resources, therefore 85% of the construction In 2018, we reduced our energy consumption by 12% material was recycled, local materials were used and almost compared to 2016 and 25% compared to 2012. In addition to 90% of the implemented wood is FSC-certified. Good indoor air reducing our energy consumption we also put a special focus on quality is ensured by using environmentally friendly and lowlong-term sustainability in investing in building certifications. emitting building materials. Environmental targets and performance in our operations1 Target % change Progress / GRI2 2018 2020 Baseline from baseline Achievement7 2017 2016 Total net greenhouse gas emissions (GHG footprint) in t CO2e3 305 131,960 -75% 360,5014 -63.4  147,757 165,975 Energy consumption in GWh 302 584 -5% 6615 -11.7  627 661 Share of renewable electricity 302 59.2% 100% 27.7%4 113.7  56.0% 55.6% GHG offsetting in % of business air travel emissions 305 100% 100% 04 100  100% 100% Paper consumption in kg per FTE6 301 91 -5% 1145 -20.2  95 114 Share of recycled and FSC paper 301 79.8% 90% 89.5%5 -10.8  90.8% 89.5% Waste in kg per FTE6 306 175 -5% 2065 -15.0  203 206 Waste recycling ratio 306 50.8% 60% 54.1%5 -6.2  55.0% 54.1% Water consumption in m m3 303 0.79 -5% 0.965 -17.7  0.87 0.96 Legend: CO2e = CO2 equivalents; FTE = full-time employee; GWh = giga watt hour; kWh = kilo watt hour; km = kilometer; kg = kilogram; m m3 = million cubic meter; t = tonne 1 Detailed environmental indicators are available on the internet at www.ubs.com/environment. Reporting period 2018 (1 July 2017-30 June 2018). 2 Reference to GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (see also www.globalreporting.org). 3 GHG footprint equals gross GHG emissions minus GHG reductions from renewable energy and GHG offsets (gross GHG emissions include: direct GHG emissions by UBS; indirect GHG emissions associated with the generation of imported / purchased electricity (grid average emission factor), heat or steam and other indirect GHG emissions associated with business travel, paper consumption and waste disposal). 4 Baseline year 2004 5 Baseline year 2016 6 FTEs are calculated on an average basis including contractors 7 Green: on track; Amber: improvements required 63 Our business Actions include investing in energy-efficient infrastructure: improvement on the assets resulted in savings of more than – In Taiwan we replaced the T8 lighting tubes with LED in late 1,000,000 kWh, which is around 20% of the building 2017. This lighting retrofit will be expected to save total consumption. 36,000 kWh and USD 2,800 per year. We are striving for a – In 2018, at the Lincoln Harbor campus in Weehawken / New strong reduction in energy consumption and we achieved Jersey our passenger elevators were upgraded to regenerative 11% energy reduction after the lighting retrofit in our Taipei drives, resulting in annual energy savings of 42% or 66,000 office. kWh and USD 9,300 savings annually. Other projects at this – With the help of energy audits and inspections we identify campus included an upgrade of critical electrical optimizations on technical equipment such as heating, infrastructure, LED lighting installations, new fan arrays and a cooling, ventilation and lighting. In Basel for example, chiller plant optimization project. adjustment of running time, temperature levels and Energy consumption and related greenhouse gas emissions time series 64 Renewable energy ago. Since then we have continuously built additional plants in With an aim to strengthen our commitment to limit the effects Lausanne, Geneva, Basel, London, Milano and on our data of climate change and enable the transition to a low-carbon center in Zurich. Last year, the roof of our office in South Africa economy, we joined the RE100 initiative in September 2015. was covered with photovoltaic panels. This initiative urges the world’s most influential companies to In 2018, 59% of UBS’s worldwide electricity consumption use only renewable electricity. By 2020, we will source 100% of was sourced from renewable energy. We have already been our electricity from renewable sources, which will contribute to sourcing electricity from 100% renewable sources in Switzerland reduce our greenhouse gas footprint by 75% compared to 2004 since 2007, in Germany since 2012, in the UK, Luxembourg and level. Austria since 2016 (mainly hydropower and wind power). In Where possible we try to produce our own renewable 2018, Monaco and our key locations in the US started sourcing electricity on buildings we occupy. We installed our first renewable energy. photovoltaic plant in Southern Switzerland more than 20 years Share of renewable electricity time series Business travel and offsetting CO2 emissions Paper To address our objectives to reduce our CO2 emissions in Overall, our total paper consumption is at an all-time low. Of all business travel, we encourage our employees to choose our paper consumption, 34% is copier or printer paper, 35% is alternatives to air travel, such as high-speed rail, and to use used for client output, 20% are publications and the rest are video-conferencing technology instead of travelling. Since 2007, various paper products. we have been offsetting all our CO2 emissions from business air Our ongoing efforts to push electronic output for UBS travel. Projects we selected meet the requirements of the Gold Switzerland AG have driven a substantial reduction of paper use. Standard for voluntary emissions reductions. Over the past few years, multiple initiatives aimed to make We also support the shift to electric mobility and expanded digital output the default channel for our clients. This change our e-charging stations in Switzerland in 2018. This gives our has been well received and allowed us to cut pages printed from employees and clients the opportunity to charge their electric or 169 million in 2017 to 136 million in 2018 – a reduction of more hybrid cars with renewable energy. than 15%. This trend is set to continue, with further cuts of In Q3 2018, the Americas region partnered with United Parcel 20 million pages expected next year, bringing total output down Service (UPS) to implement a carbon-neutral agreement. to around 30% below 2017 volumes. Through the agreement, UBS will offset 100% of its scope three Globally, around 80% of all paper consumption was from carbon dioxide emissions resulting from business-related mail recycled or FSC-certified sources and we have been sourcing and deliveries in the United States. paper from sustainable sources since 2006. 65 Our business Paper consumption time series Waste and recycling in the country with a Zero Plastic Concept. This means all plastic Globally, UBS has been working to implement a variety of has been replaced by glass recipients (e.g., for muesli, fruit, strategies in order to reduce waste and increase the amount of salads, smoothies). Take-away lunches are available in returnable products reused and recycled. In Lincoln Harbor, the continued green boxes. use of digesters has allowed us to divert 107,000 kilograms of In Hong Kong we rolled out “Zero Plastic” initiatives to food waste from landfill annually, while eliminating the cost and reduce the plastic consumption in our office operation. We GHG emissions associated with transporting the waste. In an removed all plastic bottles from the vending machine. All drinks office building in Connecticut, the removal of liners in deskside served are cans or glass bottles only. We use reusable cutlery in trash bins is expected to remove 28,000 plastic bags from the most events and we also offer reusable cutlery in pantries to waste stream per year. The continued implementation of binless avoid taking plastic cutlery from take-away. Also, plastic straws offices in many larger locations has helped us reduce the waste were removed and paper straws will be served only when per employee by 15% since 2016. In 2018, 51% of waste requested. Total plastic bottle waste was reduced by 20% after produced in UBS locations was recycled. the implementation of these initiatives. Plastic pollution has become a global topic because of its As a result of a waste program assessment at our Panama negative impact on the environment. We are actively working City office, management removed all single-use paper and around the globe to find appropriate solutions for all kind of plastic cups, eliminating a waste stream and thereby reducing offices. In Luxembourg, we are running the first staff restaurant the site’s carbon footprint. Waste generation time series 66 Water emissions have been omitted from our reporting as they are not As one of the world’s most valuable goods, water has been on a material source of greenhouse gases for the business. There the UBS agenda since the beginning of our environmental are no GHG sources contributing to perfluorocarbons (PFCs) and program. In our building projects we implement water-saving sulphurhexafluoride (SF6) emissions. fittings and other measures to reduce consumption, e.g., in our The GHG emissions associated with the activities have been headquarter in Zurich we collect rainwater for the irrigation of determined on the basis of measured or estimated energy and our plants. We reduced our water consumption by 18%, fuel use, multiplied by relevant GHG emission factors. compared to 2016. Where possible fuel or energy use is based on direct measurement, purchase invoices or actual mileage data, in other Reporting standards and methodologies cases it has been necessary to make estimations. UBS’s environmental and GHG reporting is intended to comply Published national conversion factors and Global Warming with the voluntary reporting requirements of the GRI Standards. Potentials (GWPs) were used to calculate emissions from Our GHG reporting has been prepared in accordance with the key operations. In the absence of any such national data, “UK concepts and requirements stated by the International Government GHG Conversion Factors for Company Reporting” Organization for Standardization in ISO 14064-1 (Specification have been used for the calculation of GHG emissions. with guidance at the organization level for quantification and The GHG base year was set as 2004 (July 2003 to June 2004) reporting of greenhouse gas emissions and removals) and by as this was the first year UBS reported detailed GHG emissions World Business Council for Sustainable Development / World verified according to ISO 14064. The 2004 GHG footprint Resources Institute in the Greenhouse Gas Protocol, Corporate baseline is 360,502 tons and consists of 41,858 tons scope 1, Accounting and Reporting Standard. 219,727 tons net scope 2, and 98,918 tons scope 3 emissions. Our firm’s environmental and GHG reporting has been The appropriateness of the base year is reviewed on an annual prepared based on a reporting year of 1 July to 30 June. This is basis. In 2006, we first set global quantitative objectives for different from UBS’s financial reporting period (1 January to energy, paper, waste and water until 2009. They were revised 31 December). and extended three times so far and covered the periods 2009 All GHG emission figures are in tons of carbon dioxide until 2012 and 2012 until 2016. The current quantitative equivalents (CO2e) and include three of the six greenhouse gases objectives have 2016 as a baseline and 2020 as target year. covered by the Kyoto Protocol – carbon dioxide (CO2), methane (CH4), and Nitrous oxide (N2O). Hydrofluorocarbons (HFCs) 67 Our business Environmental indicators1 20182 20172 20162 Absolute Absolute Absolute GRI3 normalized4 Data quality5 Trend6 normalized4 normalized4 Total direct and intermediate energy consumption7 302 584 GWh ***  627 GWh 661 GWh Total direct energy consumption8 302 60 GWh ***  68 GWh 73 GWh natural gas 88.0% ***  84.8% 86.9% heating oil 7.9% ***  10.4% 8.8% fuels (petrol, diesel, gas) 3.7% ***  4.4% 3.9% renewable energy (solar power, etc.) 0.4% ***  0.4% 0.4% Total intermediate energy purchased9 302 524 GWh ***  559 GWh 588 GWh electricity 457 GWh ***  491 GWh 527 GWh electricity from gas-fired power stations 13.9% ***  15.2% 15.9% electricity from oil-fired power stations 2.3% ***  2.5% 2.6% electricity from coal-fired power stations 16.5% ***  16.7% 15.9% electricity from nuclear power stations 8.2% ***  9.6% 10.0% electricity from hydroelectric power stations 35.6% ***  34.6% 33.5% electricity from other renewable resources 23.5% ***  21.4% 22.0% heat (e.g., district heating) 67 GWh **  68 GWh 61 GWh Share of electricity from renewable sources 302 59% ***  56% 56% Total business travel 532 m Pkm ***  579 m Pkm 694 m Pkm rail travel10 2.2% ***  1.9% 1.8% road travel10 1.0% ***  1.6% 1.4% air travel 96.8% ***  96.4% 96.8% Number of flights (segments) 246,107 ***  250,743 296,234 Total paper consumption 301 5,852 t ***  5,866 t 7,077 t post-consumer recycled 14.1% ***  14.9% 14.1% new fibers FSC11 65.7% ***  75.9% 75.5% new fibers ECF + TCF11 20.2% ***  9.2% 10.3% new fibers chlorine-bleached 0.04% **  0.07% 0.13% Total waste 306 11,252 t ***  12,543 t 12,858 t valuable materials separated and recycled 50.8% ***  55.0% 54.1% incinerated 16.0% ***  16.9% 18.6% landfilled 33.2% **  28.1% 27.4% Total water consumption 303 0.79 m m3 **  0.87 m m3 0.96 m m3 Greenhouse Gas (GHG) Emissions in CO2e 305 Direct GHG emissions (Scope 1)12 11,522 t ***  13,305 t 14,154 t Gross indirect GHG emissions (Gross Scope 2)12 150,957 t ***  161,349 t 185,026 t Gross other indirect GHG emissions (Gross Scope 3)12 71,389 t ***  76,763 t 91,276 t Total Gross GHG Emissions 233,868 t ***  251,417 t 290,456 t GHG reductions from renewable energy13 51,742 t ***  49,247 t 57,425 t CO2e offsets (business air travel)14 50,166 t ***  54,412 t 67,056 t Total Net GHG Emissions (GHG Footprint)15 131,960 t ***  147,757 t 165,975 t Legend: GWh = giga watt hour; Pkm = person kilometer; t = ton; m3 = cubic meter; m = million; CO2e = CO2 equivalents 1 All figures are based on the level of knowledge as of January 2019. 2 Reporting period: 2018 (1 July 2017 – 30 June 2018), 2017 (1 July 2016 – 30 June 2017), 2016 (1 July 2015 – 30 June 2016) 3 Reference to GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards (see also www.globalreporting.org). 4 Non-significant discrepancies from 100% are possible due to roundings. 5 Specifies the estimated reliability of the aggregated data and corresponds approximately to the following uncertainty (confidence level 95%): up to 5% – ***, up to 15% – **, up to 30% – *. Uncertainty is the likely difference between a reported value and a real value. 6 Trend: at a *** /**/ * data quality, the respective trend is stable () if the variance equals 5/10/15%, low decreasing/increasing (,) if it equals 10 /20/30% and decreasing/increasing if the variance is bigger than 10/20/30% (,). 7 Refers to energy consumed within the operational boundaries of UBS. 8 Refers to primary energy purchased that is consumed within the operational boundaries of UBS (oil, gas, fuels). 9 Refers to energy purchased that is produced by converting primary energy and consumed within the operational boundaries of UBS (electricity and district heating). 10 Rail and road travel: Switzerland only. 11 Paper produced from new fibers. FSC stands for Forest Stewardship Council, ECF for Elementary Chlorine Free and TCF for Totally Chlorine Free. 12 Refers to ISO 14064 and the “GHG (greenhouse gas) protocol initiative” (www.ghgprotocol.org), the international standards for GHG reporting: scope 1 accounts for direct GHG emissions by UBS; gross scope 2 accounts for indirect GHG emissions associated with the generation of imported/purchased electricity (grid average emission factor), heat or steam; gross scope 3 accounts for other indirect GHG emissions associated with business travel, paper consumption and waste disposal. 13 GHG savings by consuming electricity from renewable sources 14 Offsets from third-party GHG reduction projects measured in CO2 equivalents (CO2e). These offsets neutralize GHG emission from our business air travel. 15 GHG footprint equals gross GHG emissions minus GHG reductions from renewable energy and CO2e offsets. 68 Environmental indicators per full time employee Unit 2018 Trend 2017 2016 Direct and intermediate energy kWh / FTE 9,080  10,151 10,604 Business travel Pkm / FTE 8,272  9,377 11,141 Paper consumption kg / FTE 91  95 114 Waste kg / FTE 175  203 206 Water consumption m3 / FTE 12.3  14 15.3 CO2 footprint t / FTE 2.05  2.39 2.66 Legend: FTE = full-time employee; kWh = kilo watt hour; Pkm = person kilometer; kg = kilogram; m3 = cubic meter; t = ton Note: FTEs are calculated on an average basis including FTEs that were employed through third parties on short term contracts. 69 Our business Responsible supply chain management Identifying, assessing and monitoring high-impact suppliers The RSCM framework includes an impact assessment of newly We embed environmental and social standards into our sourcing sourced goods and services, which takes into account potential and procurement activities. Our responsible supply chain negative environmental and social impacts along the lifecycle of management (RSCM) framework is based on identifying, a product or a service, and all purchased goods and services are assessing and monitoring supplier practices in the areas of categorized accordingly. human and labor rights, the environment, health and safety and We identify high-impact suppliers when establishing new anti-corruption, in line with our commitment to the UN Global contracts or renewals based on the suppliers’ provision of goods Compact and the UBS in society constitutional document. and services that have either a substantial environmental and In 2018, remediation measures were requested for 60 social impact or are sourced in markets with potentially high suppliers that provide UBS with goods and services with high social risks. Such high-impact suppliers are requested to fulfill risk. Improving their adherence to UBS’s RSCM standards has a further requirements towards product and service provision and potentially high positive impact. are assessed against the UBS Responsible Supply Chain Standard. If this assessment reveals any non-compliance with Committing suppliers to comply with our standards our standard, UBS defines and agrees, together with the We aim to reduce negative environmental and social effects of supplier, on specific improvement measures, which we monitor. the goods and services UBS purchases and we engage with Lack of improvement may lead to the termination of the supplier suppliers to promote responsible practices. A firm-wide RSCM relationship. We also regularly screen active suppliers as part of guideline has provided systematic assistance on identifying, our environmental and social risk control processes. assessing and monitoring supplier practices in the areas of Suppliers of potentially high-impact goods or services are human and labor rights, the environmental protection and requested to conduct a self-assessment on their responsible corruption. A central component of this guideline is the UBS management practices and to provide corresponding evidence. Responsible Supply Chain Standard to which our direct suppliers Actual and potential negative impacts that are considered in the are bound by contract. The standard defines our expectations impact assessment of purchased goods and services include: towards suppliers and their subcontractors regarding legal – Adverse environmental impacts due to inefficient use of compliance, environmental protection, avoidance of child and resources (e.g., water, energy, biomass) and emissions during forced labor, non-discrimination, remuneration, hours of work, the lifecycle of the product freedom of association, humane treatment, health and safety – Hazardous substances, emissions, pollutants and limited and anti-corruption issues and a whistleblowing mechanism to recyclability of products, adversely affecting people and the support and protect employees. environment  Refer to the “Our documents” page on www.ubs.com/insociety – Unfair employment practices, such as low wages, excessive to download the Responsible Supply Chain Standard in various overtime, absence of occupational health and safety languages measures – Risks for consumer health and safety – Procurement and use of materials with a strongly negative environmental and / or social impact – Insufficient management of subcontractors regarding sustainability aspects 70 In 2018, 224 suppliers were classified as suppliers that at its annual forum and regional reach-out meetings focused on provide UBS with goods or services with potentially high anti-money laundering (AML) topics and works on guidance impacts, both newly sourced as well as ongoing engagements, papers in key areas of AML. which are regularly re-assessed. 27% of these suppliers were Together with the other members of the Wolfsberg Group considered as in need of improving their management practices. we work closely with the Financial Action Task Force (FATF), an Specific remediation actions were agreed with all of them and inter-governmental body that helps develop national and the implementation progress has been closely monitored. international policies on preventing money laundering and In 2018, no UBS supplier relationship was terminated as a terrorist financing through consultation with the private sector. result of RSCM assessments. This can partly be related to the UBS adopts the global FATF standards with respect to record fact that we assess the supplier’s potential risks before entering keeping. into a contract with them. Monitoring Combating financial crime We apply strict Know Your Client rules and use advanced technology to help identifying suspicious transaction patterns We take a rigorous risk-based approach in our commitment to and compliance risk issues (for an example of a pertinent data combating money laundering, corruption and terrorist financing source helping us with the latter, see and we have implemented policies, procedures and internal http://factiva.com/en/cp/collateral/files/djwl_brochure_en.pdf). controls that are designed to comply with such laws and We continue to invest heavily in our detection capabilities and regulations. We have developed extensive policies intended to core systems as part of our financial crime prevention program. prevent, detect and report money laundering, corruption and Our framework requires any suspicious activities to be terrorist financing. These policies seek to protect the firm and promptly escalated to independent control units and external our reputation from those who may be intending to use UBS to authorities, as required by law. UBS’s monitoring framework legitimize illicit assets. covers risk-based transaction monitoring, real-time screening We annually assess the money laundering, bribery and and retroactive searches. The UBS AML monitoring framework is corruption, and sanctions risks associated with all our business established in accordance with the Monitoring Screening and operations against our control framework, and take actions to Searching Wolfsberg Statement and is reviewed on an annual further mitigate that risk. basis. We are a founding member of the Wolfsberg Group, an  Refer to the “Our governance and principles” section for association of global banks that aims to develop financial information on combating financial crime governance and services industry standards for policies on preventing money policies laundering and terrorist financing, and on Know Your Client principles. The Wolfsberg Group brings together banks globally 71 Our business Ratings and recognitions and Capital Markets Industry of the Dow Jones Sustainability Index (DJSI), the most widely recognized corporate sustainability In 2018, UBS continued to gain industry recognition for its rating. MSCI ESG Research upgraded UBS for the second year commitment to improving performance under ESG criteria and running, to an AA rating, while Sustainalytics ranked UBS as an for its efforts in offering clients world-class expertise and industry leader. sustainable products. For the fourth year running, UBS was named the best performer in the Diversified Financial Services Ratings and recognitions1 Ratings and recognitions Scope UBS result Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) Environmental, social and governance (ESG) Industry leader performance Index member of DJSI World and DJSI Europe CDP Climate change Climate A List Sustainalytics ESG performance Leader score within our industry 96th percentile ranking MSCI ESG performance AA rating Top three among primary peer group2 ISS-oekom ESG performance Corporate responsibility prime status FTSE4Good Index ESG performance Index member Euromoney Private Banking Survey 2018 Philanthropic advice Winner Euromoney Private Banking Global SRI / Social impact investing Winner Award 2018 PWM/The Banker Global Private Banking Sustainable and impact investing Winner Awards 2018 GRESB Real Estate, Debt and Sustainability performance of real asset portfolios Submission of 21 of REPM’s (Real Estate & Private Infrastructure assessments worldwide Markets) flagship funds (across real estate equity, real estate debt and infrastructure globally), representing 96% of REPM’s direct pooled assets under management. Seven real estate funds and two infrastructure funds achieved 5-star status, the highest recognition available. Principles for Responsible Investment Strategy and governance module A+ grade (PRI) Assessment Report 2018 Italian SRI Awards 2018 SRI Best SRI ETF 2018 for MSCI EMU Socially Responsible UCITS ETF 72 Ratings and recognitions (continued) Ratings and recognitions Scope UBS result United States of America Chamber of Community investment Finalist Commerce Foundation Best Economic Empowerment Program Award Corporate Philanthropy Award (Japan Community investment Winner Philanthropy Association) Top NatWest WISE100 women Community investment Inclusion in list of Sarah Payne (Community Affairs EMEA) Global Good Awards Community investment Silver Award in the Best Education Project category for UBS’s 10 year partnership with The Bridge Academy Charity Times Awards (UK) Community investment Winner – Best Social Investment Initiative for Stepping Stones fund Global Donors Forum Community investment Winner – Legacy of Philanthropy Award for flagship partnership with The Bridge Academy ABSL Diamonds Gala (Poland) Community investment Best CSR Program in 2018 World’s Most Attractive Employers Human resources Top 50 (Universum) Working Mums (UK) Diversity and inclusion Best for Returners Award for UBS Career Comeback Program Bloomberg Gender-Equality Index Diversity and inclusion Index member, 4th consecutive year eFinancialCareers Human resources 8th for Global Ideal Employers, 6th for Global Female Ideal Employers, 6th for Global Banking Ideal Employers, 5th for APAC Ideal Employers, 6th for Europe Ideal Employers 1 All information provided is as of 31 December 2018. 2 As defined in the UBS Compensation Report 2018 73 Our business External commitments and memberships Environment & climate – CDP (founding signatory in 2002) Corporate responsibility & sustainability – UNEP FI working group on TCFD recommendations (founding – UN Environment Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI – member of working group in 2017) member since 1992) – Banking Environment Initiative’s and Consumer Goods – Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI – Asset Forum’s Soft Commodities Compact (member since 2013) Management signatory since 2009) – Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO – member since – Swiss Sustainable Finance (SSF – member since 2015) 2012) – UN Global Compact (signatory since 2000) – Zurich Energy Model (founding member in 1987) – Global Compact Network Switzerland (member since 2011) – Swiss Energy and Climate Summit (Premium Partner since – Global Impact Investing Network (GIIN – member since 2011) 2013) – Sustainable Finance Geneva (member since 2012) – RE100 (member since 2015) – Association for Environmental Management and Sustainability in Financial Institutions (VfU – member since 1996) Transparency & reporting – Swiss Better Gold Association (member since 2014) – Global Reporting Initiative (user of GRI reporting framework – Business in the Community (co-founding member in 1988) since reporting year 2008) – Institute of Business Ethics (IBE – subscriber since 1987) – SASB (Sustainability Accounting Standards Board, member of – Conference Board (CR&S Council – member since 2014) board of directors since 2013) – USSIF (member since 2015) – ISO 14001 certified Environmental Management System – CSFI (member since 2015) (since 1999) – ISO 50001 certified Energy Management System (since 2017) Human rights – ISO 14064-certified Greenhouse gases (since 2004) – Thun Group of Banks (founding participant in 2011 and convener) Other – University of Zurich Competence Center for Human Rights – Wolfsberg Group (founding member in 2000) (UZHR – member of advisory board since 2010) – European Venture Philanthropy Association (EVPA – member – Swiss Center of Expertise in Human Rights (SCHR – member since 2007) of advisory board since 2010) – Global Apprenticeship Network (GAN – member since 2013) – European Bankers Alliance (member since 2015) 74 Our employees Our employees’ skills, experience and commitment are key to We aim to be an employer of choice, with our values delivering on our business strategy. Our HR strategy therefore embedded in all of our people management practices. We offer seeks to hire, develop and engage employees at all levels who competitive benefits to all employees, which include insurance, have the diverse backgrounds and capabilities to advise our pension, retirement and personal leave, aligned with local clients, develop new products, manage risk and adapt to market practices. These benefits often go beyond legal evolving regulations. We invest in our employees and promote requirements or market practice, and we regularly review them initiatives intended to build engagement and a cohesive, to ensure they meet our employees’ needs. These benefits often collaborative culture. go beyond legal requirements or market practice, and we Having a strong culture is vital to our sustained success. In regularly review them to confirm that they meet our employees’ 2013, we introduced the three keys to success – our Pillars, needs. For example, our Family Care Leave policy in the US and Principles and Behaviors. They help us achieve our vision and Puerto Rico offers employees four paid weeks of leave per year execute our strategy, underpinning how we work together and to care for a relative with a serious health condition. Two years influencing everything we do. Since then, we have continuously ago, we also increased our paternity leave options in focused on embedding our core values more deeply into the Switzerland. Beyond their current 10-day paid leave, new fathers identity of the firm. in Switzerland can either take up to four weeks of unpaid leave Our ongoing success in increasing diversity and inclusion or reduce their workload to 80% for up to six months. Eligible across the firm is part of our culture. Workforce diversity is a employees in the UK can request Shared Parental Leave, an business imperative for us, because, in our experience, teams initiative that adds flexibility and equality to the traditional setwith diversity in gender, race, age, ethnicity, education, up of maternity leave. background, sexual orientation and other aspects better At UBS, all new parents can take paid time off after the birth understand and relate to our equally diverse clients’ needs. or adoption of a child. Our parental leave policies meet the legal Likewise, diversity of thought, opinion and experience helps us standards in all locations and exceed them in most. We make better decisions and drives innovation, while an inclusive also support flexible working arrangements, including work environment attracts high-quality people and makes the telecommuting, homeworking, part-time roles, job sharing and firm a better place to work. Our HR policies and procedures partial retirement. underscore our commitment to a diverse and inclusive workplace, with equal opportunities for all employees. 75 Our employees A wide range of resources are available to help employees Our workforce at a glance1 navigate work-life issues and personal challenges. Assistance programs in every region offer support and counseling for As of 31 December 2018, we had 66,888 employees (full-time challenges such as illness, conflict, bereavement, psychological equivalents/FTEs), 5,635 FTEs more than in 2017. This included health and elderly care. We offer redeployment and Swiss apprentices on three-year limited contracts who received outplacement initiatives in every region to help employees find equivalent benefits to permanent employees. An additional new roles, and we have clear policies and processes for handling 2,519 FTEs were employed through third parties on short-term redundancies. As an example, when job losses occur in the Swiss contracts to fill positions on an interim basis. labor market due to restructuring, we offer affected employees – Also, a total of 26,328 external staff (by Physical Active access to our COACH process. This process supports employees Count/PAC) were active at the end of 2018, primarily in in finding a new position in the Swiss labor market, internally or technology, operations and premises-related roles. Not all externally. would have been onsite at any one time. Our Code of Conduct and Ethics is the basis for all HR – Our UBS-BSC employee population grew by 3,115 in 2018 policies, guidelines and procedures. It includes a commitment to through hiring or insourcing. the health and safety of employees and external staff. – Switzerland is our largest cross-border importer of employees from other countries; Germany is our largest cross-border The UBS workforce in 2018 exporter. – 1,335 employees changed business divisions in 2018; 554 UBS reports in depth on its global workforce to enable a broad changed regions. range of stakeholders to form a detailed picture of its philosophy and priorities as a high-quality employer and corporate citizen. UBS employees 2018 – by the numbers Our reporting covers the key statistics relevant to fulland partTo give the most accurate view of our global and diverse time employees at all career stages, as well as basic data about workforce, HR reporting considers a person (working full time or external staff who together rely on us to provide a safe, part time) as one headcount. This accounts for the total UBS respectful, collaborative workplace. employee number of 68,338 as of 31 December 2018 (versus 62,558 as of 31 December 2017). These numbers exclude staff from UBS Card Center, Hotel Seepark Thun, Wolfsberg and also the Widder Hotel (which was sold in mid-2018). The following tables are all reported on this basis, unless otherwise specified. The percentages in the tables may not total 100 due to rounding.  Refer to “Employees” in the “Our strategy, business model and environment“ section for more information 1 All data was calculated on/as of 31 December 2018, unless otherwise noted. 76 UBS employees: full-time and part-time employees Employees: full time / part time 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Number % Number % Male Full Time 40,298 96% 36,781 96% Part Time 1,475 4% 1,380 4% Total 41,773 100% 38,161 100% Female Full Time 22,709 85% 20,650 85% Part Time 3,856 15% 3,747 15% Total 26,565 100% 24,397 100% Grand Total 68,338 62,558 UBS employees: permanent and “limited employment period” employees (by gender and by region) Employees: employment term / region 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Number % Number % Americas Permanent 21,563 100% 21,032 100% Limited Term 0 0% 0 0% Total 21,563 100% 21,032 100% APAC Permanent 12,095 100% 8,987 99% Limited Term 38 0% 58 1% Total 12,133 100% 9,045 100% EMEA Permanent 12,960 100% 11,433 100% Limited Term 0 0% 1 0% Total 12,960 100% 11,434 100% Switzerland Permanent 20,466 94% 19,750 94% Limited Term 1,216 6% 1,297 6% Total 21,682 100% 21,047 100% Grand Total 68,338 62,558 Employees: employment term / gender 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Number Number Male Permanent 41,052 98% 37,372 98% Limited Term 721 2% 789 2% Total 41,773 100% 38,161 100% Female Permanent 26,032 98% 23,830 98% Limited Term 533 2% 567 2% Total 26,565 100% 24,397 100% Grand Total 68,338 62,558 77 Our employees UBS employees: external hires External hires by age group 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Number % Number % Under 30 5,722 43% 4,469 45% Between 30 and 50 6,928 52% 4,820 49% Over 50 599 5% 592 6% Grand Total 13,249 100% 9,881 100% External hires by gender 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Number % Number % Male 8,154 62% 5,748 58% Female 5,095 38% 4,133 42% Grand Total 13,249 100% 9,881 100% External hires by region 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Number % Number % Americas 2,959 22% 2,601 26% APAC 4,207 32% 2,746 28% EMEA 3,062 23% 2,184 22% Switzerland 3,021 23% 2,350 24% Grand Total 13,249 100% 9,881 100% 78 UBS employees: employee turnover Turnover by age group 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 % % Under 30 18% 19% Between 30 and 50 11% 12% Over 50 9% 10% Grand Total 12% 13% Turnover by gender 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 % % Male 12% 13% Female 12% 13% Grand Total 12% 13% Turnover by region 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 % % Americas 11% 11% APAC 14% 16% EMEA 13% 16% Switzerland 11% 12% Grand Total 12% 13% Note: The turnover rate is calculated by dividing the number of employees (in FTE) who left by the average number of employees (in FTE) over the full year period. UBS employees: age group Employees by age group 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 % % Under 30 20% 19% Between 30 and 50 59% 59% Over 50 21% 22% Grand Total 100% 100% 79 Our employees UBS employees: employee category (rank group) Distribution by employee category and gender 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Number % Number % Officers (Director and above) Male 18,514 75% 17,986 76% Female 6,078 25% 5,651 24% Total 24,592 100% 23,637 100% Officers (other officers) Male 15,465 61% 13,046 60% Female 10,059 39% 8,716 40% Total 25,524 100% 21,762 100% Employee rank Male 7,794 43% 7,129 42% Female 10,428 57% 10,030 58% Total 18,222 100% 17,159 100% Grand Total 68,338 62,558 Distribution by employee category and age group 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Number % Number % Officers (Director and above) Under 30 126 1% 124 1% Between 30 and 50 16,774 68% 16,272 69% Over 50 7,692 31% 7,241 31% Total 24,592 100% 23,637 100% Officers (other officers) Under 30 3,951 15% 3,276 15% Between 30 and 50 17,507 69% 14,602 67% Over 50 4,066 16% 3,884 18% Total 25,524 100% 21,762 100% Employee rank Under 30 9,253 51% 8,280 48% Between 30 and 50 6,231 34% 6,104 36% Over 50 2,738 15% 2,775 16% Total 18,222 100% 17,159 100% Grand Total 68,338 62,558 80 UBS employees: average training days (gender) Training by gender Average training days 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Female 1.83 2.34 Male 1.71 2.32 Grand Total 1.76 2.33 UBS employees: average training days (rank group) Training by rank group Average training days 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 Officers (Director and above) 1.88 2.64 Officers (other officers) 1.61 1.91 Employee rank 1.80 2.44 Grand Total 1.76 2.33 Note: In 2018, our UBS University team revamped its offering to better meet employee needs. New learning activities organized in a “skim, swim, dive“ concept allow employees to choose the depth of learning to meet their voluntary learning needs. We also improved the efficiency of mandatory trainings, reducing their duration as a result. These two initiatives led to a reduction in average training days. UBS employees: parental leave taken Parental leave taken (by gender) 2018 2017 Male 2,196 1,907 Female 2,951 2,901 Total 5,147 4,808 All employees are entitled to take parental leave as indicated in their local HR policies. This table shows parental leave as recorded in the UBS HRi system; data aggregation is subject to limitations such as the disparate definitions and permutations of parental leave across the firm and the various leave and absence tools used in the 50+ countries in which we operate. 81 Our employees Sustainability-related training and raising awareness UBS in society UBS promotes employees’ understanding of the goals and Overview actions of UBS in society through a wide range of training Throughout the year, we continued training and raising the and awareness-raising activities, as well as performance awareness of employees, including with respect to embracing management. For example, in 2018, our program on sustainable our Code of Conduct and Ethics (the Code). All employees have investing was delivered to over 6,000 employees in our asset to confirm annually that they have read UBS’s key documents and wealth management businesses. In addition, employee and policies, including the Code. volunteering activities across all regions help raise awareness of We actively engage in internal and external education and UBS in society and our sustainability goals. awareness raising on corporate responsibility and sustainability General information is published on our intranet and on our topics and issues. Through induction, education and broader UBS in society internet site. awareness-raising activities, we ensure that our employees  Refer to the Appendix for the UBS in society management understand their responsibilities in complying with our policies indicators (including training numbers) and the importance of our societal commitments. Combating financial crime Employees are required to undergo regular refresher training in issues relating to anti-money laundering, sanctions compliance and anti-corruption. This includes online training, awareness campaigns and seminars. Web-based training modules are regularly refreshed to address compliance issues, including anti-corruption standards. Employees in specific areas also receive targeted training on client-related corruption, including the bank’s own corruption risks in relation to intermediaries, gifts and entertainment, or when major new developments require additional training.  Refer to “Combating financial crime” in the “Our business“ section for more information on our anti-money laundering and anti-corruption activities 82 Our communities Overview Our contributions in 2018 At UBS we are committed to addressing and overcoming Our Community Affairs framework is global in scope and disadvantage within our local communities. Our Community delivers both community and business impact in each of the Affairs programs enable us to make a lasting impact by helping regions in which we operate. The globally mandated strategy is us achieve this commitment. Through successful and sustainable flexible in nature, and regional execution of the strategy ensures partnerships with non-profit organizations and social enterwe are effectively aligning our programs to address local prises, we make long-term investments into education and community issues and support business priorities. The impact of entrepreneurship. We provide strategic financial commitments our Community Affairs program is driven primarily by both and focused employee volunteering to drive change. financial donations and hours volunteered by our employees We believe every employee plays a role in ensuring a healthy (with a particular focus on skills-based volunteering). and thriving future for our communities. That’s why UBS UBS uses a global framework, based on the London employees are provided two days annual paid leave to volunteer. Benchmarking Group’s (LBG) model, for measuring and Our focus on skills-based volunteering ensures that we are reporting on our Community Affairs programs and investments. addressing issues within society that hinder sustainable growth Use of the standardized model across our global strategy and development. ensures that we are able to effectively focus our approach.  Refer to www.ubs.com/insociety for more information 2018 in numbers 83 Our communities – Cash – direct cash contributions from the firm, including – Community investment – long-term strategic involvement support through its affiliated foundations in Switzerland and in community partnerships in the areas of education and the UBS Anniversary Education Initiative and contributions to entrepreneurship. 90% of UBS’s Community Affairs grants the UBS Optimus Foundation1 were made in these areas. – Time – the cost to UBS of the time that employees spend on – Commercial initiative – activities in the community, to community programs during working hours. This is calculated support directly the success of the company, promoting its by multiplying the number of volunteer hours during working corporate brand identities and other policies, in partnership time by the average hourly salary. with charities and community-based organizations. – In-kind – contributions of products, equipment, services and – Charitable gifts – intermittent support to a wide range of other non-cash items from the company to the community. good causes in response to the needs and appeals of For UBS, this is primarily the cost of providing company charitable and community organizations. This includes our premises. programs to match employee donations. – Management overheads – the cost associated with the firm’s Community Affairs function. 1 All cash contributions shown here are recognized on a cash rather than accrual basis. Separately (see page 32 of this report), we recognize UBS Optimus Foundation contributions on an accrual basis reflecting committed grants made in the reporting period. 84 Employee volunteering issues in the most powerful and effective way. Our skills-based volunteering programs include building the capacity of social At the beginning of 2018, we made a commitment to our local enterprises through mentoring and supporting the career communities by setting a target to achieve 40% of employees aspirations of local students. Leveraging the specialized skills and volunteering by the end of 2020, of which 40% of volunteer talents of our employees is key to the success of our program hours will be skills-based. and to our business. By encouraging our employee volunteering efforts towards skills-based volunteering, we ensure that we tackle local social Volunteering figures in 2018 Progress against target We are making progress towards our 2020 target, and at the end of 2018 we have achieved 36% of our global workforce volunteering and 45% hours being skills-based. Target 2020 2018 2017 Number of employees volunteering 25,256 20,140 % Employees engaged 40% 36% 31% Number of volunteer hours 197,807 168,226 % Hours that are skills-based 40% 45% 38% 85 Our communities Measuring Impact Individual beneficiaries in 2018 Our Community Affairs program benefited 343,121 young Our strategic focus on education and entrepreneurship offers people and entrepreneurs across all of the regions in which we programs which support young people globally, to help increase operate. their educational attainment and acquire workplace skills. We We also measure the extent to which our support has also work with entrepreneurs to help them build and scale benefitted them (i.e., the LBG depth of impact scale below). businesses that tackle unemployment and revitalize underserved Measuring on the basis of this model has shown that UBS’s communities. Many of our offices focus on social support has substantively improved or transformed the lives of entrepreneurship, supporting businesses that have social impact 115,984 individuals in 2018. This represents 34% of the number at the heart of their business model. of beneficiaries for whom depth of impact was reported. UBS uses a global framework to capture data from our community affairs partners on the impact that UBS’s contributions have made. LBG depth of impact scale The number of beneficiaries reached by an activity who can Connect report some limited change as a result of an activity (e.g., increased enjoyment of reading) The number of beneficiaries who can report some substantive improvement in their lives as a result of the activity (e.g., Improve actually being able to read better) The number of beneficiaries who can report a long-term Transform change in their circumstances, or for whom a change can be observed, as a result of the improvements made (e.g., gained employment as a result of improved literacy) Impacting organizations in 2018 34 intermediary organizations that are building the capacity of 799 third-party organizations reached by UBS’s support for charities, social enterprises and social sector organizations intermediary organization 86 Case studies: Promoting education and entrepreneurship The Bridge Academy As of 2018: In 2019, UBS will for the fifth time also – 68% of students achieved grades 9-4 honor a Swiss based social enterprise with The Bridge Academy is an independent in English and Mathematics GCSE a dedicated seif Award for state secondary school in Hackney, East – 80% of students achieved grades 9*-4 entrepreneurial innovation. In recent London, created, sponsored and compared to the national average of years, these have included social partnered by UBS and a Wealth 67% enterprises in the field of health (Gorilla), Management client. The Academy, which – 51% of students progressed to “top food waste reduction (Äss-Bar) or tech for opened in 2007, is a mixed, nonthird” universities, compared to the good (Smart Home Technology). denominational school for 11 to.18-yearnational average of 19% olds of all abilities. Situated in one of the UBS Global Visionaries – Among the top 10% of all schools UK’s most deprived areas, UBS focuses nationally for progress at A level time, expertise and financial resources on This program supports leading social supporting the curriculum and workentrepreneurs to scale their impact by Through collaboration with our clients, related learning with the aim of improved connecting them with UBS clients, commitment of our resources, and students’ skills and raising aspirations. The external partners, and staff across the strategic deployment of the time and Bridge Academy has a significantly higher globe. In 2018 Global Visionaries skills of our employees, UBS has created than national average number of students appeared at more than 60 UBS events in an award-winning template for businesson Free School Meals. There are high Africa, the Americas, APAC, and Europe education partnerships. numbers of students for whom English is leading to a number of positive an additional language; from Black outcomes, for example: an introduction The Impact Academy by seif Minority Ethnic backgrounds; and with we made at a UBS event resulting in Mark Special Educational Needs. Typically these Pollock giving a talk about his search for a UBS is supporting the social demographics would ultimately point to cure for paralysis (watched more than a entrepreneurship sector in Switzerland low levels of attainment. The UBS-Bridge million times); former F1 champion Nico financially and with volunteers. One of Academy partnership aims to break this Rosberg recording a Monocle podcast the programs we are involved in is the cycle of deprivation. about green mobility with Donald Impact Academy by the Social Sadoway, and a number of Global Entrepreneurship Initiative & Foundation Visionaries, including Mariéme Jamme seif. Experienced UBS employees use their and Zubaida Bai, securing UBS Optimus professional skills-sets to mentor social Foundation grants. entrepreneurs during the establishment and growth of their company. In addition to their professional experience and input they provide useful contacts as and when required. 87 Our sustainability track record Our sustainability track record 1954 Beginnings of Community Affairs at Wealth Management US 1962 Establishment of Union Bank of Switzerland’s 100th anniversary foundation (since 1999: UBS Culture Foundation) 1971 Launch of A Helping Hand from UBS Employees (UBS Mitarbeiter helfen) in Switzerland 1972 Establishment of Swiss Bank Corporation’s 100-year anniversary foundation (since 1999: UBS Foundation for Social Issues and Education) 1978 Beginnings of Community Affairs in EMEA 1982 Establishment of first energy-functional unit 1988 Co-founding member of Business in the Community in the UK 1989 First bank in Switzerland with the position of environmental officer 1992 First formal energy guidelines 1993 Among the first signatories of the United Nations Environment Programme bank declaration (UNEP FI) 1994 Introduction of first environmental policy 1995 Publication of first environmental report and introduction of environmental credit assessment procedure for Swiss corporate clients 1996 Introduction of employee volunteering at Wealth Management US and of matched-giving scheme for London employees 1997 Launch of Socially Responsible Investment (SRI) Funds Establishment of the Investment Bank Community Affairs in Stamford (monetary and in-kind donations, and employee volunteering). 1998 Merger of Union Bank of Switzerland and Swiss Bank Corporation to create UBS 1999 Founding member of Wolfsberg Group First bank to obtain ISO 14001 certification for worldwide environmental management system in banking business and launch of Environmental Risk Policy in the Investment Bank Establishment of UBS Optimus Foundation 2000 UBS among first companies to sign UN Global Compact Wolfsberg Group Anti-Money Laundering (AML) Principles for Private Banking (revised 2002) UBS commences reporting on corporate responsibility in Annual Report 2001 Establishment of Corporate Responsibility Committee, a Board of Directors committee, and publication of first Corporate Responsibility section in Annual Report Establishment of a Global Diversity Steering Committee within the Investment Bank Founding member of European Social Investment Forum (Eurosif) Wolfsberg Group Commitment against Terrorism Employee volunteering time-off policy introduced for London employees 2002 Wolfsberg Group Statement on Fight against Financing of Terrorism and AML Principles for Correspondent Banking Launch of Group-wide Diversity initiative Founding signatory of CDP (originally known as Carbon Disclosure Project) Commencement of joint Wealth Management and Investment Bank Community Affairs in Chicago Expansion of in-house environmental program to Corporate Services outside Switzerland 2003 First financial services firm to formally register interest as an academy sponsor in the UK (leads to the opening of the The Bridge Academy, Hackney, in 2007) Institution of NGO communications and analysis function 2004 Establishment of SRI Equity Research in the Investment Bank 88 2005 Establishment of coordination function for Community Affairs in Switzerland Setting up of UBS Tsunami Relief Fund UBS commences social reporting in Annual Report (section on employees) 2006 Introduction of climate strategy Adoption of UBS Statement on Human Rights Wolfsberg Group releases Investment Banking FAQs, Guidance for Mutual Funds and Pooled Vehicles, Correspondent Banking FAQs and Guidance on the Risk-Based Approach 2007 Establishment of SRI Research in Global WMBB Wolfsberg Group Statement against Corruption and Wolfsberg Group Statement on Transparency in International Payments First company-wide volunteering at Wealth Management US 2008 Introduction of group-wide Responsible Supply Chain Guideline Wolfsberg Group Revised PEP FAQs 2009 UBS applies Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) framework to its 2008 non-financial disclosure UBS’s Sustainability Disclosure 2008 meets the requirements of level A+ of the GRI (continued in subsequent years) UBS Global Asset Management becomes a signatory to the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) 2010 Launch of UBS’s new Code of Business Conduct and Ethics Publication of UBS Position on Controversial Activities 2011 Convener of Thun Group of Banks on banking and human rights Establishment of UBS Environmental & Social Risk Committee Awarded with UK Big Society Award (established by the UK Prime Minister) 2012 UBS celebrates its 150th anniversary Setting up of the UBS International Center of Economics in Society at the University of Zurich Global roll-out of the Investment Bank’s environmental, social and governance (ESG) Analyzer 2013 Thun Group launches discussion paper on banking and human rights Renewal of climate strategy 2014 Introduction of UBS Environmental and Human Rights Policy Launch of UBS and Society, UBS’s sustainability organization Publication of UBS’s comprehensive Environmental and Social Risk framework document UBS’s Sustainability Disclosure 2013 meets the requirements of GRI G4 comprehensive 2015 Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI) industry group leadership 2016 DJSI industry group leadership maintained Introduction of UBS and Society Policy (replacing and expanding upon UBS Environmental and Human Rights Policy) 2017 DJSI industry group leadership maintained for third year running UBS and Society constitutional document (replaces UBS and Society policy) UBS unveils a blueprint for channeling private wealth towards the UN SDGs at the World Economic Forum Annual Meeting in Davos UBS joins UN working group on TFCD implementation to help banks disclose their exposures to climate-related risks and opportunities 2018 Listed as number 1 market player for sustainable investments in Switzerland according to the Swiss sustainable investment market study 2018 DJSI industry group leadership maintained for fourth year running MSCI ESG increased rating of UBS from A to AA UBS and Society renamed into UBS in society  Refer to www.ubs.com/history for information on the history of UBS 89 Assurance and certification Assurance and certification Independent assurance report by EY 90 91 Assurance and certification ISO 14001 and 50001 certificates received the first ISO 50001 certification (energy management system standard) in 2017. The integrated management system is UBS is globally certified according to ISO 14001, the externally audited annually and re-certified every three years. international environmental management system standard. These comprehensive audits verify that appropriate policies In 1999, UBS was the first bank to obtain ISO 14001 certification and processes are in place to manage environmental and for its worldwide environmental management system. The energy-related topics and that they are executed in day-to-day management system covers the entire scope of UBS’s products, practice. services and in-house operations that may give rise to an In 2018, UBS successfully passed the ISO 14001and ISO environmental impact. Additionally, we have further developed 50001 surveillance audit on its environmental and energy our environmental and energy management system in our management system. European locations in order to be compliant with ISO 50001. We 92 93 Assurance and certification 94 95 Appendix Appendix Our Code of Conduct and Ethics In this Code, the Board of Directors and the Group Executive Ignorance of the Code is no excuse Board set out the principles and practices that define our ethical As part of our training, everyone hears about the standards in standards and the way we do business. the Code and learns how to apply them. But we also strongly By following it, we will foster an ethical culture where encourage you to read the Code and get to know it. Not responsible behavior is second nature. We will protect our most knowing the Code is no excuse for violating it. important asset – our reputation. And, ultimately, we will create lasting value for our shareholders. The Code sets the standards Our Board is fully behind the Code – and needs the whole that help us to make that happen. business to be behind it, too It is based on three Principles: client focus, which is about The Code has the full backing of the Board of Directors and building relationships that create long-term value, focusing on Group Executive Board. And every one of us needs to make sure investment returns and anticipating and managing conflicts of our day-to-day actions and decisions follow the standards set interest; excellence in everything from our products and services out here. Above all, we must put the interests of UBS, our clients to how we collaborate across the firm to deliver the best of and our shareholders above our own. what UBS has to offer; and sustainable performance, which is Of course, the Code cannot describe every possible situation. about working continuously to strengthen our reputation as a If you find yourself dealing with something unexpected, apply rocksolid firm and provide consistent returns for shareholders. these ethical standards in your judgment and get guidance or It is essential that we all follow these Principles. In short, if we help. do business in the right way, we will be a better business, and an even more successful one. Thank you for your support. The Code applies to everything and everyone Axel A. Weber The Code covers our dealings with stakeholders, clients, Chairman of the Board of Directors counterparties, shareholders, regulators and business partners – and each other. And it is the basis for all our policies, guidelines Sergio P. Ermotti and procedures. Group Chief Executive Officer 96 Laws, rules and regulations Tax matters We follow all the laws, rules, regulations and treaties around tax Obeying the law that apply to us, all over the world – not just to the letter, but in We obey the laws, rules and regulations where we live, work their true spirit. We pay and report all taxes due. We report and do business – as well as our own UBS policies, guidelines information relating to our own tax position and that of our and procedures. clients and employees as required. And we cooperate with our regulators, being open and We will not help our clients avoid paying the tax that they transparent in our dealings with them. owe or reporting their income and gains, nor will we support any transactions where we know or shall presume that the tax Cross-border business outcome is dependent on unrealistic assumptions or the hiding When we are working across borders, we obey all pertinent of facts. laws, rules and regulations – both at home and abroad. If we are selling to, buying from, visiting or dealing with Behaving responsibly and ethically clients from outside our home country, it is our job to understand what rules, laws or policies apply – and follow them. Values and ethics We don’t just follow the laws, rules and regulations in Fair dealing and fair competition everything we do. We do what is right. We don’t just ask We succeed by outperforming our competitors fairly and ourselves whether what we’re doing is legal, but whether it fits honestly, not by resorting to unfair or underhand tactics. with our three UBS Behaviors: integrity, collaboration and We don’t stretch, distort or try to hide the facts or the truth. challenge. Nor do we use information we are not meant to have to gain an unfair advantage over competitors. Client relationships We act fairly, honestly and in good faith with everyone we We look after our clients for the long term, winning their loyalty deal with: our clients, business partners, competitors, suppliers, by earning their trust. the public and each other. We try to anticipate what our clients are going to need And we respect all the laws, rules and regulations that are before they ask. We go out of our way to give them an designed to create a level playing field for all – including exceptional service. We make sure our products and services are antitrust and competition laws. adequate for our clients and are sold in a way that is not detrimental to their interests. Fighting crime And we treat them fairly, and with the same courtesy and We have a duty to contribute to the integrity of the financial respect, however large or small they may be. system, as well as our own business. So we do whatever we can to combat money laundering, Conflicts of interest corruption and terrorist financing – including imposing global We put our clients’ best interests before our own – and UBS’s sanctions in line with our policy. interests before our personal interests. And we never let UBS’s or our personal interests influence our advice to a client, or our Money laundering dealings with them. We have rigorous systems in place to detect, report and stop any We have systems to identify and manage potential conflicts suspected money laundering. of interest. And as soon as we do identify any such conflicts, we raise them immediately with our line manager or with Legal or Corruption Compliance & Operational Risk Control. We have zero tolerance for corruption or any kind of bribery, including so-called “facilitation payments.” We don’t offer or accept improper gifts or payments in the course of our business. Criminal activity We carry out due diligence and keep a constant lookout for any suspicious activities, reporting them to senior management as soon as we discover them. And we follow strict know-yourcustomer regulations. 97 Appendix Sharing, using and storing information Creating the right culture Reporting and information sharing Diversity and equal opportunity When we share or report anything, especially financial We believe that people from different backgrounds, with information – to either the public or our regulators – we take different thoughts and opinions, make us a stronger business. great care to make sure it is accurate, up to date and as easy to They bring us valuable new ideas, approaches and experiences. understand as it can be (and in line with any legal or regulatory Regardless of their status, everyone has the same chance to requirements and best practice). get ahead at UBS – whatever their ethnicity, gender, national We maintain an internal control framework that is designed origin, age, ability, sexual orientation or religion. And we work to support the preparation and fair representation of to create a culture where everyone feels they are welcome, consolidated financial statements in accordance with respected and that they are a valuable part of our team – International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) and that are whatever part of UBS they work in. free from material misstatement. We do not tolerate any kind of discrimination, bullying or Based on their audit work, our independent external auditors harassment. And we encourage each other to speak up and express an opinion on our internal controls over financial report it through clear channels, without fear of reprisals. reporting as well as on the financial statements themselves. Our internal audit function often provides support to our external Performance and professionalism auditors in discharging their responsibilities, and also assesses Our professionalism, integrity and pursuit of excellence are how the adherence to our strategy and the effectiveness of our we create value for our clients and shareholders. So our governance, risk management and control processes. compensation system is designed to reward long-term value creation by balancing performance and prudent risk-taking with Inside information a focus on conduct and sound risk management practices. We never use inside information (material information that is not We know that our business is only as strong as our people. public) to do anything other than what it was given to us for in So we work hard to create a working environment where talent the first place. can thrive and reach its full potential. Having made every effort to ascertain whether information is inside information, we only ever share such information on a Protecting our assets need-to-know basis. That applies to people inside and outside We keep UBS’s assets safe and secure – from sensitive, UBS, in line with our internal procedures, as well as any relevant confidential information about our business, plans and people to laws, rules and regulations. our intellectual property, systems and equipment, as well as documents, information and other materials belonging to others Client confidentiality that are entrusted or made available to us. That means making Our clients trust us to keep the information they’ve shared with sure that these assets are handled properly and used in line with us safe and secure and only use it in the ways we’ve agreed with relevant laws and regulations and doing what we can to prevent them. them from being lost, stolen, damaged or misused. We retain We follow the highest standards of information security to data to fulfill regulatory retention and legal hold obligations. keep our client information confidential and to protect We will not use such assets for non-UBS business or for our legitimate client privacy rights. We have strict data security own personal advantage. standards and procedures designed to prevent data being tampered with, seen or used by the wrong people, stolen, lost Health and safety or destroyed. We never do anything that might put people in danger or harm We never share our clients’ details with anyone, unless we them in any way – whether they’re colleagues, clients, partners, have their express permission to do so – or where we have a competitors, visitors or anyone else. legal duty to share it with the relevant authorities. And even We keep our workplaces safe by following health and safety within UBS, we will only share client details with those rules. Doing this makes sure we have safe and healthy working colleagues who genuinely need to see it to serve our clients’ best conditions in which our dignity is respected. interests. 98 Society and the environment Upholding the Code Integrating financial and societal performance From our Board of Directors down, we live up to this Code at all We integrate financial and societal performance for the mutual times, with no exceptions. benefit of our clients and our firm. UBS will not accept any justification or excuse for breaking it, So we’re constantly looking for better ways to do business in whatever the reason – whether for profit, convenience or an environmentally sound and socially responsible manner. competitive advantage or because a client or someone else That includes monitoring, managing and reducing any asked for it. negative impact we might have on the environment and on human rights. It means managing social and environmental risks Changes to the Code that our own and our clients’ assets are exposed to. And it The Code defines the way we do business. It is reviewed means looking for sustainable investment opportunities, for regularly to make sure it reflects our principles and standards ourselves and our clients. and is consistent with the law. Whenever there’s a change, a notice goes to every employee. Investing in our communities We constantly look for ways to contribute to the well-being of Affirmation process our local communities – by supporting charitable activities Each of us declares that we have read and affirmed our financially and non-financially, including through our awareness of the Code, as part of our annual affirmation volunteering efforts. process. Violating the Code Whistleblowing We immediately report any potential violations to our line Disciplinary procedures manager or local compliance officer. We can also report them Anyone who breaks the rules (whether it is our Code, UBS confidentially to our Legal or Compliance & Operational Risk policies or outside laws, rules and regulations) will face Control teams, using whistleblowing procedures. consequences – from reprimands and warnings to dismissals. UBS will never punish or reprimand anyone who reports these This includes not only the person who broke the rules, but kinds of breaches or violations in good faith. also their line manager and anyone who knew about it but did And UBS expects its line managers to escalate and report any not report it. violations of laws, rules, regulations, policies, professional And where someone has broken the law, we will not hesitate standards and the principles of the Code. to report them to the relevant authorities. Questions about the Code Any questions about any part of this Code, or what it means in practice, should go to the Group General Counsel or the Global Head of Compliance & Operational Risk Control. 99 Appendix Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee Excerpt from The Organization Regulations of UBS Group AG (Annex C – Charter for the Committees of the Board of Directors of UBS Group AG, p. 37) Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee 7.1 The CCRC supports the Board in its duties to safeguard and advance the Group’s reputation for responsible and sustainable conduct. In general Its function is forward-looking in that it monitors and reviews societal trends and transformational developments and assesses their potential relevance for the Group. In undertaking this assessment, it reviews stakeholder concerns and expectations pertaining to the societal performance of UBS and to the development of its corporate culture. The CCRC’s function also encompasses the monitoring of the current state and implementation of the programs and initiatives within the Group pertaining to corporate culture and corporate responsibility. 7.2 The CCRC’s responsibilities and authorities are to: Responsibilities and authorities (i) General: (a) monitor and advise the Board on current and emerging societal trends and developments of potential relevance for the Group; (b) review and assess the current state and implementation of the corporate culture and corporate responsibility programs and initiatives within the Group; and (c) monitor the consistent application of the behaviors of integrity, challenge and collaboration within UBS; (ii) Policies and regulations: (a) monitor and advise the Board on evolving external corporate culture and corporate responsibility regulations, standards and practices; (b) review the Code of Conduct and Ethics of UBS and make proposals for amendments to the Board; and (c) review and oversee that policies and guidelines of UBS pertaining to corporate culture and corporate responsibility are relevant and up to date; (ii) Strategy: (a) monitor the effectiveness of actions taken by UBS relating to the corporate culture and responsibility regulations and policies as well as objectives of UBS; (b) support the GEB, if required, in the adjustment of processes pertaining to corporate culture and responsibility; (c) approve UBS and Society’s overall strategy and annual objectives and (d) support a strong and responsible corporate culture firmly founded in a spirit of long-term thinking; (iv) Programs and initiatives: oversee UBS’s corporate culture and corporate responsibility programs and initiatives, including: (a) UBS and Society; (b) sustainable and impact investing and philanthropy; (c) anti-corruption, anti-terrorist financing and anti-money laundering; (d) environmental and social (including human rights) risk management; (e) climate change; (f) diversity and inclusion; (g) health and safety; (h) in-house environmental management; (i) responsible supply chain management; and (j) community affairs; and (v) Communications: (a) advise the Board on the reporting of the Group’s corporate culture and responsibility strategy and activities, review the employees and UBS and Society sections of the Group’s annual report, and provide oversight of the annual UBS sustainability disclosure assurance audit process; and (b) monitor and review communications with stakeholders on corporate culture and corporate responsibility (including with relevant organizations and with sustainability rating and ranking bodies) and their effectiveness with regard to the reputation of the Group. 100 UBS in society constitutional document Our Commitment – We apply an environmental and social risk (ESR) framework to identify and manage potential adverse impacts to the UBS is committed to creating long term positive impact for environment and to human rights, as well as the associated clients, employees, investors and society. We plan to continue to environmental and social risks our clients’ and our own assets go beyond our duty to protect the environment, respect human are exposed to. UBS’s comprehensive ESR standards are rights, continually improve our systems to become more efficient aligned with UBS in society, govern client and supplier and effective, and ensure responsible behavior in all aspects of relationships, and are enforced firm-wide and applied to all our operations. We strive to maximize positive outcomes in a activities proactive, purposeful, and accountable manner. Our goal is to – We set quantitative targets to reduce group-wide greenhouse be the financial provider of choice for clients wishing to drive gas emissions and the environmental impact of our financial capital towards investments that support the operations. Environmental programs include investments in achievement of the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and sustainable real estate and efficient information technology, the transition to a low-carbon economy. Our cross divisional energy and water efficiency, paper and waste reduction and organization, UBS in society, focuses our firm on this direction. recycling, the use of environmentally friendly products (such UBS in society covers all the activities and capabilities related as renewable energy or recycled paper), business travel to sustainable investing, philanthropy, environmental and and employee commuting. UBS aims to reduce negative human rights policies governing client and supplier relationships, environmental and social impacts of goods and services it our environmental footprint, as well as community investment. purchases and engages with suppliers to promote responsible Our ambition is to be: practices – A leader in sustainable investing for private clients – Awareness and expertise play an important role in – A leader in sustainable investing for institutional clients implementing our goals. UBS promotes its employees’ – A recognized innovator and thought leader in philanthropy understanding of the goals and actions of UBS in society – An industry leader in sustainability through a wide range of training and awareness-raising activities and performance management We intend to make sustainable performance the standard across our firm and part of every client conversation. This means How we support clients that we will focus on the long term and work to provide appropriate returns to all of our stakeholders in a responsible UBS aims to be a leader in sustainable investing for private manner. In addition, we are transparent about our targets and clients and for institutional clients, as well as a recognized progress wherever possible to demonstrate our commitment. innovator for driving global philanthropy. This means: – We strive to systematically incorporate the economic impacts Scope of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) issues into the This document defines the principles and responsibilities for research, advice, as well as products and services we provide promoting this commitment in how we do business, how we to clients support clients, and how we support communities. Banking – We support corporate and institutional clients who want to activities, in-house operations, supply chain management and generate positive environment and social impact using our our firm’s community interaction are subject to and must be corporate advisory expertise or by directing capital through conducted in compliance with this commitment. our lending or investment capacity – We assist private and institutional clients in their desire to Principles invest in accordance with their own social and environmental The following principles define how UBS in society promotes the objectives, in their invested funds, and will be proactive in implementation of its aspiration of being a leader in discussing these issues with them sustainability in the financial industry through three pillars; how – As a preferred partner for global philanthropists, we work we do business, how we support clients, and how we support towards achieving the United Nation’s ambitious Sustainable communities. Development Goals (SDGs). Our experts and in-house foundation offer clients access to social and financial How we do business innovation, philanthropic advice, as well as tailored program design, co-funding and co-development opportunities – We report openly and transparently about UBS in society, and seek to maintain open dialogue and active communications with our stakeholders 101 Appendix How we support communities and is composed of divisional, APAC, and Group COO EC members, as well as UBS in society EC members. OC members At UBS, we recognize that our long-term success depends on are nominated by their respective GEB members and/or the the health and prosperity of the communities of which Head of UBS in society, and ensure plan and objective sign-off we are part. Our approach is to build sustainable and by them. successful partnerships with non-profit organizations and social The Global Environmental & Social Risk Committee enterprises to ensure that our contributions have a lasting defines an ESR framework and independent controls that align impact. Our Community Affairs programs seek to overcome UBS’s environmental and social risk appetite with that of UBS in disadvantage through long-term investment in education and society. It is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, who is entrepreneurship in the communities within which we operate. responsible for the development and implementation of Through local execution and partnerships which operate under a principles and appropriate independent control frameworks for global framework and with coordination across regions, we environmental and social risks within UBS. endeavor to deliver business and community impact by: The Business Divisions are responsible for developing, – Identifying innovative and high quality programs that are providing resources to, and executing the UBS in society annual aligned to the business and providing them focused financial objectives in their division as they relate to client relationships, and human support to maximize impact, including through product development, investment management, distribution and the use of skills-based employee volunteering programs, and risk management. with client participation where appropriate The Regions are responsible for developing, providing – Playing a role in the stewardship of a healthy social and resources to, and executing objectives in their region relating to financial future for our communities, working in partnership Community Affairs, within the global framework of UBS in with clients, as well as, the public and philanthropic sectors society. The Corporate Center is responsible for developing, Responsibilities and Structure providing resources to, and executing UBS in society annual objectives as they relate to risk control, in-house environmental The Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee and supply chain management, and communications. (CCRC)1 supports the Board in its duties to safeguard and advance the Group’s reputation for responsible and sustainable Reporting and Controls conduct. It monitors UBS in society’s overall strategy and annual objectives, reviews that the UBS in society constitutional Our commitment is implemented through a firm-wide document is relevant and up to date, and oversees the management system steered by defined measurable objectives. program’s annual management review. Their achievement is reviewed on a semi-annual basis by the The Group CEO proposes the UBS in society strategy and Head of UBS in society, and on an annual basis by the Corporate annual objectives to the CCRC, supervises their execution, and Culture and Responsibility Committee. informs the Group Executive Board (GEB) and Corporate Culture Progress made in implementing UBS in society is reported as and Responsibility Committee (CCRC) as appropriate. part of UBS’s annual reporting. This reporting is reviewed and The Head UBS in society is UBS’s senior level representative assured externally according to the requirements of the Global for environmental and sustainability issues. He or she is Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) sustainability reporting guideline. nominated by the Group CEO, chairs the UBS in society UBS is certified according to ISO 14001, the international Operating Committee, is a member of the Global Environmental environmental management standard. This certificate attests Social Risk Committee, and is a permanent guest to the CCRC. that UBS’s management system is an appropriate tool for He or she develops the UBS in society strategy, leads in its evaluating compliance with the relevant environmental execution, and submits annual objectives to the CEO, as well as regulations, achieving self-defined environmental objectives, and a management review to the CCRC. He or she is supported by maintaining continual improvement of environmental the UBS in society Executive Committee (EC) in this effort. performance. The UBS in society Operating Committee (OC) ensures The implementation of our commitment and principles, as execution of the UBS in society strategy across divisions and laid out in this document, is a process of continual improvement. regions. The Committee is chaired by the Head UBS in society 1 Details of the responsibilities and authorities of the CCRC are set out in Annex C of the Organization Regulations of UBS Group AG. 102 Standard Information human rights infringements. Environmental and social risks can also arise if UBS’s operational activities and its employees The Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) (or contractors working on behalf of UBS) fail to operate In September 2015, with the support of 193 nations, the United within relevant environmental and human rights regulations. Nations launched the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Environmental and social risks may result in adverse financial and Development to end poverty, combat climate change, and fight reputation impacts for UBS. injustice. Seventeen Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) went into effect in January 2016 to address global socioeconomic Sustainable Investments imbalances threatening the lives of people living in developing Sustainable investing is an approach that seeks to incorporate economies and the future of generations to come. environmental, social and governance (ESG) considerations into investment decisions. Sustainable investing strategies seek to Environmental and social risk (ESR) achieve one or several of the following goals: achieve a positive Environmental and social risks are broadly defined as the environmental or social impact, align investments with an possibility that UBS supports clients, or sources from suppliers, investor’s personal values, and/or improve portfolio risk and who cause or contribute to severe environmental damage or return characteristics. 103 Appendix Environment and social risk policy framework Comprehensive, Highest Industry Standards, Deeply As a global company, and the preeminent global wealth Rooted in our Culture manager to high net worth and ultra high net worth clients, UBS is in a unique position to help address these challenges, Our comprehensive environmental and social risk framework is deeply both together with our clients and through our own efforts. rooted in our culture: Our principles and standards clearly define how we want to – it governs client and supplier relationships and applies firm-wide to all do things at UBS. They apply to all aspects of our business and activities the ways in which we engage with our stakeholders. Our Code – meets the highest industry standards as recognized by environmental, of Conduct and Ethics documents our corporate responsibility. social, governance ratings Our work in key societal areas such as protecting the – is integrated in management practices and control principles and environment and respecting human rights are part of this. Living overseen at the most senior level of our firm. up to our societal responsibilities contributes to the wider goal of sustainable development. As a global firm we take responsibility to lead the debate on important societal topics, This framework is aligned with our UBS in society organization contribute to the setting of standards and collaborate in and that coordinates all our activities and capabilities in sustainable beyond our industry. investing (SI) and philanthropy, environmental and human rights Managing environmental and social risks is a key component policies governing client and supplier relationships, our own of our corporate responsibility. We apply an environmental and environmental footprint, as well as our firm’s community social risk policy framework to all our activities. This helps us investment. identify and manage potential adverse impacts to the environment and to human rights, as well as the associated risks Introduction affecting our clients and us. We have set standards in product We live in a world that is more interconnected, more interdedevelopment, investments, financing and for supply chain pendent and more interactive than ever before. Rapid technomanagement decisions. We have identified certain controversial logical advances in particular continue to have a profound effect activities we will not engage in, or will only engage in under on the economic, political, cultural, environmental and social stringent criteria. As part of this process we engage with clients landscape. These advances have changed the way we think and and suppliers to better understand their processes and policies act. They have altered the way we do business. and to explore how any environmental and social risks may be They have transformed the products and services we mitigated. consume, and reshaped the perceptions of the world around us. The foundation of UBS’s environmental and social risk policy While this has brought with it significant benefits and framework is established in the Code of Conduct and Ethics of opportunities, it has also created far greater awareness of the UBS and the UBS in society constitutional document. challenges we all face. 104 Our focus We are determined to understand the risks that our clients’, Our industry is playing an increasingly active role in addressing and our own, assets are exposed to in the context of uncertain global issues such as human rights and the protection of our policy and technology developments. environment. Climate change impacts ecosystems, societies, and We focus our climate strategy on risk management, economies worldwide, and we support clients achieving their investments, financing, research and our own operations. We goals in support of the transition to a low-carbon economy. are committed to: Growing environmental and human rights concerns have resulted – supporting renewable energy and clean tech transactions; in a fast-changing regulatory and competitive landscape which is – not providing project-level finance for new coal-fired power affecting our firm, our suppliers and our clients. In response to plants globally; these emerging risks and opportunities, we are shaping – only financing transactions of existing coal-fired operators appropriate solutions and commitments. (>30% coal reliance) who have a transition strategy in place Over twenty-five years ago, UBS was one of the first financial that aligns with a pathway under the Paris Agreement, or the institutions to sign the United Nations Environment Protransaction is related to renewable energy; gramme’s “Statement by Financial Institutions on the Environ– severely restricting lending and capital raising to the coal ment and Sustainable Development.” We were also among the mining sector and not supporting coal mining companies first companies to endorse the UN Global Compact, we were an engaged in mountain-top removal coal mining (MTR) original signatory of the CDP, and our Asset Management (AM) operations; business is an Investment Manager signatory to the Principles – securing 100% of our electricity from renewable sources by for Responsible Investment. 2020, thereby reducing our own greenhouse gas footprint by In 2000, our firm was a founding member of the Wolfsberg 75% compared to 2004 levels. Group of banks, which was originally set up to promote good practice in combatting money laundering. In 2011, the firm was We publicly support international, collaborative action against a driving force behind the establishment of the Thun Group of climate change: Banks, which has in the meantime published two discussion – Our Chairman is signatory to the European Financial Services papers that seek to establish a framework to facilitate the Round Table’s statement in support of a strong, ambitious identification of the key challenges and best practice examples response to climate change. for the banking sector’s implementation of the UN Guiding – Our CEO is a member of the CEO Climate Leaders, an alliance Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). We are a mobilized by the World Economic Forum. member of the Roundtable on Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), and – Our Head Sustainable Investors at AM is member of the joined its complaints panel in 2014. Also in 2014, we endorsed Financial Stability Board (FSB) Taskforce on Climate-related the Banking Environment Initiative’s and Consumer Goods Financial Disclosures (TCFD). Forum’s “Soft Commodities” Compact, which reconfirms our – Sixteen banks, including UBS and the UN Environment commitment to developing and implementing responsible Programme Finance Initiative (UNEP FI) have partnered to business standards. collaboratively develop analytical tools that help banks Progress made in implementing UBS in society is reported as disclose their exposures to climate-related risks and part of UBS’s annual reporting. This reporting is reviewed and opportunities as envisaged by the TCFD. assured externally according to the requirements of the Global – We have joined RE100, a global initiative to get the world’s Reporting Initiative’s (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guideline. most influential companies to use only renewable power. UBS is certified according to ISO 14001, the international – We support the CDP, as an investor member as well as a environmental management standard. questionnaire respondent, in their aim to improve company disclosure of risks and opportunities related to natural Climate change resources. In 2018, and for the third year in a row, CDP has Climate change is one of the most significant challenges of our awarded UBS with the Climate A List, its highest ranking. time. The world’s key environmental and social challenges – such  Refer to the “Our governance and principles” section of this as population growth, energy security, loss of biodiversity and document for the full climate strategy access to drinking water and food – are all closely intertwined with climate change. This makes the transition to a low-carbon economy vital. We support this transition through our comprehensive climate strategy. 105 Appendix Forests and biodiversity environment. Deforestation and forest degradation can cause biodiversity to The principles of the Global Compact, today the largest decline. As approximately 80% of the world’s documented corporate responsibility initiative globally, stem from the species are found in tropical rainforests, deforestation will Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Labor impact global biodiversity. Deforestation is, in fact, second only Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights to the energy sector as a source of global greenhouse gas at Work, the Rio Declaration on Environment and Development emissions and accounts for up to 20% of emissions, more than and the UN Convention Against Corruption. The United Nations the entire global transport sector. took a significant step in 2011 by endorsing the UNGPs. It is further estimated that more than 50% of tropical deforAt this point, UBS together with other banks decided to jointly estation is due to the production of soy, palm oil, timber and consider these developments and conclusions and to share beef. In human terms, millions of people rely directly on forests experiences and ideas regarding the implementation of the (small-scale agriculture, hunting and gathering, and harvesting UNGPs. forest products such as rubber). Yet, deforestation continues to To this end, in 2013, UBS co-launched the Thun Group of cause severe societal problems, sometimes leading to violent Banks’ first discussion paper, which aims to support banks in conflict. mapping and analyzing their potential adverse impacts in relation to human rights, and a second paper, published in Recognizing these risks, we: December 2017, which explores the meaning and reaches of – became member of the RSPO in 2012 and joined its UNGP 13b in a corporate and investment banking context. Both complaints panel in 2014. discussion papers were also intended to inform other pertinent – endorsed the Banking Environment Initiative’s and Consumer initiatives, in the specific case of the second the OECD’s Goods Forum’s “Soft Commodities” Compact. In doing so, proactive agenda on Responsible Business Conduct, which we commit to support the transformation of soft commodity released in 2018 its draft guidance on due diligence for supply chains by expecting producers to be fully certified Responsible Business Conduct in General Corporate Lending and according to applicable sustainability certification schemes, Securities Underwriting. UBS is a member of the Advisory Group such as the RSPO, by 2020. We acknowledge that land to the OECD’s project. acquired without adequate consultation, compensation, and consideration of customary land rights (commonly referred to Recognizing these risks, we: as land grabbing), can significantly impact local communities: – established a UBS Position on human rights in 2006. In 2013, often smallholders who primarily rely on subsistence farming we revised the firm’s Environmental and Social Risk to sustain their livelihood. Framework to formalize accountability for human rights – have identified and will not engage in certain activities that issues. contribute to deforestation and its related impacts (sections – stipulated that we will not engage in commercial activities Controversial Activities – Where UBS will not do business and that make use of child labor and forced labor, or that infringe Areas of Concern – Where UBS will only do business under the rights of indigenous peoples (see section Controversial stringent criteria). Activities – Where UBS will not do business). – will continue our work internally, and externally with the Human rights Thun Group of Banks and the OECD, to understand how UBS is committed to respecting and promoting human rights in best to implement the UNGPs across our operations. all our business activities. We believe this is a responsible approach underlining our desire to reduce as far as possible Our standards potentially negative impacts on society. Our commitment in this UBS has set standards in product development, investments, important area is long-standing. In July 2000, UBS was one of financing and supply chain management decisions, which 44 companies that pledged to adhere to the Global Compact's include the stipulation of controversial activities and other areas then Principles on human rights, labor standards and the of concern UBS will not engage in, or will only engage in under stringent criteria. 106 Controversial Activities – Where UBS will not do business Soft commodities UBS will not knowingly provide financial or advisory services to – Palm oil: Companies must be a member of the RSPO and not clients whose primary business activity, or where the proposed subject to any unresolved public criticism from the RSPO. transaction, is associated with severe environmental or social Companies must further have some level of mill or plantation damage to or through use of: certification and be publicly committed to achieving full – World heritage sites as classified by UNESCO; certification by 2020 (evidence must be available). Company – Wetlands on the Ramsar list; must also be committed to “No Deforestation, No Peat and No – Endangered species of wild flora and fauna listed in AppenExploitation” (NDPE). dix 1 of the Convention on International Trade in Endan– Soy: Companies producing soy in markets at high risk of gered Species; tropical deforestation must be a member of the Roundtable – High conservation value forests as defined by the six cateon Responsible Soy (RTRS) and not subject to any unresolved gories of the Forestry Stewardship Council (FSC); public criticism from the RTRS. Companies must further be – Illegal fire: uncontrolled and / or illegal use of fire for land publicly committed to achieving full certification by 2020 clearance; (evidence must be available). – Illegal logging including purchase of illegal harvested timber – Timber: Companies producing timber in markets at high risk (logs or roundwood); of tropical deforestation must seek to achieve full – Child labor according to ILO-conventions 138 (minimum age) certification of their production by 2020 according to the and 182 (worst forms); Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or a national scheme – Forced labor according to ILO-convention 29; and endorsed against the 2010 Programme for the Endorsement – Indigenous peoples’ rights in accordance with IFC Perforof Forest Certification (PEFC) meta standard for timber mance Standard 7. products. Company must also have fire prevention, monitoring and suppression measures in place. The same standards apply when UBS purchases goods or – Fish and seafood: Companies producing, processing or services from suppliers. trading fish and seafood must provide credible evidence of no In addition, UBS does not directly or indirectly finance the illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing in their own development, production or purchase of controversial weapons production and supply chain. of such companies determined to fall within the “Swiss Federal Act on War Materials.” Power Generation On the topic of cluster munitions and anti-personnel mines: – Coal-fired power plants (CFPP): We do not provide projectUBS does not provide credit facilities to, nor conduct capital level finance for new coal-fired power plants globally and only market transactions for companies that are involved in the support financing transactions of existing coal-fired operators development, production or purchase of cluster munitions and (>30% coal reliance) who have a transition strategy in place anti-personnel mines. UBS does not include securities of that aligns with a pathway under the Paris Agreement, or the affected companies in its actively managed retail and institutransaction is related to renewable energy. tional funds and in discretionary mandates. UBS draws upon – Large dams: Transactions directly related to large dams external expertise to decide whether a company is subject to the include an assessment against the recommendations made by restrictions imposed by Swiss law. the World Commission on Dams (WCD) and the International Hydropower Association Sustainability Assessment Protocol. Areas of Concern – Where UBS will only do business under – Nuclear power: Transactions directly related to the constringent criteria struction of new, or the upgrading of existing nuclear power Specific guidelines and assessment criteria apply to transactions plants include an assessment on whether the country of with corporate clients engaged in the areas of concern listed domicile of the client / operation has ratified the Treaty on the below. The guidelines and assessment criteria apply to loans, Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons. trade finance, direct investments in real estate and infrastructure, securities and loan underwriting transactions, and investment banking advisory assignments. Transactions in the areas listed below trigger an enhanced due diligence and approval process. In addition to the assessment of regulatory compliance, adherence to UBS’s controversial activities standards, past and present environmental and human rights performance, as well as concerns of stakeholder groups, these transactions require an assessment of the following criteria: 107 Appendix Extractives Integration in risk, compliance and operations processes – Hydraulic fracturing: Transactions with companies that Procedures and tools for the identification, assessment and practice hydraulic fracturing in environmentally and socially monitoring of environmental and social risks are applied and sensitive areas are assessed against their commitment to and integrated into standard risk, compliance and operations certification of voluntary standards, such as the American processes. Petroleum Institute’s documents and standards for hydraulic – Client onboarding: Potential clients are assessed for fracturing. environmental and social risks associated with their business – Oil sands: Transactions directly related to oil sand assets activities as part of UBS’s Know Your Client compliance (open pit and in situ operations) are assessed against the processes. company’s commitment to reducing energy use, green– Transaction due diligence: Environmental and social risks are house gas emissions and land footprint, reclamation identified and assessed as part of standard transaction due activities, tailings management, water management and diligence and decision-making processes in all business community relationships, as well as commitment to and divisions and relevant product lines. certification of voluntary standards, e.g., good practice – Product development and investment decision processes: New according to the IPIECA-OGP Biodiversity Working Group, financial products and services are reviewed before their the IPIECA Water Management Good Practice Guidelines launch in order to assess their compatibility and consistency and membership to industry initiatives such as COSIA and with UBS’s environmental and human rights standards. SCI). Environmental and social risks are also considered in – Arctic drilling: Transactions involving oil and gas exploration investment decision processes and when exercising ownership and development in the Arctic are assessed against the rights like proxy voting and engagement with the company’s safety management capacity and track record as management of investee entities. well as adequacy of the company’s spill response plans. – Own operations: Our operational activities and employees, or – Coal mining: Since 2010 UBS’s overall exposure to coal mining contractors working on UBS premises, are assessed for companies has declined markedly. UBS will continue to compliance with relevant environmental, health and safety, significantly limit its lending and capital raising engagement and labor rights regulations. with coal mining companies. The firm no longer enters into – Supply chain management: Environmental and social risks are new lending commitments or raises capital for coal mining assessed when selecting and dealing with suppliers. UBS also companies that are involved in mountain top removal evaluates goods and services that pose potential operations. environmental, labor and human rights risks during lifecycle – Precious metals: Transactions directly related to precious (production, usage, and disposal) as part of its purchasing metals assets that have a controversial environmental and processes. social risk track record are assessed against the client’s – Portfolio review: At portfolio level, we regularly review sensitive commitment to and certification of voluntary standards, such sectors and activities prone to bearing environmental and as the International Council on Mining & Metals’ (ICMM) social risks. We assess client exposure and revenue in such International Cyanide Management Code (ICMC). sectors and attempt to benchmark the portfolio quality against – Diamonds: Transactions with companies that mine and trade regional and/or sector averages. Such portfolio reviews give us rough diamonds are assessed on the client’s commitment to an accurate aggregated exposure profile and an enhanced and certification of voluntary standards, such as the ICMC, insight into our transaction and client onboarding processes. and rough diamonds must be certified under the Kimberley Based on the outcome of these reviews, we can explore ways Process. to improve the future portfolio profile along a range of risk parameters. Our processes and governance UBS applies an environmental and social risk framework to all Clients, transactions or suppliers potentially in breach of transactions, products, services and activities such as lending, UBS’s position, or otherwise subject to significant environmental capital raising, advisory services or investments that involve a and human rights controversies, are identified as part of UBS’s party associated with environmentally or socially sensitive standard risk and compliance processes. Advanced data analytics activities. The framework seeks to identify and manage on companies associated with such risks is integrated into the potential adverse impacts to the environment and to human web-based compliance tool used by our staff before they enter rights, as well as the financial and reputation risks of being into a client or supplier relationship, or a transaction. The associated with them. systematic nature of this tool significantly enhances our ability to identify potential risk. In 2018, 2114 referrals were assessed by our environmental and social risk unit, of which 95 were rejected or not pursued, 355 were approved with qualifications and 17 were pending. 108 Environmental and social risk assessments Environmental and social risk assessments For the year ended % change from 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 31.12.2017 Cases referred for assessment1 2,114 2,170 2,671 (3) by region Americas 288 305 395 (6) Asia Pacific 718 604 556 19 Europe, Middle East and Africa 293 253 341 16 Switzerland 815 1,008 1,379 (19) by business division Global Wealth Management2 426 507 449 (16) Personal & Corporate Banking 684 795 1,226 (14) Asset Management 7 7 2 0 Investment Bank 980 852 971 15 Corporate Center3 17 9 23 89 by sector Agribusiness4 277 291 330 (5) Chemicals 91 87 93 5 Financial5 589 617 957 (5) Infrastructure 109 53 88 106 Metals and mining 249 233 221 7 Oil and gas 187 207 263 (10) Technology6 164 140 143 17 Transport 51 53 45 (4) Utilities 176 191 221 (8) Other7 221 298 310 (26) by outcome approved8 1,647 1,679 2,308 (2) approved with qualifications9 355 397 262 (11) rejected or not further pursued10 95 94 101 1 pending11 17 0 0 1 Transactions and client onboarding requests referred to the environmental and social risk function. 2 Wealth Management and Wealth Management Americas reported as Global Wealth Management from 2018. Therefore, 2017 and 2016 numbers were restated. 3 Relates to procurement / sourcing of products and services. 4 Includes, e.g., companies producing or processing fish and seafood, forestry products, biofuels, food and beverage. 5 Includes, e.g., banks, commodity traders, investments and equity firms. 6 Includes technology and telecom companies. 7 Includes, e.g., aerospace and defense, general industrials, retail and wholesale (from 2017). Note that financial, technology and transport sectors were previously included in “Other.“ Therefore, numbers of category “Other“ for 2016 have been restated. 8 Client / transaction / supplier subject to an ESR assessment and considered in compliance with UBS’s ESR framework. 9 Client / transaction / supplier subject to an ESR assessment and approved with qualifications. Qualifications may include ring-fencing of certain assets, conditions towards client / supplier or internal recommendations. 10 Client / transaction / supplier subject to an ESR assessment and rejected or not further pursued. 11 Decision pending. Pending cases 2017 have been closed and reallocated to the other outcome categories. 109 Appendix Escalation and approval processes environmental and social risk unit for enhanced due diligence. Where business or control functions responsible for identifying If identified risks are believed to pose potentially significant and assessing environmental and social risks as part of due environmental or social risks, they are escalated according to the diligence processes determine the existence of potential material firm’s reputation risk escalation process. risks, they refer the client, supplier or transaction to a specialized Environmental and social risk escalation process Step 4 Global ESR Committee Escalation of firm-wide issues / risks to group level Step 3 Divisional senior management Escalation to divisional level Step 2 Environmental and social risk unit Referral to control function for enhanced assessment and decision Step 1 Business or control function Risk identification and initial analysis Governance and oversight It is chaired by the Group Chief Risk Officer, who is responsible In view of the many environmental and social challenges for the development and implementation of principles and globally, these topics will continue to increase in relevance for appropriate independent control frameworks for environmental banks. These developments therefore require regular and critical and social risks within UBS. assessment of our policies and practices, based on an accurate All corporate responsibility and sustainability developments at monitoring and analysis of societal topics of potential relevance UBS are monitored and reviewed by the UBS Corporate Culture to UBS. and Responsibility Committee, a Board of Directors' committee of This process is the responsibility of a committee at Group UBS Group AG. The Committee supports the Board in its duties Executive Board-level, the Global Environmental and Social Risk to safeguard and advance UBS’s reputation for responsible Committee, which sets the overall risk appetite for the firm and corporate conduct. In this capacity it reviews and monitors the resolves transactional and policy matters relating to environmental implementation of UBS’s ESR framework. and social risks and their associated reputation risks. 110 Calculating and reporting on climate change-related financing and advisory activities In 2018, the Investment Bank provided to clients that contribute efficiency, waste management, transport, infrastructure renewal to climate change mitigation and adaptation equity or debt and development or water management. They range from smallcapital market services for a total deal value of USD 31.6 billion, cap and pure-play startups to large international and diversified or acted as financial advisor for a total deal value of USD 24.9 companies. billion. We then aggregate total USD deal value of all global capital The methodology behind these numbers consists first in market deals in which UBS acted as lead manager or bookrunner identifying clients who, through the products and services they for these companies and aggregate total USD value of deals offer, work to mitigate the effects of global climate change and where UBS acted as either buy-side or sell-side financial advisor. help to adapt to changing climate impacts. We use internal The data represents all our transactions with these clients and expertise and external third-party sources to identify these not only transactions that can be classified as directly climateclients. Their activities span all industry sectors, including related. renewable energy generation and clean tech but also energy 111 Appendix Health and safety statement UBS is committed to ensuring that all staff have a working – We actively promote an open and respectful work environment that protects their health, safety and wellbeing. environment. In fact, our Code of Conduct and Ethics includes a – We strive to ensure that our working environment is as safe commitment to follow health and safety rules and implement as possible, including addressing issues such as protection of best practices to ensure as safe a workplace as possible. non-smokers, radiation exposure risk assessments, etc. We have health and safety guidelines that stress the – We have measures in place to mitigate potential emergencies importance of having a physical infrastructure and working in the workplace and while travelling on business. environment that support our staff in performing up to their – Travel and security experts, crisis management committees, potential. As work patterns and employee expectations have first aid providers, health specialists, social counselors and changed, UBS has taken a proactive approach to ensure that our other specialists are available to employees. work spaces continue to meet the needs of our businesses, our – UBS has a range of services and programs (for example, our staff, our clients and our business partners, while also meeting Employee Assistance Programs, Social Counseling and online our legal obligations. support materials) to help employees navigate through UBS complies with all health and safety standards and various personal issues, including health, family care, restrictions imposed by applicable laws in all the countries in addiction and dependency problems. which we operate. We also apply internal policies and guidelines – Workplace issues can also impact employee wellbeing. We – both globally and regionally – which may go beyond the legal have appropriate routes for employees to raise any concerns, health and safety requirements. including documented grievance, complaint and An environment without incidents or accidents is in whistleblowing processes. everyone’s interests. In addition to applying our own health and safety measures, we ask third parties conducting business with Measures Taken to Ensure Health and Safety us or operating on our premises to consider health and safety – UBS provides information to employees on topical issues and matters too, and all vendors and contractors are required to initiatives. comply with our health and safety guidelines when dealing with – Our line managers help to maintain a safe and healthy work us. environment and UBS gives them the information and All of our staff are expected to conduct themselves in a way support that is relevant to their role. that helps to ensure their own health and safety and that of – We regularly review our health and safety activities to ensure their colleagues. issues are effectively managed and improvements are made where necessary. Our reviews also include employee Health and Safety Principles consultation (where appropriate). – We aim to maintain a working environment that supports the general health and well-being of all staff. Health and Safety Governance – We build and maintain innovative work places that allow Responsibility for the governance and review of health and employees to work efficiently and collaboratively. safety sits with the Group Chief Operating Officer and the – Our flexible working options (and our leave and benefit Group Head Human Resources. arrangements) are designed to support employees’ work and Day-to-day responsibility for health and safety matters is personal lives. shared between Group Corporate Services and HR Reward. The Corporate Culture and Responsibility Committee has oversight of health and safety matters. 112 Information for management approaches for material topics Information relevant to all material topics than 120,000 companies (including more than 90% of the largest 250) or to every third pension fund & pension-related Governance institution. Further indirect economic impact is realized through See “Board of Directors and sustainability” in the in the “Our its employees throughout the country (more than 20,000) and governance and principles” section in this document. Resources the USD 2.45 billion of goods and services our firm purchased for material topics are allocated in accordance with corporate from 11,000 suppliers in 2018. budgeting processes Digital innovation Grievance mechanisms UBS’s investments in digitalization are designed to enhance and For employees, we have a global whistleblowing policy and differentiate the client experience and product excellence the procedures (plus an internal website, hotlines and other firm offers, while accelerating effectiveness and efficiency. resources), as referenced in our Code of Conduct and Ethics, Digital innovation is a focus across the firm, both within the and we ask all employees to promptly speak up about any business divisions (e.g., product development) and Corporate conduct that might breach policies, laws or regulations. We also Center (notably within the Chief Operating Officer area). provide mandatory training for all employees to ensure everyone understands our commitment, procedures and responsibilities. Employee topics We have various feedback channels for external stakeholders This section covers the management approach for the following in place. Our Corporate Responsibility team can be contacted for topics: employment, training and education, diversity and equal all sustainability inquiries and issues via the UBS in society opportunity, non-discrimination, and working culture and website. Client feedback (including that which is collected environment. The following information is provided in addition through our Quality Feedback management system) enables the to the “Employees” sub-section in the “Our strategy, business firm to act and continuously improve products and client service model and environment“ section of the UBS Annual Report standards in order to provide the best client experience. 2018, where we describe these topics and how we manage them. The purpose of our management approach is to engage Evaluation of management approaches and enable our employees to meet clients’ needs while, in We assess the effectiveness of the approaches as listed in the general, positively impacting our employees. management approach section (GRI 103-2) of each material GRI Group policies are global and apply to all employees. topic in the GRI content index through a number of measures, Additionally, there are local policies to address specific local most visibly through: requirements, where applicable. Refer to “Key policies and – Performance against targets guidelines” section for further information. – Internal and external audits (e.g., ISO 14001 certification) Our objectives are provided in the “Our employees“ and the – External ratings (e.g., environmental, social and governance “UBS sustainability objectives and achievements 2018 and (ESG) ratings), employer awards/honors sustainability objectives 2019“ sections of this document. – Stakeholder feedback (e.g., employee and client surveys) The firm’s BoD, GEB, Group COO and Head Group HR – Reputation measurement (through UBS-internal approaches) specifically have responsibility for defining and executing an HR – Measurement systems (e.g., UBS-internal reporting, strategy aligned to UBS’s objectives and positioning the firm as management reviews, impact measurements) an employer of choice. This includes advisory HR services to – Assessment and testing of controls employees as well as strategic advice to managers and executives to support them in attracting, engaging, developing Results from such evaluations may lead to potential and retaining talent. adjustments to our approaches. No significant adjustments were The BoD’s CCRC regularly and critically reviews developments made in 2018. in key HR areas, notably workforce developments, including diversity and inclusion. The CCRC’s oversight role has been Information relevant to specific material topics included in the Organization Regulations of UBS Group AG. With regard to evaluating our management approach, and in Indirect economic impacts addition to the measures outlined above, where results indicate This topic is partly covered by UBS’s community affairs activities. we could do better, we undertake focused initiatives to identify However, there is a much larger component that includes the where we need to take action. Each initiative has associated financing of companies by the Investment Bank worldwide as analysis, communication and accountability elements to ensure well as the specific (economic) role UBS holds as the largest bank that we can continue to build on strengths but especially so we in Switzerland. In Switzerland, UBS’s indirect economic impact is can improve on areas of relative weakness or concern. This may determined for instance through its business relations to more also include changes to goals or specific targets. 113 Appendix Impact of material GRI topics This table lists those GRI topics that we have identified as that may occur in relation to the respective material topic. For material and additional topics identified as material in the UBS every topic, the table shows our assessment of whether UBS’s GRI-based materiality assessment (see above). The table shows involvement with the impacts of such topic upon the economy, the level of involvement we believe our firm has with the society or environment is direct, indirect or limited. economic, social or environmental impacts (positive or negative) 114 UBS sustainability objectives and achievements 2018 and sustainability objectives 2019 Objectives and achievements 2018 UBS in society For our reporting against the UBS in society mid-term (end of 2020) targets, please refer to page 32 of this UBS GRI Document. Material GRI topics Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 Status GRI 201: Economic Performance; Climate commitment We regularly report on the implementation of our climate strategy. Since our 2017 reporting Achieved GRI 302: Energy; Disclosure: Align UBS’s disclosure with the Financial Stability Board (FSB) Task Force on climatepublished in March 2018, we follow the recommendations on climate-related disclosures provided GRI 305: Emissions; related financial disclosure (TCFD) recommendations. by FSB’s TCFD. We worked on further aligning with TCFD for the financial year 2018 reporting. FS Product Portfolio Execute on 2020 greenhouse gas reduction (GHG) target and operational environmental targets for Overall on track to achieve 2020 GHG and operational environmental targets. On track energy, water, paper and waste to maintain external ratings (including execution of the RE100 implementation plan)1:  Reduce energy by 5% below 2016 level  Energy consumption reduced by 12%.  Increase share of renewable electricity to 100%  59% of UBS’s worldwide electricity consumption was sourced from renewable energy.  Reduce GHG emissions by 75% below 2004 level  Total GHG emissions reduced by 63% from baseline year 2004.  Reduce water consumption by 5% below 2016 level  Water consumption reduced by 18%, compared with 2016.  Reduce paper consumption per full-time employee (FTE) by 5% below 2016 level  Paper consumption per FTE reduced by 20%.  Increase share of sustainable (Forest Stewardship Council (FSC) or recycled) paper to 90%  80% of all paper consumption was from recycled or FSC-certified sources.  Reduce waste per FTE by 5% below 2016 level  Waste per employee reduced by 15% from baseline year 2016.  Increase waste recycling ratio to 60%  Waste recycling ratio was at 51%. Continue to apply the CO2 levy to support small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in their UBS SME efficiency bonus for energy reduction plan with overall energy savings of 48,000 MWh / Achieved upgrade to reduce C02 emissions with existing initiatives (e.g., SME energy check, UBS leasing a, equivalent to the annual energy consumption of approximately 2,500 single-family homes. initiative for vehicles, UBS leasing initiative for production machines, e-Mobility initiative) and Eight strategic advisor and financing transactions executed for Switzerland's Energy Strategy 2050. allocate approx. 25% of 2018 budget to new initiatives surrounding climate change. Twenty-six E-Mobility charging stations were installed at UBS locations throughout Switzerland. FS Audit Execute firm-wide ISO 14001 surveillance audit and ensure continued certification by addressing ISO 14001/50001 surveillance audit passed with all 2017 audit outcomes being addressed and Achieved audit findings. closed. 1 Reporting period 2018 (1 July 2017 – 30 June 2018) 115 Appendix Material GRI topics Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 Status FS Audit External disclosure based on the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI): Partly achieved  Move UBS sustainability disclosure from GRI G4 to GRI Standards  Sustainability disclosure in accordance with new GRI Standards published in March 2018.  Undertake survey of clients for 2018 GRI-based materiality assessment  Survey of clients postponed to 2019 (to be included in general stakeholder survey). Certain pertinent information drawn from other client-related sources (e.g., Investor Watch).  Align UBS’s disclosure with FSB TCFD recommendations  Disclosure further aligned with TCFD in financial year 2018 reporting, as commenced in 2017 reporting. FS Product Portfolio; Organize at least one roundtable with civil society organizations on environmental and social topics Civil society representatives were key contributors to the Policy Outlook roundtable, hosted by UBS Achieved FS Active Ownership of key relevance to UBS. in October 2018, on major sustainability topics, notably climate change and human rights. GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Launch of a revised UBS responsible supply chain guideline. Guideline revised and launched. Achieved Assessment; GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment FS Product Portfolio; Sustainable investments/ESG integration: FS Active Ownership  Direct USD 5 billion of client assets into new SDG-related impact investments to help  USD 1.9 bn of client assets were directed into SDG-related impact investments. On track mainstream the asset class and its contribution to the SDGs (by 2021).  Launch new SI strategic asset allocation (SAA). As part of rollout provide/ensure training to  New dedicated SI SAA are live since January 2018. Discretionary mandates and strategy funds Achieved client advisors, information to clients and a successful transition from old to new SAA assets. based on the new SI SAA have been launched.  Launch unique and exclusive SI product collaborations (i.e., World Bank, Hermes, etc.).  Several SI product collaborations have been launched, including: o a new index family on Development Bank bonds has been developed and launched in collaboration with Solactive. o Two impact investment funds have been launched. o Align17, a third-party digital marketing place of impact investments, has been launched.  Develop new sustainability focus strategies offering.  Launch of several investment products, among them the Global Climate Aware fund and the US Sustainable Equities.  Engage with sophisticated institutional clients on sustainable and impact investing. Position  Participation at ten key events spread globally, such as NZZ Swiss International Finance Forum, AM as the SI partner for sophisticated institutional clients, including thought leadership and SRI conferences, Ticker Club Canada, IIGCC events, FundForum Amsterdam, PRI in Person, RI helping them implement SI solutions. events.  Integrate material ESG data into fundamental research used for actively managed equity and  Substantial increase of Asset Management's ESG-integrated assets under management, which fixed income strategies. more than tripled from over USD 63 bn in 2017 to over USD 200 bn. 116 Material GRI topics Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 Status FS Product Portfolio; Establish and curate key industry partnerships with academia and key business partners.  “Navigating Climate scenario analysis“ paper based on the Institutional Investors Group on Achieved FS Active Ownership Climate Change (IIGCC) working group published.  Publication of MSCI and UBS SI handbook for investors. FS Product Portfolio; Training and skills: All relevant staff trained on the integration and stewardship approach on an ongoing basis. Achieved FS Active Ownership  Further develop SI proprietary research. Increased asset class coverage for both equity and fixed income.  Execute divisional trainings in order to support implementation of Mainstreaming Sustainable Performance initiative. GRI 203: Indirect Economic  Pioneer two to three new ways to finance international aid in partnerships with bilateral or  Following the success of the UBS Optimus Foundation's Educate Girls Development Impact Achieved Impacts multi-lateral agencies, foundations and / or the private sector. Bond (DIB), the world’s first in education, two further DIBs were launched, the Education DIB and the Utkrisht DIB, the world’s first DIB in mother and child health care and the largest DIB (per end of 2018).  Raise at least CHF 30 million through these new partnerships or philanthropic products.  More than CHF 35 million (USD 36 million) could be raised through partnerships and philanthropic products. Several multi-year partnerships developed around core Optimus partners (Freedom Fund, End Fund, Legatum, Give Directly, Youth Zone, plus others). FS Product Portfolio; Continue to build the Global Philanthropy Community to grow beyond 400 members and create Over 470 philanthropists and social impact investors are members of the Global Philanthropy Partly achieved FS Active Ownership value by: Community:  facilitating 50 connections amongst community members  29 new connections established between at least 56 different members (excl. the connections made in person at the philanthropy forums, which are not trackable)  testing/learning how to best build co-creation platforms that engage leading global  One workshop/collaboration platform executed on the value of philanthropically investing for philanthropists with UBS clients and prospects to achieve meaningful social impact through the benefit of teenage girls expertise and funding FS Product Portfolio; Maintain and build the success of the UBS Global, Asian and America Philanthropy Forums for More than 400 ultra high net worth individuals or philanthropists attended UBS Philanthropy Achieved FS Active Ownership Global ultra high net worth (UHWN) clients and prospects. Evidence-based on UBS marketing event Forums in the Americas, Asia and Switzerland. data. GRI 203: Indirect Economic Achieve a volunteering rate of 40% of employees by the end of 2020, with 40% of volunteers’ time 36% of the UBS workforce volunteered and 45% of volunteer hours were skills-based. On track Impacts directed at skills-based programs. FS Product Portfolio; Global Visionaries: Achieve 2,000 client touch points with Global Visionaries program. 3,865 client touch points reached in 26 events. Achieved GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts 117 Appendix Other areas Material GRI topics Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 Status GRI 201: Economic Performance; Performance targets and capital guidance for the Group for the 2018-2020 period: Operational efficiency and effectiveness  Cost/income ratio <75%1  Adjusted cost/income ratio: 77% Not achieved   ~15% return on tangible equity (RoTE), excluding deferred tax assets (DTAs)1  Adjusted return on tangible equity excl. deferred taxes and DTAs: 13.8% Partly achieved  ~13% fully applied CET1 capital ratio  CET1 capital ratio: 13.1% Achieved  ~3.7% fully applied CET1 leverage ratio  CET1 leverage ratio: 3.8% Achieved GRI 205: Anti-Corruption Review UBS’s financial crime framework to ensure that emerging risks are reflected. Review of UBS's Financial Crime framework was conducted to ensure that emerging risks are Achieved reflected. GRI 401: Employment; Build engagement and strengthen our corporate culture We measure our culture-building progress through regular employee surveys. In 2018, responses On track Working culture and environment  Invest in large-scale culture programs across the organization indicated that employee engagement, appreciation for our talent management practices and pride  Measure, foster and recognize culture-building behaviors in working at UBS were at or above the norm for high-performing organizations.  Remain an employer of choice for people at all career stages  Maintain attractiveness to external talent and a highly motivated workforce We are widely recognized as an employer of choice and received various top-employer honors in  Focus on internal mobility and provide long-term career prospects 2018. Internal mobility remained a key priority in 2018, as it builds cross-firm connections, increases engagement and enables employees to leverage existing skills and develop new ones. We further enhanced our suite of in-house recruitment tools during the year to better match internal talent with open roles, and developed specialized line manager training to increase their effectiveness. GRI 404 Training and Education Effectively develop, manage and retain our talent In 2018, UBS University transformed its offering to better connect employees with global trends, On track  Provide a wide range of learning opportunities to meet the needs of employees at all levels transform their businesses and improve their leadership skills. Monthly recommended learning picks  Prepare current and future leaders for enhanced responsibilities and leadership excellence enable employees to explore a wide variety of topics. Our permanent employees completed approximately 812,000 learning activities in 2018, including mandatory training on compliance, business and other topics. This averaged to 11.9 training sessions, or 1.76 training days, per employee. GRI 404: Training and Education; Strengthen our diverse and inclusive workplace Our diverse workforce and inclusive culture are critical to our long-term success. Already diverse in On track GRI 405: Diversity and Equal  Aspiration to increase the ratio of women in management roles to one-third many ways, we are committed to further increasing our diversity and to ensuring equal Opportunity;  Support activities focused on increasing the inclusiveness of our culture opportunities for all employees. We are especially focused on hiring, retaining and promoting more GRI 406: Non-Discrimination women across the firm, with a stated aspiration to increase the representation of women in management roles to one third. In 2018, we increased the number of women at all ranks. Our award-winning UBS Career Comeback Program, already established in the UK, US and Switzerland, was extended to India in 2018. In addition to our strategic initiatives, every year we sponsor numerous activities to promote inclusiveness. For example, this year we became a supporter of the UN LGBTI Standards of Conduct for Business, a set of anti-discrimination guidelines. Additionally, our employee networks regularly host events focused on gender, culture, disability, LGBTI/Pride, parental leave, elder care and other topics. In 2018, we sponsored 43 employee networks globally. 1 Annual target 118 Material GRI topics Objectives 2018 Achievements 2018 Status Client experience  Develop a new tool to handle client complaints.  Process to develop new tool under way. On track  Undertake first steps to align client complaint process with the Financial Services Act (FIDLEG).  Alignment process under way. GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling Suitability:  Implement the revised Global Suitability Standards in all locations and, for locations where a  Revised Global Suitability Standards implemented. Achieved standard will not be met, place a deviation request for approval by the responsible risk committees and by the policy owner.  Implement the new Swiss FIDLEG law applicable to financial service delivery in Switzerland.  Implementation of Swiss FIDLEG under way (FIDLEG enters into force on 1 Jan 2020). On track GRI 206: Anti-competitive Review and refine where necessary UBS's existing Conduct Risk Framework to ensure conduct risks Conduct Risk Framework fully integrated into ongoing risk assessment and semi-annual control, On track Behavior; are understood and managed to the risk appetite for each Business Division and Corporate Center with further refinements under way. GRI 418: Customer Privacy; function. GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Digital innovation Expenditure on technology of at least 10% of the Group’s revenues for the foreseeable future. In 2018, UBS spent approx. USD 3.5 billion on technology and we expect to maintain around this Achieved level of annual spend through 2021. 119 Appendix Objectives 2019 UBS in society UBS is committed to creating long-term positive impact for clients, employees, investors and society. We intend to make sustainable performance the standard across our firm and part of every client conversation. To implement our strategy, we have defined firm-wide goals that we plan to achieve by the end of 2020. Please refer to page 32 of this GRI Document for an overview of these mid-term goals. Our 2019 UBS in society objectives are aligned to these mid-term goals. Material GRI topics Objectives 2019 FS Product Portfolio; Sustainable investments / finance: FS Active Ownership  Make progress towards our mid-term goal to direct USD 5 billion of client assets into new SDG-related impact investments to help mainstream the asset class and its contribution to the SDGs (by 2021)  GWM to launch at least two private markets impact investing products  AM and GWM to further support the sustainable and impact investing cause (e.g., internal/external communication, events, research and whitepapers)  IB to maintain leadership position in ESG Integration / Sustainable Investing research through the collaborative delivery of differentiated content and client events  Further strengthen the collaboration to establish UBS Asset Management as SI leader in the industry  AM to launch SI products and solutions both in the active and passive space  AM to strengthen the company engagement approach focusing on climate action and impact categories in order to improve the sustainability performance of our investments GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Pioneer two to three new ways to finance international aid in partnership with bilateral or multilateral agencies, foundations and/or the private sector Raise at least CHF 30m through these new partnerships or philanthropic products. FS Product Portfolio; Continue to build the Global Philanthropists Community (GPC) to grow beyond 500 members and create value by facilitating 50 connections amongst community members. FS Active Ownership GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts Make progress towards our mid-term goal to achieve a volunteering rate of 40% of employees by the end of 2020, with 40% of volunteers’ time directed at skills-based programs. FS Product Portfolio; Achieve 2,000 client touch points with Global Visionary program. GRI 203: Indirect Economic Impacts FS Audit Strengthen UBS’s long-term value creation (LTVC) case for investors by supporting the integration of LTVC report into Annual Report. All Increase ESG engagement with UBS investors by participating in at least two ESG investor events/roadshows. FS Audit Execute firm-wide ISO 14001 surveillance audit and ensure continued certification by addressing audit findings. 120 Material GRI topics Objectives 2019 GRI 201: Economic Performance; Climate strategy: GRI 302: Energy;  Further aligning UBS’s risk appetite with reduction path under Paris Agreement and refine climate risk methodologies GRI 305: Emissions;  Continue to apply the CO2-levy to existing initiatives supporting especially small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) in their upgrade to reduce FS Product Portfolio C02 emissions. Allocate budget to new sustainability initiatives across segments in Personal & Corporate Banking. Execute on 2020 greenhouse gas/energy reduction target and RE100 implementation plan:  Reduce Greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions by 75% below 2004 level  Reduce energy by 5% below 2016 level1  Increase share of renewable electricity to 100% by June 30, 2020 – Execute on 2020 operational environmental targets for water, paper and waste:  Reduce water consumption by 5% below 2016 level3  Reduce paper consumption per FTE by 5% below 2016 level3  Increase share of sustainable (FSC/recycled) to 90%  Reduce waste per FTE by 5% below 2016 level3  Increase waste recycling ratio to 60% FS Product Portfolio; Simplify ESR checks and processes in onboarding and periodic Know Your Client (KYC) reviews and train approx. 50% of relevant target groups. FS Active Ownership GRI 308: Supplier Environmental Assessment; Further improve approach to assess vendors and enhance UBS Responsible Supply Chain Standard. GRI 414: Supplier Social Assessment 1 Target for 2020 has already been achieved, but needs to be reassessed each year. 121 Appendix Other areas Material GRI topics Objectives 2019 GRI 201: Economic Performance; Operational efficiency and  Reported return on CET1 capital of ~15% for 2019, with an ambition to improve to ~17% by 2021 effectiveness  Adjusted cost/income ratio of ~ 77% for 2019, with an ambition to improve to ~ 72% by 2021 GRI 205: Anti-Corruption Review UBS’s financial crime framework to ensure that emerging risks are reflected. GRI 401: Employment; Build engagement and strengthen our corporate culture Working culture and environment  Reinforce the culture programs across the organization  Promote feedback culture and measure, foster and recognize UBS behaviors of integrity, collaboration and challenge Remain an employer of choice for people at all career stages  Attract the right external talent and maintain a highly motivated workforce  Continue to foster internal mobility and provide long-term career prospects GRI 404 Training and Education Effectively develop, manage and retain our talent  Curate and modernize the UBS University learning offering to continue to enhance learner experience  Prepare current and future leaders for enhanced responsibilities in an ever-evolving banking and working environment GRI 404: Training and Education; Strengthen our diverse and inclusive workplace GRI 405: Diversity and Equal Opportunity;  Aspiration to increase the ratio of women in management roles to one-third GRI 406: Non-Discrimination  Expansion of understanding and skill base around Inclusive Leadership Client experience  Implement new tool to handle client complaints as well as requests in connection with FADP/EU GDPR  Finalize alignment of complaint process with FIDLEG  Define rules/processes for handling data requests under FIDLEG GRI 417: Marketing and Labeling Suitability:  Implement the new Swiss FIDLEG law applicable to financial service delivery in Switzerland  Implement the 2018 ESMA Guidelines on certain aspects of MIFID II suitability requirements for MIFID-affected clients GRI 206: Anti-competitive Behavior; Maintain an effectively designed and operating conduct risk framework with standards consistently applied across all businesses, functions and regions GRI 418: Customer Privacy; GRI 419: Socioeconomic Compliance Digital innovation Technology spending to be maintained at current levels (~3.5 bn CHF) with a focus on advanced technology to enable business growth and innovation and create further efficiencies. 122 UBS in society management indicators UBS in society management indicators For the year ended % change from 31.12.2018 31.12.2017 31.12.2016 31.12.2017 Personnel in specialized units/functions (full time equivalents)1 135 108 90 25 Awareness raising2 Training participation (headcounts) 43,722 68,955 78,044 (37) Specialized training3 Training participation (headcounts) 11,821 9,460 13,931 25 External audits4 Audit participation (headcounts) 135 203 100 (33) Auditing time (calendar days on site) 25 35 13 (30) Internal audits5 Audit participation (headcounts) 437 537 292 (19) Auditing time (person days) 572 875 592 (35) 1 Employees that are part of the UBS in society organization and / or have specialized knowledge relevant for the UBS in society management system. 2 Decrease due to change in roll-out frequency of mandatory conduct and culture training. 3 Specialized training is provided to employees in front-office and support functions who are dealing directly with UBS in society aspects in everyday business processes. 4ISO 14001, ISO 50001, ISO 14064 and Global Reporting Initiative (GRI). 5 Audits / reviews conducted by specialized internal units. The implementation of environmental and social risk policies is also audited by Group Internal Audit. 123 Appendix Direct economic value generated and distributed by UBS Group AG consolidated in 2018 USD million 31.12.2018 Operating income 30,213 Operating expenses 24,222 of which Personnel expenses 16,132 of which Community investments 41 2017 dividends paid on UBS shares 2,440 Tax expenses, excluding deferred taxes 1,044 Economic value retained 2,507 124 Global Reporting Initiative Content Index 2018 This content index refers to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Standards issued by the Global Sustainability Standards Board in 2016 and the Financial Services Sector Supplements, which form together a voluntary reporting framework that provides guidance on how organizations can disclose their sustainability performance. UBS’s reporting has been reviewed by Ernst & Young Ltd (EY) against the GRI Standards. The content has been prepared in accordance with the comprehensive option as evidenced in the EY assurance report. The limited assurance by EY covered all items of the GRI Content Index. Guidance Disclosure Number and title of disclosure Reference Referenced text which covers the GRI Standard Page Page reference in the UBS Annual Report 2018 or UBS GRI Document 2018 Note Topics in the index that do not feature a management approach are not material, but are reported on a voluntary basis (selected indicators only). All references to the Annual Report 2018 are referring to the combined UBS Group AG and UBS AG Annual Report 2018 available on www.ubs.com/investors. 125 Appendix GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page GRI 102 General 102–1 Name of organization Corporate information Annual Report 2018 / 5 Disclosures 102–2 Activities, brands, products, and Our strategy GRI Document 2018 / 6 services Global Wealth Management GRI Document 2018 / 10–11 Personal & Corporate Banking GRI Document 2018 / 12–13 Asset Management GRI Document 2018 / 14–15 Investment Bank GRI Document 2018 / 16–17 Corporate Center GRI Document 2018 / 18 102–3 Location of headquarters Corporate information Annual Report 2018 / 5 102–4 Location of operations Global Wealth Management GRI Document 2018 / 10–11 Personal & Corporate Banking GRI Document 2018 / 12–13 Asset Management GRI Document 2018 / 14–15 Investment Bank GRI Document 2018 / 16–17 Our integrated workforce strategy GRI Document 2018 / 27 Further information reg. locations, incl. list of all UBS Branches worldwide can be found under https://www.ubs.com/global/en/ about_ubs/about_us/locations.html 102–5 Ownership and legal form Corporate information Annual Report 2018 / 5 Significant shareholders Annual Report 2018 / 222-223 102–6 Markets served Our strategy GRI Document 2018 / 6 Global Wealth Management GRI Document 2018 / 10–11 Personal & Corporate Banking GRI Document 2018 / 12–13 Asset Management GRI Document 2018 / 14–15 Investment Bank GRI Document 2018 / 16–17 102–7 Scale of the organization Our key figures Annual Report 2018 / 6-7 Note 2a Segment reporting Annual Report 2018 / 381–384 Note 2b Segment reporting by geographic location Annual Report 2018 / 385 102–8 Information on employees and Our employees GRI Document 2018 / 75–81 other workers Employees GRI Document 2018 / 27–29 102–9 Supply chain Our stakeholders – Suppliers GRI Document 2018 / 44 Responsible supply chain management GRI Document 2018 / 70–71 102–10 Significant changes to the Our evolution Annual Report 2018 / 12–13 organization and its supply chain Note 1b Changes in accounting policies, comparability Annual Report 2018 / 362–366 and other adjustments excluding the effects of adoption of IFRS9 Note 32 Changes in organization and acquisitions, sales Annual Report 2018 / 497 and disposals of subsidiaries and businesses Our integrated workforce strategy GRI Document 2018 / 27 102–11 Precautionary Principle or Risk management and control Annual Report 2018 / 119–172 approach Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2018 / 35–36 102–12 External initiatives External commitments and memberships GRI Document 2018 / 74 Advancing sustainability in the financial sector GRI Document 2018 / 57–58 102–13 Membership of associations See 102–12 GRI Document 2018 / 74 GRI Document 2018 / 57–58 102–14 Statement from senior decision– Chairman’s statement GRI Document 2018 / 3 maker 126 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page GRI 102 General 102–15 Key impacts, risks, and Our strategy, business model and environment GRI Document 2018 / 5–32 Disclosures opportunities Risk management and control Annual Report 2018 / 119–172 Risk evaluation GRI Document 2018 / 142 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Sustainability governance GRI Document 2018 / 34 102–16 Values, principles, standards, Our Code of Conduct and Ethics GRI Document 2018 / 96–99 and norms of behavior Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2018 / 35–36 Our corporate culture GRI Document 2018 / 27 3 keys Annual Report 2018 / 1 102–17 Mechanisms for advice and Our Code of Conduct and Ethics GRI Document 2018 / 96–99 concerns about ethics Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2018 / 35–36 Quality feedback management system GRI Document 2018 / 41 Grievance mechanisms GRI Document 2018 / 113 102–18 Governance structure Board of Directors Annual Report 2018 / 230–242 Group Executive Board Annual Report 2018 / 243–248 Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility GRI Document 2018 / 100 Committee Sustainability governance GRI Document 2018 / 34 102–19 Delegating authority Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility GRI Document 2018 / 100 Committee Sustainability governance GRI Document 2018 / 34 102–20 Executive-level responsibility for Sustainability governance GRI Document 2018 / 34 economic, environmental, and social Charter of the CCRC GRI Document 2018 / 100 topics 102–21 Consulting stakeholders on Chairman’s statement GRI Document 2018 / 3 economic, environmental, and social Our stakeholder management GRI Document 2018 / 41–49 topics Shareholders’ participation rights Annual Report 2018 / 228–229 Corporate calendar UBS Group AG Annual Report 2018 / 5 Our stakeholders – Employees GRI Document 2018 / 41–42 102–22 Composition of highest Board of Directors Annual Report 2018 / 230–242 governance body Group Executive Board Annual Report 2018 / 243–248 Sustainability governance GRI Document 2018 / 34 102–23 Chair of the highest governance Not relevant to UBS (two-tiered board structure) body Board of Directors Annual Report 2018 / 230–242 102–24 Nominating and selecting the Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2018 / 36–37 highest governance body Board of Directors Annual Report 2018 / 230–242 Elections and terms of office Organizational principles and structure Governance and Nominating Committee Skills, expertise and training of the Board of Directors 102–25 Conflicts of interest Key policies and guidelines (Code of Conduct and Ethics) GRI Document 2018 / 35–36 Important business connections of independent Annual Report 2018 / 240 members of the Board of Directors 102–26 Role of highest governance Sustainability governance GRI Document 2018 / 34 body in setting purpose, values, and Charter of the CCRC GRI Document 2018 / 100 strategy Chairman’s statement GRI Document 2018 / 3 102–27 Collective knowledge of highest Skills, expertise and training of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2018 / 241 governance body 127 Appendix GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page GRI 102 General 102–28 Evaluating the highest Organizational principles and structure Annual Report 2018 / 235 Disclosures governance body’s performance Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2018 / 36–37 102–29 Identifying and managing Sustainability governance GRI Document 2018 / 34 economic, environmental, and social Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility GRI Document 2018 / 100 impacts Committee Chairman’s statement GRI Document 2018 / 3 Our stakeholder management GRI Document 2018 / 41–49 102–30 Effectiveness of risk Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility GRI Document 2018 / 100 management processes Committee 102–31 Review of economic, Board of Directors – CCRC Annual Report 2018 / 238 environmental, and social topics 102–32 Highest governance body’s role Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility GRI Document 2018 / 100 in sustainability reporting Committee 102–33 Communicating critical Sustainability governance GRI Document 2018 / 34 concerns Charter of the CCRC GRI Document 2018 / 100 Chairman’s statement GRI Document 2018 / 3 Global whistleblowing policy and procedures GRI Document 2018 / 35 102–34 Nature and total number of Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 critical concerns Our stakeholders GRI Document 2018 / 41–44 Note: Due to the diverse nature and sources of critical concerns it is not possible to report their total number. 102–35 Remuneration policies Compensation Report 2018 Annual Report 2018 / 254–303 Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2018 / 36–37 102–36 Process for determining Compensation Report 2018 Annual Report 2018 / 254–303 remuneration 102–37 Stakeholders’ involvement in Our stakeholders GRI Document 2018 / 41–44 remuneration Shareholders’ participation rights Annual Report 2018 / 228–229 Corporate calendar UBS Group AG Annual Report 2018 / 5 Compensation report – Overview of the performance Annual Report 2018 / 279 assessment measures Shareholder engagement and say on pay Annual Report 2018 / 258–261 Employees GRI Document 2018 / 41–42 Note: Voting results of AGMs are published on www.ubs.com/agm 102–38 Annual total compensation Reason for omission: Not disclosed due to confidentiality ratio Compensation for the CEO, the highest paid GEB Annual Report 2018 / 254–303 member, total compensation for GEB members, compensation for the BoD members, including the Chairman, and compensation for employees other than GEB members are disclosed in the Compensation Report 2018. 102–39 Percentage increase in annual Reason for omission: Not disclosed due to confidentiality total compensation ratio Compensation increase for the CEO, the highest paid Annual Report 2018 / 254–303 GEB member, total compensation for GEB members, compensation for the BoD members, including the Chairman, and general employee compensation for employees other than GEB members are disclosed in the Compensation Report 2018. 128 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page GRI 102 General 102–40 List of stakeholder groups Our stakeholders GRI Document 2018 / 41–44 Disclosures Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 102–41 Collective bargaining Employee representation GRI Document 2018 / 42 agreements 102–42 Identifying and selecting See 102–40 GRI Document 2018 / 41–44 stakeholders GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 102–43 Approach to stakeholder See 102–40 GRI Document 2018 / 41–44 engagement GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 102–44 Key topics and concerns raised See 102–40 GRI Document 2018 / 41–44 GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 102–45 Entities included in the Our external reporting approach Annual Report 2018 (at the very consolidated financial statements beginning of the report) Our evolution Annual Report 2018 / 12–13 Note 1 Summary of significant accounting policies Annual Report 2018 / 331–380 Note 31 Interests in subsidiaries and other entities Annual Report 2018 / 489–496 Note: Except where clearly identified, all of UBS’s sustainability information referenced in this GRI index is presented on a consolidated basis under IFRS requirements for financial reporting for the UBS Group AG. 102–46 Defining report content and Information policy Annual Report 2018 / 252–253 topic boundaries Our stakeholders GRI Document 2018 / 41–44 Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 102–47 List of material topics Material GRI topics 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 47 102–48 Restatements of information None 102–49 Changes in reporting We have reduced the list of material topics in 2018. For details see: Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 102–50 Reporting period 01.01.2018–31.12.2018 102–51 Date of most recent report 19.03.2018 102–52 Reporting cycle Financial reporting: quarterly Sustainability reporting: annually 102–53 Contact point for questions Questions related to Annual Report: Contacts Annual Report 2018 / 5 regarding the report Questions related to sustainability reporting: Contacts GRI Document 2018 / 2 102–54 Claims of reporting in GRI content index GRI Document 2018 / 125 accordance with the GRI standards Independent assurance report by EY GRI Document 2018 / 90–91 102–55 GRI content index 102–56 External assurance Auditors Annual Report 2018 / 250–251 Management’s report on internal control over financial Annual Report 2018 / 308–319 reporting Independent assurance report by EY GRI Document 2018 / 90–91 About this GRI Document GRI Document 2018 / 2 129 Appendix GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page Economic Performance GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Our strategy GRI Document 2018 / 6 its components Performance targets and measurement GRI Document 2018 / 7–8 Our key figures Annual Report 2018 / 6–7 Group Internal Audit Annual Report 2018 / 251 Organizational principles and structure Annual Report 2018 / 235 Our climate strategy GRI Document 2018 / 37–40 Charter of the Corporate Culture and Responsibility GRI Document 2018 / 100 Committee Sustainability governance GRI Document 2018 / 34 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach GRI 201 Economic 201–1 Direct economic value generated Direct economic value generated and distributed by UBS GRI Document 2018 / 124 Performance and distributed Group AG consolidated in 2018 Income statement Annual Report 2018 / 320 Statement of cash flows Annual Report 2018 / 329–330 Note 6 Personnel expenses Annual Report 2018 / 390 Note 7 General and administrative expenses Annual Report 2018 / 390 Note 8 Income taxes Annual Report 2018 / 391–394 Our communities GRI Document 2018 / 83–87 Our stakeholders – Suppliers (total purchase amount) GRI Document 2018 / 44 201–2 Financial implications and other Our climate strategy GRI Document 2018 / 37–40 risks and opportunities for the organization’s activities due to climate Refer to Submission to the CDP climate change change questionnaire for further information 201–3 Defined benefit plan obligations Note 29 Pension and other post-employment benefit Annual Report 2018 / 466–480 and other retirement plans plans 201–4 Financial assistance received from UBS did not receive any significant monetary support government from governments in 2018 Indirect Economic Impacts GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Sustainability governance GRI Document 2018 / 34 its components Society GRI Document 2018 / 30–32 Indirect economic impacts GRI Document 2018 / 113 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach 130 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page GRI 203 Indirect 203–1 Infrastructure investments and Our communities GRI Document 2018 / 83–87 Economic Impacts services supported 203–2 Significant indirect economic Indirect economic impacts GRI Document 2018 / 113 impacts Swiss SRB total loss-absorbing capacity framework Annual Report 2018 / 196–198 Personal & Corporate GRI Document 2018 / 12–13 Society GRI Document 2018 / 30–32 For further information see also http://www.ubs.com/ Switzerland and UBS – Strong partners strongpartners Anti–corruption GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Sustainability governance GRI Document 2018 / 34 its components Policies to combating financial crime GRI Document 2018 / 35 Combating financial crime GRI Document 2018 / 71 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach GRI 205 Anti– 205–1 Operations assessed for risks Combating financial crime GRI Document 2018 / 71 corruption related to corruption 205–2 Communication and training Sustainability-related training and raising awareness GRI Document 2018 / 82 about anti–corruption policies and Responsible supply chain management – Committing GRI Document 2018 / 70–71 procedures suppliers to comply with our standards 205–3 Confirmed incidents of Reason for omission: Annual Report 2018 / 413–420 corruption and actions taken Confidentiality constraints: UBS treats this data as confidential company information. Significant cases would be discussed in Note 21 b) Litigation, regulatory and similar matters of the UBS Annual Report. Anti–competitive Behavior GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Risk appetite framework Annual Report 2018 / 125–128 its components Operational risk Annual Report 2018 / 170–172 Our Code of Conduct and Ethics GRI Document 2018 / 96–99 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach GRI 206 Anti206–1 Legal actions for anti-competitive See GRI 419–1 competitive behavior, anti-trust, and monopoly Behavior practices 131 Appendix GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page Materials GRI 301 Materials 301–1 Materials used by weight or Paper is the only relevant material for this indicator volume. In-house environmental management – Paper GRI Document 2018 / 65–66 301–2 Recycled input materials used Paper is the only relevant material for this indicator In-house environmental management – Paper GRI Document 2018 / 65–66 Energy GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Sustainability governance GRI Document 2018 / 34 its components Sustainability-related training and raising awareness GRI Document 2018 / 82 UBS in society management indicators GRI Document 2018 / 123 Our climate strategy GRI Document 2018 / 37–40 Environmental targets and performance in our GRI Document 2018 / 63 operations UBS in society constitutional document GRI Document 2018 / 101–103 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 Refer to Submission to the CDP climate change questionnaire for further information 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach ISO 14001 and 50001 certificates GRI Document 2018 / 92–95 GRI 302 Energy 302–1 Energy consumption within the GHG emissions GRI Document 2018 / 62 organization Energy consumption GRI Document 2018 / 63 Environmental indicators GRI Document 2018 / 68 Reporting standards and methodologies GRI Document 2018 / 67 302–2 Energy consumption outside of Not relevant the organization 302–3 Energy intensity Environmental indicators per full-time employee (FTE) GRI Document 2018 / 69 Reporting standards and methodologies GRI Document 2018 / 67 302–4 Reduction of energy GHG emissions GRI Document 2018 / 62 consumption Energy consumption GRI Document 2018 / 63 Environmental targets and performance in our GRI Document 2018 / 63 operations Reporting standards and methodologies GRI Document 2018 / 67 302–5 Reductions in energy Not relevant for financial institutions, see FS8 requirements of products and services 132 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page Emissions GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Sustainability governance GRI Document 2018 / 34 its components Sustainability-related training and raising awareness GRI Document 2018 / 82 UBS in society management indicators GRI Document 2018 / 123 Our climate strategy GRI Document 2018 / 37–40 Environmental targets and performance in our GRI Document 2018 / 63 operations UBS in society constitutional document GRI Document 2018 / 101–103 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 Refer to Submission to the CDP climate change questionnaire for further information 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach ISO 14001 and 50001 certificates GRI Document 2018 / 92–95 GRI 305 Emissions 305–1 Direct (Scope 1) GHG emissions Environmental indicators GRI Document 2018 / 68 GHG emissions GRI Document 2018 / 62 Reporting standards and methodologies GRI Document 2018 / 67 305–2 Energy indirect (Scope 2) GHG Environmental indicators GRI Document 2018 / 68 emissions GHG emissions GRI Document 2018 / 62 Reporting standards and methodologies GRI Document 2018 / 67 305–3 Other indirect (Scope 3) GHG Environmental indicators GRI Document 2018 / 68 emissions GHG emissions GRI Document 2018 / 62 Reporting standards and methodologies GRI Document 2018 / 67 305–4 GHG emissions intensity Environmental indicators per full-time employee (FTE) GRI Document 2018 / 69 Reporting standards and methodologies GRI Document 2018 / 67 305–5 Reduction of GHG emissions see 302–4 305–6 Emissions of ozone-depleting Not relevant substances (ODS) 305–7 Nitrogen oxides (NOX), sulfur Not relevant oxides (SOX), and other significant air emissions Effluents and Waste GRI 306 Effluents 306–2 Waste by type and disposal Environmental indicators GRI Document 2018 / 68 and Waste method Waste and recycling GRI Document 2018 / 66 Supplier Environmental Assessment GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Sustainability governance GRI Document 2018 / 34 its components Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 UBS in society constitutional document GRI Document 2018 / 101–103 Responsible supply chain management GRI Document 2018 / 70–71 Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach ISO 14001 GRI Document 2018 / 92–93 133 Appendix GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page GRI 308 Supplier 308–1 New suppliers that were Responsible supply chain management GRI Document 2018 / 70–71 Environmental screened using environmental criteria Assessment 308–2 Negative environmental impacts Responsible supply chain management GRI Document 2018 / 70–71 in the supply chain and actions taken Employment GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Governance – Compensation Committee Annual Report 2018 / 238 its components Employees GRI Document 2018 / 27–29 Our stakeholders – Employees GRI Document 2018 / 41–42 Our employees GRI Document 2018 / 75–76 Compensation Annual Report 2018 / 254–303 Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2018 / 35–36 Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2018 / 36–37 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 Information relevant to specific material topics – GRI Document 2018 / 113 Employee topics Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach GRI 401 401–1 New employee hires and Employer of choice GRI Document 2018 / 27 Employment employee turnover Our workforce at a glance GRI Document 2018 / 76–81 401–2 Benefits provided to full-time Our employees GRI Document 2018 / 75 employees that are not provided to temporary or part-time employees 401–3 Parental leave Our employees GRI Document 2018 / 75 UBS employees: parental leave taken GRI Document 2018 / 81 Reason for omission: Information unavailable for GRI 401–3 c), d) and e). Data aggregation is subject to limitations such as the disparate definitions and permutations of parental leave across the firm and the various leave and absence tools used in the more than 50 countries in which we operate. Training and Education GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Employees GRI Document 2018 / 27–29 its components Our stakeholders – Employees GRI Document 2018 / 41–42 Our employees GRI Document 2018 / 75–76 Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2018 / 35–36 Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2018 / 36–37 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 Information relevant to specific material topics – GRI Document 2018 / 113 Employee topics Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach 134 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page GRI 404 Training 404–1 Average hours of training per UBS reports in training days instead of training hours. and Education year per employee One training day equals eight training hours. Developing and retaining talent GRI Document 2018 / 28 UBS employees 2018 – by the numbers GRI Document 2017 / 76–81 404–2 Programs for upgrading Employees GRI Document 2018 / 27–28 employee skills and transition assistance Our employees GRI Document 2018 / 75–76 programs 404–3 Percentage of employees Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2018 / 36–37 receiving regular performance and Developing and retaining talent GRI Document 2018 / 28 career development reviews As the performance review percentage covers approximately 99% of all our eligible employees, there is no added value for further breakdown by gender or employment category. Diversity and Equal Opportunity GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Employees GRI Document 2018 / 27–29 its components Our stakeholders – Employees GRI Document 2018 / 41–42 Our employees GRI Document 2018 / 75–76 Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2018 / 35–36 Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2018 / 36–37 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 Information relevant to specific material topics – GRI Document 2018 / 113 Employee topics Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach GRI 405 Diversity 405–1 Diversity of governance bodies Employees GRI Document 2018 / 27–29 and Equal and employees UBS employees 2018 – by the numbers GRI Document 2018 / 76–81 Opportunity Members of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2018 / 230–234 Skills, expertise and training of the Board of Directors Annual Report 2018 / 241 Members of the Group Executive Board Annual Report 2018 / 243–248 405–2 Ratio of basic salary and Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2018 / 36–37 remuneration of women to men Total Reward Principles Annual Report 2018 / 262 Non-discrimination GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Employees GRI Document 2018 / 27–29 its components Our stakeholders – Employees GRI Document 2018 / 41–42 Our employees GRI Document 2018 / 75–76 Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2018 / 35–36 Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2018 / 36–37 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 Information relevant to specific material topics – GRI Document 2018 / 113 Employee topics Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 135 Appendix GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page GRI 406 Non406–1 Incidents of discrimination and Reason for omission: Annual Report 2018 / 413–420 discrimination corrective actions taken Confidentiality constraints: UBS treats this data as confidential company information. Significant cases would be discussed in Note 21 b) Litigation, regulatory and similar matters of the UBS Annual Report. Supplier Social Assessment GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Sustainability governance GRI Document 2018 / 34 its components Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 UBS in society constitutional document GRI Document 2018 / 101–103 Responsible supply chain management GRI Document 2018 / 70–71 Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach ISO 14001 certificate GRI Document 2018 / 92–93 GRI 414 Supplier 414–1 New suppliers that were Responsible supply chain management GRI Document 2018 / 70–71 Social Assessment screened using social criteria 414–2 Negative social impacts in the Responsible supply chain management GRI Document 2018 / 70–71 supply chain and actions taken Local Communities FS14 Initiatives to improve access to financial Accessibility GRI Document 2018 / 56 services for disadvantaged people. Public Policy GRI 415 Public 415–1 Political contributions Our stakeholders – Politicians and political parties GRI Document 2018 / 43 Policy Marketing and Labelling GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Regulation and supervision Annual Report 2018 / 43–44 GRI G4 Financial its components Our Code of Conduct and Ethics GRI Document 2018 / 96–99 Services Sector Disclosures Suitability GRI Document 2018 / 55 Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2018 / 35–36 Quality feedback management system GRI Document 2018 / 41 Financial literacy GRI Document 2018 / 56 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach 136 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page GRI 417 Marketing 417–1 Requirements for product and Not relevant for financial services company and Labelling service information and labelling See former FS15 which has been included in 103 for Marketing and Labelling (i.e., Suitability) 417–2 Incidents of non-compliance Reason for omission: Annual Report 2018 / 413–420 concerning product and service Confidentiality constraints: UBS treats this data as information and labelling confidential company information. Significant cases would be discussed in Note 21 b) Litigation, regulatory and similar matters of the UBS Annual Report. 417–3 Incidents of non-compliance Reason for omission: Annual Report 2018 / 413–420 concerning marketing communications Confidentiality constraints: UBS treats this data as confidential company information. Significant cases would be discussed in Note 21 b) Litigation, regulatory and similar matters of the UBS Annual Report. Customer Privacy GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Regulation and supervision Annual Report 2018 / 43–44 its components Our Code of Conduct and Ethics GRI Document 2018 / 96–99 Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach GRI 418 Customer 418–1 Substantiated complaints Reason for omission: Annual Report 2018 / 413–420 Privacy concerning breaches of customer Confidentiality constraints: UBS treats this data as privacy and losses of customer data confidential company information. Significant cases would be discussed in Note 21 b) Litigation, regulatory and similar matters of the UBS Annual Report. Socioeconomic Compliance GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Our Code of Conduct and Ethics GRI Document 2018 / 96–99 its components Operational risk Annual Report 2018 / 170–172 Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach GRI 419 419–1 Non-compliance with laws and Reason for omission: Annual Report 2018 / 413–420 Socioeconomic regulations in the social and economic Confidentiality constraints: UBS treats this data as Compliance area confidential company information. Significant cases would be discussed in Note 21 b) Litigation, regulatory and similar matters of the UBS Annual Report. 137 Appendix GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page Product Portfolio GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Sustainability governance GRI Document 2018 / 34 its components Society GRI Document 2018 / 30–32 Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2018 / 35–36 Our Code of Conduct and Ethics GRI Document 2018 / 96–99 UBS in society constitutional document GRI Document 2018 / 101–103 Our climate strategy GRI Document 2018 / 37–40 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 Environmental and social risk policy framework GRI Document 2018 / 104–110 Our clients GRI Document 2018 / 50–54 Sustainability-related training and raising awareness GRI Document 2018 / 82 UBS in society management indicators GRI Document 2018 / 123 Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach ISO 14001 certification GRI Document 2018 / 92–93 GRI G4 Financial FS6 Percentage of the portfolio for Global Wealth Management GRI Document 2018 / 10–11 Services Sector business lines by specific region, size Global Wealth Management Annual Report 2018 / 82–85 Disclosures (e.g. micro/SME/large) and by sector Personal & Corporate Banking GRI Document 2018 / 12–13 Personal & Corporate Banking Annual Report 2018 / 86–91 Asset Management GRI Document 2018 / 14–15 Asset Management Annual Report 2018 / 92–96 Investment Bank GRI Document 2018 / 16–17 Investment Bank Annual Report 2018 / 97–102 Market risk Annual Report 2018 / 154–164 Country risk Annual Report 2018 / 165–169 Credit risk Annual Report 2018 / 133–153 Basel III Pillar 3 UBS Group AG 2018 report https://www.ubs.com/global/en/ about_ubs/investor_relations/pill ar3-disclosures.html FS7 Monetary value of products and Our clients GRI Document 2018 / 50–54 services designed to deliver a specific social benefit for each business line broken down by purpose FS8 Monetary value of products and Our climate strategy GRI Document 2018 / 37–40 services designed to deliver a specific Calculating and reporting on climate change-related GRI Document 2018 / 111 environmental benefit for each business financing and advisory activities line broken down by purpose Audit GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and UBS in society constitutional document GRI Document 2018 / 101–103 its components UBS in society management indicators GRI Document 2018 / 123 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach ISO 14001 certification GRI Document 2018 / 92–93 138 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page Active Ownership GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Society GRI Document 2018 / 30–32 its components Sustainability governance GRI Document 2018 / 34 UBS in society constitutional document GRI Document 2018 / 101–103 Sustainable investments GRI Document 2018 / 50–51 Stewardship / voting rights GRI Document 2018 / 51 Environmental and social risk policy framework GRI Document 2018 / 104–110 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach ISO 14001 certification GRI Document 2018 / 92–93 GRI G4 Financial FS10 Percentage and number of Reason for omission: Our interactions with companies Services Sector companies held in the institution’s take a comprehensive ESG approach. Selective Disclosures portfolio with which the reporting quantitative data provision on environmental and social organization has interacted on issues only is therefore not practical. environmental or social issues Stewardship / voting rights GRI Document 2018 / 51 FS11 Percentage of assets subject to Sustainable investments GRI Document 2018 / 50–51 positive and negative environmental or social screening 139 Appendix Topics not covered by the topic-specific standards GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page Digital Innovation GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Our focus on technology GRI Document 2018 / 24–25 its components Digital innovation GRI Document 2018 / 113 Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach KPI: USD billion spent on technology Our focus on technology GRI Document 2018 / 24–25 Operational Efficiency and Effectiveness GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Corporate Center GRI Document 2018 / 18 its components Our strategy GRI Document 2018 / 6 Our focus on technology GRI Document 2018 / 24–25 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach KPI: Adjusted cost / income ration Our Key Figures Annual Report 2018 / 6–7 Client Experience GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Our Code of Conduct and Ethics GRI Document 2018 / 96–99 its components Quality feedback management system GRI Document 2018 / 41 Clients GRI Document 2018 / 22–23 Current market climate and industry trends GRI Document 2018 / 19–21 Our strategy GRI Document 2018 / 6 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach KPI: Net new money growth (%) for Global Wealth Management Annual Report 2018 / 82 Global Wealth Management Net new money growth 140 GRI Standard Disclosure Reference Page Working Culture and Environment GRI 103 103–1 Explanation of the material topic Materiality under GRI Standards GRI Document 2018 / 44–49 Management and its boundary Impact of material GRI topics GRI Document 2018 / 114 Approach 103–2 The management approach and Governance – Compensation Committee Annual Report 2018 / 238 its components Employees GRI Document 2018 / 27–29 Our stakeholders – Employees GRI Document 2018 / 41–42 Our employees GRI Document 2018 / 75–76 Key policies and guidelines GRI Document 2018 / 35–36 Sustainable performance and compensation GRI Document 2018 / 36–37 Objectives 2019 GRI Document 2018 / 120–122 Objectives and achievements 2018 GRI Document 2018 / 115–119 Information relevant to specific material topics – GRI Document 2018 / 113 Employee topics Health and safety statement GRI Document 2018 / 112 Our Code of Conduct and Ethics GRI Document 2018 / 96–99 Information relevant to all material topics GRI Document 2018 / 113 103–3 Evaluation of the management Evaluation of management approaches GRI Document 2018 / 113 approach KPI: Overall engagement ratings Our stakeholders – Employees GRI Document 2018 / 41–42 141 Appendix Risk evaluation In pursuance of the requirements of the German law The amount and structure of our employee compensation is implementing the EU directive 2014/95 (on non-financial affected not only by our business results but also by competitive disclosures, CSR-Richtlinie-Umsetzungsgesetz / CSR-RUG) this factors and regulatory considerations. In recent years, in section includes an evaluation of the risks that have a high response to the demands of various stakeholders, including probability of potential negative impacts upon the aspects regulatory authorities and shareholders, and in order to better covered by said law. align the interests of our staff with other stakeholders, we have increased average deferral periods for stock awards, expanded Combating money laundering and terrorist financing has been a forfeiture provisions and, to a more limited extent, introduced major focus of government policies relating to financial clawback provisions for certain awards linked to business institutions in recent years. The US Bank Secrecy Act and other performance. We have also introduced individual caps on the laws and regulations applicable to UBS require the maintenance proportion of fixed to variable pay for the Group Executive of effective policies, procedures and controls to detect, prevent Board (GEB) members, as well as certain other employees. and report money laundering and terrorist financing, and to Constraints on the amount or structure of employee verify the identity of our clients. Failure to maintain and compensation, higher levels of deferral, performance conditions implement adequate programs to prevent money laundering and other circumstances triggering the forfeiture of unvested and terrorist financing could result in significant legal and awards may adversely affect our ability to retain and attract key reputation risk. In addition, we are subject to laws and employees. The loss of key staff and the inability to attract regulations, in jurisdictions in which we operate, prohibiting qualified replacements could seriously compromise our ability to corrupt or illegal payments to government officials and others, execute our strategy and to successfully improve our operating including the US Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and the UK and control environment, and affect our business performance. Bribery Act. We maintain policies, procedures and internal  Refer to the “Risk factors” and Regulation and supervision controls intended to comply with these regulations. sections of UBS's Annual Report 2018 We may be unable to retain and attract qualified employees. 142 Non-financial disclosures in accordance with German law implementing the EU directive 2014/95 This GRI Document also includes our firm's disclosures of non-financial information required by German law implementing the EU directive 2014/95 (CSR-Richtlinie-Umsetzungsgesetz / CSR-RUG). These disclosures can be found in the sections and the pages indicated below. Due to the differing materiality requirements of the GRI Standards and of CSR-RUG the material topics listed in the CSR-RUG index are therefore limited to the matters ( Belange ) addressed by CSR-RUG. Section in GRI document 2018 Page(s) About this report (including framework) About this GRI document 2 Description of the business model Our strategy, business model and environment 5–32 Material risks Risk evaluation 142 Non-financial aspects Section in GRI document 2018 Page(s) Broad thematic issues affecting all – Our governance and policies 34–37 nonfinancial aspects – Sustainable investments 50–51 – Sustainability-related training and raising awareness 82 – UBS sustainability objectives and achievements 2018 and sustainability objectives 2019 115–122 – Impact of material GRI topics 114 Environmental and human rights matters – Society 30–32 (Material topics: Climate action; – Environment and human rights 59 Environmental and social risk management; – Our climate strategy – taking action to support a low-carbon economy 37–40 Sustainable investing) – Management of environmental and social risks 59 – Our stakeholders: Suppliers 44 – Responsible supply chain management 70–71 – In-house environmental management 62–69 Social and employee matters – Society 30–32 (Working culture and environment; Talent – Our Employees 27–29 management; Compensation; Diversity and – Sustainable performance and compensation 36–37 inclusion; Community investing) – Our stakeholders: Employees 41–42 – Our employees 75–81 – Our communities 83–87 Anti-corruption and bribery matters – Combating financial crime 71 (Combating financial crime as sub-topic of Regulatory compliance) 143 UBS Group AG P.O. Box CH-8098 Zurich www.ubs.com
