STATEMENT BY THE CEO At Margins Group, we are a united people with a common goal of becoming a global leader in the identification, data and documentation systems, transactions and solutions. In line with the company’s growth, Margins group is committed to be a responsible business leader in a global world. What we do and how we do it is defined by our business priorities and values. For this reason, our active drive of SDG 16.9 ‘By 2030, provide legal identity for all, including birth registration’ And SDG 9.1, ‘Develop quality, reliable, sustainable and resilient infrastructure, including regional and transborder infrastructure, to support economic development and human well-being, with a focus on affordable and equitable access for all’ This goal has soured the Margins Group to pursue various targets indicators and put in the infrastructure to achieve them. I am pleased to confirm that Margins Group Ltd reaffirms its support of the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption. Our continued commitment to the ten principles of the UN Global compact and the Sustainable Development Goals, 16.9 and 9.1, constitutes a solid foundation for operating responsible business practises. This Communication on Progress describes our actions and conscious efforts to improve the implementation and integration of the UN Global principles in to our business strategy for 2018/2019. We are committed in sharing this information with our stakeholders using all our channels of communication. Yours sincerely, Moses K. Baiden Jnr. (CEO, Margins Group) 1|Page About Margins Group Margins Group is a multinational company built on 4 key platforms; 1. Identity, Digitization Management, Infrastructure Systems (Transactions, Trust etc.), 2. Secure Document Manufacturing, 3. Construction and Real Estate, 4. Corporate Social responsibility The company has been present in the following countries, Ghana, Nigeria, Tanzania, Uganda, Tanzania, Nigeria and Liberia, at various times. The companies are run by an International and Multicultural team, working within a stimulating work environment and benchmarking the best global practices. Access to advanced technologies, skilled professionals and global industry expertise enables us to provide unparalleled products, services and solutions to accommodate clients and projects within varying sectors across the globe. The Margins Group is made up of Margins ID Group and Margins Supplies Group. Margins ID Group is a limited liability company incorporated in Ghana; a dominant leader in the Identity, Secure Document manufacturing, Digitization, Transaction Systems and Trust Infrastructure with the following subsidiaries; 1. Margins ID Systems Application (MIDSA) Limited 2. Intelligent Card Production Systems (ICPS) Limited 3. Identity Management Systems (IMS 1) Limited 4. Identity Management Systems (IMS II) Limited Margins Supplies Group is the foundation business entity of Margins Group and the pioneer in the introduction of presentation, print and print finishing systems in the Ghanaian market. It has the following subsidiaries; 1. Margins Supplies Company Limited (MSL) 2. Margins Pronto (Print on Demand) Our aim is to be the leading security document producers, system designers, application developers, integrators and manufacturer of tokens, devices and applications, enabling secure identification, authentication and transactions over multiple platforms within the highest security environments anchored on a trust infrastructure. In this dynamic and disruptive digital age, Margins ID Group is connecting people and solutions over secure physical and virtual platforms, ensuring that as our customers’ needs evolve, we are innovating and evolving our products and solutions to keep pace with change and to exceed our customers’ requirements. 2|Page Over the past 2 decades, Margins ID Group has won national and international recognition as a dynamic, efficient and innovative group, with an extensive experience over the years through its specialized subsidiaries with their profiles below. What we do 1. Margins ID Systems Application (MIDSA) Limited Margins ID systems Ltd was established in 1990 as an identity and security solutions provider. MID has extensive knowledge in: Card Printers Card Security and Authentication on all levels CCTV & Surveillance Access Control Asset Tagging and Barcoding Event Ticketing Large-scale Data Collection and identification projects. 2. Intelligent Card Production Systems (ICPS) Limited ICPS is a specialized subsidiary of MID Group incorporated as a full service Manufacturing, Identity, Biometric Systems and Solutions business. Within its high security environment it focuses on: Manufacturing and integration of ID security products, systems & projects Manufacturing of secure cards, tokens & documents Undertaking research and development of identity solutions Implementing large scale identity projects Flexographic print solutions Intelligent Card Production Systems, the manufacturing arm of the group is an ISO 90012015 certified secure documents and card manufacturing facility with a production capacity of over 200 million secure documents and cards per year. The facility is purposely built for international certifications such as ISO, Europay-MasterCard-Visa (EMV), SAS (GSM) and Intergraf, and offers a full range of products, including the manufacture of secure cards (plain, magnetic stripe, smart-contact, contactless and dual interface), milling and embedding of modules on cards, tokens & documents, scratch cards and various secure labels, as well as fulfilment services. ICPS is Headquartered at The Octagon, on a 400m2 office space and 5,000m2 facility at Okpoi Gonno, off the Spintex Road in Accra. 3|Page ICPS maintains state of the art technology for all Processes • Scratch Card Machines; • Card Wrapping Machines; • 5-colour Security Printing Offset Press; • Chip Embedding Machines; • Personalisation Bureau; • CCTV & Access controlled doors; • Design Studio; • Laminating machines; • Die-Cutting machines. Annual Production Capacity • Scratch cards – three hundred million (300,000,000) PINS; • Mobile phone chips – sixty million (60,000,000); • Bank and other cards – sixty million (60,000,000); • Personalisation capacity – forty million (40,000,000); 3. Identity Management Systems (IMS 1) Limited Identity Management Systems I Limited is a subsidiary of the Margins ID Group of Companies and a Special Purpose Vehicle (SPV) set up to implement the Foreigners Identification & Management System (FIMS) Project. The project is based on a Design, Build, Finance, Operate and Transfer (DBOFT) form of PPP with the National Identification Authority (NIA). The main objective is to register foreign nationals and issue them with a Non-citizen Ghana card and providing verification services to all relevant stakeholders. The registration of foreign nationals is part of the scope of the NIA to register all people living in the country. 4|Page 4. Identity Management Systems (IMS II) Limited With the success of the FIMS project as a pilot IMS II to has extended the project to register all Ghanaian Nationals globally IMS II was also incorporated as an SPV to register all Ghanaians globally in a PPP with NIA. ThisSPV was incorporated distinctively from IMS due to the variation in the PPP structure related to Assets ownership structure and operation regime where the Public Partner owns the Central Site systems and is also Co-operating the project with the private partner. This structure brings us to a different risk profile hence varied rights/privileges and duties of each party in the partnership. This was in variance with the FIMS project and demanded the creation of this second SPV. IMS II Conceptualized, Designed, Built, Financed and is Co-operating with NIA to also issue cards instantly to all Ghanaians globally and providing verification services to all relevant. Over 500,000 Ghanaians as at April 2019, have been registered and issued cards in 3 Districts and quite a number of State and Non-State Institutions as the contracting process were being fine tuned. The contracting process has been concluded with operational process firmed up to begin Mass registration on April 29, 2019. The system has been designed to process and issue cards instantly globally. This instantly issued Smart card has inter alia a passport compliant to ICAO standards. 5. Margins Supplies company Limited (MSL) MSL’s core business is the import and sale of binding and lamination equipment and selected office products particularly, shredders, trimmers, calculators, etc. They also provide professional and semiprofessional equipment for the commercial and graphics market i.e., roll laminators, display substrates, indoor and outdoor display systems and consumables and inks. Margins Supplies products and services include: Binding Machines Lamination Machines Binding Accessories Lamination Accessories Laminated Identity Systems & Accessories Selected Office Equipment & Accessories Special Substrates for Secure Documents Maintenance and Repair Services (Warranty and Post Warranty) 6. Margins Pronto (Print on Demand) Pronto – POD is a subsidiary of Margins Supplies Group and one of the oldest independent print finish companies in Ghana. Incorporated in 2000, Pronto has provided unparalleled services to a diverse range of clients, making it one of the 5|Page strongest professional graphics, production and finishing of documents on demand companies in the nation. Pronto is a market leader in the print finish solution industry and offers a full range of services that include: Binding Photocopying Lamination Event Concept Designs and Production (Invitations, Tickets etc.) ID Card Services Large Format Printing Our Vision To be a global leader in identification and documentation systems, transactions and solutions. Mission Securely connecting people and solutions in a materialized and de-materialized world. Core values (PRITI) Passion Respect Innovation Teamwork Integrity 6|Page HUMAN RIGHTS: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Principle 1 – 2 1. Businesses should support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights 2. Business should make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Margins Group is committed to ensure that every employee and stakeholder in the Group is treated with respect and uphold integrity. This is evident through the core values of the organization as “Respect” and “Integrity” are demonstrated in all cases. We have made it our corporate responsibility to ensure that the Universal Declaration of Human rights as well as other international standards are adhered to in the workplace and even for business partners and suppliers who work with us. In Margins Group, human rights take the form of non-discrimination and ethical commitments. This includes the following: We have established processes which make all individuals equal under the law without any discrimination due to race, religion, gender, etc. We encourage a culture and working environment where employees treat each other with respect, courtesy, etc. We run a meritocratic institution. We provide an avenue to receive any ideas, suggestions and recommendations. We do not tolerate harassment in our working environments. IMPLEMENTATION Anti-Harassment policy has been established to avoid all forms of harassment and for resolution of harassment complaints. It also provides practical guidance on what constitutes harassment and the manner in which it will be handled. Maternity policy ensures no female staff is dismissed or discriminated against on the grounds of pregnancy. HIV policy has been implemented to prevent discrimination or stigmatization of affected persons. Channels to receive suggestions, ideas and report on ethnic issues from employees have been provided. Disciplinary committees are setup to handle any issues relating to work ethics and provide a fair hearing. 7|Page MEASUREMENT We track and report on the number of ethical and harassment issues reported and resolved. Tracking employees’ productivity as this increase or decreases which could be due to how workers are treated with dignity and respect. We track and accord a mention to the ideas or suggestions submitted via the intranet that help maintain a strong interpersonal institution. Conduct employee survey to measure the number or percentage of satisfied employees of the company. LABOUR: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Principle 3 – 6 3. Businesses should uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining. 4. Businesses should uphold the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour. 5. Businesses should uphold the effective abolition of child labour. 6. Businesses should uphold the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Margins Group is committed to the labour rights of the employees in the company in accordance with the labour laws of Ghana and International Labour Organization (ILO) conventions and other international standards. We foster professional development and support by investing in our employees to develop the knowledge and skills necessary for them to effectively perform their roles. We conform to the labour law by not recruiting persons under the age of 18 as this is a violation of children’s rights. We have reviewed the family leave policy to recognize the need of families and their role in productivity and growth. 8|Page We have a workmen’s compensation and benefits policy which entitle employees to some benefits or allowances in addition to their salary. Also recognition is given to employees for outstanding performance. We have a training and staff development policy where Margins Group provide a suitable job-related training to facilitate greater competency in their job performance as it recognizes employees are its most valued asset. We provide safe working environment for our employees. IMPLEMENTATION Maternity leave has been extended from 12 to 16 weeks with full pay and does not affect the annual leave of the employee. Paternity leave of 5 days is also granted to male employees whose wife/partner gives birth. Mentoring policy has been established to provide professional development and to enhance learning between colleagues at various levels and stages of their career. Performance improvement policy is instituted to help employees improve performance or modify behaviour. Margins Group provide workmen’s compensation for all work and non-work injuries and accidents in accordance to the Labour law Act 651. The Group has a life insurance policy cover for all staff and can be assessed on need basis. All employees have to undertake at least one training per year either in-house training programs such as job rotation, classroom teaching, attachment to another department, performing duties of a higher position in the absence of a superior officer or external training program. Employees are encouraged to take part of their leave before first half of the year to help increase productivity and efficiency. MEASUREMENT Employee turnover rate Performance on productivity and efficiency are measure based on their half year appraisal and best employers are awarded accordingly. Track number of internal hires and promotions made in the year. Employee satisfaction is also measured using end of year employee satisfaction survey. 9|Page ENVIRONMENT: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Principle 7 – 9 7. Businesses should support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges 8. Businesses should undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 9. Businesses should encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Margins Group is committed to ensuring that our operations impact the environment positively and adopt environmentally friendly technologies in our business. The employee CSR program to renovate a school block (Kotobabi Cluster of School) around one of our subsidiaries is in progress and contributions have been encouraging so far. The waste management policy which has been reviewed for our subsidiary engaged in manufacturing is constantly reviewed to ensure compliance. We have reviewed our policies to ensure we adhere strictly to all environmental laws in the country. We have revised our written policy on environmental management covering Pollution, Energy and Climate, Renewable energy, raw materials, water, waste management, etc. We have a written procedure on how to identify and assess all of the environmental aspects of the sites activities, products and services. We take environmental and sustainability criteria into account in the sourcing of raw materials. There has been a continuous review of our health and safety policy which cover fire safety, machinery and tools. We have a written procedure to identify and assess health and safety risks IMPLEMENTATION We have a series of training for the manager responsible for environmental management and its related issues. We have quarterly targets to reduce the environmental impacts and waste produced by our site activities products and services. 10 | P a g e We have identified and assessed the significant environmental impacts of our business. We have revised our procedures on how to store, discharge and dispose of waste such as sewage/wastewater, residual waste, recyclable waste and hazardous waste We have undertaken an energy usage survey targeted at reducing energy usage. We have been certified by the fire service agency to operate, the certificate is renewable on the anniversary of its issue in September each year. MEASUREMENT We have been certified under the Ghana Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) regulations, certificate is due to expire on 31st December 2020. There is periodic reviews of environmental targets by the senior manager in charge of environmental management. There are currently 0% of environmentally related issues reported or breached. We have less than 1% reported workplace injury. There are also periodic audit by the environmental protection agency. ANTI-CORRUPTION: UN GLOBAL COMPACT – COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS Principle 10 10. Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. Margins group is committed to ensure that our operations are free from corruption and any form of bribery. As integrity is one of our core values, we make every effort to adhere to the rules and regulations regarding anti-corruption and its principles. We seek to conduct all our businesses in an honest and ethical manner that is free from any possibility of bribery and corruption. We have a policy on acceptance of any gifts or benefits in the course of our work. We ensure compliance for our activities as a business or an employee. A robust financial manual that minimizes the handling of physical cash. 11 | P a g e Implementation We have a well-resourced internal audit and compliance team to address any issue pertaining to any form of corruption. Staff training and sensitization workshops are held on the importance of the internal audit and compliance department. Orientation and training is given to new employees on their dealings with clients to make sure they do not act in any unethical or corrupt manner. Employees are regularly monitored and supervised. Measures There have been no reported cases or issues of corrupt practises. The internal audit and compliance department ensures the smooth running of the various departments are free from corrupt or unethical practises. Ethics and values measurements integrated into our appraisal system to sensitize employees are working fairly. Disciplinary measures exist to guide decision-makers on sanctioned punishments for any corrupt activities found out or alleged. 12 | P a g e
