ISSUE 3 2019 Contents MBP Solutions in brief 02 Our focus Our services Our products MBP in the world Scope of the report 05 CEO Statement 06 Sustainability 07 Making industries more sustainable since 1999 UN Global Compact Sustained growth over 20 years Advancing the circular economy in our supply chain Communication on Progress 2019 Partnership for better management of residues MBP’s by-product management approach Our corporate sustainability frameworks 10 The United Nations Global Compact The Sustainable Development Goals Our sustainability policies covering December 2018 November 2019 Our sustainability performance 2019 14 UN Global Compact Principles Our focus areas, goals & targets Our sustainability rating Reporting criteria 27 2019 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Ltd. Our focus MBP Solutions Ltd. is a world leader in the collection, handling, processing, production, and application of biological by-products and related services. Since the beginning, we have focused on the optimal use of residues through the development of innovative by-product solutions, with an open book approach to incorporating full traceability. In order to add value to by-products collected and managed, we seek to understand them from a technical-chemical point of view through sampling and analysis. We combine this data with expertise about technical requirements in different areas of application, along with knowledge about legal requirements and restrictions in different geographical markets. We do monitoring, sampling, analysis, logistics, sales, marketing and registration with authorities. When required, we also make the necessary arrangements for storage, cleaning, filtering and the addition of additives and repackaging. Our services We offer a wide variety of specialist services, including by-product and waste collection and handling, as well as a world-leading by-product management outsourcing service (OMBP). We focus on managing byproducts from a production based on biological (non-fossil) raw materials and provide solutions for multiple industries, ranging from the oleochemical, biodiesel and omega-3 refining industries to companies that have other types of solutions, sludges and powders, such as 360ᵒ breweries, starch manufacturers, pharmaceutical companies and solutions manufacturers of nutritional ingredients. Our products We offer a wide range of products MBP Solutions in brief including biofuels, bioliquids, substrates for biogas production, soil improvement products, high-quality animal feed and pet food products, MBP Solutions is a world leader in the collection, in addition to specialist technical products for a wide range of applications. handling, processing, production and application of In order to document the sustainable biological by-products and related services. status of our products, we embrace relevant existing sustainability standards through certifications like ISCC, RSB, GMP+ MSC Chain of Custody and IFFO RS. PAGE 2 PAGE 3 MBP in the world MBP Offices Countries where both our customers and suppliers are located Countries where our customers are located Countries where our suppliers are located Today MBP Solutions has become a world leader in the collection, handling, processing, production and application of biological byScope of the report products and related services. Helping to reduce This report focuses on our performance, challenges and opportunities in 2019, and it Headquartered in Switzerland, MBP Solutions employs over 90 covers MBP’s entire organisation, including administrative offices, industrial facilities professionals; has offices in nine different countries; sells products mankind’s impact on the and sourcing operations. in more than 50 countries; and handles over 200,000 tonnes of environment by turning biological waste every year for a diverse range of clients, from one industry’s by manufacturing industries within food and beverage, biodiesel, oleoThis report meets the requirements for the UN Global Compact Communication on chemical, pharmaceutical, omega-3 concentration and other product into another Progress, and it is available in English on our website www.mbpsolutions.com. inustries using biological raw material. industry’s raw material. 15.000 210.000 30 9 90 CUBIC METERS OF TONNES MANAGED OMBP MBP MBP STORAGE FACTORIES OFFICES TEAM MEMBERS MBP in 2019 PAGE 4 PAGE 5 CEO Statement Sustainability has been part of our ideological backbone since the beginning. We are committed to bringing to life the concepts of industrial ecology and circular economy by materialising the idea that the waste stream of one industry can be used as a key resource by another, thereby Our business brings offering products and services which are beneficial to the environment, people and the to life the concepts economy. We can contribute to at least 11 of the of industrial 17 SGD‘s goals through these product and service. ecology and the I am pleased to reaffirm MBP’s support to the Ten circular economy by Principles of the UN Global Compact in the areas materializing the of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Antiidea that the waste Corruption. In this annual Communication on Progress, we describe our efforts to gradually of one industry can integrate the UN Global Compact and its Sustainability be used as a key principles into our business strategy, culture and resource by daily operations, and we commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders using our Making industries more sustainable since 1999 another. primary channels of communication. MBP Solutions was founded in 1999 by the current Chairman, David Magnussen, who early on recognized the increasing importance of traceability and rigorous quality control for the strategic use of by-products. Our technical expertise, market knowledge and legal understanding help other companies to efficiently use resources, reduce waste and toxic emissions, cut operating costs and generate new revenue. HELEN SAINSBURY CEO MBP Solutions Ltd. PAGE 6 PAGE 7 2019 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Ltd. 2019 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Ltd. Sustained growth over 20 years Partnership for better management of residues In 2019, we celebrated MBP’s 20th anniversary as the world-leading provider of solutions for biological byOur company facilitates working in partnership to enable resource efficiency through the recycling and products. Throughout these 20 years, we have helped our suppliers and customers to improve their recovery of waste. We help our suppliers and customers minimise negative impacts on the environment and sustainability performance through the recycling and recovery of residual resources, while contributing to human health, by safely, responsibly and efficiently maximising waste recycling, recovery, and resource global goals such as the reduction of waste and the efficient use of resources. generation opportunities whilst ensuring legal compliance. We are proud of our ever-growing business relationships and the diverse network we have built, and we will continue enhancing our expertise to support the sustained growth of our business based on turning one Suppliers Customers industry’s by-product into another industry’s raw material. We provide solutions for by-product Based on product knowledge as well as management and expertise to know-how about the technical industries that prefer to focus on requirements for raw material in various Advancing the circular economy in our supply chain their core products. These are our sectors and applications, we provide suppliers, who are mostly companies customers with cost-efficient and The degradation of the world’s natural resources caused by human activities has created the need to move involved in the omega-3, fish meal, sustainable products and raw material from a linear model of production and consumption to one that maintains the highest utility and value oleochemical, food, beverages, feed, substitutes in the areas of biofuels, of products, components, and materials at all times. The circular economy model was born from this pharmaceutical, and nutritional technical oils, animal feed, fertilisers and ambition, and it entails the reduction of waste, the use of waste as a resource when possible and the supplements markets. anaerobic digestion substrates. implementation of holistic and sustainable waste management approaches. Our company encourages sustainable production and consumption patterns that help bring the concept of the circular economy to life. The manufacturers and service providers constitute our suppliers, who send out MBP’s by-product management approach residues for recycling or recovery purposes. Then, we either find direct applications for those residual resources or reprocess them into products, and our customers either use them to replace materials We take huge pride in identifying products that are normally considered as waste or a residue from (recovery) or use recycled resources through the purchase of MBP products (recycling). production, and by understanding their potential, we find its optimal application. These synergies facilitate the use of Earth’s limited resources in a way that minimises its impacts on the By these means, we not only help to reduce the waste generated in society but also the consumption of environment while delivering greater value with less input. As a result, our suppliers and customers primary raw materials, as our by-product-based products will often substitute materials of the primary generate less waste, reduce business costs, earn economic benefits, reduce risks to public health and the production sector. environment, and ultimately, contribute to complementary policy areas such as the green economy, innovation for sustainability and the circular economy. By-product management hierarchy Although we predominantly deal with by-products, our business operations fall into the waste management Upstream Down stream sector for the reason that, in general terms, we handle residues and remaining materials from industrial Own activities processes. Hence, we have aligned our by-product management approach with the waste management in value chain in value chain hierarchy established by the parties to the Basel Convention, the food waste hierarchy of the Global Waste Management Outlook, and other relevant internationally and nationally recognised standards for environmentally sustainable waste management approaches.1 Inputs Outputs Attending to technical, environmental, economic, and legal aspects, we apply this hierarchy when finding the most Materials and Other organizations suitable applications and customers for the by-products by-products / customers By-products from collected and managed. other organizations / suppliers Landfilling is our last option for dealing with residues, and we do our best to divert waste to composting or anaerobic Waste not suitable for digestion when possible, as these applications allow us to use other applications gases and the same time avoid GHG emissions from waste disposal. Recycle Incineration Landfill Recycle Incineration Landfill Reuse Reuse Recovery 1 The Recovery waste management hierarchy and food waste hierarchy set out the preferred order of handling practices, from most to least preferred, to achieve optimal environmental outcomes. See further: Global Waste Management Outlook (2015). PAGE 8 PAGE 9 2019 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Ltd. The United Nations Global Compact The UN Global Compact is the world's largest corporate sustainability initiative, which offers a framework for businesses stating ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour, environment and anti-corruption. We joined the UN Global Compact in November 2017, and as a signatory, our company is committed to supporting and integrating the ten principles as part of our strategy, culture and day to day operations. In this report, we describe our company’s performance during our second period of commitment and we express our continued support for this initiative. The Sustainable Development Goals The Sustainable Development goals (SDGs) are a set of 17 goals supported by 169 detailed targets that represent a clear agreement on where the world needs to be by 2030 to guarantee human wellbeing in the long term. They were adopted in September 2015 by the 193 members of the United Nations, and they reflect economic, social and environmental expectations as well as future policy direction at the international, national and regional levels. Our corporate sustainability frameworks We believe that the SDGs impact our business and that our company can impact MBP’s sustainability policies, strategy, culture and day-to-day operations are grounded on the UN the achievement of the SDGs. Thus, we Global Compact principles, the SDGs, our supply have committed to fully integrating the chain needs, and our principles and values. SDGs into our strategy and to joining global efforts to achieve these goals. PAGE 10 PAGE 11 2019 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Ltd. 2019 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Ltd. Our sustainability policies Our sustainability policies Guided by our values and working in partnership with our team members, customers and suppliers, we strive Human rights policy statement to deliver sustainable by-product management solutions for the advantage of the community and the MBP Solutions Ltd. is committed to conducting business responsibly and ethically. Our human rights policy environment where we operate. Through the following policies, we reflect our commitment to ensuring that statement is based on the three documents collectively known as the International Bill of Human Rights (the sustainability is considered through all our business decisions. Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights), along with the International Labour Organization’s Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Economic policy Environmental policy This Human Rights Policy Statement consolidates our commitment to respect international labour and At MBP, economic sustainability means These are the principles that have always inspired the human rights to the fullest extent possible and supports our efforts to integrate better a human rights operating our company responsibly and MBP’s approach to environmental sustainability: approach into our business practices. Our commitment is reinforced by our involvement in voluntary thoughtfully to maximise shareholder return We shall strive to add value to waste and by-products business initiatives like the UN Global Compact, and it is consistent with our goal to enrich our workplace, while wisely managing environmental, in order to reduce the negative impact that these work in partnership with our supply chain, protect the environment and respect the communities where we economic and social risks and opportunities. streams may have through landfilling or other types of operate. A good economic sustainability practice is key disposal. At the same time, we will reduce the We believe in our responsibility to respect and support internationally proclaimed human rights, and we will for our business because, without it, our consumption of primary resources by substituting constantly strive to make sure that we are not complicit in human rights abuses of any individual we are in company will not succeed in the social and primary raw material with value-added by-products. contact with directly or indirectly. We will seek to avoid instigating or contributing to unfavourable human environmental aspects of sustainability. We prioritise good housekeeping and the preservation rights through our own activities, products and services and address their effects if they occur in a timely Like most companies, we aim not only to of natural resources to contribute to a sustainable and appropriate manner. survive but also to develop more profits and society. improve our position compared to We will always comply with the environmental We believe everyone should be treated fairly competitors in the market. Therefore, we requirements imposed by current legislation and regardless of their race, gender, economic work to grow by embracing a business model regulations. status, ethnic background, sexual orientation, that creates value for shareholders and Environmental work is an integrated and natural part age, political beliefs or any other comparable investors through the pursuit of profitability, of our daily work. characteristics, and therefore we prohibit financial strength, adaptability and long-term Our environmental management system drives a way discrimination, harassment, forced labour and resilience. of working in which we constantly strive to develop child labour. We intend to achieve this through constant and improve ourselves. We draw on internationally recognised labour development and improvement and by We work towards making employees, customers and principles and comply with applicable labour maintaining an excellent relationship with suppliers aware of general environmental issues and and employment laws in all the countries employees, suppliers and customers. the issues which apply specifically to the products we where we operate, to ensure that we are not We will constantly work to ensure the best manufacture. interfering with the enjoyment of the rights planning decisions and use the best Our product development work views the product conferred by national laws and international technological solutions to be able to continue from the perspective of its entire life cycle and seeks declarations. offering high value-added products and solutions with a low impact on the environment. services, meet the expectations of our The environmental aspects are always taken into We are committed to protecting the health and safety of our people at work and provide fair wages and employees, suppliers and customers, and account when investing in production equipment and benefits, as well as encourage development opportunities and continuous learning for our workers. create long-lasting economic, environmental production methods. Where national legislation is stricter or conflicts with our approach, we will complement our policy with local and social value in the industries and requirements and follow the United Nations’ Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs). geographical areas where our company This statement applies to our internal stakeholders in all locations where we conduct business. We will operates. implement human rights due diligence into our operating model as suitable, instruct our team members to We are committed to using different The greatest threat to our comply with this policy, establish appropriate reporting procedures and provide proper preventive or strategies for the efficient use of our planet is the belief that corrective action. We expect the same adherence to human rights from our external stakeholders, and we resources to guarantee the company’s will regularly look for ways to support the promotion of human rights within our scope of operation and profitability and long-term survival in a someone else will save it. influence. responsible way. Robert Swan PAGE 12 PAGE 13 2019 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Ltd. Integrating the SDGs Our company is aware of the links that the UN Global Compact principles and our goals and targets have with the SDGs. We recognise the importance that all the SDGs have to our business, and we have measured our corporate sustainability performance in connection to our impact on the 17 SDGs. Status guidelines We used a stoplight approach to monitor the status of our performance on each of the areas assessed: On track At-risk Attention required A green status colour indicates on-target performance or compliance. Yellow indicates poor performance that may impact long-term goals or compliance, and red indicates below-target performance or underlying critical risks. In addition to reporting our performance through the stoplight approach, we provide a quick note about relevant progress achieved in 2019 and our planned improvements on some of the areas asssessed. Our sustainability performance 2019 Areas assessed This report offers an overview of MBP‘s approach to various aspects of sustainability.Hence, this section presents the results of our assessments in three areas: 1. UN Global Compact Principles (pages 15 to 19) 2. Our focus areas: goals & targets (pages 20 to 25) 3. Our CSR scorecard 2019 (page 26) UN Global Compact Principles As a signatory to the UN Global Compact, we measured our corporate sustainability performance in connection to the UN Global Compact principles and the SDGs, and compared it with our performance on last year to keep record of any changes. PAGE 14 PAGE 15 Human Rights Labour Principle 3: Uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to Principle 1: Support and respect the protection of human rights collective bargaining Areas Health and safety Hours, wages and leave Fair treatment Areas Association and bargaining 2018 2018 2019 2019 Our contribution to the SDGs Our contribution to the SDGs Target 8.8. Protect labour rights Target 8.8. Target 8.5. Target 16.1. Safe and secure Full, productive and Reduce all forms of Principle 4: The elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour working environment decent employment violence Areas Forced and compulsory labour Progress achieved 2019/ We have allocated Planned Improvements 2020 resources in our budget for 2018 2020, to provide training to our managers on anti2019 harassment issues Our contribution to the SDGs Target 8.7. Eradicate forced labour and end modern slavery Principle 2: Make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses Principle 5: The effective abolition of child labour Areas Product stewardship Country risk Community impacts Areas Child labour and young workers 2018 2018 2019 2019 Our contribution to the SDGs Our contribution to the SDGs Target 8.7. Prohibition and elimination of child labour Target 16.7. Inclusive, participatory and Principle 6: The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation representative decision-making at all levels Areas Discrimination Progress achieved 2019/ Planned Improvements 2020 2018 2019 Our contribution to the SDGs Target 10.3. Equal opportunities and reduced inequalities Progress achieved 2019/ In 2019, we established our non-discrimination and equality policy. This policy defines MBP’s Planned Improvements 2020 approach to monitoring and eliminating discrimination in employment. It has been added to our Employee Handbook, and it is now one of our policies (applying to all employees and consultants) PAGE 16 Environment Anti-Corruption Principle 10: Businesses should work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and Principle 7: Support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges bribery Areas Precaution Areas Company culture and procedures Joint Actions 2018 2018 2019 2019 Our contribution to the SDGs Target 12.2. Sustainable management of natural resources Target 16.5. Reduce Our contribution to the SDGs corruption and bribery in all their forms Progress achieved 2019/ We have updated our code of ethics and our Planned Improvements 2020 gift and hospitality procedure, as well as established a policy on anti-bribery and antiPrinciple 8: Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility Corruption. These three documents are distributed to MBP personnel with a link for Areas Responsibility and performance an online 30 min Anti-bribery trainee course, which is also uploaded to our 2018 Human Resources Management System. 2019 Target 12.6. Sustainable practices and sustainability Our contribution to the SDGs reporting Progress achieved 2019/ We conducted our first materiality assessment in 2019. We will select key Planned Improvements 2020 performance indicators for our material topics in line with internationally recognised standards in 2020 Principle 9: Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies Areas Technology 2018 2019 Target 9.4. Environmentally sound technologies and industrial Our contribution to the SDGs processes PAGE 18 PAGE 19 2019 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Ltd. 2019 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Ltd. Our focus areas, goals & targets Our focus areas Our focus areas Promoting resource Enabling Improving Enhancing Our commitment to sustainability is structured around four focus areas directly efficiency circularity traceability our expertise connected to our scope of business: promoting resource efficiency, enabling circularity, improving traceability and enhancing our expertise. Each focus area has Global challenges & ambitions addressed long-term goals and specific targets that are closely monitored to fulfil our ambition Resource scarcity: The Circular economy: In a Supply chain transparency: Compliance requirements: of being the best in innovative management of biological by-products. decreasing availability of circular economy, the aim is Administering data and Our global economy has fishmeal and fish oil for to close the loops, and any increasing transparency are produced opportunities for Additionally, we have linked our focus areas to current global challenges and the marine ingredients will force materials taken from nature powerful tools for managing the international expansion SDGs to ensure that we are guaranteeing not only the sustainability of our company the animal feed industry to should be used not only risks, grasping opportunities of companies that come with but also the sustainability of our planet. depend more heavily on byefficiently but also for as of global supply chains and an increased need for products for fish feed long as possible contributing to sustainable governance, oversight and development formal corporate compliance Our goals and targets Our goals are at the heart of our corporate sustainability approach, and they mirror Our goals our plan for competing successfully, optimising our financial performance and 4. Ensure a better system for 7. Improve our legal, 1. Maintain our position as 2. Develop more long-term achieving the company’s vision while contributing to the environmental, social and storing and retrieving commercial and product the preferred partner agreements for the strategic information about customers understanding economic resilience of the industries and communities where we operate. for handling by-products management of by-products and suppliers from the Omega-3 fish oil (known as OMBP 8. Secure MBP’s long-term 5. Implement a management industry worldwide agreements) recruitment of personnel model to secure that all 3. Make countrywide employees and partners are with key competencies contracts for Used Cooking working together in a defined Oil (UCO) collection and direction 6. Improve our quality control handling system Our targets 4.1 Implement the use of a 7.1. Improve MBP's expertise 1.1. Upgrade 20’000 tonnes 2.1. Grow OMBP sourcing customer relationship in different industries and of distillation fish oil volume with 15% each year management (CRM) system by countries by-products from biofuel to 3.1. Increase the volume of 2019 animal feed per year UCO handled with 10-15% 8.1. Maintain employee 5.1. Integrate Corporate per year in Denmark, satisfaction and engagement Sustainability into our Norway, Sweden and Finland Management Model by 2020 6.1. Maintain existing certifications and obtain additional certifications of relevance for our products and services Our contribution to the SDGs On the pages below you will find information on our performance in 2019 as well as the interlinkages between our focus areas, our goals, our targets and our contribution to the SDGs. PAGE 20 PAGE 21 2019 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Ltd. 2019 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Ltd. Promoting Enabling resource Circularity efficiency Target Progress Target Progress Goal 1 Goal 2 Maintain our position Upgrade 20.000 tonnes of distillation fish oil byDevelop more longGrow OMBP sourcing volume with 15% each year products from omega-3 concentration from biofuel to as the preferred animal feed per year term agreements for Achievements 2019 partner for handling the strategic OMBP volume grew 20% in 12 months ending 30 November 2019 by-products from the Achievements 2019 management of byOmega-3 fish oil We achieved ca. 10’000 t in the 12 months ending 30 November 2019 products (known as Planned improvements 2020 industry worldwide Planned improvements 2020 OMBP agreements) MBP is focusing on the OMBP We have a number of initiatives that will allow us to grow this number concept. Improving marketing significantly in the next 12 months. Increased volume in existing OMBPs and our communication about and a number of potential new suppliers are in the pipeline. More the OMBP concept. We are 360ᵒ solutions traceability information on fish oils from suppliers. Sustainability dedicating a larger share of key 30 Factories are relying on MBP certifications GMP+, MSC and IFFO-RS with key suppliers and MBP will employees’ time to engage in to manage their by-products drive more demand for animal feed dialogue with potential OMBPs Target Progress Goal 3 Make country-wide Increase the volume of UCO handled with 10-15% per year in Denmark, Norway, Sweden and Finland contracts for Used 10’000 T Cooking Oil (UCO) Achievements 2019 Used Cooking Oil sold volume grew 19% compared to last year OF DISTILLATION FISH OIL BY-PRODUCTS collection and FROM OMEGA-3 CONCENTRATION handling, as well as Planned improvements 2020 UPGRADED FROM BIOFUEL TO ANIMAL FEED consolidation We are working on improving collection efficiency, reducing fuel in the 12 months ending 30 November 2019 agreements with consumption per tonne collected and improving collection logistics smaller collectors planning and execution Our contribution to the SDGs Our contribution to the SDGs PAGE 22 PAGE 23 2019 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Ltd. 2019 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Ltd. Improving Enhancing traceability our expertise Target Progress Target Progress Goal 4 Goal 6 Ensure a better Implement the use of a customer relationship Improve our quality Maintain current certifications and obtain certifications management (CRM) system by 2019 of relevance for products & services system for storing control system and retrieving Achievements 2019 Achievements 2019 After a start with a pilot test in the animal feed group, the CRM system In 2019 we achieved a chain of custody (COC) sustainability certification information about was rolled out in the whole group during 2019 and all sales are now MSC & IFFO-RS In 2019 we achieved a chain of for MSC and IFFO-RS, which allows us to meet the highest requirements customers and covered custody (COC) sustainability in the aquafeed industry for ASC. All other certifications were suppliers certification for MSC and IFFO-RS successfully maintained (ISCC, RSB, GMP+, ISO 9001 and ISO 14001) Target Progress Goal 7 Improve our expertise in gathering and understanding Improve and legislation and commercial knowledge standardise our Achievements 2019 legal, commercial MBP has decided to move to MS Office 365 for information management. and product The use of MS Sharepoint and MS Teams is expected to improve the understanding communication and information sharing. MBP maintains memberships of Target Progress Goal 5 a number of relevant national and international professional forums and Integrate Corporate Sustainability into our Management keeps record of new legislation enacted Implement a Model by 2020 management model Progress Achievements 2019 Goal 8 Target to secure that all We conducted our first material assessment with internal stakeholders in Maintain employee satisfaction and engagement employees and 2019 Secure MBP’s longpartners are working term recruitment of Achievements 2019 Planned improvements 2020 together in a defined personnel with key 30% of our employees would enthusiastically recommend MBP as a place We are planing to select key performance indicators for our material to work, 25% improvement compared to previous year, as revealed by direction topics in 2020 competencies the employee satisfaction survey results. In 2019 we achieved an employee Net Promoter Score eNPS equal to 0, compared to -18 in 2018 Our contribution to the SDGs Our contribution to the SDGs PAGE 24 PAGE 25 2019 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Ltd. 2019 UN Global Compact COP | MBP Solutions Ltd. Our sustainability rating Sustainability ratings are gaining growing relevance in the corporate sustainability world. They evaluate how Reporting criteria well a company balances economic, environmental and social values and performance to measure the overall This is our second UN Global Compact communication on progress, and we intend to continue reporting on quality of its sustainability and Corporate Social Responsibility (CSR) management system. an annual basis. For this reporting cycle, we evaluated our company’s performance on the four areas of the UN Global Compact through the Global Compact Self Assessment Tool and identified our impact on the To strengthen the transparency of our company, we use one of the world’s most trusted methodologies: the SDGs based on the Business Reporting on the SDGs: An Analysis of the Goals and Targets developed by GRI EcoVadis CSR rating. This year EcoVadis has awarded the Gold Medal to MBP, a significant improvement over and UN Global Compact. last year’s Silver status, placing us in the top 7% of all companies evaluated by EcoVadis. This recognition demonstrates MBP’s high competence in important corporate sustainability areas such as Environment, Additionally, we carried out our second CSR assessment through EcoVadis, and we hired specialised Labor Practices & Human Rights, Fair Business Practices and Sustainable Procurement. consultancy services to help us with the integration of sustainability into our corporate strategy, processes, and model. This is great news not only for our company but also for our suppliers, customers, employees and partners, as it gives them the security that they are working with a company that operates in a responsible manner The results of these internal and external assessments enabled us to assess our status and progress and laid with the planet, the people and the economy. the groundwork for the communication of our performance and engagement on this report. Yet, we are committed to continue identifying areas of development and to constantly improve our disclosure in line with emerging frameworks for sustainability reporting. To learn more about MBP SOLUTIONS and how our stakeholders and we are working to promote the 10 principles of the UN Global Compact, visit www.mbpsolutions.com Switzerland Canada Denmark Italy Neuchatel (HQ) Halifax Silkeborg Milano +41 32 720 05 20 +1 952 456 8720 +45 45 82 71 66 +41 32 720 0520 Norway Sweden United Kingdom USA info@mbpsolutions.com Greåker Staffanstorp Skipton Minneapolis www.mbpsolutions.com +47 69 97 12 20 +46 46 12 00 50 +44 1756 791 203 +1 952 456 8720 PAGE 26 PAGE 27 Biological by-products for tomorrow's environment mbpsolutions.com PAGE 2
