2018 SUSTAINABILITY REPORT ADRIAN KENYA LIMITED OUR SHARED OUR PEOPLE OUR SOCIETY VALUE OUR COMMUNITIES OUR ENVIRONMENT OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. PEOPLE TRAINING DIGITIZATION 350 400+ Top management level 0 Human Resource Office Total number of Monthly number training under Work related process digitization in a bid employees. of Casuals. Stanford Seed Program. accidents/fatalities. to ease the process. BUSINESS OPERATIONS 1.9B Ksh STRUCTURE SOUTH AFRICA 3 PILLARS 2019 pillars identified Realignment of operations Revenue achieved, this was Management re-structure Establishment of South African IE. continued innovation, to 3 divisions; Fiber, Managed 100m ksh short of our to accommodate new branch and commencement putting customer first & Services & Construction. 2 Billion ksh target. divisions and positions. of operations in the region speed in execution. COMMUNITY EQUITY SGDs SOCCER UNGC AWARDS Deliberate efforts to empower Narrowing down on SDGs Creation of soccer Signed to the UN Global Inaugural company award event women in management, staff of focus and allocation to employee team Compact that monitors that recognizes employees and business (partners). divisions and departments. under the Adrian name. Sustainable Growth. efforts in different areas. Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 01 OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. PEOPLE 1ST CONSTRUCTION TECH AMBS End of year Commencement of construction 18 1st class of Adrian 100% Annual Dinner of Adrian Group Centre Trainings conducted, ‘Tech Ambassadors’ training Staff healthcare 5 story building 7 soft skills & 11 Technical. & graduation. coverage. BUSINESS 4.5B ACCOUNT MANAGERS BOARD FINANCING ICT Revenue target identified Establishment of Account/Sales Transition from Advisory 2019 financing acquired Department launch and and trickled down managers reporting directly to Board of Directors to to conduct all beginning of operations. to all levels the MD’s office a Board of Directors. business operations. COMMUNITY GOING GREEN SUPPORT PAPERLESS RUGBY 10+ Signed to the UN Global Continued support of Reduced paper consumption Participation & Sponsorship of CSR activities ie. Charity Compact that monitors Makimei Children’s by digitization charity rugby 5 aside marathons Community Sustainable Growth. home. of processes and systems tournament ‘Rugby4Good’ donations, clean-ups etc. 02 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. CONTENTS Managing Director’s Statement Chairman’s Statement. Managing Our Journey SoDirector’s far Statement 05 05 05 Our Business Operations Our Sustainable Business Strategy Global Mega-Trends Our Sustainability Actions CSR Management Construction Managed Services Commercial 05 05 05 05 05 05 Business Ethics, Governance, Risk Community Involvement & Development Environment Community Involvement & Development & Regulation 05 05 05 05 Society Regulators Customers Employees 05 05 05 05 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 01 INTRODUCTION 1. Me ssa ge f ro m th e Ma na g in g Direc tor 2 . T h e Adrian J o u rn ey to day OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. In 2016, Adrian Kenya embarked on 3.0 STRATEGY of the Excellent Sustainability Corporation Plan, covering the five-year period through 2020. The basic policy of this phase is “embracing the challenge of new growth through a Grand Strategic Transformation.” Change is Evolution, Transformation is Progress In 2017, which marked the 10th anniversary of Adrian Kenya’s founding, we fortified and grew our four core businesses of “Construction Services”, “Fiber Solutions”, “Managed Services” and “Training” while reinforcing our existing business domains of Telecommunication, Power, and ICT. As a result, we reported increases in both net sales and operating profit for the first time in four years. Furthermore, with an increase in net sales to more than 1.5B Billion (U.S.$150 Million*), we have laid the foundation for the grand strategic transformation that will lead Adrian Kenya into a new era with a strong foundation of advanced & inspired technology we have cultivated over the years, and the companies we have welcomed into the Adrian Kenya, it is our mission to realize a new age for Adrian Kenya—building a sustainable enterprise by anticipating and embracing change. Even as remarkable advances in digitization have transformed our society and the structure of telecom & power industry in recent years, many of the challenges confronting our world today remain unresolved in such areas as energy and the environment, water scarcity, rapid urbanization, insufficient infrastructure, and security issues. In the light of the accelerating global drive to ensure the sustainability of our society, private companies will need to play an increasingly important role. Adrian Kenya, as a company with operations worldwide, surely has a responsibility to contribute and support the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact in the areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-Corruption Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 05 OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. Adrian Kenya’s Corporate Credo is to contribute to society through the development of superior, innovative, original technology and products. This has remained at the heart of our operations since our founding and informs our current Adrian Kenya Identity, which is to become a company that “delivers innovations that answer society’s challenges.” Our management strategy seeks to offer innovative technology solutions and products in our Social Innovation Business by combining various digital technologies and to create economic, social, and environmental value. We also strive to enhance the robustness of our operations and to reduce their negative social and environmental impact. In fiscal 2016, the Executive Sustainability Committee, which I chair, examined the opportunities and risks presented by the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), a task that enabled us to better understand the contributions our business activities are making to the achievement of each goal. Given the broad range of businesses in which we are engaged, I believe that we are uniquely positioned to make wide-ranging contributions to the achievement of the SDGs. Of these social challenges, Goal 13 which calls for urgent action to combat climate change is a particularly important management issue for us. For our customers and society, we will strive to create more energy-efficient, value-laden solutions to further reduce CO2 emissions throughout the value chain of products and services that are “Green”. A key component of advancing sustainable management is raising awareness of each and every employee. In April 2018, therefore, we revised the Adrian Kenya Business Codes of Conduct that provides guidelines for the decisions to be made and action to be taken by both management and employees so they may better contribute to the achievement of the SDGs and the resolution of issues faced by global society. Adrian Kenya will continue to work toward a sustainable society in which all people can live in safety, security, and comfort by pursuing management in conformity with the ESG criteria for the “Environmental,” “Social,” and “Governance” and by advancing collaborative creation with our customers, society, Benard W. Njoroge and business partners. Adrian Kenya Managing Director 06 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. 2011 Awarded ISO 9001 and 14001 compliance certifications and approved as Tier 4 contractor by Safaricom Mandated to construct 60 telecom tower sites during the 2006 year Mr. Benard Njoroge commences operations in logistics under a sole proprietorship name BenAfrica International 2009 Licensed by Communications authority of Kenya for telecommunications works Begins works in the telecoms sector as a sub-contractor on Safaricom telecom tower sites 2013 Adrian Kenya Ltd incorporated & all procurement, construction, & installation operations consolidated under it Elevated to Tier 2 2010 Contractor by Safaricom. Enlisted by Airtel Networks as a GSM contractor and solutions provider. Re-organisation and expansion of Adrian to encompass project management and environmental policies in operations Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 07 OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. 2015 Mandated to construct 85 telecom tower sites Award Safaricom contract for city metro fibre deployment FY 2015 revenues of KES 602M 16.1% on FY 2014; FY 2015 EBITDA of KES 79.0M 2018 Elevated to Tier 1 Contractor by Safaricom 2 further contracts from Safaricom 2018 revenues of KES 1.9B 2017 Renews 4 pre-existing Safaricom contracts and wins 3 new contracts, including for: Management of 1,396 out of Safaricom’s 4,6774 telecom tower portfolio, Telecom tower construction & site power supply, FTTx network deployments Received ERC and NCA certification of technicians 2014 Mandated to construct 85 telecom tower sites by Safaricom Awarded a contract for deployment and support of internet connect on fixed data technology 2016 (WiMax) Received NCA certifications for building, electrical and mechanical works and ERC3 certifications for solar solutions Appointed formal contractor to Kenya’s Rural Electrification Authority. 08 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 2 . OUR B USINESS OPE R AT IO N S & S USTAINABILITY. 2 .1. Ou r Busi n e ss Op e ra ti on s 2 . 2 . Our Su sta i na b l e B u si n ess S trateg y 2 . 3. G lo ba l Me g a -Tre n d s 2 .4 . W ha t th e SDGs m ea n to us 2 .5. CSR Mana g e m e nt OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. Power ICT Who we are: Adrian Kenya Limited [Adrian Kenya] is a leading build, operate, and manage EPC turnkey solutions provider of Construction innovative technologies in the telecommunication, power and energy, and information & communication technology sectors in the Eastern Africa Region. What we do: We provide construction services, fiber solutions, and managed services across our business sectors to our valued Managed Services Commercial clientele employing different strategies of delivery as direct, project, managed, and build & lease with a focus on long-term partnership so as to deliver intended business results. Telecommunication 10 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. Since establishment in 2006, today Adrian Adrian Kenya is continuously fast-paced Kenya boasts multi-million dollar with ever changing technological We pride ourselves as a Society facing entity client contracts and long-term environment providing graduate with over 300 permanent local employees relationships with blue-chip telecom programs, creating jobs, training services, & who have worked together for more than operators and utility providers. Adrian has we endeavour to develop & deliver society 5years and have defined learning and been profitable since 2010 (The Adrian facing solutions as a long term partner to our development programs, career paths for each Journey), and has seen its revenues double in customers & other key stake holders. Our as long-term assets to participate in our the past two years. In line with Adrian 3.0 CSR programs aim to give back & lend a business ecosystem effectively and efficiently Strategy: Our revenue target of KES 2B in hand to our Society. We strive to align with a socio-economic impact. 2018 was missed by 10%, and we project ourselves to the Global Sustainable KES 4B in 2019, KES 5B in 2020, and KES 6B development goals, be an Equal Employer, in 2021. uphold gender balance, & empower women in our workplaces. Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 01 11 OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. Vision To be the leader in provision of Mission service excellence in A gateway to innovative technology driven solutions. technologies. ADRIAN Accountability Drive Responsibility Innovativeness Assertiveness Networking We are champions of We are relentless We are responsible We do things We are self-assured We are one our company and we in our pursuit of for achieving our differently each day and firm in decision company across all do that we say we success and we objectives. for better results. making functions and shall do. approach each day geographies We act with openness, with energy, passion working towards integrity and trust. & persistence to a common goal exceed expectations through cooperation and team work 12 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. Since 2016, the Adrian Kenya has endeavoured to promote mediumto long-term growth through the “Excellent 3.0 Corporation Strategy Plan” a growth strategy based on the social and industrial shifts seen in recent years. At the same time, Adrian Kenya has identified material CSR topics that the Company has been addressing for some time in line with its business strategy. As illustrated in the diagram below, “Responding to people and society as a good corporate citizen” is already a fundamental element of Adrian Kenya’s corporate philosophy of Inspired by Technology. The Company also endeavours to help resolve social issues affecting global society by advancing the following topics: “Creating new value and solving social issues” and “Protecting and conserving the global environment.” Re-instill the Adrian Kenya Restructure Divisional sales Establish new business Spirit & Philosophy as a networks of Construction systems to achieve 30% foundation for new growth. services, Fiber Solutions, and increase in Revenue Managed. annually. Reinforce/expand new Create globally dynamic businesses while management structure creating future based sustainable business businesses. growth Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 13 OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. Mega-trends encompassing significant social, economic, political, environmental, and technological changes have an impact on the Business and the Society as a whole, and will continue to do so for decades to come. Of the key mega-trends presenting major challenges to government, industry, and civil society over the coming years, four are particularly relevant to Adrian Kenya’s Business with our Clients, and the Society which include DIGITAL TRANSFORMATION EMERGING TECHNOLOGIES GLOBALIZATION POPULATION GROWTH The above mega-trends interact with each other creating complex implications for the Adrian Kenya business, the customers, the society and the environment in terms of Opportunities and Threats. Future needs in telecommunication and power solutions will call to Adrian Kenya to be aware of the ALL the mega-trends, pre-qualify them, and prioritize for intermittent actions as a going concern to achieve SDGs, 14 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. 7 Soft Skills Training IN LINE WITH SDG 4 11 Technical Skills Training [QUALITY EDUCATION] Adrian Kenya has in place a learning, development, and training program for internal, 5 Energy Regulatory Commission joining employees, and external 60 market. The programs are geared towards continuous Safety learning for a better workforce. at work training 120 First Aid and Fire Safety Training` 20 National Construction Authority 16 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. 30% of workforce is female IN LINE WITH SDG 5 [GENDER EQUALITY] Currently Adrian Kenya has more than 30% as women in its workforce and it is driving the 50% agenda of empowering more of management level staff is female women through various programs in the HR Department which EEO program, Two-Third Gender Rule initiative, and Women Empowerment. Women EEO Program. Two-Third Empowerment. Gender Rule. Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 17 OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. Online Learning IN LINE WITH SDG 8 [DECENT WORK & ECONOMIC GROWTH] Adrian Kenya has contributed to the great impact of value creation Communication for customers, society, and the economy. We are proud to see internet connectivity giving rise to new business models at the community level and increasing penetration and access to information and vital services in Healthcare health care and education like tele-consultancy, tele-prescription and online learning. Using internet connectivity to promote Healthcare, Communication & Online Learning 18 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. IN LINE WITH SDG 9 [INDUSTRY INNOVATION & INFRASTRUCTURE] Adrian Kenya delivers Adrian Kenya undertook the connectivity and innovative process of developing a products and services that Geo-Database by GIS mapping provide unmatched solutions of all clients in Mt. Kenya to to meet the needs of Kenyans bridge this information gap. by enabling access. We populate client information to As a way of innovation, comprise technology deployed, Adrian Kenya identified a client name & contacts, IP major information gap which address, circuit ID, physical was leading to inefficiency location, associated BTS, Router in survey, support & type and Management IP. On the decommissioning works. BTS side, we have populated, name of BTS, Coordinates and site ID. Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 19 OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY & COMMUNITIES OUR ENVIRONMENT. IN LINE WITH SDG 9 [INDUSTRY INNOVATION & INFRASTRUCTURE] In reducing inequality, Adrian Adrian Kenya has adopted the Kenya has deployed connectivity use of Team Viewer to help log in to 1600 clients specifically in the and troubleshoot client network most remote areas of Kenya remotely thus making insecurity a where citizens were largely non-stopper in the quest to keep disenfranchised by lack of access our clients connected. to Internet connectivity. While Security has been a major hindrance to provision of connectivity to these remote areas in Northern Kenya, 20 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY & COMMUNITIES OUR ENVIRONMENT. IN LINE WITH SDG 12 [RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION & PRODUCTION] Adrian Kenya makes use of skilled and legally qualified personnel to implement all projects. Our staffs are well motivated and remunerated to ensure they enjoy good living standards. Likewise, we use of certified and recommended raw materials in our production. Similarly, Adrian Kenya is keen on waste management; we recycle all our waste by disposing to 3rd party licensed recycling companies. Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 21 OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY & COMMUNITIES OUR ENVIRONMENT. IN LINE WITH SDG 12 [RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION & PRODUCTION] Adrian has been a Legendary Partner to Safaricom by provision of quality, professionalism and customer experience in timely and safe manner. We accomplished this through use of clean energy as envisaged in SDG 7, Adrian Kenya has in the fore front as the only supplier & installer of solar powered systems to Safaricom remote sites. We have deployed over 266 sites; Turnkey solar sites [124] and Solar compatible service racks [142] 266 BTS SITES 142 Solar Compatible 124 Turnkey service Racks solar sites 22 AdrianAdrian 2018 Sustainability KenyaKenya Sustainability Report Report OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. Adrian Kenya places great importance on EPC projects, engaging in design, product assembly as well as the production of certain components, parts, and materials at its own plants, and or factories. Adrian Kenya directly and indirectly employ Procurement division at Adrian and administer considerable numbers of employees. Adrian Kenya conduct business Kenya Office periodically while adhering policies and procedures review and evaluate the social regarding such matters as human rights, responsibility of these Adrian Kenya’s Supply Chain and the labour, the environment, legal compliance, Fulfilment of its Social Responsibility procurement and security, including the suppliers. In recent years, the environment, human “Adrian Kenya CSR Basic Statement,” the rights, & labour issues have been topics of “Adrian Kenya Code of Conduct” & the increasing attention, & various stakeholders “Adrian Kenya Environmental Charter.” are calling into question the scope of our When necessary, HR & Admin Division, social responsibility initiatives across our Operations Division & Auditing office at In particular, Adrian Kenya may choose to supply chain. According to news reports, Adrian Kenya verify the situation of the terminate business with suppliers if they fail their concerns about manufacturers with Company Business as a whole, be they in to abide by laws and ordinances covering respect to social responsibility likely stems Kenya or East Africa Region, from the such areas as human rights and labour. In from large numbers of turnkey EPC standpoints of internal controls and risk 2018, Adrian Kenya established the “Adrian contractors in such industries as management. Kenya Supplier CSR Guidelines” in order to telecommunication, power & energy, and clarify the social responsibility standards ICT outsourcing their non core business The Adrian Kenya offices, fabrication suppliers must adhere to. Adrian Kenya also functions, assembly of products, and plants, and operations teams are engaged requires that these Division urge their own manufacturing operations to outside Firms in partnerships with several thousand upstream suppliers to do the same. Among including ODMs & OEMs. Hence, the social suppliers unaffiliated with the Adrian aspects of social responsibility, child labour, responsibility expected of turnkey EPC Kenya, from whom they purchase and forced labour in particular are areas of Contractor has expanded in scope to considerable numbers of such components growing concern. Within the scope of our encompass large, medium & small size as electronic parts, mechanical parts, units 2017 survey of Adrian Kenya and suppliers, suppliers that provide parts and materials no problems were found with respect to child to projects. labour or forced labour. Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 23 OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. In accordance with our corporate philosophy come with operating a business and to that the Company must fulfil in order to of Inspired by Technology —living and disclose any relevant information. relevant ensure Adrian Kenya solutions, products, & working together for the common information. This basic statement reiterates services can be used with peace of mind & good Adrian Kenya makes sincere efforts our stance regarding the fundamental & maintain reliability of Adrian Kenya. to engage with the social responsibilities that universal corporate social responsibilities Provide safe and secure Comply with the laws Practice fair and free Contribute to realizing Minimize environmental Ensure thoroughness in products and services. and regulations of competition, and a society that promotes burden through managing information, Kenya and East Africa ensure transparency in both enriched lifestyles initiatives aimed at prevent information region, and conduct business transactions and the global conserving energy, leaks, and protect Respect fundamental fair and honest busienvironment conserving resources, personal information human rights & prohibit ness activities. eliminating hazardous discrimination based on Avoid complicity in substances, and such factors as race, armed insurgencies & Prevent corruption in all preserving biodiversity. Prevent infringements nationality, gender, Disclose relevant & anti-social forces its forms including of intellectual property religion and creed accurate corporate bribery rights of others information in law Ensure thoroughness in Promote sincere security trade control Promote diversity and dialogue between Pay employees wages Request that business Inclusion Prohibit child labour & employees & managers equal to or greater than partners take steps to forced labour (incl. in accordance with the legally mandated Prevent excessive address basic social human trafficking) laws & regulations of wages overtime work & grant responsibility for such Ensure occupational each Division leave & holidays issues as the environment, health and safety, and human rights, labour & prevent injuries Prevent excessive compliance within their overtime work & grant supply chain, & confirm leave & holidays in writing the implementation of said steps. 24 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 3. OUR MATERIAL TO PICS . 3.1. B u sin e ss Ethi cs, Govern an ce, R isk & Reg ulation 3. 2 . E nviro nm e nt 3. 3. Heal th & Sa fe ty 3.4 . Hum a n R i g hts a n d L abour 3.5 . Co m m u ni ty Invo l ve m en t & Developm en t OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. At Adrian Kenya, we consider sound As part of our ongoing commitment to the all employees are treated equally (SDG10); corporate governance, ethical behaviour, SDGs, we continued to align our efforts and striving to provide universal access to robust risk management and regulatory regarding ethics, governance, risk and high quality information and communications compliance to be fundamental to our regulation with five of the goals that technology for Kenyan people through our business sustainability. If the business is not represent areas over which we are able to network (SDG9) as part of our work with our run in an ethical, transparent and achieve significant impact in our own Mobile Network Operators. accountable manner, it is likely to be business and amongst our stakeholders: impacted by legal and reputational risks, as promoting ethical business practices and well as being disadvantaged as a result of fighting corruption in all its forms within eroded employee, society, and business Adrian Kenya SDG16 and within the partners’ trust and confidence, which quickly wider business community SDG 17 translates into lost opportunities and pledging to create a non-hostile and secure diminished success. workplace SDG8 within which Regulation: Compliance: Economy: Monitoring and responding Ensuring compliance Impact of slow economic to all regulations (Local to all regulations, growth on the business) & International). policies and procedures (Internal & External). Operations Fraud and Market disruptions: Security & Safety: corruption: Technological changes/ Physical security of both internal (Adrian Kenya personnel and equipment, -related) and external Innovations, in particular). especially in high-risk areas. (customer-related). 26 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. We ensure that Adrian Kenya is run in an ethical, transparent Our governance objectives are supported by our risk and accountable manner by having strong governance management framework. The Audit & Risk Committee reviews processes and structures in place, along with explicit guiding & assesses the risk management processes of Adrian Kenya & principles and clear lines of responsibility. ensures adequacy of our overall environmental control. The Board of Directors of Adrian Kenya is, ultimately, Our risk management initiatives are led by Director of Risk responsible for corporate governance throughout the Management. We apply a combination of risk assessments, organisation and the behaviour of members is governed by an audit, & fraud reviews to monitor & manage risk throughout explicit Governance Charter. Adrian Kenya. We benchmark ourselves against world-class EPC contractors in telecom & power sectors globally & Members of the board also undergo collective and individual independent assurance is given through both internal & performance assessments at least once annually. The board external audit functions as a responsible corporate citizen. meets at least four times a year. Our ethics and values are the principles & standards We ensure that we remain compliant with statutory & regulatory that guide our behaviour as employees & individuals. requirements by assessing our processes against all applicable The management Ethics Committee provides strategic direction laws and regulations. We also engage with our regulators & and oversight on our ethical awareness initiatives. government agencies pro-actively on all issues through a variety of channels (please see the Stakeholders section of this report We use an independent ethics perception survey and for further information about these important relationships). preventative measures like our continuous ethics awareness and staff anti-corruption training programmes to monitor and Our engagement with regulatory bodies & compliance with manage the ethical culture across all of our operations. regulatory requirements is managed by the Corporate We use our supplier Code of Conduct and the Code of Ethics Regulatory & Public Policy Department. delivering services of for Businesses in Kenya to manage the ethical culture of our adequate quality. Accordingly, Quality of Service (QoS) business partners. We conduct regular ethics trainings & measures has developed capacity to be done internally. awareness sessions with staff every year. Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 27 OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. We continue to take our social and moral As part of our ongoing commitment to the responsibility to manage our environmental SDGs and to the environment, in particular, impact very seriously. We recognise that we are committed to maximizing our positive environmental considerations are not impact and mitigating our negative impact separate from our core business, but have through the continued alignment of our an impact on our overall commercial efforts with three of the goals this year: and guiding efforts towards achieving sustainability and success. We acknowledge promoting the use of affordable and clean our ‘net zero’ carbon-emitting the effects that our activities have on the energy SDG7 both within our network aspiration through the development environment, and remain committed to and the homes of employees; advocating and implementation of climate operating in an environmentally sound and for, implementing and promoting the change-related strategies and sustainable way and to managing and responsible production and consumption of policies SDG13 reporting our environmental performance in resources SDG12. an open and transparent manner. 01 Net zero by 2050 initiatives: Monitoring our DG Sets & MV emissions & introducing science-based carbon reduction targets. 02 Continued compliance: Compliance with regulations regarding plastics, air quality and noise levels) 03 Waste management: E-waste collection initiative and internal end-to-end waste management programme) 04 ISO 14001 certification: Upgrades to Environmental Management System (EMS) & successful transition to ISO 14001:2015 28 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. MANAGING EMISSIONS. We have committed to becoming a net zero Conversely, our fuel consumption decreased carbon-emitting company by 2040 by by 18 per cent, from 883,978 litres in FY17 deploying clean & green technologies in our to 732,788 litres in FY18. operations. The current scientific consensus is that global carbon emissions need to be ENERGY & WATER reduced by 80% by 2040 to avoid cataMANAGEMENT. strophic climate change and we are deterAlthough electricity consumption has mined to play our part. Our bold pledge has increased, it is part of our focus on becomfocused our thinking and efforts across the ing more energy-efficient and environmenentire business, from improving energy tally friendly because solar & grid electricity efficiencies and reducing the energy conare cheaper and cleaner source of power sumed across our network and facilities to than the current alternative, namely, diesel deploying renewable energy solutions and generators. This shift in focus is also the exploring carbon offset projects. As part of main reason why our fuel consumption has our commitment to meeting the net zero decreased. We are pleased to be able to carbon target, we continue to monitor and report that our water consumption report our carbon footprint. We have calcudecreased during the year. We attribute this lated and published our carbon footprint for to a campaign to raise awareness of water the seventh time this year. One of the key usage among members of staff; the installaways in which we monitor and manage our tion of meters on kitchen inlet pipes to measenvironmental impact is through our energy ure water usage more accurately; as we (electricity and diesel) and resource (water) were losing around 45 per cent of the water consumption targets. Although our main supply during the process. office is run on grid & solar energy, our electricity consumption increased by 10 per cent during the year, as a result of the conE-WASTE MANAGEMENT tinued expansion of our operations, equipWe are pleased to report another year of ment, fleet, and people & the accelerated good progress with a record 22 tonnes of connection of national grid electricity to new e-waste collected. We opened a new e-waste offices. collection centre at Adrian Group Centre, Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 29 OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. Gitaru, which will serve as a collection point for the wider Kenya area, and we continued with the effective format employed in previous years of targeting larger institutions; for example, holding successful activations at the Mt. Kenya Region and several government ministries. Our partners, processes the e-waste we collect. We have also developed a communication strategy to help promote the collection programme and explain the importance of proper e-waste disposal to a wide audience across the public and private sectors, which will be rolled out next year. 30 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. Our ultimate goal is to be incident-free. We work relentlessly to eliminate the probability and/or potential for work-related incidents, emissions. PERSONAL ACCOUNTABILITY The Adrian Kenya Corporate Health, Safety AND COMMITMENT TO SAFETY & Environment Policy defines strategic The Adrian Kenya Health, Safety and objectives to minimize risks for people and Environment Manual provides guidance for the planet. Through risk assessments, the implementation of the HS&E Policy. mitigation initiatives and process Adrian Kenya recognizes the need for improvements, we aim to make Adrian personal initiative, professional and safe Kenya a safe place to work and visit. behaviour, safety awareness and respect for each other and the environment to implement the HS&E policy. QHS&E managers drive and support the change in STRIVING FOR HS&E safety culture by developing operational EXCELLENCE standards, improving working environments, The Adrian Kenya Corporate HS&E Policy raising awareness and training personnel. defines strategic objectives to minimize all Management commitment to HS&E is HS&E risks and environmental impacts reinforced by our Corporate HS&E and inherent to the company’s activities and Sustainability Steering Committee (CHSSC) products. This is above and beyond our spearheaded by our MD. It defines Adrian basic obligation to comply with all Kenya strategies and policies regarding applicable health, safety and environmental HS&E and sustainability, advises and assists regulations. We perform root cause analyses the divisions with their implementation and and implement corrective and preventive follows up on progress. actions on critical operations. Adrian Kenya telecom, power & fiber sites adhere to strict By sharing knowledge and unifying HS&E regulations (such as Working at Height, practices, such as standardized root cause PPEs), and several sites have certified health analysis, and HS&E rules company-wide, we & safety and/or environmental management seek to make our processes more efficient. systems officers (OHS and/or ISO The Steering Committee defined the following priorities for 2017 – 2018 as HS&E KPIs; Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 31 OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. Legal compliance Site Construction Health & Safety. Personal protection Working at Height equipment and visitors. Transport safety. Fire safety Corporate Heath Management of culture & Safety (Office). and machine safety. We follow a progressive maturity development model to foster a proactive safety culture, in which teams lead HS&E activities and every employee takes personal ownership of their safety and that of their colleagues. Involving all levels of the organisation to identify, report and prevent near-misses and unsafe acts and conditions helps us focus on risk reduction. Adrian Kenya HS&E reporting tool was implemented in 2016 to support alignment, improve follow-up and reporting, underpin best practices and facilitate the monitoring of changing regulations. 32 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. Principles on Business and Human Rights. every country and region where we operate. Companies are now being asked not only to We are also engaged in raising awareness As our value chain expands on a global respect human rights in their own activities of human rights and promoting the use of scale, we find diverse working environments, but also to avoid becoming complicit in the grievance mechanisms to address employee business norms, and trade practices in human rights infringements of their suppliers concerns throughout the Adrian Kenya. countries and East Africa Region, and this and customers. At the same time, we are strengthening has highlighted the need to ensure respect In carrying out our business, Adrian Kenya human rights due diligence and expanding for human rights in our operations. Society’s recognizes human rights as a key the scope of other human-rights-related awareness of human rights issues is also management issue. On the basis of this activities. rising, and companies are expected to awareness, we will respect the human rights address human rights issues in accordance of all stakeholders, including our own with such international standards as the UN employees and across the supply chain, in The Adrian Kenya Human Rights Policy has been formulated to create a value chain where the human rights of all stakeholders are respected. Under the leadership of top management, educational activities targeting all executives and employees are carried out on an ongoing basis to help foster an organization in which human rights infringements do not occur. Under this policy, we are also building a framework to accurately assess and mitigate human rights risks in the workplace environments of Adrian Kenya’s suppliers and other stakeholders. Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 33 OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. Employees are valued partners who play a vital role in sustaining our business. The cornerstone of a sound & mutually beneficial relationship between employees & the company, & the motive force for sustainable growth, is to provide proper working conditions for employees and build a framework for the maximization of their potential By complying with all work-related laws & an important means of building a healthy regulations & creating a work environment relationship with outstanding human capital. that maintains & develops fair employment Adrian Kenya has a human capital strategy relations and makes full use of the abilities that emphasizes the concept of “decent of its diverse human capital, Adrian Kenya work” (that is, work that is humane and aims to be a company in which all employfulfilling). This concept has taken on ees can engage in safe and fulfilling work. increased importance globally as a standard for labour practices, with the International Adrian Kenya strives to dialogue with each Labour Organization, for example, positionindividual employee about their basic rights ing the concept as an important objective of that provide greater job satisfaction, in and career development. Systems are in its activities. Companies are expected to accordance with the business conditions place for employees to discuss matters with ensure decent work through policies approand economic environment of each individhuman resources at the level of the business priate to their businesses. ual country and region. site, & a variety of other contact points, such Principles on Business and Human Rights. as a health & safety committee & labour Adrian Kenya’s policies toward realizing this Companies are now being asked not only unions, are available to employees as well. ideal of decent work go beyond promotion to respect human rights in their own activiWhen necessary, we encourage employees of diversity and inclusion among our human ties but also to avoid becoming complicit in to use the Compliance Reporting System, capital around the world to include a variety the human rights infringements of their which is designed to ensure a careful & of other initiatives reflecting the globalization suppliers and customers. thorough response to all issues raised. of business, from worldwide implementation In carrying out our business, Adrian Kenya of fair employee evaluation systems and recognizes human rights as a key Ensuring that hiring and promotions, as well working conditions to ensuring that executive management issue. On the basis of this as worker assessment and compensation, positions are open to employees from all awareness, we will respect the human are fair is not only a duty that companies regions. We will continue to promote the rights of all stakeholders, including our must fulfil toward their employees but also creation of open, fair work environments own 34 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. We are engaged in community development activities focused on the following five areas stated in our Policy on Corporate Citizenship: 01 02 Bridging the digital Sound development divide using of youth Adrian Training & Research NextGen 13yrs + Leadership Program. 03 04 Environmental Social and cultural conservation Gitaru support Children’s Annual Cleaning Home Support Going forward, we will continue to fulfil our social responsibilities and contribute to society through these activities. regional business. Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 35 OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. 28 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 4 . STAKEHOLD ER EN G AG E M E N T 4 .1 . Our app roa ch 4 . 2 . So ciety 4 . 3. Regulato rs 4 .4 . Custo m e rs 4 .5. E m ploye e s OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. OUR STAKEHOLDERS Stakeholders that influence our businesses are diverse from customers, shareholders, Local business partners, employees and their Customers Communities families and to the local communities. We at Adrian Kenya consider all stakeholders in Sa our business operations as our “customers,” tis fa cti C o C llab oo o on and implement various activities to offer pe rat ra ion tio & new, satisfying experiences to each n. stakeholder. We also employ the GRI Sustainability Reporting Standards, & ISO Employees & 26000 and other global sustainability Their Families CBOs standards and checklist that consist of quesADRIAN KENYA tions we receive from investors, and create ALL Stakeholders Job Satisfaction. Dialogue & and implement policies for assessing our Collaboration current conditions and addressing manage= Customer. ment issues. The results of engagement efforts are not only reported and shared within the company but also reported at relevant committees and manInvestors & p agement meetings and reflected in the la Tr u Regulators tio nshi st decision-making process. Adrian Kenya & Govt Agencies Re Owners. values the dialogue with all our stakeholdnd So u ers who support us. We will continue to build up collaboration with our stakeholders and tackle societal issues to contribute to the development of a truly connected socie37 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. Our purpose is to make a difference by developing, constructing, operating, and -Social baseline study managing innovative technologies that -Impact and opportunity assessment, improve people’s lives now and for generaUnderstand -Perception surveying, tions to come. We acknowledge the impor-Stakeholder identification and analysis, tance of our social licence to operate, that it -Discussion forums is earned and maintained on an ongoing basis and that trust in us is an outcome of the quality of our relationships with many stakeholders. -Discussion forums & feedback Measure -Stakeholder engagement Each of our operations exist in a unique -External/internal assurance processes social context which has its own belief -Perception surveying systems and communication norms. Navigating these unique and complex social systems can be challenging and requires a commitment to regular, open and honest -Effective partnerships with local government, dialogue and the ability to identify and work Implement NGOs and other local organisations towards shared objectives. We work with our -Local employment and procurement communities and, where possible, in partopportunities nerships with governments and local com-Coordinated emergency responses munity organisations. -Local stakeholder engagement plan Our approach to working with our host -Develop community investment plan in communities is outlined in our internal Plan collaboration with relevant stakeholders standards, our Sustainability Policy and -Complaints and grievances processes Code of Business Conduct. This includes our Cross functional collaboration with Asset commitment to adhere to the United Nations Protection teams (Kenya Global Compact principles. Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 38 OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. As a result, our regulators expect us to National Construction Authority (NCA) provide our services in a reasonable, The NCA gives license to construction Regulatory bodies are the means through responsible, ethical and environmentally works to promote professionalism, which the people of a nation can supervise sensitive manner, providing customers with capability, & capacity for such works in the activities of organisations and adequate information and support to Building, Electrical, Civil, Structural Cabling companies. The fundamental goal of any access and enjoy our Kenya Revenue Authority (KRA): The regulator is to protect the safety and services, while respecting their rights. KRA is responsible for the efficient interests of the public, which typically assessment and collection of revenue means ensuring that there is adequate, Our regulators also require us to compete (taxes) on behalf of the government. healthy competition among providers and for business fairly and to play our part in that the public are protected from helping to empower and transform the lives National Environment Management misleading or unscrupulous business of Kenyans through innovation an Authority (NEMA): NEMA is mandated to practices. ensure the natural resources and environment of Kenya are managed in a OUR PRIMARY REGULATORS. sustainable manner We are overseen by eight regulatory authorities and our chief Communications Authority of Kenya -Environmental Impact Assessments regulator is the Communications Authority (CA): The CA is the regulatory authority for -Environmental Audits of Kenya (CA), which is the regulatory the ICT sector in Kenya. It works to ensure -E-waste management authority for the Information, the customers & people of Kenya receive -Energy management regulations Communications and Technology (ICT) the best possible services from -Climate change sector in Kenya. communications contractors and facility providers. Kenya Civil Aviation Authority (KCAA): OUR RELATIONSHIP WITH The KCAA is responsible for the safety and OUR REGULATORS Energy Regulatory Commission (ERC) management of the Kenyan airspace. Our services play an important and, occaThe ERC is the regulatory authority for Site acquisitions sionally, critical role directly and or indirectpower & energy sector in Kenya. Since we Approval of proposed Base Transceiver ly in the daily lives of many Kenyan Emare a contractor, the ERC license must be in Stations ployees, Suppliers, and Families. place before executing such business 39 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. Delivering value to our enterprise customers: During the year, we experienced continued growth and acquisition of SME and FTTx customers by offering business payment solutions and tailored mobile GSM solutions in Partnership with Safaricom PLC. We are satisfied with this growth, but believe that there is still an opportunity to drive additional growth based on the addressable market opportunity. The large enterprise customers still account for most of the enterprise revenues and within this space we will up/cross sell new segmented propositions. Looking ahead, we want to continue to offer enterprise customers real-time monitoring of services and an enhanced billing service, together with an improved self-service portal. Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 40 OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. 01 AGE A majority of our employees remain Kenyans in their 30s, based in Nairobi, with this age cohort still accounting for over 60% of the workforce. There were marginal gain made in the 40s and 20s age groups. 02 GENDER Our target is to achieve gender parity a 50-50 per cent ratio between men and women in senior management by 2021 an continue 03 HEALTH & SAFETY to improve the current 60-40 We take our responsibility to maintain composition. a safe working environment for staff and contractors very seriously and are delighted to report no fatalities this year. 04 MORALE Overall, staff morale appears to have improved again this year, with the latest Index results showing 90% 05 DIVERSITY of employees are happy with employment conditions at the We have set ourselves an aggressive target of increasing the number of our company. colleagues who are differently-abled to 5 per cent by March 2021 41 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. Our business partners include suppliers, are assisted with customized performance Reasons offered for the high level of satissubcontractors, equipment companies, improvement plans (PIP) as per our Procurefaction included the improved payment institutions of learning, training & research, ment & Partnership policy and mentored turnaround time through the Sage Supplier the society, and our agents. We rely heavily towards achieving acceptable levels of & Partner portal of 30 days on average, on our partners from both an operational service. In cases of lack of improvements and our more straightforward contracts, perspective and in terms of our reputation after a PIP has been implemented, the with clearly defined service levels. Areas for as they are our interface with many of our contract is recommended for termination improvement that were raised by suppliers other important stakeholders. We also and no invitations are sent for participation & partners during the survey included the understand that we can play an important in future business opportunities. pre-qualification, tendering process, and role in encouraging sustainable practices payment terms from submission periods throughout our business ecosystem and to the communication of outcomes and value chain by engaging with our partners We meet with our partners every year at our negotiated rates — and the level of comin this regard. Our business partner Adrian Kenya Annual Partners Forum to munication provided by Adrian Kenya staff. network is currently comprised of over 100 hear their concerns and exchange ideas entities & individuals as Supplier and information with them. During the We have already begun to address these Consultants, Subcontractors, and related event, we conduct a survey to assess their concerns by introducing a dedicated cusCorporations. perceptions and levels of satisfaction and tomer care and help desk to respond to confidence regarding Adrian Kenya. We use supplier and partner queries and we intend We continue to undertake performance the feedback gained through the survey to to improve our levels of communication evaluations of all of our suppliers & other adjust our processes and offerings to partthrough periodic emails to suppliers, partners on a quarterly or bi-annual basis. ners. mini-forums for specific supplier groups, Suppliers are measured against a variety of and by holding debriefing sessions with indicators including cost, quality, delivery, This year 2018, we commissioned our suppliers at the end of tender processes. responsiveness, flexibility, value-add, health Procurement Division to survey our suppliers and safety — and a performance score is and partners the overall 'satisfaction with calculated. Suppliers whose performance is Adrian Kenya' level reported was 87 below the required threshold (<60%) per cent. 42 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report 43 5 . CON CLUDING REMA R KS 5 .1 Co n clud i n g R e m a rks 5 . 2 Third Par ty O p i ni o n & Assuran ce OUR SHARED VALUE, OUR PEOPLE, OUR SOCIETY, OUR COMMUNITIES & OUR ENVIRONMENT. Thank you for reading our sustainable business report. As stated at the outset, we hope that our report has presented you with a concise, yet meaningful overview of the role sustainability plays in our day-to-day operations and business practices. Please refer to the companion website for this report at www.adriankenya.com for more information regarding the list of material topics and purpose of our reporting, the methodology we use to determine our most material topics, the methodology we use to calculate our emissions and water consumption, our governance structures and processes, as well as our assurance process. As we continue to learn and evolve on our journey of sustainable business reporting, we value your views and feedback. Please share any comments, queries or suggestions you have regarding this report with the reporting team by emailing to us at: sustainability@adriankenya.com; 45 Adrian Kenya 2018 Sustainability Report CONTACTS Gitaru-Off Waiyaki Way, Opp. Kikuyu-Junction P. O. Box 9808-00100 Nairobi Kenya Office Tel: +254 (020) 232 4900 Office Cell: +254 701971818; Email: info@adriankenya.com Website: www.adriankenya.com
