Integrated Report 2018 (Year ended 31st March, 2018) ＮＲＩの事業セグメント NRI’s Corporate Philosophy A Corporate Philosophy that Lives On Dream up the future. NRI offers integrated services ranging from consulting through to IT solutions. We were established through the merger of the former Nomura Research Institute, Ltd., Japan’s first private-sector think tank, and Nomura Computer Systems Co., Ltd., a pioneer in systems integration that introduced the commercial computer into Japan for the first time. The future is unknown and cannot be seen, so why not dare to create it ourselves? That is the spirit behind our Dream up the future statement in the corporate philosophy. Examples of How NRI Has Achieved Dream up the future Japan’s First Commercial Use Japan’s First Full-fledged of Computers Private-sector Think Tank The origin of NRI's IT solutions business is the Electronic Data The origin of NRI's consulting business goes back to 1965 Processing Division of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. that was when Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. expanded the functions of its established in 1953. In 1955, the division adopted the use Research Division and established the former Nomura Research of a commercial computer (UNIVAC-120) that had just been Institute, Ltd. The objective was to make a dramatic leap to developed in the United States, making headlines as the first develop into a high quality research and investigation institution. instance in Japan of the commercial use of a computer. Later, at the Japan World Exposition 1970 held in Osaka, the In 1966, the Electronic Data Processing Division spun off former Nomura Research Institute successfully forecasted the from Nomura Securities to become Nomura Computing Center number of visitors to the event. The forecast was vital for planning Co., Ltd. It later established a position as one of Japan's leading the operation of this event of an unprecedented large scale in system integrators. (Company name changed to Nomura Japan, and NRI appealed its presence to the world as a think Computer Systems Co., Ltd., in 1972.) tank. The commercial computer (UNIVAC-120) adopted by The Japan World Exposition (Osaka), which saw a record number of 64 Nomura Securities million visitors 1 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Corporate Philosophy The NRI Group’s corporate philosophy consists of four pillars: mission, business domain, management goals and action guidelines. Corporate Statement To society: Discerning new social paradigms and assuming the role of Mission implementing such paradigms. To clients: Building client’s trust and prospering together with clients. Business Company creating future society domain Mangement Pursuing the maximization of corporate value through goals “Navigation & Solution” Action Continuing never-ending challenges with pride of true guidelines professionals A Pioneer in Shared Supporting Convenience Stores since Online Services the Early Days of the Business in Japan In the 1970s, decades before the word “cloud computing” came As SEVEN-ELEVEN JAPAN CO., LTD. broke various traditional into existence, NRI launched a back-office system for securities industry norms and established convenience stores as a firms, offering it as a shared online service (on-demand software, business in Japan, NRI was part of that history, supporting this or software as a service (SaaS), in which an application is offered achievement through information technology. and shared via internet). The system built by NRI is used for the processing of vast In particular, THE STAR for retail brokerage firms, which amounts of data. It supports high-frequency, small-lot delivery Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. began using in 2013, has grown into that enables stores to be continually stocked with products that a service that supports Japanese securities firms. As of the end of consumers want. Today, convenience stores have become a part March 2018, its use had expanded to 71 firms. of the social infrastructure, with many Japanese conveniencestore chains also widely present abroad. THE STAR has been supporting the stability and growth of capital There are more than 20 thousand 7-Eleven stores in Japan markets Integrated Report 2018 2 NRI’s Corporate Philosophy Contributing to Innovations in Society and among Clients as a “Company Creating Future Society” As a “Company Creating Future Society,” NRI “navigates” solutions for issues faced by society and companies. The concept of Creating Shared Value (CSV) in which companies create both social and economic value is nothing new to NRI. This way of thinking is shared by each NRI employee through the “Dream up the future” corporate philosophy. Under our long-term management vision “Vision2022,” NRI’s stance to co-create new value and a new future with clients and partners through innovation is expressed in our vision statement, “Share the Next Values!” Population Decline and Social Issue Social Issue Regional Revitalization Work-style Reform Joint Development of Solution AI solution “TRAINA ” Solution “Dokokani Mile” with Japan Airlines NRI has published the results of joint research showing a strong “Dokokani Mile” is a mileage service for domestic flights in Japan possibility that technically, those occupations in which roughly that was developed jointly between Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and 49% of the Japanese workforce is currently engaged can be NRI. It enables users to go to one of four randomly displayed replaced by artificial intelligence and robots in a decade or two. destinations for less miles than usual. An algorithm that was The utilization of artificial intelligence (AI), robots and the like, is a developed on the basis of a patent held by NRI is used in this major social issue for Japan, where there is much focus on the service. labor crunch and the need for work-style reform. This service increases travel opportunities for passengers NRI offers “TRAINA”, an AI solution that significantly reduces who were unable to accumulate enough mileage in the past for working hours in various operations through the utilization of exchange with an award ticket. It is also a service that will help voice recognition technology and AI. It includes query response people rediscover the appeal of various regions in Japan and lead operations, such as those of call centers and internal helpdesks, to regional revitalization—an innovation in which NRI’s capabilities and even support operations for sales personnel. in analytics contributes to solving social issues. AI solution “TRAINA” “Dokokani Mile,” a domestic flight awards service 3 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Long-term Management Vision “Vision2022” (From FY March 2016 to FY March 2023) Vision Statement “Share” “Next” “Values” as expressed here, is synonymous refers to insight into paradigms indicate not only the completely new values that are with the immense breadth and for the coming generation. created through the achievement of “truly meaningful density of our relationships. NRI will imagine the future, ever innovations” but also the diverse set of values held by NRI will work to be a partner farther ahead and in a dynamic the numerous people who work for such achievement. with whom wider and deeper manner, as it serves as a navigator We will help realize an “energetic future society” through co-creation will be possible. for clients and society. the strengths of diverse human resources, both within and outside NRI, and take it to future generations. Social Issue Information Security Risk Social Issue Environmental Protection Comprehensive Support for the First Issuance of Yen-Denominated Solution “My Number” System, from System Solution Green Bonds by a Japanese Design to System Construction Enterprise The “My Number (Social Security and Tax Number)” System is an In 2016, NRI became the first Japanese enterprise to issue yenimportant social infrastructure that supports the e-Government denominated green bonds. A green bond is a bond limited to (digital government) being promoted by the Japanese government. fund projects that contribute to the resolution of environmental NRI was involved from the system design stage, providing issues. While more than 4 trillion yen's worth of green bonds the government with recommendations. NRI is also supporting were issued outside of Japan in 2015, there was no case of its promotion of the e-Government initiative in ways that help advance issuance in Japan for an enterprise. digitization on the part of not only government but also private By issuing the bond, NRI is letting the world know about its enterprises, which are both necessary. They include the provision environmental protection initiatives. By being the first in Japan to of e-BANGO, which is a highly robust My Number administration do so, NRI hopes to contribute to the development of the green service intended for financial institutions and ordinary companies bond market in Japan by encouraging other companies to issue (approximately 13 million My Numbers stored as of 30th June the bonds. 2018). There is also e-NINSHO, which is a next-generation identity verification service that utilizes a public identity verification service. The e-BANGO “My Number” storage and management system An office building with superior environmental performance, the equity for which was acquired through procured funds (Yokohama Nomura Building) Integrated Report 2018 4 Contents/Editorial Policy NRI’s Corporate Philosophy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1 Contents/Editorial Policy. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5 NRI’s History. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7 Message from the President . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9 NRI’s Value Creation. . . . . . . 17 NRI’s Value Creation Process. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Changes to the Business Environment Surrounding NRI. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17 19 Business Model: Further Strengthening the Specialty Areas in Japan (Corporate IT). . . . . 21 Business Model: Creating New Growth Drivers (Global Business/Business IT) . . . . . . . . . 23 Competitive Advantages of Human Capital. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25 Competitive Advantages of Social and Relationship Capital . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26 Competitive Advantages of Financial Capital (CFO Message) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 27 Outcomes: Financial Highlights. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 28 Outcomes: Non-financial Highlights . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 30 Long-term Management Progress of Long-term Management Vision and the Medium-term Management Plan . . . 31 Events in the Fiscal Year Ended March 2018 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Vision and the Medium-Term Management Plan. . . . . . . . 31 NRI’s Business Segments. . . 35 NRI’s Four Business Segments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Consulting Segment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 35 37 Financial IT Solutions Segment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 39 Industrial IT Solutions Segment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41 IT Platform Services Segment. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 NRI’s Sustainability Message from the Director in Charge of Supervising of Corporate Administration. . . . . . . 45 NRI Sustainability Management Policy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Management . . . . . . . . . . . 45 46 Results of Main Sustainability Activities in the Fiscal Year Ended March 2018. . . . . . . . . . 47 Stakeholder Dialogue. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49 E (Environment): 51 Creation of a Future, Low Environmental Impact Society . . . . . . 51 S (Social): 53 NRI’s Human Resources Strategy . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 53 New Value Created by Industry-Academia Partnerships. . . . . . . 55 Development of Human Resources for Blazing a New Future. . . . 56 Diversity Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 57 Work-style Reform Issues and Health and Productivity Management . . 58 G (Governance): 59 NRI’s Corporate Governance. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59 System and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Audit & Supervisory Board. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 61 Compensation for Members of the Board and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 63 Message from the Outside Member of Board and the Audit & Supervisory Board Member. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65 NRI Executives. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 67 Internal Controls, Corporate Ethics and Compliance. . . . . . . . . . 69 Cooperation with Stakeholders. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 71 Information Disclosure and Communication. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 72 NRI’s Quality Management. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 73 Corporate Information/ 11-year Summary Consolidated Financial Statements . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77 Consolidate Financial Data. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 77 79 ESG Data. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 81 NRI Group Network . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 85 Corporate Data/ Share Information. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 86 5 Nomura Research Institute Editorial Policy for the Integrated Report 2018 NRI has published integrated reports since the fiscal year ended March 2014, with the aim of giving an overall picture of our corporate value creation activities in a concise and clear manner. In editing the Integrated Report 2018, the following contents have been particularly enriched on the basis of feedback from our investors and other stakeholders. Contents Focus points in Integrated Report 2018 Page Message from the President •The messages related to the strategies for the digital and global businesses have been enhanced. P.9-16 •The relationship between our understanding of the business environment surrounding NRI and related countermeasures (i.e., the Medium-Term Management Plan) has been described. P.19-20 NRI’s Value Creation •A message from the CFO and the financial management policy have been included in regard to the competitive advantages of financial capital. P.27-29 •Changes (trends) in major financial data have been included in the Financial Highlights. •Strengths, business environment (client trends), strategies and countermeasures, and examples of activities have NRI’s Business Segments P.37-44 been included for each business segment. fisca •A list of sustainability activities for the fiscal year ended March 2018, and related SDGs has been created. P.47-48 NRI’ Sustainability Management •Content related to NRI’s quality management (e.g., system development, system operations and information P.73-76 security management) has been expanded. •The Consolidated financial statements , Financial data and ESG (environment, social and governance) data Corporate Information/Data P.77-84 have been significantly expanded. As for details and other related information that cannot be included due to space, we have included the source of the relevant information (e.g., websites and the Annual Securities Report) within the pages of this Integrated Report for your use. Guidelines Referenced for the Disclosure of Information •The International Integrated Reporting Framework by the International Integrated Reporting Council (IIRC) •The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry (METI) “Guidance for Integrated Corporate Disclosure and Company-Investor Dialogues for Collaborative Value Creation” •Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) Sustainability Reporting Guidelines, the fourth generation [G4] Categorization of NRI’s Disclosure Information •Website Broad Corporate http://www.nri.com/global/ Brochure •About NRI: Management policy, corporate data •Service & Solutions: Introduction of service & solutions by business segment Target audience •Corporate Opinion: Research papers, service examples Integrated •News Release: News release, what’s new Report •Sustainability: Sustainability policy, sustainability topics etc. •Investor Relations: Financial results briefings, financial results, IR calendar etc. •Careers: New graduate recruitment, mid-career recruitment, internship etc. Website Specific Summaries and images Content Details and data Corporate Brochure ESG Databook 2018 Digest Integrated Report 2018 6 NRI’s History Consolidated sales (¥ billion) NRI’s “Dream Up the Future” History NRI’s History 800 Ever since it was founded, NRI has been achieving sustainable growth even amid the impact of various changes in economic trends and economic crises. NRI is currently promoting its long-term management vision “Vision2022” (from the fiscal year ended 600 March 2016, to the fiscal year ending March 2023), as well as the first half of this vision, the Medium-Term Management Plan (from the fiscal year ended March 2017, to the fiscal year ending March 2019). Through promotion of the Vision and the Plan, NRI will work toward the mediumto long-term improvement of its corporate value, with the aspiration to “Dream up the future.” 400 Launch of new Collapse of Japan’s Nomura Research economic bubble 200 Institute 0 65 77.9 82.9 87.9 92.3 97.3 NRI’s History 1965 1966 1967 1995 Former Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. founded Nomura Computing Center Co., Ltd. founded New York Office established Seoul Branch established as Japan’s first private-sector think tank (Name changed to Nomura Computer Systems 1972 1997 Co., Ltd. in 1972) London Office established Manila Branch established 1976 Hong Kong Office established 1984 Singapore Office established 1988 Formar Nomura Research Institute and Nomura Computer Systems merged 1994 Former Nomura Research Institute Nomura Computing Center founded NRI Pacific Inc. founded Formar Nomura Research Institute and founded Taipei Representative Office established Nomura Computer Systems merged NRI’s Evolution of Consulting and IT Solutions Consulting-related 1970 1988 1994 Forecasted the number of visitors to the Japan Started recommendation activities of the world's Launched corporate website sixth in Japan events World Exposition held in Osaka five big think tanks including NRI 1995 (a pioneer in research & consulting business in (thereafter annually through 1995) Center for Cyber Communities Initiative (CCCI) Japan) 1989 established with Keio University 1984 Organized Pension Management Study Group Cyber Life Club cybermall launched System Clinic Service launched (affected Japan 401K scheme later) (a pioneer in online shopping business in Japan) (a pioneer in system consulting business in Japan) IT Solution-related 1970 1979 1987 Launched Nomura Securities’ “Integrated Online Launched a new ordering system for Famicom Trade System in Nomura Securities events System” SEVEN-ELEVEN JAPAN CO., LTD. launched 1974 1987 (a pioneer in contemporary home trading services) STAR, a shared online service for retail I-STAR, a shared online system for wholesale 1988 brokerage firms launched brokerage firms launched International VAN service between Japan and United States launched 7 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Consolidated operating profit (billions of yen) NRI’s History 100 Consolidated sales (left scale) Consolidated operating profit (right scale) Notes: 1. The figures prior to 1987 are combined totals for the former Nomura Research Institute 50th and Nomura Computer Systems. 2. The figures for 1988-1996 are non-consolidated; the figures for 1997 onward are consolidated. Anniversary 75 3. Owing to a change of fiscal year-end, 1989 was a six-month accounting period (October 1988-March 1989). For convenience, the graph shows six-month figures x 2. Global Financial Crisis Listed on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange 50 Collapse of dot-com bubble 25 Long-Term Management Vision Long-Term Management Vision Vision2015 Vision2022 (2009.3-2016.3) (2016.3-2023.3) Medium-Term Management Plan (2017.3-2019.3) 0 01.3 02.3 07.3 09.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 19.3 23.3 (Forecast) (Target) 2000 2002 2011 2015 NRI Secure Technologies, Ltd. founded Nomura Research Institute Shanghai Limited Nomura Research Institute Consulting and Brierley+Partners, Inc. joined the NRI Group founded Solutions India Private Limitedfounded Zhiming Software Beijing, Ltd. joined the NRI Group 2001 Nomura Research Institute (Beijing), Ltd. founded 2012 Zhiming Software Japan, Ltd. joined the NRI Group Listed on the First Section of the Tokyo Stock Exchange NRI Data i Tech, Ltd. founded 2007 Nomura Research Institute Nomura Research Institute Singapore Pte. Ltd. and NRI Social Information System Services, Ltd. Financial Technologies India Pvt. Ltd. founded NRI Mirai, Ltd. founded NRI Cyber Patent, Ltd. founded founded NRI System Techno, Ltd. founded 2016 2008 2013 Cutter Associates, LLC joined the NRI Group Dallas Office established Nomura Research Institute Thailand founded ASG Group Limited joined the NRI Group Moscow Branch established 2014 NRI digital, Ltd. and NRI Retail Next, Ltd. founded 2009 DSB Co., Ltd. joined NRI Group 2017 NRI BPO Services, Ltd. founded (Name changed to Nomura Research Institute Holdings Nomura Research Institute Holdings Australia NRI Process Innovation, Ltd. in 2010) America, Inc. founded Pty Ltd. founded Listed on the First Section of the 2010 Nomura Research Institute IT Solutions SMS Management & Technology Limited joined Tokyo Stock Exchange America, Inc. founded the NRI Group Nomura Research Institute (Dalian), Ltd. founded 1997 2000 2007 2014 Conducted the first Survey of 10,000 Consumers Advocated the concept of Ubiquitous Networking Established Tsinghua-NRI Chinese Research Center Assisted the rollout of “NISA” system, from (thereafter conducted every three years) (a new information technology paradigm) Insight Signal, advertising effectiveness design to system construction 2003 measurement service launched Started sending CIO aides to government 2011 organizations, including Ministry of Health, Recommendation activities and others for Great Labour and Welfare, Ministry of Agriculture, East Japan Earthquake recovery efforts Forestry and Fisheries etc. 1993 1999 2001 2012 T-STAR, a shared online system for asset Online trading system for an online brokerage TRUE TELLER, text-mining solution launched Launched Value Direct (for online banking) management firms launched firm launched Full-scale offshore development in China 2016 1997 2000 2004 TRAINA, AI solution launched BESTWAY, an over-the-counter sales system for Bizmart, an electronic commerce support system e-JIBAI, compulsory automobile liability mutual funds launched launched (Support for B2B transactions) insurance system launched e-Cash experiment with Japanese commercial banks (Japan’s first electronic money trial) Integrated Report 2018 8 Message from the President NRI will continue to propel the digital transformation—across the corporate community and society as a whole—as part of our corporate philosophy to “Dream up the future.” Message from the President The age of the “digital transformation” (DX) is now upon us. In 2017, the advent of that new, technology-driven era breathed life into NRI's digital business. With the digital sector booming, NRI posted record-high net sales, operating profit, and profit attributable to owners of parent in the fiscal year ended March 2018. Our financial goals for the current Medium-Term Management Plan, set to wrap up with the fiscal year ending March 2019, are now squarely within range. Harnessing the power of innovation to fuel the DX for both companies and society as a whole, NRI will constantly aspire to create social value and translate those benefits into sustained economic value. Shingo Konomoto President & CEO, Representative Director, Member of the Board 9 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Our Seventh Consecutive Fiscal Year of Income objective in clear view, we are determined to make even and Profit Growth bigger leaps forward. One of the most vital parts of that progress will be During the fiscal year ended March 2018, which our growth in digital business and global business—and represented an important waypoint for our Medium-Term the fiscal year ended March 2018, saw NRI make solid Management Plan, corporate IT investments stayed strong headway along those lines. as the Japanese economy made a gradual recovery. In How IT Can Transform Corporate Message from the President that business environment, NRI has worked to expand existing business and boost productivity, as well as fortify Business Models its operating base in the new fields of digital and global business. Companies are on the brink of major transformations in Our consolidated sales thus totaled ¥471.4 billion (up how they use IT. With storage capacity, semiconductor 11.1% year on year), and our consolidated operating performance, communication speeds, and smartphones profit came to ¥65.1 billion (up 11.3%)—making the year and other devices always improving and making ended March 2018, our seventh consecutive fiscal year of technology a ubiquitous feature on the social landscape, increases in both income and profit. Profit attributable to the world is encountering a host of new developments: owners of parent came to ¥55.1 billion (up 22.4%); all the artificial intelligence (AI), the Internet of Things (IoT), figures were the highest marks in our history. For the final blockchain, and autonomous driving, to name a few. fiscal year of the Medium-Term Management Plan, which Members of the corporate community are now thus ends March 2019, we forecasted consolidated sales confronting the “digital transformation” (“DX”), a shift that of ¥510.0 billion (up 8.2%) and consolidated operating could completely reshape their products, services, and profit of ¥70.0 billion (up 7.5%). We also revised our even business models. The ways in which companies use consolidated net sales forecasts from the Medium-Term their IT, too, are changing. While firms used to concentrate Management Plan upward, considering recent trends in primarily on “Corporate IT” (“CiT”), which mostly served business conditions. We are now setting our sights on to make business processes more efficient, recent years the goal that we put forth in “Vision2022” (scheduled to have brought the focus on “Business IT” (“BiT”), a realm conclude with the fiscal year ending March 2023): ¥100.0 where IT recasts entire business models. billion in consolidated operating profit. With that ambitious NRI saw its consulting projects in the digital sector Results and Targets under Medium-Term Management Plan (From FY March 2017 to FY March 2019) and Long-term Management Vision “Vision2022” (From FY March 2016 to FY March 2023) (billions of yen) Medium-Term Management Plan Vision2022 100.0 70.0 58.5 65.1 100.0 Consolidated operating profit 510.0 471.4 Consolidated sales 424.5 65.0 43.5 Overseas sales 18.9 2017.3 2018.3 2019.3 2023.3 (Results) (Results) (Forecasts) (Targets) Consolidated sales ¥424.5 billion ¥471.4 billion ¥510.0 billion — Consolidated operating profit ¥58.5 billion ¥65.1 billion ¥70.0 billion ¥100.0 billion Consolidated operating profit margin 13.8% 13.8% 13.7% 14% or more Overseas sales ¥18.9 billion ¥43.5 billion ¥65.0 billion ¥100.0 billion ROE 10.7％ 12.9% About 12％ 14％ Cash dividends per share ¥80 ¥90 ¥90 — Integrated Report 2018 10 Message from the President start ticking up around 2010, but few went further than NRI’s digital business categories the “Proof of Concept” (PoC) stage; hardly any led to IT investments geared toward full-scale implementation. Business Digital ecosystems In 2017, however, came a quick, sweeping change: transformation (DX2.0) Create new business models and numerous clients, mainly in distribution, manufacturing, building platforms through digital Create new services, and other industrial sectors, started engaging technologies business models in IT-investment projects to make the DX a reality. The stirrings of the DX movement were palpable across the Message from the President Process Digital front-office entire corporate world, not just among a few select, transformation Use digital technologies to enhance the pioneering companies. To us at NRI, that trend is more (DX1.0) client experience (CX), ranging from Make existing merchandise/service recognition to than just a fad—we see the DX as a growing, lasting shift. purchase and follow-up business models The process is gradual, though. Our clients have told more efficient and us that DX investments have had a limited payoff so sophisticated Digital back-office Use digital technologies to streamline far, with only a few companies reaping the full benefits. and automate back-office business For corporate entities, the idea of reworking business processes for internal tasks, supply-chain models through the DX not only requires a decisionmatters, and more making mindset with an eye to the future—mediumand long-term management visions and business strategies, for example—but also entails embarking on a sweeping to streamline internal business through AI, analytics, endeavor that involves employees and business processes or robotic process automation (RPA), for example, of all kinds. or initiatives to enhance the efficiency of commercial NRI is committed to helping clients as a trusted distribution via direct online sales. Most of the current DX strategic partner, offering them what they need to take on initiatives fall into the expense-ratio category. the challenges of digital transformation and sharpen their The other key element of DX1.0 is enhancing “CX”— competitive edges. the customer experience. CX refers to the relationship of trust that forms between a company (or brand) and DX1.0: Improving Expense Ratios and its customers over the entire customer-contact process, Enhancing Client Experience from product/service recognition all the way to purchase and follow-up. Sales representatives can only do so much Drawing on our experience with projects in the digital on their own in face-to-face service frameworks. With category, we at NRI categorize corporate DX initiatives all the benefits of IT, however, personnel can use their into two types: “DX1.0,” which focuses on process computers, smartphones, and other channels to provide innovation for existing businesses, and “DX2.0,” where customers with a broader range of high-quality services— the emphasis rests on creating new business models via and thereby take the CX to the next level. digital technologies. One of our clients is using digital resources to improve One of the focal points of the DX1.0 is on improving their face-to-face customer service offerings at store expense ratios. That effort can take many forms: projects locations. When a customer visits a store, an employee can easily optimize the experience. The employee simply enters the customer’s name or ID on a computer or tablet device to bring up a bevy of targeted information and recommendations, all individualized for that specific customer based on big data analyses of his or her purchase history, customer-service history, and other details. Thanks to that infusion of technology, the client’s in-store staff members now have an intuitive, on-screen interface that has makes a positive impact on customer MIT Media Lab Director Joichi Ito and President Konomoto gather at Headquarters for a March 2018 talk on “The Digital Near Future: satisfaction and service contract rates—and even helped How Digital Technologies Can Shape the Ways we Live” store employees hone their personal service skills. The project involved considerable contributions 11 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ 中期経営計画の目標達成に 向けた取り組みを さらに加速させていきます。 Message from the President from NRI consultants boasting both a familiarity with have embraced the DX2.0 concept. Uber Technologies, the industry (and the work involved) and substantial a transportation-networking firm without any in-house expertise in data analytics. Plumbing pools of big data, vehicle or driver assets, has made an enormous impact the consultants formulated an algorithm (a calculation on the taxi industry by ushering in a sharing-economy procedure for producing target results) for extracting concept and a platform that matches suppliers with information and recommendations that visiting customers consumers. To me, new business models with digital would find helpful. With everything in place, the consulting foundations are going to be sprouting up everywhere— team quickly rolled the algorithm out to store locations. including Japan. Practical, real-life usage generates useful feedback, which Boasting Japan’s largest strategic consulting division, the consultants are continually incorporating to make the NRI has worked to assist executives and business algorithm as precise as possible. divisions in devising business strategies and developing The setup also relies on data marts (databases used new businesses. In the DX2.0 realm, a business model’s specifically for big-data processing) for making quick, competitive advantage all comes down to the quality of seamless use of ever-growing big data, not to mention a the IT involved. At NRI, then, we use teams of consultants thorough command of agile development—an approach and system engineers to provide clients with the support that involves making timely functional adjustments to they need. Our service approach, combining consulting applications based on changes in business policies and and IT solutions, is what we call “Con-Solution.” In 2016, input from store employees. To bring all those essential we established NRI digital, Ltd. to specialize in supporting elements together, NRI consultants and system engineers clients with an integrated fusion of business-model collaborate with the client’s business division and development and the business processes and IT solutions information system division in a coordinated framework that go into new business models. Numerous DX2.0 that keeps the effort running smoothly. projects are now underway at multiple client companies, laying the foundation for new business models. DX2.0: Imagining and Realizing Our DX2.0 projects include joint ventures linking NRI New Business Models and its clients, as well. One example is Bit Realty, Inc., which we created with Kenedix, Inc. in 2017. The new Some companies, meanwhile, are looking to go beyond joint company has created a crowd-funding platform for simply transforming existing business processes; their real estate investment that uses the benefits of digital interests lie in leveraging digital technologies to develop technologies to liberate investment opportunities; the altogether new business models. At NRI, we see that type idea focuses on giving more people chances to invest in of approach as “DX2.0.” Overseas, several companies financial products that had once only been accessible to Integrated Report 2018 12 Message from the President an exclusive set of professional investors. NRI plans to SEVEN-ELEVEN JAPAN CO., LTD. with local support in keep building on these types of investment-associated China and the United States, for example, adding to our activities. solid track record in on-site assistance. Second is our approach to intellectual property (IP; The DX and NRI’s “Con-Solution” Approach: particularly for advanced technologies and business An Ideal Partnership models). After seeking out and acquiring IP with competitive edges in developed markets, we leverage our DX1.0 and DX2.0 have the potential for tremendous new assets to give ourselves a stronger foothold in the Message from the President effects, but passing those benefits on to clients will global arena. That basic outlook laid the foundation for be extremely difficult if we abide by the conventional three of NRI’s recent acquisitions: Brierley+Partners, Inc. approach to system integration. Instead of just waiting idly (US; 2015), Cutter Associates, LLC (US; 2016), and ASG for a client to come up with a business model and submit Group Limited (Australia; 2016). We acquired ASG, which a request for proposal (RFP) for system development, specializes in IT managed services, because we saw we need to be strategic partners with our clients: talking significant promise in the company’s unique IP for buying together about the ideal business model, the requisite its customers’ on-premise software assets, migrating the business processes, and the necessary IT to make DX a software to cloud environment, and then using those new reality as quickly as possible. cloud resources to provide the software as services. When the former Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. The third policy is our focus on breaking into overseas and Nomura Computer Systems Co., Ltd. joined forces growing markets on the strength of our existing IP. Our to create the new Nomura Research Institute in 1988, global rollout of shared online services, which boast a the merger stood out for its unusual combination of a sizable share of the market in the Japanese financial consulting firm and a systems company—the type of sector, is a prime example of what that policy embodies. pairing that almost never occurred anywhere in the world. Recent efforts to leverage our existing IP have also been I was only in my third year at the company, working as making gradual progress; our “I-STAR” solution for a fledgling consultant, and I had no idea how the two wholesale brokerage firms has found an application in the companies would synergize. Now, three decades later, US market, among other positive developments. the DX represents a top priority for companies across the As all of these many examples suggest, NRI’s global business spectrum. IT’s immense impact on the business business strategy is making solid progress on the of the future is impossible to deny. Meeting clients’ DX foundation of a strong client base and solid IP—two key needs requires more than what a single-focus company components of competitiveness. For us at NRI, where can do: just like a systems company without a consulting success hinges on high added value, the idea of blindly function lacks the necessary capabilities; a consulting chasing mergers and acquisitions for the sole purpose of company without a systems function also comes up short. expansion goes against our identity. The executives of the former Nomura Research Institute and Nomura Computer Systems recognized that reality Preparing NRI’s Australian Business for Growth in 30 years ago, a prescient foresight that never ceases to the Fiscal Year ending March 2019, and Beyond astound me. As we move forward, I will do everything in my power to honor and uphold that pioneering spirit. Our overseas sales for the fiscal year ended March 2018, reached ¥43.5 billion (up ¥24.6 billion), largely thanks Molding Our Global Development around to growing contributions from our Australian business. an IP-focused Strategy The primary drivers in that segment were ASG and SMS Management & Technology Limited, which ASG acquired NRI’s efforts in global business, another new business in 2017. sector, also paid off in the fiscal year ended March 2018. Having completed the post-merger integration At NRI, our global business initiatives operate under three (PMI) process, ASG and SMS have launched a unified basic policies. management scheme with 1,500 employees staffing The first policy is all about standing side by side six Australian locations. Thanks to the merger’s impact with our clients; we accompany Japan-based firms in bolstering the company’s presence in the Australian as they venture into foreign markets, which allows us market and a healthier financial foundation with NRI’s to expand our on-site support offerings. We provided support, the new ASG is now in position to submit bids for 13 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ A group shot with ASG management President Konomoto and ASG CEO Geoffrey Lewis discuss a business Message from the President strategy for ASG government projects and other large-scale initiatives—and the number of companies making use of shared online recently landed a sizable project from Airservices Australia, services is actually going up from year to year. which handles the country’s air traffic control. Looking To complement its shared online service offerings, NRI toward the fiscal year ending March 2019, and beyond, is also collaborating with subsidiaries like DSB Co., Ltd. ASG is poised to be a major growth driver for the future and NRI Process Innovation, Ltd. to develop packages of NRI. of business process-outsourcing (BPO) services for ASG founder and current CEO Geoffrey Lewis uses other related tasks. That approach has already gone M&A as a dynamic tool, always taking an aggressive line mainstream in the United States, where people refer on growth. On the other hand, NRI’s ties to the systems to the setup as a “utility service.” For customers, utility sustaining Japan’s capital market have led the company services help lighten the load of the fixed costs stemming to put safety and certainty first. With the DX gaining from personnel resources and other requirements steam in Japan and business environments in constant, for performing certain business tasks. Megabanks dramatic flux, however, the times now call for flexibility and announcing plans to implement major downsizing diversity. Acquiring ASG gave us more than just access to measures. While it certainly seems that players in the the company’s compelling IP. The way I see it, the move finance industry are angling to cut costs via strategic also brought us valuable opportunities to learn different IT investments, I think that they could fulfill the same management techniques and work styles from a unique objectives with NRI’s shared online services. set of executives and employees—assets that, just like IP, will be integral to the future of NRI. Intellectual Capital and Human Capital: Keys to Developing Business in New Fields Driving Advances in Ever-evolving Shared Online Services Expanding our digital business would be impossible without a robust foundation for engaging in quality R&D In addition to our business-development efforts in new and developing human resources. One way that we fields, our shared online services—vital components of our pursue those aims at NRI is through academia-business current revenue base—continue to expand at a steady alliances, such as our arrangements with the MIT Media pace. Shared online services refer to Corporate IT (CiT) Lab and Stanford University. We send NRI employees to solutions that, in most cases, serve to help companies university destinations, where they can gather information streamline their business processes. Business IT (BiT) on the latest technological trends. We also take part in represents a big investment target for companies, as consortia of global enterprises and government agencies, BiT solutions help drive business expansion, but CiT giving us channels into the type of expertise that helps occupies a different position. Although CiT may focus on shape business structures for optimal growth. safety and certainty, we at NRI think that companies will Another offshoot of the digital-business boom is the continue to be comfortable looking outside their company growing demand for data scientists. To address that organizations for their CiT needs. Given the conditions, mounting need, we have set up an internal certification Integrated Report 2018 14 Message from the President system, training programs, and study sessions, as well as focus is on creating an environment of inclusion where an “Analytics Knowledge Center” for pooling and sharing the unique, individual strengths of each employee come the insights that emerge from each and every project. together into group strengths. Look at our track record, AI engineers are in demand, too, which is why NRI has and you can see how the elements of diversity and also established its “AI tech lab.”—an organization that inclusion figure so prominently in our work. At our location provides select groups of high-potential employees with in Silicon Valley (US), for example, we started working with intensive, short-term training through a variety of proof-ofa client on developing applications in 2016. The project concept projects. brought us into contact with local companies, universities, Message from the President Our new “Innovation Promotion Committee” also research institutes, and other organizations, providing us plays a role in the effort, serving to accelerate business with a valuable opportunity to look at things from new development in the digital realm. The group, embracing perspectives and learn about new work styles. Networking the concept of open innovation, utilizes a decision-making gave us a chance to foster inclusion. process that enables agile, dynamic investments in and partnerships with startups and other companies boasting Fulfilling our Social Responsibility in Stabilizing potentially beneficial IP. Financial Functionality and Merchandise Of all the different elements that go into bringing these Distribution Functionality efforts to successful fruition, nothing is more important than giving motivated employees as many opportunities While there are obviously some areas where NRI can take as possible to take on the challenges of finding success risks and embark on bold new endeavors, there are also in digital business, global business, and other new areas where failure is simply not an option. NRI’s five data fields. Even before terms like “health and productivity centers, for instance, leave no room for error. Not only do management” and “work-style reform” entered the the data centers help keep clients stay viable in business business vernacular, NRI was already hard at work on from day to day, but they also store classified information, cutting overtime hours and giving employees more time personal information, and other sensitive data. To ensure for pursuing innovations—both of which have cultivated optimal safety and security, we train our employees in the ideas for new business and nurtured cross-organizational proper responses in the event of a problem and conduct communication both within and outside the company. thorough inspections to spot any signs of potential issues From hot-desking and teleconferencing to satellite offices before they occur. Our ability to take business in new, and telecommuting, NRI gives its employees a liberating exciting directions rests on our ability to avoid setbacks— infrastructure to work in and a diverse range of work-style making sure that we steer clear of unprofitable projects at options to choose from. the system-development stage and prevent failures during Our approach at NRI is about more than simply actual system operations. Constant “kaizen” (improvement achieving levels of diversity in where our employees on a company-wide basis) is essential to what we do at come from and how our employees work. For us, the real NRI. Application developers working on a project at NRI’s Silicon President Konomoto (back row, second from right) takes part Valley location in a data center inspection 15 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Message from the President “Dream up the future” and CSV prospects of a population decline looming, IT could be exactly what Japan needs to sustain itself. “Dream up the future,” NRI’s corporate philosophy, encapsulates the Company’s commitment to finding Focusing on Dialogues with Stakeholders solutions to social problems and creating a better tomorrow through the power of innovation. The whole NRI has taken numerous steps to engage in constructive idea harmonizes with the concept of “Creating Shared dialogues with stakeholders. Our Medium-Term Value (CSV). From my perspective, solutions to social Management Plan and long-term management vision issues represent the only pathway to securing sustainable “Vision2022” lay out medium to long-term growth improvements in our corporate value. strategies in a clear, intuitive way. We have disclosed Despite the swirl of unknowns clouding projections for quantitative goals, too, including targets for operating the future, one thing is for certain: Japan’s demographics profit and ROE (return on equity). We also continue to are on course for a drastic change. By fiscal year 2030, for buy back and retire our own shares, enhance shareholder example, the Japan Institute for Labour Policy and Training returns through larger dividends and other measures, and estimates that Japan will have a working population of boost our capital efficiency, always mindful of our dividend around 63.62 million—a drop of by 2.36 million (relative to payout ratios and ROE goals. 2015). At the same time, though, AI and robots also will The fiscal year ending March 31, 2019, is both the reshape the work market by streamlining and automating final year of our current Medium-Term Management Plan various tasks; according to the Ministry of Economy, and the year in which we will formulate our next MediumTrade and Industry, there will be 7.35 million fewer jobs to Term Management Plan—a four-year vision that begins be had by 2030. The country’s working population may be with the fiscal year ending March 31, 2020. Now is the dwindling, but IT-driven advances in operational efficiency time for us at NRI to chart out an optimal course for the will eliminate the need for certain types of labor and future, the next chapter in our unceasing effort to fulfill our thereby safeguard against potential worker shortages. The stakeholders’ needs and expectations. drop in available jobs will surpass the drop in the working population by roughly 5 million. If we can find effective ways of gleaning new added value from that surplus workforce, Japan will be able to keep its economic growth going despite the country’s shrinking workforce. With the Integrated Report 2018 16 NRI’s Value Creation NRI’s Value While responding flexibly to changes in the business environment, NRI establishes appropriate business domains (business segments) and Creation business models, and implements those business models through investment of the various types of capital. We then strengthen all sorts of capital on the Process foundation of the results (outcomes) of implementation of the business models. By repeating this series of processes, we have built a solid competitive advantage and achieved continuous improvement of our corporate value. NRI’s Capitals Human Capital/ Social and Relationship (Input) Intellectual Capital Capital Global employees network Shared online services which have the leading •NRI Group employees: 12,708 persons market share Employees at overseas bases: 3,901persons •THE STAR (for retail brokerage firms): 71 firms NRI’s Value Creation •BESTWAY (for banks): 112 firms R&D and HR investment for competitive intellectual properties Close cooperation with domestic and •R&D expenses: ¥5.1billion overseas business partners •Education and training expenses: ¥1.7billion •Partners in Japan: Approx. 7,000 persons •Partners in China: Approx. 3,500 persons P.25/P.53-55 P.26 Business Segments Business Model (Business Domains) Four Business Segments Europe, US, other Global business expansion Consulting Asia and Australia Global expansion Internal Financial IT support Solutions Internal Industrial IT support Solutions Japan IT Platform Services Business IT creation Existing clients New clients New business P.35–44 Expansion of fields models Business environment surrounding NRI P.19–20 17 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ (The figures are as of the year ended March 2018 or the end of March 2018) Manufacturing Capital Financial Capital Natural Capital System development quality (NRI-QMS): Solid financial foundation Greenhouse gas emissions reduction goal •The international standard ISO9001 certification •Equity ratio: 64.2％ •The year ended March 2031: –55.0% (target) •D/E ratio: 0.19 times (Compared with the year ended March 2014） NRI’s Value Creation Data center’s operational quality: •The global certification M&O* approved Capital reserves for flexible investments Environmental management system (three data centers in Japan) •Free cash flows: ¥55.6 billion •Coverage rate (based on CO2 emissions) 92% *Global standards for evaluating data centers by the •Cash and Cash equivalents+ Data centers: ISO14001 certification Uptime Institute, a private U.S. entity. Investments for the purpose of Offices: NRI-EMS introduced fund management: ¥185.8 billion P.73–76 P.27–29 P.51 Outcomes Financial Outcomes Growth: Increased revenue and increased operating profits Further Strengthening for seven consecutive years Domestic Specialty Areas Profitability: Consolidated operating profit margin 13.8％ EBITDA margin 21.5％ (Corporate IT) ROA (Return On Assets) 10.3％ Returns to stockholders: ROE (Return On Equity) 12.9％ Consolidated dividend payout ratio 39.1％ Corporate IT (CiT): IT that helps enhance the quality and P.28–29 efficiency of clients’ internal operations P.21–22 Non-financial Outcomes Creating New Environmental (E): Greenhouse gas emissions reduction ratio –30.5％ Growth Drivers (results for the year ended March 2018; compared with the year ended March 2014) Social (S): (Global Business) Client satisfaction survey (non-consolidated) 84.6% (Business IT) Employee satisfaction survey (non-consolidated) 80.5% Governance (G): P.30 Business IT (BiT): Corporate Governance of the Year® 2017 IT directly contributes to the expansion of P.23–24 Tokyo Governor Prize clients’ businesses （Japan Association of Corporate Directors） 2017 Awards for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure Computer Software Sector （The Securities Analysts Association of Japan） P.52/P.72 Integrated Report 2018 18 NRI’s Value Creation Changes to the The value creation process of NRI is revised flexibly according to changes in the environment. We identify the Business Environment daily-changing social issues and corporate management issues, and the opportunities and threats they create for NRI. Surrounding NRI A business model for sustained growth is then woven into medium-term management plans and yearly plans. Opportunities and threats due to changes in the business environment, and NRI’s business model Social issues Client (corporate) management issues Opportunities and threats to NRI Japan/Overseas Polarization of IT investment Accelerating evolution of IT technology Increases in storage capacity, improvement of the Corporate IT area Opportunity processing performance of semiconductors, increases Although the trend of emphasizing safety and There will be a significant business opportunity for in transmission speed, permeation of smartphones, certainty in investment in IT for back-office work NRI’s industry-standard platform (shared online NRI’s Value Creation and other developments have produced new digital will continue, work-saving and cost reduction will services, etc.), which is not only high-quality but technology, such as AI and IoT, and the informationbe emphasized in the medium to long-term. also contributes to medium to long-term cost oriented society has progressed rapidly. reduction, to release clients from the burden of developing and operating their own systems. Japan Decreasing population/Work-style Reform There are concerns that a decreasing labor pool due to a Business IT area Opportunity low birthrate and an aging population will shrink Japan’s markets and reduce the competitiveness of Japanese In an era in which the competitive advantages of Due to the demand for partners who can provide companies. business models are impacted by IT, there will be integrated support for the client’s strategy, Meanwhile, the Japanese government has designated an expansion of “offensive IT investment” aimed at business, and IT, there will be an opportunity for work-style reform as a priority policy, and is rectification business model innovation. NRI to create a significant competitive advantage of long working hours and promoting increased labor with the largest consulting division and IT solutions productivity, etc. division in Japan. Overseas Global business expansion Relative expansion of the scales of the overseas market Overseas Opportunity The global economic outlook published by the In overseas expansion, management methods, Overseas expansion of clients with which NRI has International Monetary Fund (IMF) in April 2018 M&A specialization, etc., suited to the business deep business relationships will also provide NRI forecasts that real GDP growth in the global economy environment and business practices of the target itself with opportunities to expand overseas. will be 3.8% for 2017, and 3.9% for both 2018 and country will be required, and it will be necessary at 2019. times to utilize outside support. Meanwhile, the forecast for Japan is 1.7% for 2017, 1.2% for 2018, and 0.9% for 2019. Risks receiving many questions from investors and NRI’s response measures Risk NRI’s response measures •Occurrence of unprofitable •Establishment of a structure to strengthen review of estimates prior to accepting orders and project management system development projects after accepting orders The possibility of revenue being Strengthen the structure for checking at the new project proposal stage and the basic design stage. threatened by the occurrence of In particular, establish specialized review structures for projects with a certain scale or larger, such as a System Development Committee, unexpected large-scale unprofitable and thoroughly implement review according to the status of progress, from project planning to stable operation. projects •Establishment of the Quality Management System (NRI-QMS), compliant with the International Standards ISO9001 •Improvement of the management abilities of project managers through education, training, etc. •Bottlenecks in development •Thoroughly implement hiring policy that always firmly maintains a set number of hires even in the midst of fluctuating human resources business performance The possibility of bottlenecks to •Control the turnover rate by providing employees with opportunities for growth and establishing the human resources expanding revenue due to insufficient system and labor environment development resources caused by a As a result, leverage the advantage of resource reserves when demand expands, while other companies in the same industry are forced to sudden increase of orders engage in difficult hiring. •Maintain good trading relationships with excellent cooperating companies in Japan and overseas, and enable production that overcomes the limitations of NRI’s resources Conclude “e-partnership agreements” with highly specialized cooperating companies, and jointly continue to improve productivity and quality. •Consider order reception trends, and implement company-wide human resource management that crosses business segments 19 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ The NRI business model (Medium-term Management Plan) Further Strengthening Specialty Areas in Japan Threat Key theme (1) Improve productivity in specialty areas in Japan Key theme (2)-2 There are concerns that individual company system Key theme (2)-1 Expand the industry-standard business platforms area Develop large-scale clients development and system operation business NRI’s Value Creation targeting back-office work will see decreased In addition to steady expansion of shared online services business, we will profitability due to increases in clients’ needs to implement improvement to a strong profit structure, including streamlining reduce costs. of the shared online services and individual company system development and operation structure. Thoroughly understand the strategy, business, and IT of specific clients, and implement the “Prime Account Threat Creating New Growth Drivers Strategy” to provide comprehensive support from a medium to long-term The scale of NRI’s IT solutions business in the perspective. Key theme (4) Create Business IT Business IT area is still small compared to core Aim to achieve high-added-value systems and other aspects of the Corporate IT Provide clients with a “Con-Solution” support structure for integrated services that are differentiated from area, and there is currently no revenue model that support through consulting and IT solutions. In addition, establish a our competitors who are only able to can be expected to bring stable growth. platform for the development and enhancement of human resources and provide partial support, and as a skills to support Business IT. result, expand the share of sales (budget share expansion) per client. Threat Key theme (3) Build foundations for global business There are concerns that the growth of NRI itself will Expand global business with three orientations ((1) Support for global peak even if clients expand overseas if NRI does expansion of Japanese companies, (2) Acquisition of global and competitive not have sufficient capability (organizational ability) IP through M&A, and (3) Overseas market sales expansion of existing IP). to support the client's overseas expansion. Risk NRI’s response measures •Intensification of price •Refrain from participating in price competition and focus on providing services with high added value competition and other aspects Differentiate through the ability to propose comprehensive strategy, business, and IT solutions to specific clients under the “Prime Account of the competitive environment Strategy” that provides a united company support structure ranging from consulting to IT solutions, from a medium to long-term perspective. The possibility of revenue being •NRI’s shared online services provide benefits from having the overwhelming share of the market suppressed through the appearance Achieve the benefits of medium/long-term cost reduction while maintaining high added value, such as rapid systemic response, by utilizing of competing services or price economies of scale and scope. competition in consulting and For the time being, the possibility of the appearance of alternative services that can provide the same level of service is low. IT solutions business •Delays in responding to •Invest research and development expenses in a stable manner and continue investment in technology that will bolster NRI technical innovation in the future The possibility that rapid evolution of Identify trends in cutting-edge technology through industry-academia collaboration with MIT and Stanford University, and participate in global digital technology, cloud technology, consortium activities (international rule formation process). etc., will make NRI’s software and Be the first to gain knowledge in new technology through proof of concepts (PoC) testing with industry-leading clients. data center services obsolete •A business model premised on the public cloud is already expanding Utilize strengths, such as the ability to propose IT modernization that gradually utilizes the public cloud, while maintaining the favorable aspects of the existing IT assets of on-premise and private clouds. Integrated Report 2018 20 NRI’s Value Creation Business Model NRI has developed the unique “Navigation × Solution” business model, where it provides an integrated service Further Strengthening which starts from “Navigation,” which guides clients from the Specialty Areas problem discovery to solution strategies by consulting, to “Solution,” which implements a solution by system in Japan development and management, and other means. As (Corporate IT) necessary, the two work together in the “Navigation × Solution” business model. One of the culminations of the “Navigation × Solution” business model is NRI's shared online services. In addition, NRI has recently expanded its shared online services to utility services, where shared online services are provided in combination with business process outsourcing (BPO) services. NRI’s Value Creation Services provided Major service content Navigation •Future forecasts/suggestion activities related to the economy, society, industry, etc. Future forecasts/ social recommendations •Communication of information through publishing activities, media coverage, symposia, etc. •Support for corporate management strategy/individual strategy formulation Management consulting •Support for proposal of policies for national government and public offices (Examples) Medium to long-term plans, yearly plans, new business plans, M&A •Support for execution of corporate strategy Operational Consulting •Support for implementation of the policies of national government and public offices (Examples) Project management, business process creation, execution support •Formulation of IT system strategy for national government and public offices System consulting •Support for planning and execution of business reform utilizing IT •Establishment of IT governance at individual global sites Solution •Planning, design, and development of information systems Systems consulting Planning, selection, and creation of necessary hardware (servers, network devices) and software (OS, middleware, software packages) System management •Safe operation and maintenance of developed systems outsourcing System monitoring, troubleshooting just in case, renovation for stable operation of systems •Broad provision of systems developed by NRI to multiple clients as Shared online services “shared online services” •Subcontracting of related peripheral work as well as shared online services Utility services (BPO: business process outsourcing) (Shared online services + BPO) (Examples) Data input, form output/sending, client account management work, etc. 21 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ NRI’s Shared Online Services NRI has served the needs of clients in the financial industry and provided innovative solutions for a long time. The product of this accumulated expertise is the shared online services. Shared online services consist of creation of software incorporating the technology and expertise cultivated through building systems for individual clients, with the client's required work standardized, and providing it as Software as a Service (SaaS: a type of service in which software located on a private NRI cloud is provided via the Internet). Shared online services allow for greater cost reductions when compared to constructing a system for each company. It also alleviates the burden of adapting to regulatory revisions. As an industry pioneer, NRI has provided these services since the 1970s, even before the term “cloud” existed, and has been far ahead of its competitors, supporting the “shift from ownership to use” of information systems for over 40 years. NRI’s Utility Services (Shared Online Services + BPO) NRI’s Value Creation Utility services are provided in combination with NRI’s shared online services and business process outsourcing (BPO) services. In recent years, some clients have consolidated management resources in sales department or planning departments, and have begun to outsource back-office departments themselves. NRI provides the entire business process with the personnel who handle related work, not just the system. ◆Major shared online services Launched in 1974 Launched in 1997 THE STAR 71 firms BESTWAY 112 firms* Back-office solution for Back-office solution for *Including life insurance firms, non-life insurance firms, retail brokerage firms mutual fund sales at banks and investment trust firms, etc. Launched in 1987 Launched in 2012 I-STAR Back-office solution for 28 firms Value Direct Online banking system 16 firms wholesale brokerage firms Launched in 1993 Launched in 2015 No. of My Numbers stored T-STAR Back-office solution for 75 firms e-BANGO My Number Approx. 13 million cases asset management firms management services As of 30th June 2018 Note: The number of clients is as of 31st March, 2018. ◆Major utility services For retail brokerage firms For asset management firms (investment trust and investment advisory firms) NRI provides the shared online service THE STAR, and DSB NRI provides the shared online service “T-STAR,” and NRI Co., Ltd. provides comprehensive support services. They range Process Innovation, Ltd. provides the overall middle/ from trade execution, clearing, settlement, account management, back-office work, such as standard price calculation for account transfer and other financial services carried out on behalf asset management firms (investment trusts and investment of securities companies, to securities back-office works, printing, advisory firms, etc.) and other investment trust accounting envelope insertion and mailing services. work and investment report creation work. Shared online service BPO Shared online service BPO NRI Process THE STAR DSB T-STAR × × Innovation Integrated Report 2018 22 NRI’s Value Creation Business Model NRI is promoting “global business expansion” and “Business IT* creation” to achieve sustainable growth. Creating New These are challenges for NRI which will widely expand its Growth Drivers business domains. We have, however, already achieved stable results through implementing proof of concepts (Global Business/Business IT) with clients, internal R&D as well as acquiring leading-edge intellectual property (IP) through M&As and the like. *Business IT: IT directly contributes to the expansion of clients’ businesses *Corporate IT: IT that helps enhance the quality and efficiency of clients’ internal operations Global expansion NRI’s Value Creation Europe, Orientations of global business expansion US, other (1) Support for global expansion of Japanese companies (2) Acquisition of global and competitive IP through M&As Global (3) Overseas market sales expansion of existing IP Global business distribution expansion Asia and Orientations of Global Consulting Pacific financial European and Business IT creation US practice Global •Business Transformation (DX2.0) Consulting Asia industry •Process Transformation (DX1.0) Global security Strategy B+P* Asia IoT, AI, etc. consulting Information security New industry Food standard business Digital Non-life marketing platforms Insurance Communications Distribution Japan Financial FinTech Securities Group THE STAR Life Business IT creation I-STAR T-STAR insurance Major securities company Large-scale BESTWAY Industry life insurance Value Direct Expansion of fields Existing clients New clients New business models *B+P: Brierley+Partners Fields targeting further profitability Fields targeting long-term growth (Focus between the fiscal year ended March 2017 and the fiscal year ending March Fields targeting medium-term growth 2019 is preparation and building up a track record) 23 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Global Business Expansion NRI implements global business on the premise of the solid competitive advantage of a client base and competitive IPs cultivated over many years of experience. NRI differentiates itself through high added value, and is not interested in M&A that merely aims to expand the scale. Three orientations of Recent examples business expansion (1) Support for global expansion of Japanese companies Support for Japanese companies at the Dallas, Texas (U.S.) office An approach in which the NRI established the office in 2008 (currently the NRI IT Solutions America Head Office). company moves into overseas In recent years, convenient transportation and low costs have enticed Japanese companies to markets with domestic clients move into the area, and the local demand for consulting and IT solutions has expanded. and expands local support (2) Acquisition of global and Brierley+Partners (U.S.; made a Group company in 2015) competitive IP through M&As IP BRIERLEY LOYALTYWARE™, an integrated loyalty program solution, including all necessary An approach in which the functions, such as membership registration for clients, recording and tracking clients’ action NRI’s Value Creation company acquires competitive history, acquiring points and mileage as well as redeeming points, and other solutions. The IPs in developed markets and founder was the person who designed and operated the first mileage program at a U.S. airline. use them as a weapon to battle worldwide Cutter Associates (U.S.; made a Group company in 2016) IP Cutter Associates has strength in research and consulting in the U.S. asset management industry and has the largest client base in the country, including over 200 firms such as asset management firms, insurance firms and pension funds. ASG (Australia; made a Group company in 2016) IP ASG purchases clients' software assets and migrates them to a cloud environment, then provides IT managed services back to the clients. (3) Overseas market sales E  xpansion of sales of the shared online service “I-STAR” to overseas expansion of existing IP markets (for wholesale brokerage firm) An approach in which overseas Recent cases of adoption markets are entered with Australia market: OpenMarkets existing IPs as weapons U.S. market: Thomson Reuters Business IT (Digital Business) Creation NRI has increased its efforts toward full-scale implementation and business launches in addition to proof of concepts with clients in Business IT (digital business), where digital technology is used to change clients' business models. Digital business strategy Recent examples Business transformation Digital Ecosystems Joint venture: Bit Realty (DX2.0) Creation of new business Bit Realty, Inc. was founded as a joint venture with Kenedix, Inc. in 2017. Create new business models models and platforms The company plans to create a real estate investment crowdfunding platform and provide utilizing digital technology opportunities to invest in financial instruments that in the past were limited to professional investors through broad release using the power of digital. See the Bit Realty, Inc. website for details. https://www.bit-realty.com/ Process transformation Digital Front-office Client: Japan Airlines (DX1.0) Upgrading of product The Dokokani Mile (“travel somewhere with miles”) domestic flight Make business models more soservices recognition, award airline ticket service phisticated with digital technology purchase, follow-up, A domestic flight award airline ticket service developed jointly by NRI and Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. and other aspects of CX This service allows travel to one of four proposed areas chosen randomly by an algorithm (customer experience) developed based on a business model patent owned by NRI, for a number of miles less than through digital technology that normally required. Digital Back-office Client: Sapporo Holdings Streamlining and autoStreamlining of the work of indirect departments utilizing the TRAINA mation of internal work, AI solution supply chains, and other Sapporo Holdings Limited utilizes TRAINA for its internal inquiry response work. back-office work processes TRAINA responds to 45% of all inquiries, reducing time spent searching for information by through digital technology 80% in human responses. Integrated Report 2018 24 NRI’s Value Creation Competitive Advantages of Human Capital NRI's human resources exceed other companies' levels in the industry both in terms of quality and quantity, and NRI is further improving its human resources by providing them with various opportunities to grow. As a result, NRI maintains high levels of profitability and productivity in the IT service industry. Human Capital NRI provides services in cooperation with employees at its domestic and overseas bases. Diverse Professionals NRI also has an abundance of professionals with advanced information technology, skills, etc. ◆Number of NRI Group employees and employees at overseas bases ◆Number of qualified professionals NRI’s Value Creation (persons) (persons) As of 31st March (Non-consolidated data) As of 31st March 16.3 17.3 18.3 12,708 Information Technology Engineers Examination (Advanced)* 6,009 6,398 6,608 11,605 10,757 IT Coordinator 176 187 197 9,012 Project Management Professional 230 255 292 7,738 8,123 ITIL Manager/Expert/Intermediate 63 70 70 Chartered Member of the Securities Analysts Association of Japan 228 242 245 Certified Public Accountant 10 9 9 SME Management Consultant 42 45 46 3,901 2,945 First-Class Registered Architect 12 11 10 2,243 Chief Telecommunications Engineer 114 110 107 811 898 654 *The Information Technology Engineers Examination is a certification examination administered by the Information-technology Promotion Agency, an independent administrative institution, which is a 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 testing institution designated by the Minister of Economy, Trade and Industry. The figures include the numbers of persons who have passed the “System Analyst Examination,” “Senior Systems Number of NRI Group employees Administrator Examination,” “Information Security Specialist Examination,” and “Information Systems Number of employees at overseas bases Security Administrator Examination,” which were administered under the previous system. Outcomes NRI maintains top-level profitability (consolidated operating profit margins) as well as High Levels of Profitability productivity (consolidated sales and operating profit per employee) compared with and Productivity competitors. ◆Industry-wide comparison of consolidated sales ◆Industry-wide comparison of consolidated sales and operating profit margin and operating profit per employee Consolidated operating profit per employee (millions of yen) 14 7 (FY Mar. 2018) (FY Mar. 2018) NRI 12 6 Consolidated operating profit margin (%) SCSK NRI 10 5 ITOCHU NS Solutions TIS Techno-Solutions 8 ITOCHU 4 Techno-Solutions NS Solutions 6 3 SCSK Nihon Unisys NTT DATA 4 2 TIS Nihon Unisys 2 1 NTT DATA 0 100 200 300 400 500 2,100 2,200 0 10 20 30 40 50 60 Consolidated sales (billions of yen) Consolidated sales per employee (millions of yen) (Source) Compiled by NRI from the above companies’ financial statements. 25 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Competitive Advantages of Social and Relationship Capital The experience and expertise accumulated through NRI’s long-lasting business relationships with industry leaders are important assets for the Company. The increase in the number of clients using system management and operation outsourcing or shared online services not only contributes to the expansion of NRI’s business, but also to the stabilization of its profit structure. Social and Relationship Capital NRI has accumulated its expertise through long-term business relationships with Solid Client Base and industry leaders. Moreover, by providing shared online services based on that expertise, Shared Online Services we have established more sustainable business relationships with more of our clients. NRI’s Value Creation System development and Client examples Nomura Securities MS&AD Insurance Group Holdings management and (former Dai-Tokyo Fire & Marine Insurance) ONWARD KASHIYAMA (former Kashiyama) KOKUBU operation outsourcing SEVEN-ELEVEN JAPAN And many other companies Number of companies using the services as of 31st March 2018 Shared online services The STAR (for retail brokerage firms) 71 firms I-STAR (for wholesale brokerage firms) 28 firms T-STAR (for asset management firms) 75 firms BESTWAY (for banks, etc.) 112 firms Value Direct (Internet banking) 16 firms NRI established in 1965 1970s 1980s 1990s 2000s 2010s Outcome NRI has established a stable profit structure with sustainable businesses accounting for over 60%, such as shared online services, system management and operation outsourcing Stable Profit Structure as well as enhancements (maintenance and operations) in system development. Sales (billions of yen) Businesses with 500 high exposure to economic cycle Less than 40% ■ Consulting ■ Product sales ■ System development (new) Businesses that 250 generate ongoing earnings Over 60% ■ System development (enhancement) ■ System management & operation 0 •Operation outsourcing •Shared online services 08.3 09.3 10.3 11.3 12.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 Consulting Product sales System development & System application sales System management & Operation services (Operation outsourcing/Shared online services) Integrated Report 2018 26 NRI’s Value Creation Competitive Advantages of Financial Capital (CFO Message) NRI’s Value Creation Kenji Yokoyama Senior Corporate Managing Director In charge of Supervising of accounting and finance Healthy Balance Sheet Operation As for investment business, with an eye on capital efficiency, we set the hurdle rate in accordance with a capital cost of approximately In light of its social responsibility to handle information systems that 6% this period, and are implementing the plan after evaluation of the support financial markets and commercial distribution markets, NRI internal rate of return (IRR), operating profit ratio, and other indicators. has a policy of maintaining a relatively large amount of its own funds to Meanwhile, in regard to “returns,” we implemented a enable continued service even in the case of an unforeseen event. commemorative dividend (NRI Merger 30-year Anniversary Basically, investment in software each period and other investment Commemorative Dividend) and acquired ¥49.9 billion in treasury stock funds required for business operations are implemented within the in the fiscal year ended March 2018. As a result, EPS was ¥228 (up range of depreciation. ¥46), the cash dividend per share was ¥90 (up ¥10), the consolidated Meanwhile, the policy for M&A and other medium to long-term dividend payout ratio was 39.1% (down 3.2 points), and the return on investment funds is to utilize bonds payable, borrowing, and other equity (ROE) was 12.9% (up 2.3%). liabilities for part of the funds, in light of financial stability and NRI has disclosed its target of a 12% ROE for the fiscal year diversification of fund procurement methods. Pay attention to dialogue ending March 2019, the final fiscal year of the Medium-Term with the market on a daily basis and set approximately 0.1 times as Management Plan. In addition, with 35% as the guideline for the the base D/E ratio, and 0.3 times as the upper limit. The balance of consolidated dividend payout ratio, we will strongly maintain our policy interest-bearing debt was ¥81.6 billion at the end of the fiscal year to continuously increase the dividend per share. Further, in regard ended March 2018 (up 39.3% year on year), and the balance of cash to acquisition of treasury stock, we have disclosed that our policy for and cash equivalents was ¥158.3 billion (up 4.1%). holding treasury stock is to use approximately 5% of the number of shares issued as the guideline and to retire any excesses promptly. Striking a Balance Between “Growth” and “Returns” Financial Management that Considers CSV In financial management, we pay attention to striking a balance between “growth” and “returns.” First, in regard to “growth,” we Finally, we also emphasize the concept of creating shared value (CSV) emphasize expansion of sales along with the ability to create cash in a in NRI’s financial management. For example, in 2016, NRI became stable manner, and aim to maintain an EBITDA margin of at least 20%. the first Japanese enterprise to issue green bonds, which are bonds In the fiscal year ended March 2018, consolidated net sales were payable that are limited to use in business that contributes to solving ¥471.4 billion (up 11.1%), consolidated operating profit was ¥65.1 environmental issues, and in March 2017, we issued “Kabuki bonds” billion (up 11.3%), and the EBITDA margin was 21.5% (up 0.5 points), (a domestic offering of foreign currency denominated bonds) that open allowing us to achieve strong growth. The performance forecast for the way for issuing entities to procure funding in foreign currencies the fiscal year ending March 2019, which is the final fiscal year of the domestically. With the corporate philosophy “Dream up the future,” Medium-Term Management Plan, is ¥510.0 billion in consolidated NRI does not stop at achieving its own economic value, but will aim sales and ¥70.0 billion in consolidated operating profit, in an aim for also to achieve social value, such as expansion of the scope of ESG further growth. investment and diversification of fund procurement methods. 27 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ NRI’s Financial Management Policy Assets Liabilities Cash and deposits, and cash equivalents Interest-bearing debt • Secure needed working capital (about 2 to 3 months’ worth • Emphasize dialogue with the market of sales) and capital with a clear purpose, such as those • Keep D/E ratio of around 0.1 times normally, specified in the medium-term management plan, etc. Set D/E ratio of 0.3 times as the upper limit • Management of invested assets with a focus on safety Retirement benefits assets & liabilities Investment securities • In practical terms, consider plan assets and retirement • We will cross-hold shares only when it is judged that it will benefit trusts to be on the balance sheet contribute to improvement of corporate value, and regularly Liabilities verify the economic rationality. Assets Non-current asset Net assets Net assets • As for investment business, we set the hurdle rate in • Keep a high capital adequacy ratio even among better accordance with a capital cost of approximately 6% this Japanese firms period, and judge whether to invest or withdraw in light of • Seek capital efficiency that balances growth with returns consolidated operating profit, NPV, IRR, and other criteria. NRI’s Value Creation • Immediately dispose of discontinued operations (remove from balance sheets, impairments) Outcomes: Financial Highlights Returns to Shareholders In the fiscal year ended March 2018, a commemorative dividend (NRI Merger 30-year Anniversary Commemorative Dividend) was implemented, and ¥49.9 billion in treasury stock was acquired, thereby increasing the consolidated total return ratio. ◆Cash dividends per share / ◆Consolidated dividend payout ratio*3 / ◆Earnings per share* 2 (yen) ◆Consolidated total return ratio (yen/%) 228 90 80 80 129.8 176 181 70 171 158 56 63.4 66.4 36.5 35.9 39.1 36.5 41.1 42.4 35.9 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 Cash dividends per share Consolidated dividend payout ratio Consolidated total return ratio Financial Condition Issuance of corporate bonds resulted in a ¥81.6 billion balance of interest-bearing debt at the end of the fiscal year ended March 2018 (up 39.3% year on year). ◆Total assets / Net assets / Equity ratio (billions of yen/%) ◆Interest-bearing debt / D/E ratio (billions of yen/times) 81.6 628.9 652.6 621.6 68.3 593.2 64.6 59.8 58.6 469.0 55.0 432.2 425.4 447.2 432.7 403.4 331.4 0.19 290.8 0.21 0.17 0.18 70.4 0.16 0.13 66.9 69.1 65.6 66.2 64.2 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 Total assets Net assets Equity ratio Interest-bearing debt D/E ratio *1 Amounts have been rounded down to the nearest unit specified. However, percentages have been rounded off to the nearest digit specified. *2 NRI implemented 1:1.1 common stock splits on 1st October, 2015, and 1st January, 2017. Earnings per share is calculated by deeming stock splits to have occurred respectively at the beginning of the fiscal year ended March 2015, and the fiscal year ended March 2016. *3 The dividend payout ratio is calculated by dividing the total sum of dividends (including dividends to the NRI Group Employee Stock Ownership Group) by net income. Integrated Report 2018 28 NRI’s Value Creation Outcomes: Financial Highlights Financial Results and Cash Flow Situation Consolidated sales were ¥471.4 billion (up 11.1% year on year), consolidated operating profit was ¥65.1 billion (up 11.3%), and the consolidated operating profit ratio was the same as the previous year at 13.8%. In addition, the integrated effect of ASG Group Limited (Australia; since January 2017) and SMS Management & Technology Limited (since October 2017), etc., resulted in the overseas sales ratio increasing to 9.2%. ◆Consolidated operating profit / ◆Consolidated sales / Overseas sales ratio (billions of yen/%) ◆Consolidated operating profit margin (billions of yen/%) 471.4 65.1 421.4 424.5 58.2 58.5 405.9 385.9 363.8 9.2 49.8 51.4 43.9 13.8 13.8 13.8 12.1 12.9 12.7 3.5 4.5 NRI’s Value Creation 2.1 1.4 1.8 4.9 6.9 8.6 14.6 18.9 43.5 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 Consolidated sales Overseas sales Overseas sales ratio Consolidated operating profit Consolidated operating profit margin ◆Cash flows (billions of yen) ◆EBITDA*2 / EBITDA margin (billions of yen/%) ◆ROE*3 / ROA*4 (%) 9.3 101.2 81.4 73.4 91.8 68.6 58.7 86.5 88.9 61.1 84.1 57.6 55.6 77.5 33.8 12.9 32.5 11.6 30.8 11.0 10.8 10.6 10.7 23.8 1.6 6.1 21.8 21.5 -1.0 -10.5 10.5 10.2 10.0 10.0 10.3 -17.8 21.8 9.7 -32.2 20.9 -36.0 -30.3 19.1 -8.7 -10.7 -46.8 -75.3 -34.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 Cash flows from operating activities Cash flows from investing activities EBITDA EBITDA margin ROE ROA Cash flows from financing activities Free cash flows Investment Situation Capital expenditures coming to a total of ¥38.2 billion were made in the March 2018 period. Investments related to data centers in IT infrastructure solutions were conducted, including development of shared online services, etc., in Financial IT Solutions. In addition, relocation to the Yokohama Nomura Building was completed in June 2017, and the trust beneficiary rights and office facilities for the building were acquired. ◆Research and development expenses / ◆Capital expenditures / Depreciation and amortization (billions of yen) ◆Education and training expenses (billions of yen) 48.3 5.6 20.2 5.1 5.1 42.4 38.6 38.2 34.1 13.6 16.1 4.2 32.5 3.9 31.0 33.8 31.0 3.6 8.3 31.9 14.8 11.2 28.0 28.4 25.8 25.0 22.6 22.7 22.0 1.8 1.8 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7 16.1 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 Capital expenditures (Intangible) Capital expenditures (Tangible) Depreciation and amortization Research and development expenses Education and training expenses *1 Amounts have been rounded down to the nearest unit specified. However, percentages have been rounded off to the nearest digit specified. *2 EBITDA was calculated as Operating profit + Depreciation + Amortization of good will. *3 ROE was calculated as Profit attributable to owners of parent / Beginning and ending balance average net assets. *4 ROA was calculated as Ordinary profit / Beginning and ending balance average total assets. 29 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Outcomes: Non-Financial Highlights See P.81–84 for more details E: Environment-related Data ◆Greenhouse gas emissions ◆Green revenues (revenues from shared online services) (NRI Group data) (1,000t-CO2) (NRI Group data) (billions of yen) The NRI Group reduced its greenhouse gas emissions significantly by migrating to new, Amid concerns over rising power usage by the IT services industry as a whole, NRI has environmental friendly data centers and other means. formulated a business plan intended to reduce power usage by the IT activities of the entire value • FY March 2018: Reduced greenhouse gas emissions by 30.5% compared to FY March chain, including client companies. Specifically, growing NRI’s shared online service revenues will 2014. likely serve to curb the carbon dioxide emissions of society as a whole. Data indicates that using NRI’s shared online service can allow our clients to cut their CO2 emissions by around 70%, compared to if they build and operate their own systems independently. 108.0 471.4 -7.9% -19.8% 421.4 424.5 -27.0% 405.9 371.3 -30.5% 328.7 326.9 328.8 99.5 NRI’s Value Creation 86.6 78.8 75.1 92.7 97.6 100.1 77.1 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 Green revenues (revenues from shared online services) Other revenues S: Social-related Data ◆Number of hires / Turnover ratio ◆Number of employees (NRI Group data) (persons) (NRI Group data / Non-consolidated data) (persons/%) 12,708 338 328 11,605 1,429 308 299 10,757 539 289 9,012 1,945 1,995 2,052 8,123 854 293 383 392 775 12 14 41 21 33 12 13 8,821 3.9 8,105 8,676 3.3 3.5 7,302 8,498 3.2 2.4 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 Japan Europe U.S. Asia Australia New hires Total turnover rate (Note) The total turnover rate is the ratio of retiring employees to the number of employees at the end of the accounting period. ◆Ratio of female hires and managers ◆Monthly average overtime hours per employee (Non-consolidated data) (%) (Non-consolidated data) (hours) 29.8 25.9 27.0 35:33 35:47 34:46 25.6 25.1 32:58 29:45 27:13 22:01 5.4 5.8 6.0 6.5 5.2 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 12.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 Ratio of female hires Ratio of female managers ◆Client satisfaction (Non-consolidated data) (%) ◆Employee satisfaction (Non-consolidated data) (%) 84.6 83.0 82.0 83.4 82.9 Satisfied*2: 80.5 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 *1 Survey of NRI employees working in Japan (as of 1st October, 2017) （回答数）(1,078) (1,085) (1,076) (1,131) (1,082) No. of valid respondents: 5,545; collection rate: 85% *1 Number of questionnaire response by project unit that NRI received an order for *2 The ratio of employees thought to be satisfied is the ratio of “Satisfied” and *2 Percentage that responded “Satisfied” or “Moderately satisfied” (total for top two items on “Somewhat satisfied” on a four-level scale. five-grade scale) Integrated Report 2018 30 Long-term Management Vision and the Medium-Term Management Plan Progress of Long-term Management Vision and the Medium-Term Management Plan In order to achieve sustainable increases in corporate value, NRI has defined a Long-term Management Vision “Vision 2022” (the fiscal year ended March 2016 to the fiscal year ending March 2023) and a Medium-term Management Plan (the fiscal year ended 2017 to fiscal year ending March 2019), which corresponds to three years in the early part of Vision2022. The following is an overview of Vision 2022 and an introduction on the progress of the Medium-term Management Plan. Whole Picture of V2022 and Role of ◆Five pillars of Vision2022 growth strategy the Medium-Term Management Plan In April 2015, NRI launched “Vision2022” (V2022), a long1 Dramatic expansion of globalization (From Asia to the world) term management vision set to conclude in the fiscal year ending March 2023. The strategy aims to cultivate its exist2 Enhancement of IP Portfolio (Industry knowledge, shared online service) ing strengths of IP and also represents NRI’s preparedness to take on challenges such as the dramatic expansion in globalization and the creation of new value in Business IT 3 Promotion of business value creation (Business IT and Con-Solution*) Long-term Management Vision and the Medium-term Management Plan domain. It is made up of five pillars of growth strategies and numerical targets. Furthermore, based on those growth 4 Further pursuit of Innovation in production (Improve productivity in specialty areas in Japan) strategies, as numerical targets related to expansion of business and improvement of capital efficiency, we have set consolidated operating profit of ¥100 billion, a consolidated 5 Cooperation and collaboration of diverse talents (Business creation and global management) operating profit rate of 14% or more, overseas sales of ¥100 billion, and ROE of 14%. *Con-Solution: A project management methodology in which, from Business IT planning and conceptual stages, consulting and solutions work side by side with clients, and create new Two main themes of “globalization” and “Business IT” businesses, after repeated cycles of innovation realization and examination of effects. form the core of V2022 and are essential for NRI’s longterm growth. However, it will take some time for the strategy to bear fruit. As the first step toward the realization of V2022, NRI formulated the Medium-Term Management ◆Results and targets under Medium-Term Management Plan Plan, set to run for three years starting from the fiscal year (FY Mar. 2017FY Mar. 2019) (billions of yen) ended March 2017. The Medium-Term Management Plan consists of four key themes: (1) Improve productivity in specialty areas in Japan, (2) Expand industry-standard Medium-Term Management Plan Vision2022 business platforms and develop large-scale clients, (3) Build (FY Mar. 2017FY Mar. 2019) foundations for global business and (4) Create Business IT. 100.0 ◆Four key themes of the Medium-Term Management Plan 70.0 65.1 58.5 100.0 Global expansion Consolidated operating profit 510.0 Europe, (3) Build foundations for global business 471.4 Consolidated sales 424.5 65.0 US, other 43.5 Overseas sales 18.9 (2) Expand service areas of Asia and industry-standard business Pacific platforms and develop large-scale clients (4) Create Business IT* FY Mar. 2017 FY Mar. 2018 FY Mar. 2019 FY Mar. 2023 (1) Improve productivity (Results) (Results) (Forecasts) (Targets) Japan in specialty areas Consolidated sales in Japan (billions of yen) 424.5 471.4 510.0 — Consolidated operating profit Expansion (billions of yen) 58.5 65.1 70.0 100.0 Specialty areas New business of fields Consolidated operating models profit margin (%) 13.8 13.8 13.7 14 or more ■Fields targeting further profitability Overseas sales 18.9 43.5 65.0 100.0 ■Fields targeting medium-term growth (billions of yen) ■Fields targeting long-term growth ROE (%) 10.7 12.9 Around 12 14 *Business IT: IT directly contributes to the expansion of clients’ businesses 31 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Progress on Four Key Themes of the Medium-Term Management Plan During the fiscal year ended March 2018, which is the second year of the Medium-term Management Plan, we steadily progressed the four key themes discussed above. The following is an introduction for a portion of results. Key theme Improve Productivity in Specialty ◆Maintain measures for productivity 1 Areas in Japan •Better initial steps for proposal checks and Maintain zero high-risk engagements This theme seeks to steadily expand business and improve unexpected unprofitable large projects •Share best practices of domestic and productivity in a specialty area of NRI in Japan; specifically, global projects the area of Corporate IT which contributes to the efficiency •Go offshore and expand near-shore of internal tasks at clients. Better margins to •Front development and agile development First, we recognize that preventing unexpected support high growth •Promotion of PCI (Package Cloud Integration) large-scale unprofitable projects is a top-priority issue. Strategy Accordingly, we are working to strengthen project manage•Flexible sharing of individual development ment and to expand knowledge through measures such as More advanced resources among projects. sharing examples of past projects. resource management •Share Financial IT segment resources with In system development, we are working to increase our Industrial IT and other segments earnings rate through improved productivity made possible through measures such as expanded offshore development Creation of production •Achieve results of development cockpits Long-term Management Vision and the Medium-term Management Plan and response to new development methods. In systems innovation •Begin test center services maintenance business, we are working to further increase the efficiency of business management. For example, we are sharing the maintenance operation system across our organization, deploying human resources appropriately, and taking actions for innovative production. Key theme Expand Service Areas of ◆Develop large-scale clients 2 Industry-standard Business Process to strengthen relationship with company A Platforms and Develop Large-scale Clients Accumulate results •Total support for development of e-commerce in front-office business Based on expertise accumulated in the financial industry [specified area] •Then work steadily on enhancements over a long period of time, NRI has standardized the information systems required to perform work. We provide Expand to Expand to areas such as “industry-standard business platforms (shared online serfront-office related •Digital marketing common platform vices)” in which a single system is jointly used by multiple [other areas] •Store channels corporations. In response to the need to reduce costs in •AI and IoT-related the Corporate IT area, we are steadily expanding the number of companies which use these shared online services. Expand to core Expand to areas such as Additionally, we are expanding client areas and service and global systems •Core and Global systems areas through measures such as the provision of utility •IT planning, security support services which incorporate Business Process Outsourcing (BPO) for subcontracting of series of administrative processes performed in the back offices of financial institutions. Furthermore, as a strategic partner capable of compreplaces executives in charge of sales and provides a suphensive consulting for management and IT, we are expandport system spanning across the group. In recent years, ing the scope of support based on trusting relationships these measures are producing results. One example is our gained through continued transactions with clients. As part client Company A in an industrial field. As a comprehensive of these measures, we have created account plans that strategic partner, NRI has made proposals spanning from lead to medium to long-term expansion of transactions, consulting to IT solutions for Company A. Starting from while at the same time developing a deep understanding partial areas of front-office systems, we have expanded our of client strategy and issues that target specific clients. We support scope to currently include core systems and global are also implementing our Prime Account Strategy, which areas. Integrated Report 2018 32 Long-term Management Vision and the Medium-term Management Plan Key theme Build Foundations for ◆New ASG (ASG and SMS have come together) 3 Global Business In our global business, NRI is advancing three policies: (1) Support for global expansion of Japanese companies, (2) Acquisition of global and competitive IP through M&As, In NRI Group In NRI Group starting Dec. 2016 starting Sept. 2017 (3) Overseas market sales expansion of existing IP. In particular, as pertains to policy 2), Brierley+Partners, Inc., a U.S. Company which we acquired in 2015, established a Japanese subsidiary in 2016 and is expanding its business in Japan. Cutter Associates, LLC, a U.S. Company which we acquired in 2016, is advancing support for North American offices related to Japanese financial institutions. Moreover, ASG Group Limited, an Six bases in Australia, approx. 1,500 employees Australian company which we acquired in 2016, acquired Sales Target of AUD 500 million the Australian company SMS Management & Technology Limited in 2017. The companies have begun to demonstrate a cost reduction effect due to integrating their respective management structures. ASG also acquired a large project from Airservices Australia in March 2018. We expect ASG to continue business expansion through such measures. Long-term Management Vision and the Medium-term Management Plan Key theme Create Business IT ◆Case examples of NRI’s digital business 4 DX2.0 Digital •Established the joint venture “Bit Realty, Inc.” Through growth of technology, we are furthering our initiaecosystem together with Kenedix, Inc. tives for Business IT that contributes directly to business •Established the joint venture “KDDI Digital Design Inc.” expansion by clients. NRI is constructing competitive adtogether with KDDI CORPORATION vantages by utilizing our strength of combining consulting •Established the joint venture “Technium CO., LTD.” and IT solutions. together with DMG MORI CO., LTD. At NRI, we are developing “DX1.0” and “DX2.0” for digital business initiatives. DX1.0 Digital •“Nomura Goal-Base,” a robot advisor by In the “DX1.0” area which contributes to increased effifront-office Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. that provides asset ciency and sophistication of existing business models, we management advice to retail investors are currently accumulating a large amount of results. In the •“Dokokani Mile,” a service for discount “DX2.0” area which seeks to create new business models international airline tickets with that utilize digital technology, we are continuing to embrace Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. challenges such as establishing joint ventures with clients •Client Data Management Platform (DMP) for who possess high-level technology. WOWOW Inc., which broadcasts paid media NRI is also implementing measures for R&D on advanced technology and industry-academia collaboration. Digital •Increased work efficiency and automation Additionally, we are strengthening our technological infraback-office using Robotic Process Automation (RPA) structure for supporting business IT. For example, we have •Increased work efficiency and automation established an “Analytics Knowledge Center” for sharing using the AI solution “TRAINA” knowledge on business IT and an “AI tech lab.” for cultivating AI engineers. The fiscal year ended March 2018 marked the beginning of full-scale investment into business IT. This momentum Digital solution / •AI Engineer Training Base “AI tech lab.” Technical bases will accelerate even further in the fiscal year ending March •Datascientist Internal Certification Program 2019. NRI is supporting DX for society and corporations. •Best-practice sharing in “Analytics Knowledge Center” 33 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Events in the Fiscal Year Ended March 2018 Under the title of “Events in the Fiscal Year Ended March 2018,” the following looks back on NRI initiatives and results. Category Topic 2017 Financial Started provision of “e-NINSHO”, a signature verification (identity verification) service that utilizes technology such April IT Solutions as the digital certificate stored in the My Number card. May Management NRI announced the participation in the UN Global Compact. Industrial Established the joint venture “Bit Realty, Inc.” together with Kenedix, Inc. as a real estate for investment crowdfunding June IT Solutions business. Through the internet, the combine provides a wide range of real estate investment opportunities for investors. Industrial IT Solutions Sapporo Holdings Limited utilized the NRI AI solution “TRAINA” to reduce in-house inquiry response work by 45%. July Management NRI was adopted for all three ESG indices selected by GPIF. For 100 cities in Japan, created the ranking of cities with growth potential by analyzing industry-generating ability, Consulting which affects future growth, and the future potential. Long-term Management Vision and the Medium-term Management Plan IT Platform NRI Secure Technologies, Ltd. obtained the No. 1 share in the cybersecurity consulting service market researched by August Services ITR Corporation in fiscal 2017. Industrial ASG Group Limited acquired the Australian company SMS Management & Technology Limited, spurring further September IT Solutions growth in our Australian business. IT Platform Started provision of “aslead,” a development/management integration service which promotes both improved quality Services and increased work efficiency in system development projects. October Financial Invested in the FinTech corporation TORANOTEC, LTD. and performed product development for the development of IT Solutions new investment services. Succeeded in significantly alleviating traffic jams in the city of Moscow (Russia) through demonstration testing of November Consulting advanced traffic signal systems. Financial Mizuho Securities Co., Ltd. significantly shortened compliance-related work time by utilizing the NRI AI solution IT Solutions “TRAINA.” December Industrial Together with KDDI CORPORATION, established the joint venture KDDI Digital Design Inc. which supports digital IT Solutions innovation at corporations. 2018 NRI constructed a system using PlanDo, a new information terminal that is utilized for face-to-face consulting Financial IT Solutions services, and achieved a flexible working style for approximately 10,000 client advisors at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Company. Industrial Together with DMG MORI CO., LTD. established the joint venture Technium CO., LTD. which promotes digitalization in IT Solutions the manufacturing industry. January Financial Comprehensively reformed I-STAR, a back-office solution for wholesale securities, and responded to sophistication of IT Solutions securities markets (for example, shortened settlement period for national bonds and stock). After the acquirement of treasury stock until December (approx. 11.45 million shares, approx. 50 billion yen), Management Completed retirement of treasury stock (13 million shares). Developed models which predict the effectiveness of TV commercials with high accuracy by using artificial intelligence Consulting (AI) at NRI's advertising effectiveness measurement program “Insight Signal.” February IT Platform NRI Secure Technologies, Ltd. and GE Digital became first in the Asia-Pacific region to provide Achilles Certification, Services a security certification program for industrial control systems. Financial An investigative panel of experts established by NRI issued the “Summary of Issues for the Achievement of a March IT Solutions Cashless Society.” Integrated Report 2018 34 NRI’s Business Segments NRI’s Four Business Segments NRI’s business consists of mainly the four following business segments. ■Consulting: Consulting services ■Financial IT Solutions: IT solutions for the securities, insurance, banking, asset management, and other financial sectors ■Industrial IT Solutions: IT solutions for industrial clients in distribution, manufacturing, and service sectors ■IT Platform Services: Construction of IT platforms and networks which support NRI’s IT solutions business and data center operations, in addition to system management solutions and security services for external clients Consulting P.37–38 This segment provides management consulting, operational consulting, and system consulting for enterprises and government agencies. This segment is also engaged in research, future projections, and recommendations related to society, economics, business, technology, etc. Major affiliated company ASG Financial IT Solutions P.39–40 This segment provides system consulting, system development and system management solutions, and shared online services for financial NRI’s Business Segments institutions mainly in the securities, insurance, banking, asset management, and other financial sectors. Internal support Major affiliated companies DSB, NRI Process Innovation, Cutter Associates Clients Industrial IT Solutions P.41–42 This segment provides system consulting, system development and system management solutions, and shared online services mainly for the distribution, manufacturing, service, and public sectors. Internal support Major affiliated companies NRI System Techno, Brierley+Partners, ASG IT Platform Services P.43–44 This segment provides data center operations and construction of IT platforms and networks are provided to the Financial IT and Industrial IT solutions segments within the Group. This segment also provides IT platform solutions and information security services to external clients. Furthermore, NRI conducts research related to advanced information technology, etc. Major affiliated companies NRI Secure Technologies, NRI Data i Tech, NRI digital 35 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Sales by segments Sales including Operating profit/ for FY March 2018 inter-segment sales Operating profit margin (year-on-year changes) (billions of yen) (billions of yen/%) ¥36.1 billion (+18.3%) 40 31.1 36.9 7.0 5.4 5.8 5.9 30 28.8 19.0 18.8 20 16.1 20 3.5 10 0 0 0 16.3 17.3 18.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 Operating profit Operating profit margin 29.1 ¥251.8 billion (+2.0%) 300 253.8 248.1 253.2 30 26.4 27.3 20 200 20 Securities 11.5 10.7 10.8 ¥118.4 billion (-0.6%) 10 NRI’s Business Segments 100 10 Insurance ¥51.8 billion (-0.3%) 0 0 0 16.3 17.3 18.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 Other financial Banking Operating profit ¥39.4 billion (+10.7%) ¥42.2 billion (+4.8%) Operating profit margin ¥141.6 billion (+32.1%) 150 142.2 15 20 13.6 102.8 107.6 9.9 Manufacturing, 100 10 9.0 services and other 9.7 8.4 9.6 10 ¥80.7 billion (+52.5%) 50 5 Distribution ¥60.8 billion (+12.2%) 0 0 0 16.3 17.3 18.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 Operating profit Operating profit margin ¥30.1 billion (+3.0%) 150 122.1 128.8 20 30 110.0 15.1 14.0 100 11.5 10 15 10.5 11.5 11.7 50 0 0 0 16.3 17.3 18.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 Operating profit Operating profit margin Note: Amounts have been rounded down to the nearest unit specified. However, percentages have been rounded off to the nearest digit specified. Integrated Report 2018 36 NRI’s Business Segments Consulting Segment Consulting segment provides consulting services for policy planning for government agencies and strategy planning, business operation reforms and all phases of IT management for companies. We also have a strong track record in overseas markets including Asia-Pacific, Europe, and the United States, where we have been tapped for numerous consulting projects by Japanese companies as well as local companies and governments. Service Examples •Support in medium to long-term business planning, strategy planning, and overseas business strategy planning for companies •Support in digital business development for companies •Support in business process reform for the manufacturing industry, financial industry, etc. •Support in IT governance standardized on a group or global basis •Support in policy planning and execution support for government agencies Segment Strengths •One of Asia’s largest consulting firms that has over 1,000 consultants in Japan and overseas •Broad lineup of experts that cover an extensive range of industries and themes •Consultants that understand strategy, operations, and IT •Data analytics expertise developed through many years of NRI’s Business Segments experience in statistical analysis, marketing research, etc. Left: Knowledge Creation and Integration periodic publication (only in Japanese) Right: Illustrated CIO Handbook (Revised Version 5) (only in Japanese) Business Environment (Client Trends) NRI’s Strategies and Countermeasures •Acceleration in corporate reform due to digital •Domestic business technologies –Proposals based on medium-term account plans –Tendency towards business models that use digital –“Con-Solutions” through integrated consulting and technology engineering proposals –Increasing use of analytics in strategy development –Operations consulting and secondee/resident support –Expanded use of RPA and AI in internal operations to support execution •Accelerated globalization of management –Expansion of consulting services that use digital –Global strategy becoming a key challenge for mediumtechnology such as AI sized companies and SMEs in addition to industry•Global business leading companies –Global practice activities –Necessity for standardized IT governance that differs –Strengthening of client base through partnerships with for each country and business local partners •Lack of human resources with strategy execution –Development of local accounts by local NRI offices capabilities in organizational management for enterprises and government agencies –Lack of human resources for middle management –Increase in IT departments/IT subsidiaries not able to keep up with digital technology 37 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Achievements •Recommendations for society and future projections (think tank activities) Creation of ranking for cities with growth potential that have the potential for regional creation One vision for regional creation is for regional cities to become local hubs that are able to acquire foreign currency through independent ties with the world without relying on large cities. NRI conducted an evaluation ranking the current industrial creation capabilities and future potential of 100 cities in Japan in order to clarify the strengths and weaknesses of each city and identify cities with high potential as local hubs. The best practices of local hubs overseas were analyzed, and the following six points were set as the evaluation standards: (1) culture that is accepting of Cities such as Fukuoka, Kagoshima, and Tsukuba diversity, (2) initiatives to promote entrepreneurship and innovation, (3) foundations were at the top of the ranking of cities with growth potential that have the potential to become a local where diverse industries can take root, (4) plenitude and diversity of human hub resources, (5) ease of living in the city, and (6) appeal of the city. Rather than struggling over the limited domestic market, NRI believes that it will be possible for Japan to grow as a whole by leveraging the strengths of each city and making ties with the world. •Consulting (overseas market) Significant reduction in traffic congestion through demonstration project on an advanced traffic signal system in Moscow, Russia NEDO*, Kyosan Electric Manufacturing Co., Ltd., and NRI completed a demonstration project on an advanced traffic signal system jointly with Moscow City Traffic Control Center (TsODD). During this demonstration project, the system was installed at a series of traffic junctions at five locations in the city in order to resolve NRI’s Business Segments the serious traffic congestion in Moscow. It was verified whether car travel time had been shortened, and as a result, a reduction in traffic congestion by up to 40% during rush hours was confirmed. These results can expect to contribute to reductions in CO2 emissions thanks to reduced fuel consumption by cars and the revitalization of economic activities thanks to the reduction in travel time. We aim to expand this advanced traffic signal system in other areas of Russia in the future based on the results achieved through Reduced traffic congestion during morning rush hour (Above: before demonstration project, below: after this demonstration project. demonstration project; the area towards the back of *NEDO: New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization the photo is the direction towards Moscow) •Consulting (domestic market) Launch of work-style reform support consulting services using AI As a consulting service that promotes work-style reform, NRI has launched a service that uses artificial intelligence (AI) to analyze the schedule information of individual employees and visualize how employees use time in an aim for improvement. Although the automation of production lines in the manufacturing industry is advancing in Japan, the productivity of the service industry and white-collar sector that is said to be low compared to other developed countries. It is believed that this is the result of various factors such as ambiguity in decision-making structures The movement area of employees is displayed on a and rigid employment practices that are complexly intertwined, and one of the map that can be used for teleworking and satellite characteristics of productivity of the white-collar sector is that it is extremely difficult office deployment planning to measure in the first place. NRI has developed technologies that use AI to classify schedule information in order to visualize working styles in the white collar sector and indicate focus points for efficiency improvements in a quantitative manner. Through these technologies, it is possible to analyze how each and every employee uses time, which will lead to the discovery of issues and make it possible to derive improvement proposals. Integrated Report 2018 38 NRI’s Business Segments Financial IT Solutions Segment This segment provides system consulting, system development and system management solutions, and shared online services for financial institutions mainly in the securities, insurance, banking, asset management, and other financial sectors. The number of users has steadily grown for shared online services as IT services that quickly respond to the customer’s business environment and regulatory changes based on the know-how that NRI has developed in the financial industry over many years. Service Examples •Core business systems and information systems of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. •ATM network systems and accounting systems of Seven Bank, Ltd. •Shared online services that have become the de facto standard: THE STAR, I-STAR, T-STAR, and BESTWAY Segment Strengths •Strong client base based on business with top-class financial institutions in the industry and other clients over many years •SaaS-type shared online services which have the leading market share in the financial industry •Utility services provided jointly with Group companies (shared online services+ BPO services) 2017 Number 10 FinTech Rankings •Close communication with financial authorities, industry (IDC Financial Insights) NRI’s Business Segments organizations, etc. (support, etc. for policy planning for the My Number system, NISA system, etc.) Ranked 10th in the global ranking of financial IT •Think tank activities that discuss and communicate on service companies released by IDC Financial Insights financial policy and financial intermediary function issues (Financial Markets Panel, Research Forum for Revitalization of Financial Intermediation in Domestic Economy, JapanChina Financial Roundtable) Business Environment (Client Trends) NRI’s Strategies and Countermeasures •A challenging business environment has continued •Accurate response to the needs of clients centered for financial institutions overall around shared online services –Securities industry: Although market conditions are –Steadily responding to new need, expansion of relatively strong, there are issues with improving ITO×BPO service profitability •Increasing business with the banking and insurance –Banking industry: Megabanks are launching policies to industries reduce personnel and regional banks are reorganizing –Acquisition of projects aimed at improving operational –Insurance industry: Strengthening operations and efficiency and new business launches by major life improving operational efficiency are issues due to the and non-life insurance companies, direct non-life effect of negative interest rates insurance companies, etc. •Although FinTech initiatives are ongoing, aggressive –Deepening relationships within the front area and new IT investments have not been made yet forms of banks in the banking industry •Entry in the finance business from different •Continued client support and creation of new industries businesses in digital financial service (FinTech •Expansion of overseas business through M&As by related) leading financial institutions, etc. •Cost structure reform through production innovation –Efficiency improvements in the development, maintenance, and operation structure, appropriate assignment of human resources •Expansion of global business –Expansion of support for worldwide offices of Japanese financial institutions –Launch of the I-STAR/GX shared online service for wholesale brokerage firms in the US 39 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Achievements •Financial industry overall Award received in the US in recognition of the introduction of solutions using AI NRI received an award in the Best Artificial Intelligence (A.I.) Initiative section of the FTF News Technology Innovation Award 2018 in the US. This award was in recognition* of proof of concepts and the introduction of solutions using artificial intelligence (AI) in 2017 by NRI. This is an award hosted by the Financial Technologies Forum (FTF), a US-based financial media group, to praise the annual achievements of financial technology firms, service providers, and auditing firms and it is widely recognized in the financial Received award in Best Artificial Intelligence (A.I.) industry. Initiative section *Major achievements that were recognized (new releases) Refer to the FTF News Technology Innovation Award 2018 website for details. •Mizuho Securities selects NRI’s AI and voice recognition technology to reduce time spent on compliance https://www.ftfnews.com/awards/the-ftf-news(11th December, 2017) technology-innovation-awards-2018 https://www.nri.com/global/news/2017/171211_1.aspx •NRI and Mizuho Bank Complete Research Addressing Applications of AI in Eliminating Tedious Derivative Contract Procedures (31st July, 2017) https://www.nri.com/global/news/2017/170731_1.aspx •NAM and NRI Conduct Proof of Concept for Applying AI in the Asset Management Industry (26th June, 2017) https://www.nri.com/global/news/2017/170626_1.aspx •FinTech Investment in TORANOTEC that is involved in asset management and application development NRI and TORANOTEC, LTD. signed capital contribution and basic collaboration agreements on 30th October, 2017. NRI’s Business Segments TORANOTEC Asset Management Ltd., TORANOTEC’s wholly-owned subsidiary, TORANOCO change investment application began offering TORANOCO in June 2017, a service for investing using change, provided by TORANOTEC Asset Management and NRI has supported smooth service provision for TORANOCO by providing its BESTWAY/JJ investment account management system service and its T-STAR/TX For details, see the TORANOCO change back-office operations support service for asset management companies. Going investment application website. https://toranoko.com/ forward we will further strengthen our partnership as we work together for the further evolution of TORANOCO while also cooperating with the development of new investment services. •Insurance industry NRIs radically upgrades the way 10,000 client advisors work at Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Company through new information terminals NRI has employed Apple iPads* to upgrade the information terminal PlanDo that Fukoku Mutual Life Insurance Company’s customer advisors (sales representatives) use in their face-to-face consulting sales, and accompanying this, completed the development of a new sales support system (with life plan proposal functions and insurance product proposal functions, etc.) and new contract application system enabling paperless process. The new terminals were rolled out in January 2018. Since the construction of the sales support system for Fukoku Mutual Life New information terminals “PlanDo” introduced by in 2001, NRI has been involved with improvements and revisions including new Fukoku Mutual Life in January 2018 product support and support for legal changes over many years. This system development was done jointly by six vendors supervised by Fukoku Information Systems Co., Ltd. NRI developed the new sales support system and the new contract application system during this process. *iPad is a registered trademark of Apple Inc. Integrated Report 2018 40 NRI’s Business Segments Industrial IT Solutions Segment Operations in this segment comprise integrated consulting, system development, and system management solutions for the distribution retail/wholesale, manufacturing, communications, service, and public sectors. We are promoting the Prime Account Strategy to strengthen our long-term partnerships with industry-leading firms. These include Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd., KDDI CORPORATION, which established a joint company with NRI in December 2017, Ajinomoto Co., Inc., whose information systems subsidiary joined the NRI Group in April 2012, and Marubeni Corporation, with whom we have capital and business partnerships in place. Service Examples •Order and supply system and POS information system for Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. •watashi+, the comprehensive online beauty service by Shiseido Company, Limited. •“Dokonani Mile,” the new mileage service by Japan Airlines Co., Ltd. Segment Strengths •Cutting-edge digital marketing platform (DMP) solutions •Extensive experience in global SCM solutions •Compelling proposals fusing package solutions and cloud services NRI’s Business Segments Forrester Names Brierly+Partners •Loyalty marketing solutions (Brierley+Partners) a Leader in Customer Loyalty •IT managed services (ASG) (The Forrester WaveTM: Customer Loyalty Solutions, Q3 2017) Business Environment (Client Trends) NRI’s Strategies and Countermeasures •Aggressive IT investments, mostly among large, •Maintaining the Prime Account Strategy high-performing enterprises – Working with Consulting to expand support offerings – Expanding investments in BiT (digital)-related areas, from the uppermost processes down aiming to transform business models – Expanding support offerings from the digital areas to – Increasingly sophisticated front office-related systems core systems and global systems and SCM systems, stemming from EC business growth •Expanding global business – Lively efforts to save labor and automate business – ASG: Aiming for a top-10 position in the Australian processes through RPA and other approaches market through integration with SMS •The need for innovation in core systems – Brierley+Partners: Continuing to expand business in – Increasing prevalence of package solutions and cloud both the US and Japan services •Expanding digital business •Global business expansion – Expanding real estate tech business – Growing importance of global IT governance (Bit Realty, Inc.) – Expanding KDDI Digital Design Inc. business •Promoting the PCI (Package Cloud Integration) Strategy – Bolstering proposals fusing package solutions and cloud services 41 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Achievements •Domestic business Establishment of a joint venture supporting digital transformation by companies with KDDI NRI made a 49% investment in KDDI Digital Design Inc., a subsidiary of KDDI CORPORATION, in December 2017. KDDI Digital Design is an operating company that supports digital transformation Trade name KDDI Digital Design Inc. by clients through one-stop support ranging from strategy planning to verification Date of of commercialization, and system development by leveraging the strengths of both establishment 15th December, 2017 NRI’s strategic consulting and system integration capabilities and KDDI’s nextCapital ¥7 billion (including legal capital surplus) generation network and IoT platform development capabilities. Representative Director and Yasuaki Kuwahara President Shareholder KDDI CORPORATION: 51% composition Nomura Research Institute, Ltd.: 49% Location of the Kitanomaru Square, 1-13-12 Kudankita, headquarters Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo, Japan Business strategy support, verification of commercialization, system development, Business lines network infrastructure development, system and networks operations •Domestic business Release of the YEBISU BAR app, a visitor loyalty improvement service Sapporo Lion Limited and NRI have jointly developed the YEBISU BAR app as a service that improves loyalty through benefits such as points and status provided to visitors. It was released and provided at Yebisu Bars nationwide from 8th May (Tuesday), 2018. The YEBISU BAR app is a service for dining establishments that customers often Image of operations and screen when granting a visit in groups with one group organizer making a payment on the group’s behalf stamp with the YEBISU BAR app on a smartphone that provides stamps and other benefits to all visitors including customers that did NRI’s Business Segments not make a payment (patent pending). Sapporo Lion and NRI developed this service using the loyalty program know-how and IT package products provided by the NRI Group company Brierley+Partners Japan, Inc. •Overseas business Signing of service contract with Airservices Australia to provide a secure cloud environment The NRI subsidiary ASG Group Limited signed a contract with Airservices Australia, Australia's air traffic control authority, for the provision of a virtual desktop environment over the cloud using the Internet as a DaaS (desktop as a service). For DaaS (desktop as a service), the desktop environments of computers used by companies and organizations are aggregated in servers on the cloud, and the Corporate logo of the NRI subsidiary Australia ASG service is used by user accessing their own virtual desktop environment through the Internet. The contract is for AUD 84 million with a period of five years and also has a five-year extension option. ASG is globally competitive with its unique intellectual property for lifting out the on-premise software assets of customers to a cloud environment and providing them to the customer as a service. Integrated Report 2018 42 NRI’s Business Segments IT Platform Services Segment The segment provides services such as the management and operation of data centers and IT platform/network development to financial and industrial IT solutions segments. This business also provides IT platform solutions and information security services to client in various industries. We also carry out research toward development of new businesses and new solutions, and research in cuttingedge information technology. Service Examples •Operates three data centers in the Tokyo area and two in the Osaka area •NRI SecureTechnologies, Ltd. provides one-stop information security services, from sophisticated security operations and surveillance and consulting, to various types of software and services •NRI digital, Ltd. supports digital business with “Con-Solutions” and open innovation Segment Strengths •Data centers with facilities and operational management capabilities that conform to the highest standards •Management operation centers in five locations in Japan and network hubs around the world •Security business which supports companies’ global development •Specialty company (NRI digital, Ltd.) that supports digital NRI’s Business Segments First in Japan to receive Management business creation and Operations (M&O) Certification, a •Information technology trend projections over many years global standard for data center operation (publication of the IT Road Map, etc.) (held by three data centers as of 1st July, •Investigation and research on deep learning, voice 2018) recognition, image recognition, character recognition, etc. Business Environment (Client Trends) NRI’s Strategies and Countermeasures •IT platforms business and IT operations outsourcing •IT platforms business and IT operations outsourcing business business – Increasing burden for supporting upgrades of own – Operation of safe and secure data centers data centers (continued improvements to eliminate system failures) – Growing interest in public cloud services – Development of next-generation operational – Need for global IT operations structure associated with infrastructure (MDC2.0) the expansion of overseas business (remote management, business automation through AI, etc.) •Security business – Need for advanced security measures in response to – Provision of IT modernization solutions increasingly sophisticated cyber-attacks (support for phased migration from on-premise to the cloud) – Expansion of areas for security countermeasures accompanying the use of digital technologies such as – Support through global operations structure IoT in business (operation centers in five locations in Japan and network hubs around the world） •Digital business – Use of digital technologies to make existing businesses •Security business more efficient and sophisticated – Expansion of global security business – Trying to establish new business models using digital – Provision of security countermeasures services for technology new areas such as IoT and the blockchain •Digital business overall – R&D activities and external partnerships related to advanced technologies (Industry-academia collaboration, open innovation) – Expansion of digital business support by NRI digital, Ltd. 43 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Achievements •Security business NRI Secure recognized as a market leader by research firms in Japan and overseas The NRI subsidiary NRI SecureTechnologies, Ltd. (“NRI Secure”) was introduced as a leading vendor that provides security operations and monitoring services on a global level in the “Vendor Landscape: Global Managed Security Services, 2017” report published by the major US research firm Forrester Research Inc. In addition in the “2017 Frost & Sullivan Japan Excellence Award” released by the major US research firm Frost & Sullivan Inc., NRI Secure received the “2017 Japan Managed Security Service Provider of the Year” as the most outstanding company in Japan’s security operations and monitoring services market. Meanwhile, NRI Secure was number one in the market in terms of sales by vendors according to the “Survey on Domestic Cyber Security Consulting Services 2017” conducted by the leading Japanese research firm ITR Corporation. According Received the 2017 Japan Managed Security Service to this survey, NRI Secure has “built up a solid position in the consulting market Provider of the Year award from Frost & Sullivan through the development of business as a pioneer in information security services and the provision of a wide range of services that cover many areas including policy development support, security audits, CSIRT development support, and IoT security consulting.” •Digital business Established new company Technium that promotes the digitalization of the manufacturing industry jointly with DMG MORI DMG MORI CO., LTD. and NRI established the new company Technium CO., LTD. Trade name Technium CO., LTD. that specializes in systems and services that support the advance use of production Date of 9th January, 2018 establishment NRI’s Business Segments facilities at plants, etc. using digital technologies in January 2018. Capital ¥300 million Technium uses a membership-based website for the centralized management Representative of various information including production facilities, human resources, and Director and Akihiko Kawashima President processing know-how for each customer. In addition, Technium provides training Shareholder DMG MORI CO., LTD.: 66.6% for the advanced use of the state-of-the-art software and machinery in accordance composition Nomura Research Institute, Ltd.: 33.4% with the client’s facilities and experience of personnel. Furthermore, the creation of Location of the 3-1-4 Edagawa, Koto-ku, Tokyo headquarters DMG MORI Tokyo Digital Innovation Center optimal processing programs is achieved using a database that has accumulated Production support IT services, processing the processing technologies of DMG MORI. We support the advanced use of Business lines engineering services, human resources development services machinery by clients through these services. •Quality management services business Launch of the aslead management integration service for system development projects In October 2017, NRI launched the “aslead” development and management integration service that supports both quality improvements in deliverables and improvements in operational efficiency for information system development projects. The adoption of aslead makes it easy to understand the current situation of projects and achieve efficient management. In addition, it stimulates communication by Comment analysis results (by team, by type, enabling the smooth sharing of information between project members. by developer) are automatically generated and Feedback from the NRI employees who have used aslead includes: “sharing displayed (screen image) information including communication, arrangements, and reports has become smoother,” “there has been a significant reduction in wasteful meetings and email, and project members have been able to secure time for concentrating in their actual work,” and “there has been less incidents of comments and issues being neglected, differences in awareness among employees, and wasteful work in post‐process due to failure to respond to comments.” Integrated Report 2018 44 NRI’s Sustainability Management Yoshio Usumi Representative Director, Member of the Board, Senior Executive Managing Director in charge of Supervising of Corporate Administration Message from the Director in Charge of Supervising of Corporate Administration Corporate Philosophy and CSV In particular, as NRI expands our business globally, it is important that we develop an environment and systems in which a diverse variety Corporate management taking ESG into account is an essential of professional can perform, regardless of nationality, gender, and condition for sustainable growth and business continuity. In recent other differences. We actively appoint corporate professionals who years, during engagement with institutional investors who prioritize have become members of the NRI Group through M&A. stewardship activities, we are more frequently presented with Additionally, we are moving ahead of other companies in Japan questions on topics such as NRI’s orientation towards SDGs and how by implementing work-style reform. Specifically, we have steadily we recognize ESG as opportunities or risks. produced tangible results through actions to reduce working hours and NRI’s Sustainability Management Since our founding, through our main business activities of promote health and productivity management. consulting and IT solutions, NRI has acted based on our Corporate Philosophy of “Dream up the future” to support the resolution of social Implementation of Restricted Stock Option issues and contribute to the creation of a sustainable society. We Compensation Plan consider this to be our mission and these values are shared by our management and employees. Some easy-to-understand examples In the fiscal year ended March 2018, these projects and actions by NRI include serving as a think tank to make social proposals and future received high recognition from a variety of perspectives. A few of the forecasts regarding the ideal future, as well as providing shared honors included receipt of the Tokyo Governor Prize, which is part of online services which continually support financial markets via system the Corporate Governance of the Year 2017 awards held by the Japan infrastructure. In this way, through the resolution of social issues, we Association of Corporate Directors, selection as a Nadeshiko Brand, prioritize the concept of Creating Shared Value (CSV) for heightening receipt of the highest level of Eruboshi Certification, and certification as the economic value of our company. a Health and Productivity Management 500 Organization (White 500). At our General Meeting of Shareholders in June 2018, we received Four Material Themes (Materiality) approval to discontinue the previous stock option plan and implement a restricted stock option compensation plan. This was done in order Based on the UN Global Compact, international standards, guidelines, to award mediumto long-term incentives to directors. Awarding etc., NRI has designated our Materiality (four material themes) which directors with shares from their time of appointment enables them must be addressed (refer to the NRI Sustainability Management Policy to share values with shareholders. In addition to seeking sustainable on p. 46). growth and improved corporate value over the mediumto long-term, we will contribute even more to the creation of a sustainable society. 45 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ NRI Sustainability Management Policy Through our main business activities of consulting and IT solutions, NRI will act based on our Corporate Philosophy of “Dream up the future” to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society. The concept of Creating Shared Value (CSV) has attracted significant attention in recent year. This concept has already been incorporated into our Corporate Philosophy. We have engaged in corporate management for creating value that can be shared with society. In May 2017, NRI declared our participation in the UN Global Compact and has taken action in order to achieve Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs). Furthermore, from the perspectives of management and external stakeholders, we have identified four material themes (Materiality) with a high degree of priority. We identified these themes based on international standards and guidelines such as GRI (G4), ISO 26000, the Dow Jones Sustainability Indices (DJSI), and the United States Sustainability Accounting Standards Board (SASB), as well as on the opinions of external experts. NRI is proposing and implementing action plans for the resolution of Materiality. Furthermore, we are periodically evaluating the progress of these action plans and then revising the action plans and the Materiality itself. Corporate Philosophy CSV (Creating Shared Value) Four Materiality Provision of NRI quality to support safe and secure information society (G) Compliance with laws, Provision of opportunities regulations and risk for all kinds of professionals management to increase to take on challenges trust from society (S) Creation of a future, (G) NRI’s Sustainability Management low environmental impact society (E) Sustainability Management Structure NRI established the Social Value Creation Committee and the Sustainability Activities Committee as a special appointment at the direction of the President & CEO to promote overall sustainability management. Both committees make proposals to Senior Management Committee and others. President & CEO Social Value Creation Committee Sustainability Activities Committee Chairperson: Senior Managing Director Chairperson: Senior Corporate Managing Director Promote activities for stable Promote social value creation business foundations from based on Corporate Philosophy the point of view of ESG Integrated Report 2018 46 NRI’s Sustainability Management Results of Main Sustainability Activities in the Fiscal Year Ended March 2018 Based on a Sustainability Management Policy composed of Creating Shared Value (CSV) and four material themes (Materiality), NRI is implementing a variety of activities aimed at achieving a sustainable society. The following table introduces specific activities which we undertook in the fiscal year ended March 2018. Activities are grouped according to the corresponding Materiality. Response to Four Material Themes (Materiality) Materiality Main policies Example activities in the fiscal year ended March 2018 •Response on climate change •Set a New Environmental Target (reduce greenhouse gas emissions by 55% by the fiscal year ending March 2031 (compared to the fiscal year ended •Consumption of sustainable March 2014)) energy •Implemented and expanded the scope of NRI-EMS, a unique environmental •Recognize responsibility and management system for offices at NRI E (Environment): protect the environment •Relocated to office buildings with superior environmental performance; used Creation of a future, low •Show consideration for renewable energy environmental impact environments in our supply •Promoted NRI Green Style Activities through e-learning courses, forest society chain maintenance activities, etc. •Diversity of human resources •Developed solutions and cultivate human resources through cooperation with educational/ research organizations both inside and outside of Japan •Sound hiring practices and labor-management relations •Held the NRI Student Essay Contest (held continually since the fiscal year ended March 2007) •Respect for human rights •Expanded actions to support the balance of work and child-rearing by male employees S (Society): •In June 2017, opened the in-office nursery Yumeminato Hoikuen Provision of •Based on the “Act on Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities,” promoted the opportunities for all hiring of person with disabilities by our special subsidiary NRI Mirai kinds of professionals to take on challenges •Developed a new office environment which promotes work-style reform and internal/external interactions NRI’s Sustainability Management •Strengthening of corporate •Established the Nomination Committee, which is mainly composed of independent directors governance •Changed the main members composing the Compensation Committee from external experts •Risk/crisis management to independent Members of the Board •Prevention of overseas •Implemented the restricted stock compensation plan as a mediumto long-term incentive compensation plan for Members of the Board corruption G (Governance): •Held the CSR Study Session in order to discuss CSR with business partners Compliance with laws, •Appropriate disclosure of information to customers •Held the Business Information Session for Institutional Investors and Analysts (continued regulations and risk from the fiscal year ended March 2011) management to increase trust from society •Established NRI Holdings Australia in order to strengthen governance in the Australia region •Started full-scale activities of the Global Business Planning Department, which is located at our headquarters and promotes global governance •Information security/system •Enhanced project monitoring functions and held other activities to improve the quality of management information systems •Access to information society •Held the Production Innovation Forum and took other activities to improve company-wide quality and productivity G (Governance): •Held the Safety and Security Forum and acquired certification/guarantees from third-party Provision of NRI quality organizations to support safe and •Increased the level of security measures both inside and outside Japan secure information society •Increased the sophistication of our Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT) in order to respond to cyber attacks 47 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Participation in the United Nationals Global Compact To continue to gain trust from society and meet expectations through both domestic and global activities, NRI endorsed the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and announced its participation in May 2017. To continue to gain trust from society and meet expectations through both domestic and global activities, NRI endorsed the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) and announced its participation in May 2017. Page Related SDGs No. P.51 Status of Inclusion at Equities in ESG Stock Indices P.51 The worldwide ESG investment amount in 2016 was approximately ¥2,400 trillion. P.51 This accounts for about one-fourth of total global investment. In July 2017, the P.52 Government Pension Investment Fund (GPIF) selected three ESG stock indices for Japanese stock. This marked the start of full-scale ESG investment. NRI is included in the equities used for the main ESG stock indices. P.55 Dow Jones Sustainability Asia Pacific Included for two consecutive years from 2016 NRI is included in all three ESG stock P.56 indices selected by the GPIF. P.57 P.57 MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index* P.57 P.58 NRI’s Sustainability Management P.61 MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes* P.61 Included for two consecutive years from 2016 MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index* P.63 P.71 P.72 — FTSE4Good Developed Index — FTSE Blossom Japan Index Included for twelve consecutive years from 2006 P.73 P.74 P.74 P.75 *THE INCLUSION OF Nomura Research Institute, Ltd IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF Nomura Research Institute, Ltd BY MSCI P.76 OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. Integrated Report 2018 48 NRI’s Sustainability Management Stakeholder Dialogue In July 2017, we invited five experts residing in London (England) and held the CSR Dialogue, NRI’s first dialogue to be held overseas. Afterwards, we invited three experts to visit Tokyo in September in order to hold a CSR Dialogue. Participants exchanged opinions on topics such as conditions surrounding ESG and response required from the NRI Group. We will use their valuable comments for our future sustainability management. Corporations must form appropriate relations with investors The true opportunity for the Principles for Responsible Investment (PRI) and other initiatives is to change how business and investment operate to the benefit of society, environment and economy. Therefore, we need to prevent the institutionalizing of our responsibility to the point that it creates something different from our business. The multiple ESG indices must all support the shift to responsible business. ESG indices should avoid simply comparing corporations in a way which fails to fully describe fully the richness of that corporation’s contribution to a prosperous society. Accordingly, it is important for investors to understand Colin Melvin whether the indices they use are fit for their intended purpose. Corporations are the engines Founder and Managing Partner of wealth creation in our societies and economies. Their profitability is a consequence of doing Arkadiko Partners something good and something useful in the right way. NRI’s Sustainability Management What human rights issues should NRI be concerned about? I believe that digital rights will be an important theme in the ICT sector. Digital rights include freedom of expression. We have been seeing governments forcibly shutting down the internet, and placing restrictions on freedom of expression. This is a serious problem. I recommend that NRI views its business from the perspective of human rights. The company should consider how its business could potentially have a negative effect on freedom of expression and protection of personal information. Furthermore, NRI should Steve Waygood consider how it can provide a remedy to affected people. Chief Responsible If NRI automatically gathers personal information through business related to the My Investment Officer Number system, it is very important to consider what human rights could be infringed AVIVA INVESTORS by those operations, with reference to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. 49 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ What kind of response is required from NRI as it expands into the global market? The issues of ESG, including human rights and the environment, are closely linked with NRI's global strategies and therefore should not be considered separately. ESG is now a global, universal concept. We are in an era where ESG standards are used as a basis for NRI’s quantitative evaluation of customer corporations to which it provides services and corporations acquired through M&A. Amidst these global trends towards ESG, it is important to have a perspective of how NRI will grow its business in the future. Puvan Selvanathan In other words, as NRI promotes globalization, it has a significant business opportunity in CEO Bluenumber Foundation ESG solutions and approaches. Specifically, this refers to how NRI will integrate its products and services into ESG. What should be noted about human rights issues when responding to temporary staff? Generally, temporary staff are in a vulnerable position because recruitment agencies act as their intermediaries. Therefore, temporary staff cannot negotiate directly with the company that they will actually be working for on matters such as their working conditions. For example, in the U.K., even though temporary staff may have the same education and skills as full-time employees and thus provide an equal value of labor, they receive substantially lower wages only for the reason that they are working as temporary staff. It is important that temporary staff are guaranteed the same rights as Haley St. Dennis full-time employees. Communications Manager Institute for Human Rights I recommend that NRI expands a hotline for consultation to temporary staff. NRI’s Sustainability Management and Business Complaints are a very important source of information for NRI to identify problems, making it possible to take action before the problems get worse. Seeking to create a sustainable society This was the first time that NRI held a dialogue abroad. The globalization of NRI is increasing. For example, we completed the M&A of an Australian companies from 2016 to 2017. Currently, the ratio of our overseas sales is about 9 percent. We expect this to rise even further in the future. At the recent CSR Dialogue, we were able to receive valuable opinions on ESG and human rights from esteemed foreign ESG investors and human rights experts. We truly appreciate this outstanding opportunity. Japanese television covered our dialogue in London. This indicates that topics such as ESG investment are now being watched with keen interest not only in Kenji Yokoyama Western countries but also in Japan. I believe that ESG investors and other stakeholders will Senior Corporate Managing Director, NRI watch corporate ESG activities even more strictly than before. The valuable opinions and insights acquired through the dialogue will be reflected by NRI in our future activities. NRI will continue to contribute to the creation of a sustainable society. Integrated Report 2018 50 NRI’s Sustainability Management E (Environment) Creation of a Future, Low Environmental Impact Society All NRI directors and employees will strive to reduce environmental impact, preserving a global environment where humans and nature exist in harmony and with the goal of achieving a future that is both sustainable and prosperous. In accordance with Science Based Targets (SBTs) based on the target of “within 2°C” as adopted per the 2015 Paris Agreement, an increasing number of European and American corporations view it as their own responsibility to significantly reduce greenhouse gas with a long-term perspective. In response to these trends in international society, NRI set new targets for reduction of greenhouse gas in February 2018. Environmental Policy and Target Environmental policy NRI has established the NRI Group Environmental Policy and Biodiversity NRI Group Environmental Policy Action Agenda for all NRI directors and employees. http://www.nri.com/global/csr/greenstyle/policy.html Biodiversity Action Agenda To ask its business partners, such as external contractors and suppliers, http://www.nri.com/global/csr/greenstyle/biodiversity.html to engage in activities that take into consideration the environment, social and NRI Group Procurement Policy https://www.nri.com/global/company/procurement.html governance (ESG), NRI has a procurement policy containing the clause “practice of ESG procurement.” Reduction target Target Year (Compared to FY March 2014) Environmental target For detailed environmental information, see P.81-82 FY Mar. 2031 55% In January 2016, NRI set the environmental target of “a 25% reduction in greenhouse gas emissions compared to the fiscal year ended March 2014.” We were able to achieve this target through measures such as transition of ◆Environmental management system coverage systems to data centers with outstanding environmental performance. (based on CO2 emissions) NRI is seeking to acquire SBT*1 certification by achieving our environmental Data centers targets. We have set the new environmental target of “reduce greenhouse Overseas bases (with ISO14001) (without NRI-EMS) 5% 71% gas*2 by 55% by the fiscal year ending March 2031 (compared to the fiscal Offices year ended March 2014).” (without NRI-EMS) 3% *1 Science Based Targets (SBT): An international initiative that asks companies to set greenhouse Offices Coverage ratio gas emission reduction goals in line with scientific evidence, towards the achievement of the (with NRI-EMS)¬ “below 2°C increase in world average temperature that is the goal of the Paris Agreement. 21% 92% NRI’s Sustainability Management *2 For Scope 1 and Scope 2 (FY Mar. 2018) Deployment of an Environmental Management System NRI has acquired ISO14001 certification, an international standard on environmental management systems, for its data centers which are considered to be main sources of CO2. As for NRI offices, we are introducing NRI-EMS, an environmental management system unique to NRI, starting from the fiscal year ended March 2016. In the fiscal year ending March 2019, we are implementing NRI-EMS at worldwide offices. Relocation to Office Buildings with Superior Environmental Performance and Use of Renewable Energy From 2016 to 2017, we relocated to new offices with outstanding Yokohama Nomura Building environmental performance. This enabled us to cut the amount of electricity 51 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ used per unit area in half when compared to previous levels. In the fiscal year ended March 2018, we purchased 660 MWh of Renewable Energy Certificates for our main office buildings in Tokyo, Yokohama, and Osaka. Significant Reduction in CO2 Emissions Due to Shared Online Services Tokyo Data Center I, boasting advanced environmental At a time when IT is seeing more widespread use due to significant progress performance in digital technologies, the growing power consumption has become a ◆Annual CO2 emissions of shared online cause for concern. In response, NRI has been engaged in a strategy to curb service as compared with those of systems power consumption of the entire value chain, including clients by utilizing IT. developed by individual companies NRI’s shared online services, provided to a variety of industries and CO2 emissions*1 (ton-CO2) 2,000 sectors, intend to streamline and raise the productivity of clients’ operations 1,500 and social systems. The usage of these services leads to drastically reduced Reduction by environmental impact. When multiple companies use a single system jointly, 1,000 73.9% they can markedly reduce power consumption, CO2 emissions and costs, 500 more so than when each company independently developed their own system. Estimates show that THE STAR, a back-office system for retail 0 brokerage firms, enables the user to lower its CO2 emissions by 73.9%. Systems Made by Shared Online Individual Companies*2 Service NRI Green Style Activities (Environmental Education / *1. Calculated by multiplying electricity usage by the real emission Forest Development Program) factor of Tokyo Electric Power Company released by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry *2. Calculated using an estimate of the approximate curve from a regression analysis of sample data, assuming that a client NRI has been pursuing NRI Green Style activities in order to raise using The STAR operates a similar system on their own. environmental awareness of each director and employee, as well as engage in business operations that are environmentally friendly. In the fiscal year ended March 2018, we led an initiative for directors and employees to participate in a forest development program* in Tadamimachi, Fukushima, Japan in addition to providing existing e-learning-based environmental, social and governance (ESG) testing. * In March 2016, NRI donated to a development project named “Tadami Experience and Observation Forest of Heavy Snow Forestry” in Tadami-machi. Forest development program in Tadami-machi, NRI’s Sustainability Management Fukushima Received the Tokyo Governor Prize of the Corporate Governance of the Year® 2017 Awards (Japan Association of Corporate Directors) In February 2018, NRI received the Tokyo Governor Prize, which is part of the Corporate Governance of the Year® 2017 awards held by the Japan Association of Corporate Directors. These awards support corporations that have achieved robust mediumto long-term growth through corporate governance. In addition to recognizing corporate governance activities, the Tokyo Governor Prize received by NRI also recognizes corporations which implement pioneering activities in Environment, Society, and Governance (ESG). NRI was awarded in recognition of being the first business firm in Japan to issue green bonds and for appointment of female employees. At the awards ceremony Yuriko Koike, Governor of Tokyo (left) and Chairman Tadashi Shimamoto (right) Integrated Report 2018 52 NRI’s Sustainability Management S (Society) NRI’s Human Resources Strategy The strength of NRI is our human resources; in other words, professional employees who possess a high level of expertise, who take the initiative to work on independently-set goals, and who are fearless innovators. To develop these human assets, NRI has been strengthening a system and an environment to develop the hidden talents of highly motivated people and to allow them to produce results on the job. Three Pillars of Our Human Resources System ◆Career Fields (Figure 1) 1 Corporate strategy consultant NRI’s human resources system is designed based on the three pillars of 2 Business consultant “assessments based on performance, outcomes, and ability,” discretionary 3 Systems consultant 4 Business strategist labor scheme,” and “a program of employee appraisals linked to human 5 Sales representative / Marketing manager resource development.” The program of employee appraisals linked to 6 Project manager (Development) human resource development encourages employees to diversify and 7 Project manager (Enhancement) pursue specialized fields, thus supporting autonomous and systematic skill 8 Application architect development by employees. 9 IT infrastructure architect As an outline for pursuing specialized fields, NRI has defined 22 career 10 Application specialist fields (Figure 1) and encourage employees to refine their skills in multiple 11 Common application infrastructure specialist specialized fields. We develop human resources capable of collaborating 12 IT platform specialist across multiple departments by using a broad perspective to flexibly 13 IT services manager respond to changes in the business environment. NRI grants internal 14 Security specialist 15 Researcher certification (Figure 2) to employees who possess a particularly high level 16 Data scientist of expertise in career fields. This promotes development of core human 17 Project management specialist resources and provides employees with a role model of a professional. 18 Quality management specialist Furthermore, each employee shares his or her target career field and 19 Business administration staff level with his/her manager. Through interviews with managers held every six 20 Corporate management / Headquarters staff months, we implement a Challenge & Act (C&A) System for confirming the 21 Systems engineer target set by employees and the corresponding level of achievement. 22 Consultant In addition to compensation for short-term performance, we have implemented incentives for mediumand long-term contribution; specifically, NRI’s Sustainability Management ◆Internal Certification Program (Figure 2) CBD CDS Planning and (Certified Data Scientist) (Certified Business Developer) proposals ① Business creation CBA Process scope for internal certification ② Developing new clients (Certified Business Analyst) CPM (Certified Project Manager) Work duties CAE ① Application specialist (Certified Application ② Application architect ① New project Engineer) ③ Application common platform specialist ② Enhancement project PM/ Systems CITA ① Platform leader (Certified ② Core engineer IT Architect) ③ Advanced engineer ④ Platform strategist Platforms CISM ① IT service design (Certified IT Service ② IT service implementation System Manager) ③ IT service operation management and operation Creation of new business Data analytics Proposal / Consulting Design / Development Operations / Maintenance Project management Developing new clients Systemization planning Operating processes 53 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ for the achievement of sustainable improvements in corporate value. Average annual training budget per Examples of incentives include retirement allowances, a defined contribution employee at NRI (non-consolidated) pension plan, employee stock ownership, and an E-Ship system*. 3rd *E-Ship (Employee Share Holding Incentive Plan) system: Uses share holding by employees to create the incentive of subsequent increases in share prices. Human Resource Investment that is Top-class among Japanese Companies According to the “2016 Company Survey of Human Resource Utilization: Average Annual Human resources development at NRI is an organic fusion of three Training Budget per Employee” printed in methods: training programs, self improvement, and on-the-job training. NRI the Japanese career magazine “Outstanding believes that providing OJT training through work experience is the optimal Corporation Perfect Book 2018,” NRI was development method. Training programs are a method for organizing ranked 3rd out of 361 corporations providing valid responses. knowledge acquired through OJT and deepening understanding. It is also positioned as a method for obtaining knowledge and skills which cannot be acquired through OJT. NRI has also established a system to support selfdevelopment for employees to become qualified in and improve their foreign language skills. Global Human Resources Development Programs ◆NRI’s Global Human Resources Development Program (Figure 3) NRI has established a program for developing global business leaders Global business leaders (Figure 3). We are especially focusing on an overseas training system where employees, most in an OJT format, can experience global business through a one-year internship at our overseas bases as well as our client companies. Overseas Overseas Overseas Over a period of seven years, 139 trainees were sent to 15 overseas posting study trainee countries. Also, in overseas studies employees obtain degrees, such as MBAs, at Global short-stay training/ overseas business schools. Furthermore, we have overseas training programs Language training through which employees learn management strategy and marketing for Global human resources pool several weeks at an overseas business school, or the basics of system development in Chinese or English in China or India for several months. NRI’s Sustainability Management Development of Human Resources in the AI/Analytics Fields In order to quickly develop professionals in the field of artificial intelligence (AI) which supports digital business, NRI established the incubation organization “AI tech lab.” The lab accepts employees who have the potential to be AI engineers from each divisions and provides them with experience such as intensive demonstration experiments. Additionally, we started an in-house certification system for data scientists who support the analytics field. Employees who possess high levels of expertise are displayed as role models. We also established the Analytics Knowledge Center as a mechanism for company-wide sharing of best practices for analytics by each division. We are promoting human resources Analytics project discussion session for sharing case examples and advanced technology related to analytics development from the perspectives of work and technology while conducting co-creation with bit.Labs*, an organization which explores and acquires advanced technology. *Organization which develops technology in business IT fields Integrated Report 2018 54 NRI’s Sustainability Management S (Society) New Value Created by Industry-Academia Partnerships Based on the concept of open innovation, NRI executes industry-academia partnerships with top-class universities and research institutions both inside and outside Japan. We are developing innovative human resources who possess diverse perspectives and cultivating businesses. The following is an introduction of several specific actions. Co-creation with Leading US Educational and Research Institutions (MIT, Stanford University, etc.) NRI has entered into industry-academia Collaboration agreements with leading US educational and research institutions MIT Media Lab (laboratory established within Massachusetts Institute of Technology) and Stanford University, and is promoting the development of new business through interpersonal exchange while also working to develop innovative human resources with a wide range of perspectives. NRI is exploring possibilities in advanced technology, such as blockchain A discussion with MIT Media Lab researchers and crypto currency fields which are attracted attention as fundamental technology supporting the challenge to digital transformation, while also seeking out new business applications for this technology by dispatching resident staff to MIT Media Lab to serve as guest research fellows. In January 2018 NRI invited MIT Media Lab researchers to Tokyo Head Office, and has been proactively facilitating interactions such as holding the Ideathon* event involving NRI Group employees. Collaborating with Stanford University, NRI is also helping to develop human resources capable of generating innovation through the Silicon Valley eco-system, in fields such as AI and data science. *Ideathon: An activity that gathers people from a wide range of fields to come up with new The Ideathon with NRI employees and MIT Media Lab business ideas using the cutting-edge IT, etc. researchers Co-creation with Chinese Educational and Research Institutions (Tsinghua University, etc.) In 2007, together with Tsinghua University (Beijing, China), NRI jointly established the “Tsinghua-NRI Chinese Research Center.” Since then, we NRI’s Sustainability Management have work to form the Tsinghua University and NRI brand in China, as well as to construct a network with a political brain trust of scholars and experts. These connections enabled us to invite the PCB School of Finance from Tsinghua University (China) and major Chinese fintech corporations to Tokyo. Together with officials from Japanese financial regulatory institutions, Tsinghua-NRI Chinese Research Center members and financial institutions, etc., these Chinese organizations participated in a other NRI related parties. seminar on the latest fintech trends in China. Through these and other actions, NRI is conducting investigative research in the latest technological fields and encouraging corporation exchange. Co-creation with Japanese Educational and Research Institutions (University of Tokyo, etc.) From June 2016, NRI and seven other corporations participate and cooperate in the Chair for Frontier AI Education together with the University of Tokyo. The goal of this program is to cultivate human resources that possess high-level expertise on the latest information technology. Through the program, NRI supports the University of Tokyo’s efforts “to discern a growth orientation towards the ideal form of AI technology and to cultivate human resources that possess knowledge and skills which are correct, advanced, and practical.” 55 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Development of Human Resources for Blazing a New Future NRI recognizes the importance of cultivating students who will be future leaders in order to create new frameworks, value, and innovation. The following is an introduction of some of the numerous projects undertaken by NRI. Cooperating with Tokyo Institute of Technology for Research and Education on Cyber Security From April 2016, NRI and the Tokyo Institute of Technology have executed a partnership agreement for the purpose of promoting research and education on cyber security. In addition to joint research by each party, the partnership features a Cyber Security Special Professional Learning Program with instructors sent from NRI and NRI SecureTechnologies, Ltd. The partnership supports the cultivation of cyber security professionals who possess highlevel expertise. Former President Mishima (right) of Tokyo Institute of Technology and President Konomoto (left) Career Education Program for Elementary, Junior High, and High School Students NRI holds a career education program for elementary, junior high, and high school students. The program provides young leaders of the next generation with opportunities to learn, think, and give presentations. NRI utilizes the experience and expertise gained through our business to hold programs such as “secrets of information systems which support convenience,” which explains the mechanisms of information systems, “IT strategy program,” and “consultant one-day experience program.” These programs enable participants to embrace problem resolution through personal thought, all while feeling as if they are playing a game. During the career education program NRI Student Essay Contest Every year since 2006, we have held the NRI Student Essay Contest as an opportunity for high school and university students to make proposals for building relationships between Japan and the world, and for creating a more prosperous future society. NRI’s Sustainability Management In 2017, we added presentations to the content reviewed in the final screening. Students who passed the strict essay review process gave outstanding presentations which touch the heart of judges and countless audience members. NRI creates an opportunity for young people who will define the future to focus on the coming years and give serious thought to how they can contribute. By enabling young people to convey their Group photograph with winners from the NRI Student Essay Contest 2017 passionate ideas through a variety of forms, NRI cultivates professionals who will perform in global society. Marketing Analysis Contest Every year since 2007, NRI has held the Marketing Analysis Contest as an opportunity for conducting data analysis related to purchasing factors of consumers from a variety of perspectives, contributing to the improvement of academic research and market analytical ability, and providing an opportunity for students and other members of the young generation to present research results. The 79 applications that we received in 2017 were the most ever. The NRI Marketing Analysis Contest is now one of Japan’s largest contests held solely by a corporation in the field of advertising and marketing. 21 of the 22 award nominees were the work of university students. This shows how the contest contributes to cultivating future leaders by providing students with Judging committee at the Marketing Analysis Contest 2017 an opportunity to present research results. Integrated Report 2018 56 NRI’s Sustainability Management S (Society) Diversity Management Regardless of race, nationality, gender, or age, NRI works to create a workplace environment which provides each one of our value diverse employees with growth opportunities, the chance to work vibrantly, and prospects for embracing challenges. Human Rights Policy The NRI Group Human Rights Policy http://www.nri.com/global/csr/comp/index.html In the fiscal year ended March 2015, the NRI Group drew up a human rights ◆Action plans under the Act on Promotion of policy that states that we respect the International Bill of Human Rights and Women’s Participation and Advancement in the ILO Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work. Starting the Workplace with instilling our employees with knowledge of matters to be complied with as indicated in our CSR Policy and the NRI Group Code of Business Term From FY March 2017 to FY March 2019 Principle, NRI is working to achieve safe, sound working environments 1. Raise the rate of female managers to at least 7% of where fundamental human rights are respected. all NRI managers 2. Raise NRI’s rate of female employees who Promotion of Women’s Participation and Advancement Goals continued working after childbirth to at least 80% of that of its male employees in the Workplace 3. Raise NRI’s female employee hiring rate to at least 30% of its total hires In 2008, NRI established the NRI Women's Network (NWN) as a project 1. Conduct Career Design Seminars for female under the direct supervision of our president. NWN conducts activities employees who have been in NRI for 3 to 5 years based on the three pillars of “helping female employees develop their 2. Organize a Female Leader Development Program for female employees with the goal of developing careers,” “supporting training for balancing work and parenting,” and them into managers Initiatives “fostering a better corporate culture.” 3. Raise awareness of female employees returned to Today, it is commonplace for the ratio of female employees to increase work concerning the management and development responsibilities of managers and for women to continue working. In response, NRI is prioritizing continued 4. Carry out system reforms aimed to allow all NRI performance by professional women by conducting measures to support employees to select diverse work style choices career development. These measures are centered around NWN and also include a Leader Development Program, Career Design Seminars, etc. Childbirth, Parenting and Nursing Care Support NRI is working to create a workplace that facilitates a balance between work and parenting for both men and women. In addition to systems such as maternity/paternity leave, we established the “partner childbirth leave” system in January 2017 as part of measures aimed at supporting a work-life for male employees. In June 2017, we opened the Yokohama Center and established the Yumeminato Hoikuen as an in-office nursery. These facilities In-office nursery Yumeminato Hoikuen NRI’s Sustainability Management support employees in resuming their career at the desired time and building a career plan. Furthermore, NRI helps our employee balance work and nursing care for the elderly by enhancing systems such as nursing care leave and shorter working hours for nursing care. Promoting Workplace Participation by Persons with Disabilities NRI Mirai, Ltd., a special subsidiary* of NRI, contributes to work style reform NRI Mirai employees fulfilling their duties on the front by providing employees with various disabilities work opportunities such line as setting of meeting rooms and libraries, supporting training, collecting/ delivering internal mail, managing of miscellaneous goods, and even providing massage services for employees. Moreover, NRI is working to expand hiring opportunities for people with disabilities by holding fixed-point surveys and presentations related to management issues and trends in the hiring of people with disabilities and operations at special subsidiaries. As of June 2018, 142 disabled persons are NRI Mirai employees and guide dogs employed at NRI and its group companies (an employment ratio of 2.3%). trained according to *It refers to a subsidiary that gives special consideration to promote the employment of persons the Act on Assistance with disabilities, and in doing so meets certain requirements. Obtaining certification from the central Dogs for Physically government allows persons with disabilities employed by this type of subsidiary to be deemed as Disabled Persons being employed by the parent company. 57 Contents ▶ Work-style Reform Issues and Health and Productivity Management By enacting work-style reform, NRI works to promote work-life balance by reducing long working hours. We seek to achieve an environment where employees can fully exhibit their abilities while valuing their personal health and family life. Initiatives for Work-style Reform ◆Change in average monthly overtime hours per employee (hours) In 1994, NRI implemented a discretionary labor scheme which was a 35:33 35:47 34:46 pioneering initiative in Japan at that time. Through this scheme, we have 35:00 32:58 promoted a work style that is free from time constraints. 33:00 From 2016 to 2017, we relocated our Tokyo, Yokohama, and Osaka 31:00 29:45 offices to new buildings. Based on the concept of “creating new value 29:00 27:13 27:00 by connecting people, goods, events, information, and objectives,” we 25:00 developed office spaces which achieve a working style that is uninhibited by 23:00 location. The use of telecommuting and satellite offices is also increasing. 22:01 21:00 Led by the Work-style Reform Committee which we started in the fiscal year 19:00 ended March 2018, we are supporting the achievement of flexible working 17:00 styles with even higher productivity. 12.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 In addition to this work infrastructure, NRI is also fostering a corporate culture that facilitates co-creation among diverse human resources. For example, one specific initiative is work-style reform which matches the content and characteristics of work at each division. ◆ 35:47 NRI 35:33 35:00 Health Declaration 34:46 2022 32:58 33:00 Basic policy: Based on correct 29:45 knowledge 31:00 and 29:00 recognition for their own health by each 27:13 employee, 27:00 the NRI Group supports active initiatives 25:00 for improving long-term quality of 23:00 life (QOL). 21:00 22:01 12.3 13.3 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 1 Reduce lifestyle-related diseases •Manage employees’ reservations and receipts for medical check-ups and health examinations, and encourage them to take these examinations •Put in place health management rooms at our principal New office which achieves an innovative working style offices and build a framework for industrial doctors to handle cases 2 Lower stress Health and Productivity Management •Stress prevention for individual employees and teams NRI’s Sustainability Management •Develop a system to enable employees to return to work earlier NRI aims to achieve health and productivity management* that helps 3 Lower smoking rate improve employees’ quality of life (QOL). We have appointed the Chief •Introduce support to help stop smoking •Remove smoking spaces inside the office Health Officer (CHO), and currently are developing various systems and engaging in the relevant initiatives toward invigorating NRI and achieving 4 Promote work-life balance •Reduce overtime and holiday work hours increased productivity under the four goals below. •Encourage employees to take paid leave * It refers to a business policy which generates benefits for a company by providing its employees •Implement the frontline-driven Smart Work-Style with health-related assistance. This term is a registered trademark of the Workshop for the Campaign (SWC) including: streamlining operations and Management of Health on Company and Employee. meetings, as well as promoting early morning work External Evaluation of NRI •In 2017, received the highest level (Level 3) of Eruboshi Certification (certification by the Minister of Health, Labour and Welfare based on the Act on Promotion of Women's Participation and Advancement in the Workplace) •Selected as a Nadeshiko Brand for two consecutive years in 2017 and 2018 (corporations selected by the Tokyo Stock Exchange and the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry for outstanding promotion of female performance and advancement) •Certified as “Kurumin” for four consecutive terms from 2007 (certification of corporations that support child rearing based on the Act on Advancement of Measures to Support Raising Next-Generation Children) •Certified as a Health and Productivity Management 500 Organization (White 500; Large Enterprise Category) for two consecutive years in 2017 and 2018 Integrated Report 2018 58 NRI’s Sustainability Management G (Governance) NRI’s Corporate Governance NRI works to enhance corporate governance in accordance with the basic approach outlined below, based on the recognition that corporate governance consists of mechanisms for transparent, fair, timely, and accurate decision-making based on the perspective of stakeholders, including society, customers, employees, business partners, and shareholders. NRI have made the NRI Corporate Governance Guidelines public to outline our basic approach and action policy regarding corporate governance. NRI Corporate Governance Guidelines https://www.nri.com/global/ir/policy/governance.html The Basic Approach to Corporate Governance (1) Cooperation with stakeholders NRI respects the interests of stakeholders and cooperates with them in an appropriate manner. In particular, with regard to shareholders, NRI takes the proper measures so that rights are substantially secured, in addition to ensuring substantial equality. (2) Information disclosure and communication NRI discloses information as stipulated by laws and by the regulations of the Tokyo Stock Exchange, and information that assists its stakeholders in understanding NRI and its operations properly, in a timely, accurate, and fair manner, to secure transparency as well as to engage in constructive dialogue with its shareholders. (3) Corporate governance system NRI is strengthening its management monitoring functions based on the Audit & Supervisory Board System through the appointment of Independent Directors and Independent Audit & Supervisory Board Members, as well as the establishment of bodies that are mainly composed of Independent Directors appointed to advise the Board of Directors. Main corporate governance efforts since 2001 •Formulated The NRI Group’s corporate philosophy 2001 •Listed on the Tokyo Stock Exchange (Section 1) •Introduced an executive officer system to assist in separating management and execution functions 2002 •Reduced the number of members of the Board of Directors to within 20 and also appointed Independent Outside Directors •Increased the number of Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members to strengthen their auditing functions •Formulated the NRI Group’s Ethical Code (revised to the NRI Group's Code of Business Principles on 2010) and the NRI Group 2003 NRI’s Sustainability Management Employees’ Code of Business Conduct •Established the Compensation Committee comprised of outside experts to enhance transparency in regard to executive 2005 compensation 2006 •Reduced the number of members of the Board of Directors to 15 or less •Initial release of the long-term management vision: Vision2015 2008 •Took part in an electronic voting platform for institutional investors as part of efforts to maximize opportunities for shareholders to exercise their voting rights 2010 •Appointed non-executive director to chair the Board of Directors to separate supervisory and execution functions •Newly established the Integrated Risk Management Department to appropriately manage any risk that may arise in the course of 2012 business execution •Increased the number of Independent Outside Directors from two to three •Established the Independent Executives Meeting consisting of Independent Outside Directors and Independent Outside Audit & 2015 Supervisory Board Members •Formulated the NRI Corporate Governance Guidelines •Revised the NRI Group's Code of Business Principles completely •Initial release of the Medium-Term Management Plan (From FY March 2017 to FY March 2019) 2016 •Implemented the evaluations of the Board of Directors’ effectiveness •Newly establish the Nomination Committee, comprised mainly of Independent Directors 2017 •Change the main members of the Compensation Committee from outside experts to Independent Directors 2018 •Introduction of Restricted Stock Compensation Plan as a medium to long-term incentive for Members of the Board 59 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Corporate governance structure For the Board of Directors and the Audit & Supervisory Board, see P.61-64 (As of 1st July, 2018) For the Internal Controls, Corporate Ethics and Compliance, see P.69-70 General Meeting of Shareholders Appointment / Appointment / Removal of Audit & Appointment / Removal of Board Members Supervisory Board Members Removal of Accounting Auditors Nomination Committee Board of Directors Audit & Supervisory Accounting (Members of the Board) Board Members Report Auditors Compensation Committee (Audit & Supervisory Board) Executive Non-executive Audits’ Department Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members * * * * * Outside Directors and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members *Independent Directors and Independent Accounting Audit & Supervisory Board Members Selection/Supervision Audit Audit President & CEO Internal Audit Department Senior Management Committee Director in charge of Risk Management Integrated Risk Management Committee Business Promotion Committee Headquarters Business Divisions Compliance Committee Risk Management Advise, Human Resources Development Committee Supervisory Department Support, Management Department Management within Each Division Business Development Committee Integrated Risk Management Department Advise, Support, System Development Committee Monitoring Assign a Representative Department for Each Risk Advise, Support, Divisions/Departments Disclosure Committee Representative Management Crisis Management Committee Departments Subsidiaries Roles and activities of committees Mainly comprised of Independent Directors, the Committee deliberates on the appointment of Directors and Nomination Committee Audit & Supervisory Board Members from the standpoint of fairness and transparency. NRI’s Sustainability Management Compensation Mainly comprised of Independent Directors, the Committee deliberates on the system and standards of Committee executive compensation from the standpoint of fairness and transparency. Senior Management The Committee meets in principle once every week to deliberate on important issues involving corporate Committee management in order to achieve consistent business execution and decision making. Integrated Risk The Committee deliberates on important issues concerning risk management based on instructions given by the Management Committee President & CEO. The Committee deliberates on the issues concerning the promotion of ethical and compliance management Compliance Committee covering the improvement of structures to comply with corporate ethics and laws and the prevention of violation reoccurrences, based on instructions given by the President & CEO. Human Resources The Committee deliberates on important issues concerning ability development and training of employees, Development Committee based on instructions given by the President & CEO. The Committee deliberates on important issues concerning investments in research and development, planned Business Development businesses and investments, such as the acquisition of securities, based on instructions given by the President Committee & CEO. Systems Development The Committee deliberates on important issues concerning proposals and quotations to clients, as well as on their Committee development and release of IT solution-related systems, based on instructions given by the President & CEO. The Committee deliberates on important issues concerning the disclosure of Annual Securities Report and Disclosure Committee other documents, based on instructions given by the President & CEO. Crisis Management The Committee will be established based on the orders of the President & CEO to execute and support prompt Committee responses to a crisis whenever one may occur. Business Promotion The Committee involves administrative departments from the headquarters and management departments Committee within business divisions and seeks to establish highly effective and efficient internal controls. Integrated Report 2018 60 NRI’s Sustainability Management G (Governance) System and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors and the Audit & Supervisory Board NRI has established a structure to further enhance corporate governance while effectively using the functions of Audit & Supervisory Board Members and the Audit & Supervisory Board as a company with an Audit & Supervisory Board. NRI has delegated to considerable authority and responsibility for business execution to Senior Managing Directors and other Directors. The Board of Directors is exclusively responsible for fundamental decision-making that are the basis for the Company’s business execution and for overseeing the execution of duties by Members of the Board. The Audit & Supervisory Board Members and Audit & Supervisory Board oversee the execution of duties by Members of the Board. Senior Managing Directors and Managing Directors appointed through a resolution by the Board of Directors are responsible for the execution of business based on policies adopted by the Board. NRI holds a Senior Management Committee attended by Representative Directors and Senior Managing Directors once a week and deliberates on the important issues involving corporate management in order to coordinate our business activities and build consensus in executing business operations. System and Responsibilities of the Board of Directors NRI has seven Members of the Board, including three Outside Directors. The Board of Directors convenes once a month and on an extraordinary basis as needs dictate. Responsibilities of the Board of Directors •Make decisions on important matters including basic management policies, the mid-term business plan and business plans, and personnel-related matters, in accordance with relevant laws and regulations, the Company’s Articles of Incorporation, and “Regulations of the Board of Directors.” •Delegate decision-making related to the execution of duties other than the matters specified in the preceding paragraph to the executive directors and other Senior Managing Directors, and exercises its oversight function. •Make every effort toward realization of the mid-term business plan’s goals and fully analyze the reasons for that shortfall and the Company’s responses and then reflect the results of that analysis in subsequent plans if the Company fails to achieve the performance targets. •Supervise appropriately the election of successors, such as Company president, with due consideration of the corporate philosophy, action guidelines, and specific business strategies •Determine the compensation of individual Members of the Board (excluding Outside Directors) and other Senior Managing Directors, incorporating healthy incentives targeting sustainable corporate growth in the future. •Decide on the contents of a risk management system, including compliance and internal controls related to financial reporting, and appropriately oversee effective system implementation. Selection policy for the Members of the Board •Members of the Board are elected for a one-year term, creating a management system that can respond in a timely manner to changes in the business environment and clarifying all management responsibilities for each fiscal year. •The Board of Directors has a well-balanced composition of non-executive directors, executive directors, and Outside Directors. •The Company elects three Independent Directors in principle, or no less than two Independent Directors. NRI’s Sustainability Management •The Board of Directors includes no more than 15 Members of the Board, taking into consideration of the balance and the diversity of various factors, including experience in and knowledge of the Company’s businesses, corporate management, IT technology and corporate finances. Advisory committees for the Board of Directors NRI has established the following two advisory committees mainly composed of Independent Directors. •Nomination Committee: a body to advise the Board of Directors on nomination of Members of the Board and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. •Compensation Committee: a body to advise the Board of Directors on executive compensation. System and Responsibilities of the Audit & Supervisory Board NRI has five Audit & Supervisory Board Members, including three Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members. The Audit & Supervisory Board discusses and decides auditing policies and other important matters related to auditing and formulates and expresses audit opinions. Responsibilities of the Audit & Supervisory Board Members •Request reports from employees and executives to provide impartial supervision of execution by the Members of the Board in addition to participating in the Board of Directors meetings and on other important committees. •Coordinate with the accounting auditors and the Internal Audit Department over such matters as receiving reports on the audit plans and current status of audits from the accounting auditors as well as the results of internal audits from the Internal Audit Department, which is responsible for promoting internal controls. 61 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ •Appropriately receive internal control status reports providing information such as monitoring results on compliance with various regulations from the Risk Management Supervisory Department. To ensure that audits are effectively conducted by the Audit & Supervisory Board Members, the Audits’ Department has been established to support the work of the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. Members of the Board (As of 1st July, 2018) Executive Attendance Name Terms of Current positions /Outside (Year ended March Reason for Appointment (Date of birth) office /Independent 2018) He has abundant experience and achievements concerning the management of NRI, having served for 6 years as President & CEO, Representative Director, Member of the Board. In Tadashi Chairman, Board of Directors addition, the candidate is putting his efforts into the appropriate operation and vitalization of Shimamoto Non-executive 11 years Attended 15 of 15 Member of the Board meetings the Board of Directors meetings as chairperson. NRI requests his reelection as Member of (8th February, 1954) the Board to utilize his experience and understanding gained throughout his career, in the supervision of the management of NRI. He has long-standing experience in business execution and achievements in the area President & CEO, of consulting, with abundant experience and achievements in global business as well, Shingo Representative Board of Directors having served as the head of an office in the Asia region. In addition, he has taken over Konomoto Executive 3 years Attended 15 of 15 Director, meetings responsibility of the NRI Group’s management as President & CEO, Representative Director, (11th February, 1960) Member of the Board. NRI requests his reelection as Member of the Board to utilize his Member of the Board experience and understanding gained throughout his career, in the management of NRI. Senior Executive Vice Ayumu President, Board of Directors He has long-standing experience in business execution and achievements in the area of Ueno Representative Executive 3 years Attended 15 of 15 industrial IT solutions. NRI requests his reelection as Member of the Board to utilize his (15th March, 1960) Director, meetings experience and understanding gained throughout his career, in the management of NRI. Member of the Board Representative (after assuming the post Yoshio Director, on 23th June, 2017) He has long-standing experience in business execution and achievements in the area of Usumi Member of the Board, Executive 1 year Board of Directors corporate administration. NRI requests his reelection as Member of the Board to utilize his (1st July, 1958) Senior Executive Attended 11 of 11 experience and understanding gained throughout his career, in the management of NRI. Managing Director meetings She has long-standing experience as a researcher and a person with responsibilities at a Non-executive research and development division in the field of advanced information technology. Although Miwako Board of Directors she has not been involved in the management of a company in a capacity other than Doi Member of the Board Outside 3 years Attended 14 of 15 meetings Outside Director, NRI requests her reelection as Outside Director to utilize her abundant (2nd June, 1954) Independent experience and excellent understanding as a person with expertise gained throughout her career, in the supervision of the management of NRI from an objective standpoint. Non-executive He has been involved in the management of KONICA MINOLTA, INC. for many years. NRI Masatoshi Board of Directors requests his reelection as Outside Director to utilize his abundant experience and excellent Matsuzaki Member of the Board Outside 2 years Attended 15 of 15 meetings understanding concerning corporate management gained throughout his career, in the (21st July, 1950) Independent supervision of the management of NRI from an objective standpoint. Non-executive He has been involved in the management of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. for many Hideaki Newly years. NRI requests his election as Outside Director to utilize his abundant experience and Omiya Member of the Board Outside － excellent understanding concerning corporate management gained throughout his career, Appointed (25th July, 1946) Independent in the supervision of the management of NRI from an objective standpoint. Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board (As of 1st July, 2018) NRI’s Sustainability Management Name Outside Terms of Attendance Current positions Reason for Appointment (Date of birth) /Independent office (Year ended March 2018) He has long-standing experience in business execution and achievements in the Board of Directors Yutaka Audit & Supervisory Attended 15 of 15 meetings areas of financial IT solutions and consulting. NRI requests his election as Audit Harada Board Member － 2 years Audit and Supervisory Committee & Supervisory Board Member to utilize his experience and understanding gained (11th March, 1960) (full-time) Attended 18 of 18 meetings throughout his career, in the auditing of the execution of NRI’s Members of the Board. He candidate has abundant experience in business execution in mainly corporate Board of Directors Hirofumi Audit & Supervisory Attended 15 of 15 meetings administration, having served as General Manager of the Audits’ Department and of Kitagaki Board Member － 3 years Audit and Supervisory Committee the Internal Control Department, etc. NRI requests his election as Audit & Supervisory (19th April, 1960) (full-time) Attended 18 of 18 meetings Board Member to utilize his experience and understanding gained throughout his career, in the auditing of the execution of NRI’s Members of the Board. He has long-standing experience in the securities industry, which is one of NRI’s Kohei Audit & Supervisory Newly major business areas. NRI requests his election as Outside Audit & Supervisory Sato Board Member Outside － Board Member to utilize his abundant experience and excellent understanding Appointed gained throughout his career, in the auditing of the execution of NRI’s Members of (18th April, 1961) (full-time) the Board from an objective standpoint. He serves as Managing Partner of an audit corporation and has long-standing experience as a certified public accountant. Although he has not been involved in Board of Directors Kiyotaka Audit & Supervisory Outside Attended 15 of 15 meetings the management of a company in a capacity other than Outside Audit & Supervisory Yamazaki 4 years Board Member, NRI requests his reelection as Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Board Member Independent Audit and Supervisory Committee Member to utilize his abundant experience and excellent understanding concerning (4th April, 1953) Attended 18 of 18 meetings finance and accounting, which he has gained through his career, in the auditing of the execution of NRI’s Members of the Board from an objective standpoint. (after assuming the post on 23th He has been involved in the management of JAPAN TOBACCO INC. for many June, 2017) Noriaki Audit & Supervisory Outside Board of Directors years. NRI has appointed him with the expectation that he will utilize his abundant Okubo 1 year experience and excellent understanding concerning corporate management gained Board Member Independent Attended 11 of 11 meetings throughout his career, in the auditing of the execution of NRI’s Members of the (22nd May, 1959) Audit and Supervisory Committee Attended 14 of 14 meetings Board from an objective standpoint. Integrated Report 2018 62 NRI’s Sustainability Management G (Governance) Compensation for Members of the Board and Audit & Supervisory Board Members Compensation System for Members of the Board The compensation system for Members of the Board is based on executive position, but, in the interest of enhancing business results, the system emphasizes connections to business performance. The standards employed by the system have been set with reference to market standards and trends and other factors, with the goal of establishing standards appropriate for a leading company in the information services industry. To improve transparency of directors’ compensation and others, NRI has established the Compensation Committee, comprised mainly of Independent Directors, as an advisory body to the Board of Directors. The committee deliberates on the system and standards of executive compensation from the standpoint of fairness and transparency. Using the results of the committee’s inquiries, the Board of Directors sets policies for the determination of compensation for Members of the Board and other matters. Remuneration for the Members of the Board of NRI is comprised of the three categories (a. basic remuneration, b. bonuses and c. stock-based remuneration). At the Board of Directors held on 26th April, 2018, it was resolved to revise the directors’ compensation system, abolish the stock option system, and introduce a Restricted Stock Compensation Plan, and this was approved at the 53rd Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on 22nd June, 2018. Outside Members of the Board do not receive a b. bonus or c. share-based compensation. The maximum compensation total for Members of the Board: ¥1,000 million per annum (Although, this shall not include employee salaries of Members of the Board who concurrently serve as employees). Based on the Plan, the remuneration provided for granting restricted stock to Eligible Members of the Board shall take the form of monetary remuneration claims Stock-based remuneration as long-term incentives：within the limit of ¥120 million per annum Stock-based remuneration as medium-term incentives：within the limit of ¥280 million per annum Total of not more than ¥400 million per annum a. Basic remuneration •Basic compensation consists of fixed pay (basic pay and position pay), which is compensation based on each Member of the Board’s post. b. Bonuses •Bonuses are based on our business performance during the current fiscal year, while taking into consideration individual evaluations. c. Stock-based •Provision of restricted stock compensation (financial compensation used as investment assets for the acquisition of Remuneration shares with restriction on transfer compensation) as share-based compensation in order to provide incentives aimed (restricted at sustainable improvements in the Company’s corporate value and to promote the sharing of value with shareholders stock-based through share ownership NRI’s Sustainability Management remuneration) •The number of shares allocated is determined in accordance with executive positions. Note that, based on the Stock Ownership Guidelines for Executive Officers, Members of the Board are expected to hold more than a certain number of shares of NRI’s stock, in accordance with their respective positions. Stock-based remuneration as Stock-based remuneration as long-term incentives medium-term incentives + Long-term incentive aimed at promotion of Medium-term incentive aimed at •Stock-based Remuneration= the sharing of value with shareholders through improvements in the Company’s mediumshare ownership and sustainable improvements term results and share price as represented in the Company’s corporate value in the Medium-Term Management Plan Compensation for Members of the Audit & Supervisory Board Members Policies for the determination of compensation for Audit & Supervisory Board Members and other matters are set through discussions among the Audit & Supervisory Board Members. The role of the Audit & Supervisory Board Members is to audit the Members of the Board in the performance of their duties and to do so from an independent standpoint. However, given that the full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Members share with the Members of the Board the objective of realizing sound, sustainable growth for NRI, their compensation, in addition to a fixed amount, includes a variable portion that changes in accordance with our business performance. Levels of compensation have been set based on the need to secure human resources capable of playing important roles in the establishment and operation of effective corporate governance. 63 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ The maximum compensation total for Audit & Supervisory Board Members: ¥250 million per annum a. Basic remuneration •Basic compensation consists of fixed pay based on each Audit & Supervisory Board Member’s career, knowledge, responsibilities. b. Bonuses •Bonuses are only paid to the full-time Audit & Supervisory Board Members, and it is based on our business performance during the current fiscal year. Executive Compensation Amounts Executive compensation for the fiscal year ended March 2018 is as follows. The CEO to employee pay ratio for the fiscal year ended March 2018 was 9.8: 1, with the President & CEO Shingo Konomoto receiving compensation of ¥113 million compared to an average employee salary of ¥11 million. Total compensation Compensation by type (millions of yen) No. of eligible Category (millions of yen) Basic compensation Bonus Stock options Other individuals (person) Members of the Board (Excluding Outside Members of the Board) 512 243 130 136 3 8 Audit & Supervisory Board Members (Excluding Outside Audit & 81 56 20 2 1 2 Supervisory Board Members) Outside Members of the Board and Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members 97 86 10 — 0 7 Notes: 1. The above includes two Directors and one Audit & Supervisory Board Member, who retired at the conclusion of the 52nd Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on 23rd June, 2017. 2. “Other” refers to contributions to the defined contribution pension plan and insurance premiums for casualty insurance. 3. The stock options for Audit & Supervisory Board Members are granted before they assume their post. Evaluations of the Board of Directors’ Effectiveness (FY March 2018) We implemented evaluations of the Board of Directors’ effectiveness for the fiscal year ended March 2018. The aim of the effectiveness evaluation is to confirm the current state of the Company’s Board of Directors and reflect the issues identified in the operations policy for the Board of Directors from the fiscal year ending March 2019. Evaluation methods •Questionnaire targeting all Directors and Audit & Supervisory Board Members NRI’s Sustainability Management •View exchanging at the Independent Directors meeting •View exchanging by non-executive directors •Deliberations at a Board of Directors meeting based on the results of the above questionnaire and view exchanging sessions Results •From the points below, we conclude that the Board of Directors is basically stable in its effectiveness. –There is an ideal personnel structure with a good balance of executive directors, non-executive directors, and Outside Directors –Lively debates are held at the Board of Directors –Opportunities for Members of the Board to acquire knowledge have been appropriately secured –Opportunities for Members of the Board and Outside Directors to exchange opinions are increasing Challenges for further •There is still room for improvement in the clarity and volume of agenda materials effectiveness •Advance provision of agenda materials at an earlier timing •Expansion of supplementary materials that support Outside Directors •Further expansion of opportunities to discuss the formulation of the next Medium-Term Management Plan and governance Integrated Report 2018 64 NRI’s Sustainability Management G (Governance) Message from the Outside Member of Board and the Audit & Supervisory Board Member Message from the Outside Member of the Board Miwako Doi Member of the Board NRI from the perspective of R&D expertise discussions at the Board of Directors on these matters, it was decided to launch a committee called the Innovation I have been involved in R&D in various fields such as Promotion Committee to flexibly support start-up investment Japanese word processing, computer graphics, and and partnerships from the current fiscal year. wearable devices since the 1980s as computers have Globalization is another pillar of NRI’s strategy. I have developed. Based on this experience, I have come to also experienced difficulties regarding partnerships with understand that in addition to seeds-oriented R&D, needsoverseas research institutions in the past. Recently, I have oriented R&D is also important. visited several overseas businesses that NRI has acquired NRI’s Sustainability Management NRI not only supports Corporate IT that covers a subsidiaries through M&As, and I have really noticed that company’s internal business operations, but also leads both commercial practices and the sense of values towards supporting Business IT that backs business model reform. work differ between Japan and overseas. I would like to In order to support business model reform, the ability support the process of growing as a global company as NRI to make proposals based on the needs of not only the comes to terms with the corporate culture that has been customers, but also the end user beyond the customer is developed through doing business in Japan. necessary. I feel that discussions on R&D at NRI value the needs of customers based on this strategy. Promotion of diversity and inclusion Creation of opportunities in which small NRI provides abundant information to Outside Directors. failures are allowed For example, we hold lunch meetings that allow Outside Directors to have comfortable conversations with It is important to take on challenges without fear of failure employees every year. They also participate in women in the processes of transition of strategy. If there are leader development training, and they have interacted with employees that want to bring about innovation in-house, many female employees in the process. NRI has many they should be given the opportunity to start off small. For outstanding female employees, and it offers workplaces example, NRI is engaged in R&D at the Palo Alto Research where both men and women can participate without Center in Silicon Valley, and they are learning that failure restrictions. I feel that inclusion that transforms diversity into is normal as a sense of values on site. As a result of a strength of the organization is being valued. 65 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Message from the Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Member Kiyotaka Yamazaki Audit & Supervisory Board Member Stance of learning from unprofitable projects In addition, based on my experience at an auditing firm, I strongly feel that NRI has developed a constructive When I was first appointed as an Audit & Supervisory relationship with the accounting auditor. For example, Board Member of NRI in 2014, it was a year of struggle for there have been more employees from the accounting NRI as they had to deal with some unprofitable projects. I and financial departments of the Headquarters being have many years of auditing experience in the construction seconded to overseas subsidiaries to provide guidance, industry, and I have seen several companies that have put and the accounting auditor pointed out that this could off account closing for the application of the percentage-ofresult in the risk of the structure at the Headquarters being NRI’s Sustainability Management completion method. Based on this experience, I was able left shorthanded. NRI has responded to this comment and to provide advice from an objective perspective to NRI at promptly started to review the Headquarters structure. that time. Subsequently, NRI has set the goal of eliminating unexpected large-scale unprofitable projects, established higher level quality management systems, and continued Monitoring globalization from an objective further steady improvements. Thanks to these efforts, NRI standpoint has continued to achieve no cases of large-scale projects NRI made decisions at a pace faster than ever before during unexpectedly losing profitability for several years. the M&A process in Australia from 2016 to 2017. During this time, difficult opinions and questions were exchanged at the Acceptance towards the opinions of third Board of Directors, and as a result, I believe we were able to parties share multiple risk scenarios and even worst case scenarios. Thanks to this, I believe that the Board of Directors was able NRI has a corporate culture that allows Audit & Supervisory to maintain calm judgment. Board Members to frankly speak their minds towards Globalization is inevitable in NRI’s medium to long-term execution by the Member of the Board, and people on the plans. As long as quantitative targets are set for executive execution side respond sincerely towards the opinions of directors at NRI, there will be an incentive for expansion. I Audit & Supervisory Board Members. I feel that NRI correctly intend to calmly point out risks that may be overlooked from understands the Audit & Supervisory Board system, and the objective standpoint of an Outside Audit & Supervisory that this system is being used effectively at NRI. Board Member. Integrated Report 2018 66 NRI’s Sustainability Management G (Governance) NRI Executives Members of the Board Tadashi Shimamoto Shingo Konomoto Date of birth: 8th February, 1954 Date of birth: 11th February, 1960 Chairman, Member of the Board (120,400 shares) President & CEO, Apr. 1976 Joined the Company Representative Director, Member of the Board (31,000 shares) Jun. 2001 Member of the Board Apr. 1985 Joined the Company Division Manager of Advanced Information Technology Division Arp. 2004 Senior Managing Director Apr. 2002 Senior Managing Director Division Manager of Consulting Division III Division Manager of Advanced Information Technology Division Apr. 2010 Senior Corporate Managing Director Apr. 2004 Senior Corporate Managing Director Division Manager of Consulting Division Division Manager of Advanced Information Technology Division Apr. 2015 Senior Executive Managing Director in charge of Supervising of Deputy Division Manager of Center for Knowledge Exchange & Creation Business Divisions and Consulting Apr. 2008 Senior Executive Managing Director in charge of Supervising of Jun. 2015 Representative Director, Member of the Board, Business Divisions Senior Executive Managing Director in charge of Supervising of Jun. 2008 Representative Director, Member of the Board, Senior Executive Business Divisions and Consulting Managing Director in charge of Supervising of Business Divisions Apr. 2016 President & CEO, Representative Director, Member of the Board (present) Apr. 2010 President & CEO, Representative Director, Member of the Board In charge of Supervising of Business Divisions Apr. 2015 Chairman and President & CEO, Representative Director, Member of the Board Apr. 2016 Chairman, Member of the Board (present) Ayumu Ueno Yoshio Usumi Date of birth: 15th March, 1960 Date of birth: 1st July, 1958 Senior Executive Vice President, Representative Director, Member of the Board, Representative Director, Member of the Board, Senior Executive Managing Director in charge of in charge of Supervising of Business Divisions (20,300 shares) Supervising of Corporate Administration (19,900 shares) Apr. 1983 Joined the Company Apr. 1983 Joined the Company Apr. 2008 Senior Managing Director Apr. 2010 Senior Managing Director in charge of Corporate Planning, Corporate Deputy Division Manager of Center for Innovative Systems Research for Communications and Legal & Intellectual Property Management Apr. 2015 Senior Corporate Managing Director in charge of Corporate Apr. 2013 Senior Corporate Managing Director in charge of Distribution, Administration, Corporate Planning, Corporate Communications, Communication & Industrial Solutions Personnel and Legal & Intellectual Property Division Manager of Distribution & Communication Solution Division Division Manager of Center for Human-Resources Development Apr. 2015 Senior Executive Managing Director in charge of Distribution, Jun. 2017 Representative Director, Member of the Board, Senior Corporate Communication & Industrial Solutions and China & Asia Region Systems Managing Director in charge of Supervising of Corporate Administration Division Manager of Industrial Solution Business Development Division Apr. 2018 Representative Director, Member of the Board, Senior Executive Jun. 2015 Member of the Board, Senior Executive Managing Director in charge of Managing Director in charge of Supervising of Corporate Administration Distribution, Communication & Industrial Solutions and (present) China & Asia Region Systems Division Manager of Industrial Solution Business Development Division Apr. 2016 Representative Director, Member of the Board, Senior Executive Managing Director in charge of Supervising of Consulting and Industrial IT Solutions Apr. 2018 Senior Executive Vice President, Representative Director, Member of the Board, in charge of Supervising of Business Divisions (present) Miwako Doi Outside Independent Masatoshi Matsuzaki Outside Independent Date of birth: 2nd June, 1954 Date of birth: 21st July, 1950 Member of the Board (Note 1) (900 shares) Member of the Board (Note 1) (1,300 shares) Apr. 1979 Joined Tokyo Shibaura Electric Co., Ltd. Apr. 1976 Joined Konishiroku Photo Industry Co., Ltd. (currently, TOSHIBA CORPORATION) (currently, KONICA MINOLTA, INC.) Jul. 2005 Senior Fellow of Corporate Research & Development Center of Oct. 2003 Director of Konica Minolta Business Technologies, Inc. TOSHIBA CORPORATION (currently, KONICA MINOLTA, INC.) NRI’s Sustainability Management Jul. 2008 Chief Fellow of Corporate Research & Development Center of Apr. 2005 Executive Officer of KONICA MINOLTA HOLDINGS, INC. TOSHIBA CORPORATION (currently, KONICA MINOLTA, INC.; the same hereinafter) Apr. 2014 Auditor of National Institute of Information and Representative Director and President of Konica Minolta Technology Communications Technology (present) Center, Inc. (currently, KONICA MINOLTA, INC.) Jun. 2015 Member of the Board of the Company (present) Apr. 2006 Senior Executive Officer of KONICA MINOLTA HOLDINGS, INC. Jun. 2006 Director and Senior Executive Officer of KONICA MINOLTA HOLDINGS, INC. <Important concurrent positions> Apr. 2009 Director, President and CEO, and Representative Executive Officer of Auditor of National Institute of Information and Communications Technology KONICA MINOLTA HOLDINGS, INC. Apr. 2013 Director, President and CEO, and Representative Executive Officer of KONICA MINOLTA, INC. Apr. 2014 Director and Chairman of the Board of KONICA MINOLTA, INC. (present) Jun. 2016 Member of the Board of the Company (present) Hideaki Omiya New Outside Independent <Important concurrent positions> Director and Chairman of the Board of KONICA MINOLTA, INC. Date of birth: 25th July, 1946 Outside Director of Ichigo Inc. Outside Director of Nippon Sheet Glass Company, Limited Member of the Board (Note 1) (–) Jun. 1969 Joined Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Jun. 2002 Member of the Board of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Jun. 2005 Member of the Board (Representative Director), Notes: 1. Miwako Doi, Masatoshi Matsuzaki and Hideaki Omiya are Outside Executive Vice President of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Directors. Kiyotaka Yamazaki and Noriaki Okubo are Outside Audit Apr. 2007 Member of the Board (Representative Director), & Supervisory Board Members. NRI specifies those members as Senior Executive Vice President of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Apr. 2008 Member of the Board (Representative Director), Independent Directors pursuant to the regulations of the Tokyo Stock President and CEO of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Exchange and has notified them to the said stock exchange. Apr. 2013 Chairman of the Board (Representative Director) of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. 2. Members of the Board were selected at the Ordinary General Meeting of Jun. 2014 Chairman of the Board of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. (present) Shareholders held on 22nd June, 2018. Jun. 2018 Member of the Board of the Company (present) 3. For the Audit & Supervisory Board Members, Hirofumi Kitagaki was <Important concurrent positions> selected at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on Chairman of the Board of Mitsubishi Heavy Industries, Ltd. Outside Director of SEIKO EPSON CORPORATION 19th June, 2015, Yutaka Harada was selected at the Ordinary General Outside Director of Mitsubishi Corporation Meeting of Shareholders held on 17th June, 2016, Noriaki Okubo was selected at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on 23rd June, 2017, and Kouhei Sato and Kiyotaka Yamazaki were selected at the Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders held on 22nd June, 2018. 4. The figures in the parenthesis are the number of shares of NRI owned by the Members of the Board and Audit & Supervisory Board Members. This includes the holdings in the executive share ownership plan as of 27th June, 2018. 67 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Audit & Supervisory Board Members Yutaka Harada Hirofumi Kitagaki Date of birth: 11th March, 1960 Date of birth: 19th April, 1960 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (full-time) (43,700 shares) Audit & Supervisory Board Member (full-time) (12,200 shares) Apr. 1982 Joined the Company Apr. 1985 Joined the Company Apr. 2008 Senior Managing Director, Jun. 2000 General Manager of Asset Management System Services Consulting Deputy Division Manager of Insurance Systems Division Department Apr. 2010 Senior Managing Director, Apr. 2002 General Manager of Audits’ Department Division Manager of Insurance Systems Division Apr. 2006 General Manager of Internal Control Department Apr. 2013 Senior Corporate Managing Director, Apr. 2010 General Manager of Office of COO Division Manager of Insurance Solution Division Apr. 2011 General Manager of Corporate Strategy Department Apr. 2014 Senior Corporate Managing Director, Apr. 2015 Senior Manager of Center for Corporate Planning Division Manager of Systems Consulting Division Jun. 2015 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company (present) Apr. 2016 Adviser of the Company Jun. 2016 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company (present) Kohei Sato New Outside Kiyotaka Yamazaki Outside Independent Date of birth: 18th April, 1961 Date of birth: 4th April, 1953 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (full-time) (–) Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Note 1) (2,400 shares) Apr. 1984 Joined The Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Oct. 1979 Joined M. Serizawa & CO. (CPA Office) (currently, Nomura Holdings, Inc.) Aug. 1983 Registered as a certified public accountant Apr. 2007 Executive Managing Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Jul. 2005 Partner of M. Serizawa & CO. (currently, GYOSEI & CO.) Oct. 2008 Senior Managing Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Oct. 2006 Managing Partner of GYOSEI & CO. Apr. 2009 Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Sep. 2007 Vice Executive Director, Partner of GYOSEI & CO. Apr. 2011 Senior Corporate Managing Director of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. General Manager of Head Office Tokyo of GYOSEI & CO. Apr. 2013 President and Chief Executive Officer, Representative Director of Jul. 2010 Managing Partner (CEO) of GYOSEI & CO. NOMURA BABCOCK & BROWN CO., LTD. Jun. 2014 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company (present) Apr. 2018 Adviser of Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. Jul. 2014 Managing Partner of GYOSEI & CO. Jun. 2018 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company (present) Oct. 2017 Partner of GYOSEI & CO. (present) <Important concurrent positions> Partner of GYOSEI & CO. Noriaki Okubo Outside Independent Date of birth: 22th May, 1959 Audit & Supervisory Board Member (Note 1) (–) Apr. 1983 Joined Japan Tobacco and Salt Public Corporation (currently, JAPAN TOBACCO INC.) Jun. 2004 Member of the Board, Senior Vice President of JAPAN TOBACCO INC. Jun. 2006 Member of the Board, Executive Vice President of JAPAN TOBACCO INC. Jun. 2009 Member of the Board, Senior Executive Vice President of JAPAN TOBACCO INC. Jun. 2012 Executive Deputy President, Representative Director of JAPAN TOBACCO INC. Jun. 2016 President of Tobacco Academic Studies Center (present) Jun. 2017 Audit & Supervisory Board Member of the Company (present) <Important concurrent positions> President of Tobacco Academic Studies Center Senior Managing Directors, Managing Directors and Executive Fellows NRI’s Sustainability Management The Company makes clear distinction between the Board of Directors’ decision making on management strategy and business execution function, and the authorities and responsibilities on business execution are largely delegated to Senior Managing Directors, etc. There are 49 Senior Managing Directors, etc. (excluding three people who serve concurrently as a Member of the Board). Senior Executive Managing Directors Fumihiko Sagano Hisao Nakajima Takeshi Hihara Yoichi Inada Tohru Yasumaru Masaaki Yamazaki Harumi Saitou Hiroshi Masutani Tomohiko Noguchi Koji Shimizu Tatsuya Watahiki Akio Yamamoto Susumu Nishimoto Hiroshi Koike Masaki Takimoto Tomoshiro Takemoto Yasushi Kobara Ichiro Morisawa Hiroshi Funakura Shoichi Ohno Kazuya Kobayashi Senior Managing Directors Akira Matsumoto Noriyasu Kogure Senior Corporate Managing Directors Motoya Nishimura Naohiro Sako Tetsuro Watanabe Executive Fellows Hajime Ueda Hirofumi Tatematsu Shigekazu Ohmoto Masahiro Fuchida Shuji Tateno Hiroyuki Kawanami Yasuki Okai Masato Matsuo Hidenori Anzai Kotaro Kuwazu Kenji Yokoyama Minoru Yokote Managing Directors Yoshio Murata Namiki Kubo Yasuo Fukami Ken Ebato Sonoko Kitagawa Shigeki Hayashi Yuichi Higo Jun Odashima Takuhito Sakata Katsutoshi Murakami Yasuki Nakamaru Integrated Report 2018 68 NRI’s Sustainability Management G (Governance) Internal Controls, Corporate Ethics and Compliance Internal Control System NRI has established a basic policy for building an internal control system, while appointing a director in charge of risk management and setting up a department for supervising risk management. In addition, the Integrated Risk Management Committee meets to check the company-wide internal control status as appropriate. The Business Promotion Committee, which all business divisions and group companies attend, also works to ensure that the internal control system is established. Basic policy for building an internal control system http://www.nri.com/jp/company/internal.html ◆Risk management PDCA cycle •Risks that may arise in the course of business •After an assessment is compiled, the department execution by the NRI Group are classified into 13 items responsible for risk management holds discussions at including management strategy, business activities, and the Integrated Risk Management Committee and sets compliance, and the department responsible for each the risks that should be managed. It also selects risk conducts a risk assessment and review of the risk prioritized themes (*see below) that have a particularly items that takes into consideration the level of high level of importance or impact. importance and impact every fiscal year on risk items that have been subclassified even further. Setting risks •Department responsible for risk management establishes a management structure and conducts integrated risk management in cooperation with the •The Integrated Risk Management departments, etc. that oversee each risk. Committee meets to check the As necessary, risks are discussed at company-wide internal control status Risk Risk meetings attended by personnel with regularly. The Business Promotion expertise, and appropriate measures are Committee, which all business divisions monitoring and prevention taken by the responsible department in improvements measures NRI’s Sustainability Management attend, also works to ensure that the cooperation with business divisions. internal control system is established and •BCP (business continuity plans) and DR improvements are made. (disaster recovery) measures are also out in place for businesses and services that have a significant social impact. *Priority themes I. Continue proper management of quality risks for systems in operation for FY March II. Further strengthen the management of project risks 2019 III. Continuously improve the preparedness of information security IV. Develop governance systems suitable to increasing globalization V. Create comfortable working environments VI. Implement appropriate preparation for fulfilling our business continuity responsibilities Internal Audits Conducted by the Internal Audit Department The Internal Audit Department (21 employees), which functions directly under the President & CEO, audits the Company to ensure the effectiveness of risk management and compliance systems and to maintain the efficiency of the execution of the Members of the Board. The results of such audits are reported to the President & CEO and other directors, and when corrections or improvements are required, the Risk Management Supervisory Department, the representative departments and the business divisions, collaborate to introduce improvements. In addition, the Internal Audit Department works to cooperate with the accounting auditor through regular exchange of opinions regarding plans for conducting internal audits and their results. 69 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Corporate Ethics and Compliance System To ensure effective ethics and compliance systems, NRI has appointed the Chief Ethics Officer and Chief Compliance Officer, and established the Compliance Committee. Moreover, we have established NRI Group's Code of Business Principles expressing code of business principles and NRI Group Employees' Code of Business Conduct indicating employees' code of business conduct. NRI Group’s Code of Business Principles http://www.nri.com/global/company/company_code.html NRI Group Employees’ Code of Business Conduct http://www.nri.com/global/company/business_code.html The Fundamental Rules composed of 12 items prepared and monitored to confirm that these principles and policies are complied with and that the company’s management is reliably going in the right direction. Regular training to raise the awareness of executives and employees towards compliance is conducted, as well as training on the legal knowledge, etc. required for individual operations. Through this training, efforts are made to thoroughly instill awareness on matters such as prohibitions on bribes and facilitating payments to public officials and the importance of compliance with antitrust laws. NRI Group’s Human Rights Policy NRI Group Anti-Bribery Policy https://www.nri.com/global/csr/comp/index.html NRI Group Competition Law Compliance Policy NRI has prescribed Whistleblower Protection Regulations based on the Whistleblower Protection Act, and established internal and external hotlines as contact point that Japanese Group employees can use to consult with regarding compliance-related issues. Two consultations were responded to in the fiscal year ended March 2018. ◆Compliance information communication process ◆Number of notification & consultation to the Compliance Hotlines (cases) President & CEO, Member of the Board (Committee Chief Ethics Officer) 8 Report “Whistle-blowing 6 Director in charge system” of Compliance (referred to as “Compliance Hotline”) Integrated Risk (Internal/External) Compliance Committee 3 Management Committee 2 Headquarters Disciplinary 1 Action NRI’s Sustainability Management Committee Secretariat of Integrated Risk Management Department 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 Division Manager •Overall risk assessment General Manager •Overall total of Fundamental Rules monitoring results Notification the Compliance Committee Representative Departments •Risk materialization monitoring •Implementation of risk reduction measures •Implementation of Fundamental Rules monitoring Regular Temporary employees employees Raising and Instilling the Awareness of Executives and Employees through the Rule Book We have created a Rule Book (Fundamental Rules for Executive Officers and General Staff) as a pamphlet that explains the action guidelines, etc. of the Company to ensure that executives and employees comply with laws, regulations, etc. with a high sense of ethics. By raising and instilling awareness of compliance using this, we work to put in place the foundations for our compliance structure. Integrated Report 2018 70 NRI’s Sustainability Management G (Governance) Cooperation with Stakeholders NRI’s stakeholders, mainly consisting of clients, employees and their family members, shareholders and investors and business partners, include a wide range of entities composed of general consumers, media, local communities, industry associations and competitors, government agencies, education/ research institutions, students and NGOs/NPOs. Cooperation with Clients The main items for deliberation on new contracts NRI engages in sincere business activities for its clients and strives to deliver •Credit screening tapping into information from services that are satisfactory and in conformity with client agreements. research firms •Comprehensive deliberation on new contracts •Project-by-project deliberation at the Senior In response to business contract requests from clients, we decide to accept Management Committee and each division them by conducting the examinations. We make our final decision after meeting thoroughly considering the fiduciary duty on quality and delivered date, as •Comprehensive assessment on the future well as legal, ethical and operational risks for the contract. potential, growth potential and social effects of the business •Client satisfaction surveys NRI conducts client satisfaction surveys for each project and has clients Results of the client satisfaction survey evaluate the entire project. We also obtain specific feedback from clients on (Non-consolidated data) our proposal-making skills and incident-management procedures. We received responses from clients on 1,082 The Quality Management Department complies and analyzes overall projects in the fiscal year ended March 2018. trends through the results from the survey. It also provides the departments in charge of the project with feedback from the surveys and implements ◆Percentage that responded “Satisfied” or measures to follow up on the feedback and enhance service quality, “Moderately satisfied” leveraging the data to improve the service quality. (Total for top two items on five-grade scale) （%） 85 84.6 Cooperation with Business Partner 84 83.0 83.4 82.9 83 82.0 NRI’s operations are based on cooperation with its business partners, such 82 as external contractors and suppliers. Accordingly, NRI has a fundamental 81 policy of building business relationships that are mutually beneficial, as well 80 as obey sound business practices and laws. (Number 14.3 15.3 16.3 17.3 18.3 of valid (1,078) (1,085) (1,076) (1,131) (1,082) responses) NRI’s Sustainability Management NRI Group Procurement Policy https://www.nri.com/global/company/procurement.html When an NRI system development project is contracted out to a The conclusion of e-Partner Agreement business partner, it should be assessed comprehensively with respect to its technological capability, quality, delivery date, cost of products and NRI enters into an e-Partner Agreement services, staffing and platform, financial condition, compliance and efforts especially with business partners equipped with on information security management. Overseas business partners should highly specialized operational and information also be screened under laws such as the Foreign Exchange and Foreign technology knowledge. NRI works closely with Trade Act. them throughout the project to rigorously manage The number of employees involved in business at NRI’s business information security and to attain improved quality partners stands at approximately 10,500, about half of which are management. NRI also supports their human permanently stationed in NRI offices. resources development. To continue the appropriate contract services, we formulated the Guidelines Relating to Contract Work. Moreover, we separate the work sites of business partner employees under a contract service agreement from the work site of NRI employees, preventing a practice of falsified contract service in which an NRI employee directly issues instructions and orders to a business partner employee. We annually conduct the required selfinspections. CSR study meetings held with business partners mainly consisting of nine e-partners in February 2018 71 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Information Disclosure and Communication NRI is committed to gain the trust of shareholders and investors through constructive dialogue, and to receive an appropriate evaluation from capital markets. For these reasons, taking fair disclosure as our fundamental policy, we are working to promote understanding of both our business and our mediumto long-term strategies for growth, and to expand our shareholder and investor base. Measures Aimed at Ensuring a Meaningful General Meeting of Shareholders To energize the General Meeting of Shareholders and ensure that voting rights are exercised, we perform the following procedures: •Set the date of the General Meeting of Shareholders on a day where such meetings are not concentrated •In addition to sending out individual notices of convocation of a General Meeting of Shareholders earlier, post the notice on the NRI and Tokyo Stock Exchange websites prior to sending the individual notices. This effort allows shareholders to have sufficient time to consider the proposed resolutions for the meeting The 53rd Ordinary General Meeting of Shareholders: Notice released on 24th May→Meeting held on 22nd June (Notice about one month before) •Send out a notice of convocation of a General Meeting of Shareholders electronically to shareholders consenting to such procedure •Deliver a notice of convocation of a General Meeting of Shareholders in English (summary) •Provide an opportunity to exercise voting rights by using the Internet system run by a trust bank (a shareholder register administrator) •Provide an opportunity to exercise voting rights by using the Voting Rights Electronic Exercise Platform, run by ICJ, Inc. •Hold a Management Reporting Session for shareholders after the conclusion of the General Meeting of Shareholders Active dialogues with shareholders and investors With the aim of expanding our shareholder and investor base, we are promoting better understanding of our business activities and strategies for growth through direct and indirect communication. The following principle activities were implemented during the fiscal year ended March 2018: For shareholders •Shareholder questionnaire: Number of respondents is 3,003 (Number of sent: 12,464 shareholders/Collection rate: 24.1%) For institutional investors •Number of investors met: 492 and analysts •Domestic: In addition to results briefing sessions for each quarter and individual interviews, held small meetings with management, business briefings, etc. •Overseas: Cities visited in overseas roadshows: New York, Boston, London, Edinburgh, Milano, Copenhagen, Stockholm, Singapore, Hong Kong and Sydney For individual investors Individual investor information meeting: Four were held (two in Tokyo and one each in Osaka and Fukuoka) NRI’s Sustainability Management Number of attendees: 911 Providing Appropriate Information Disclosure In order to achieve accountability to shareholders, investors, and other stakeholders, NRI is striving to enhance the level of information disclosure and the timely disclosure of information through activities including those below. •Disclosed the Long-Term Management Vision and the Medium-Term Management Plan (mid-and long-term management strategy and numerical targets etc.) •Established the Disclosure Committee, which checks the preparing process for, and appropriateness of, disclosed materials •Published our financial results and latest information promptly under the Investor Relations section on our website •Provided a dedicated website for individual investors to enhance information disclosure and understandability and clarity External Evaluation of NRI •2017 Awards for Excellence in Corporate Disclosure (Computer Software Sector) (The Securities Analysts Association of Japan) •JIRA IR Awards 2017 (22nd) (Japan Investor Relations Association) Integrated Report 2018 72 NRI’s Sustainability Management G (Governance) NRI’s Quality Management We continually work to improve the quality of services, fully aware of our responsibility to deliver and operate information systems that serve as a key component of social infrastructure. ◆NRI’s quality management framework Navigation Solution Management Planning and Maintenance strategy planning development of and operation of information systems information systems Quality of information Quality of systems security Quality of in operation information system development Quality of Quality of data workplace center operation environment Initiatives for Improving the Quality of Information Systems Each division is responsible for quality ◆Project support system for improving the quality of information systems management over system development, maintenance and operations, and NRI-QMS System failures consulting services projects. In addition, Production innovation (quality management system) management NRI has an organization which proposes and supports quality management activities for each division. Information system Information system In addition, work is under way to post NRI standard Newly development project Enhancement project all of the knowledge gathered at NRI framework Planning Development Release Operations / Improvements on its internal website in order to share expertise and examples across the entire Company. Enhancement Project supervision Risk management innovation / NRI’s Sustainability Management Operational innovation •Project supervision activities to support the quality of information ◆Project supervision activities system development The Quality Management Division Internal review system Company-wide provides both supervisory and Project project monitoring activities Management Office functions for each individual division, when they develop a Senior Management Committee •Project awareness new information system. •Monitoring via In addition to “project management” Systems Development Committee scheduled status Project for project implementation and success, reporting Proposal and System System NRI has a “project supervision” function Estimate Review Development Release •Reviews, scheduled to propose quality improvements, and to Meeting Meeting Meeting status meetings identify and resolve issues early on. •Review of project To ensure that internal reviews are deliverables Division Design not merely process checks, committee Committee •Assessing and members gathered from each division developing countermeasures regarding enacts a strict check through the system Department Design Committee / project status Internal project review details, thus achieving a high level of quality. 73 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ •Emphasis on quality of systems in operation Operating and maintaining completed information systems of a high quality not only builds solid relationships with clients, but also provides opportunities to improve and propose new solutions for the streamlining and further growth of clients’ businesses. For this reason, NRI refers to operations and maintenance projects as “enhancement projects,” which are assigned the same level of importance as projects to develop new information systems. Production Innovation Initiatives NRI has held the Production Innovation Forum every year since the fiscal year ended March 2011. At this forum, each business division shares initiatives related to productivity and quality improvements in a company-wide manner, and production innovation activities are promoted throughout NRI through means such as the enhancement service reforms award that is given in recognition of innovative initiatives. The Production Innovation Forum We will continue to make endless venue and enhancement service improvements as a leader of the IT services reforms award ceremony industry and foster a corporate culture of taking on new challenges. •Quality of data center management that supports stable operations The stable operation of information systems requires not only the quality of the information system itself, but also the quality of the data center that operates and manages the information system. In order to ensure stable operation of information systems, and to provide safe and secure quality of services, NRI visualizes the risks related to data center services, conducting training for each type of issue that could be anticipated. It also conducts inspections that are interconnected with data center facilities. In respect to these efforts, NRI has obtained certification from third party review agencies. Safety and Security Forum The stable operation of data centers is NRI’s social mission. As part of this mission, we hold a forum on the themes of safety and security every year. The forum served as an opportunity for employees to pledge to the stable NRI’s Sustainability Management operation of information systems in the fiscal year ended March 2018, with lectures on safety by external experts centered around the concepts or thinking, learning, Safety and Security Forum and and not forgetting, and awards for excellent safety and security slogan grand slogans on safety and security thought up prize award ceremony by individual employees. Examples of Certifications and Assurances Acquired by NRI •ISO9001 (quality management system) •ISO14001 (environmental management system) •ISO20000 (IT service management) •ISO27001 (information security management) •SOC 1/SOC 2 Report (internal control assurance report) •Uptime Institute M&O (global certification standard for data center management prescribed by Uptime Institute)* *Certification acquired for Tokyo Data Center I, Yokohama Data Center II, and Osaka Data Center II Integrated Report 2018 74 NRI’s Sustainability Management G (Governance) Quality of Information Security NRI operates important infrastructure that supports society including finance and distribution. We have established an advanced information security framework to continue service and protect important information at all times, and through that framework, we work to remain a trusted partner to our clients and society. •Policies relating to information security Nomura Research Institute, Ltd., and its group companies declare that the NRI Group shall observe all applicable laws and ordinances and shall fully recognize the roles that companies offering information services should play. The NRI Group has established a framework of advanced information security management that can serve as a social model to enable its companies to continue to be worthy of customer and public trust. Declaration of Information Security Measures http://www.nri.com/global/site/security_declare.html •Related rules concerning information security In response to laws and regulations related to information security and the advance of information technologies, we establish or revise management rules as appropriate, including the Information Security Management Rules, Confidential Information Management Rules, Personal Information Management Rules, Specific Personal Information Management Rules, and Information Asset Management Rules. In addition, we have prepared operating procedures, guidelines, manuals, etc. for each of these management rules to ensure that consistent and effective information security management is conducted. •Information security management structure NRI has appointed a Chief Information Security Officer, who has developed a system of information security management for our organization as a whole. All business divisions and Group companies have appointed an information security manager and information security person-in-charge (PIC), who have developed a mesh structure that allows security measures to be undertaken on a cross-organizational basis. As well as furthering the implementation of our information security policies, this structure will enable us to respond swiftly, accurately, and reliably in the event of cyber-attacks and other security emergencies. The NRI Group contains specialist organizations that conduct surveys and research of the latest information technologies, as well as NRI SecureTechnologies, Ltd. that engages exclusively in information security business. We will draw on their technology, know-how and knowledge when preparing and implementing our information security policies. We have appointed an information security manager and an information security PIC at each of our overseas and domestic Group companies, who are directing the development of an effective information security system and the drafting of an information security enhancement plan at their company. In addition, the NRI Group has set certain information security protection standards, and engages in improvement drives designed to meet those standards. ◆Information security management structure NRI’s Sustainability Management Planning and implementation Chief Information Headquarters structure Security Officer (General Affairs Department, Legal and Intellectual Property Department, Review of Integrated Risk Management Department) information Information Security Support security activities Promotion Committee (Composed of directors and department managers, Security Management etc. of divisions that Department implement measures) Practice NRI Secure Technologies Person responsible for division Division Information Security Person responsible Person-in-Charge Support for department In-department Information Security Person-in-Charge NRI Workplace Services Employees 75 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ •Education on information security NRI conducts ongoing information security education to raise the awareness of information security, instill regulations, and improve the quality of security during design and development. In addition to conducting specific training tailored to the particular characteristics of our Divisions and Group companies, we arrange training for our overseas offices that can be undertaken in English and/or Chinese. We also actively incorporate group training and e-learning methods into our training programs. •Response to cyber-attacks The NRI Group uses system-based defenses against cyberattacks, such as installing anti-virus (anti-malware *1) software, hard drive encryption, and installing different security measures (such as firewalls, IDS*2, and network behavior analysis technology*3). However, NRI is well aware that just system responses alone are not enough for defense, and to that end it is putting in place a Computer Security Incident Response Team (CSIRT*4). A CSIRT acts like a fire extinguisher, denying further success to any attack that does in fact strike a system. It collects, evaluates and shares that is organized, swift, and appropriate. We also conduct for our employees education and training, such as ongoing real-life training against phishing emails. *1 Malware, or “malicious software,” is a software program that upon infecting a computer automatically takes remote control of that computer, either stealing data that it stores or causing it to attack other computers. *2 IDS: Intrusion Detection System. A system for detecting unauthorized access to a computer or system. *3 Network behavior analysis (NBA) technology: Malware used in a phishing attack is often produced to target a specific company alone, which means it may not be possible for general anti-virus software to detect and eliminate it. NBA technology works by running software suspected of being malware in a highly restricted environment called a “sandbox.” Checks are then made to see if the software is engaging in behavior such as information exploitation or preparatory activity to that end, and if it is, it is eliminated. *4 CSIRT: Computer Security Incident Response Team. This is the entity (a team) that takes the appropriate response when it receives notice of a computer security incident. Alternatively CSIRT refers to the functions of that entity. •NRI’s handling of personal data (including personal numbers) NRI has a Personal Data Protection Statement, and it has made its Privacy Policy available to the public. In accordance with the Statement and Policy, our employees comply with the Act on the Protection of Personal Information Held by Administrative Organs; the Act on the Use of Numbers to Identify a Specific Individual in Administrative Procedures (the “My Number Act”); and other relevant laws and regulations. NRI demonstrates flexibility in its responses to changes demanded by the public, such as keeping abreast of rules and guidelines on the protection of personal information issued by regulatory authorities by the Personal Information Protection Commission. Personal Data Protection Statement https://www.nri.com/global/site/security.html Privacy Policy https://www.nri.com/global/site/privacy.html NRI’s Sustainability Management Quality of Workplace Environment NRI promotes a multitude of initiatives to foster a workplace environment where employees can keep on working positively in good mental and physical health. In 2016, the Tokyo Headquarters was relocated, followed by relocation of the Yokohama Center and Osaka Center in 2017. Each of these buildings has an open layout with no assigned seating, and common spaces such as meeting rooms. The relocations served as an opportunity for efforts to create a better place to work through innovation in work style and by reforming the organizational atmosphere. Additionally, there are continuous efforts under way to establish sophisticated management that considers employee health. Such efforts include the introduction of a framework for allowing project managers, and those in project supervisory departments, to grasp the overtime hours of project members. Integrated Report 2018 76 11-year Summary Consolidated Financial Statements For the fiscal years beginning 1st April and ending 31st March of the following year Consolidated Financial Results This financial summary is prepared solely for convenience. https://www.nri.com/global/ir/financial/index.html Readers are recommended to refer to Consolidated Financial Results. 2008.3 2009.3 2010.3 2011.3 Consolidated Statement of Income: Sales 342,289 341,279 338,629 326,328 Cost of sales 238,537 240,854 245,641 233,119 Gross profit 103,751 100,425 92,988 93,209 Selling, general and administrative expenses 51,087 50,711 52,911 54,782 Directors’ compensations 1,178 1,242 1,125 1,093 Salaries and allowances 15,385 16,272 18,261 19,167 Provision for bonuses 3,557 3,826 3,700 4,283 Retirement benefit expenses 1,636 1,690 2,111 2,260 Welfare expenses 2,815 3,165 3,376 3,641 Education and training expenses 1,063 1,250 1,477 1,451 Operations consignment expenses 9,787 8,168 7,270 6,831 EBITDA 69,181 70,476 70,992 69,094 Operating profit 52,664 49,713 40,077 38,426 Non-operating income and profit 2,853 2,017 870 1,646 Ordinary profit 55,517 51,731 40,947 40,073 Extraordinary income and loss (7,530) (7,549) (3,618) (219) Income taxes 19,829 19,668 15,476 16,663 Profit attributable to owners of parent 28,157 24,513 21,856 23,188 Consolidated Balance Sheet (year-end): Total Assets 362,447 354,487 363,368 380,032 Current assets 190,910 122,572 137,744 177,593 Cash and bank deposits 17,709 20,307 15,055 16,757 Fixed Assets 171,537 231,915 225,623 202,439 Tangible fixed assets 58,253 58,274 58,965 58,451 Intangible fixed assets 30,257 74,886 68,319 57,641 Goodwill — — — — Investments and other assets 83,026 98,754 98,339 86,346 Investment securities 46,682 55,436 53,699 43,964 Total liabilities 155,084 149,020 143,131 148,957 Current liabilities 74,779 70,026 67,195 68,160 Short-term loans payable — — — — Provision for loss on orders received — — — — Non-current liabilities 80,305 78,994 75,936 80,797 Bonds 49,997 49,997 49,997 49,997 Long-term loans payable — — — 9,176 Net assets 207,363 205,466 220,237 231,074 Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows: Corporate Information / Data Cash flows from operating activities 31,806 46,180 58,060 48,777 Cash flows from investing activities (47,925) (70,994) (16,175) (27,723) (Investing activities except cash management purpose investment) (37,424) (74,058) (28,184) (19,292) Free cash flow (16,119) (24,813) 41,885 21,054 (Free cash flow except cash management purpose investment) (5,617) (27,877) 29,876 29,485 Cash flows from financing activities (23,537) (22,414) (10,348) 1,590 Effect of exchange rate change on cash and cash equivalents (672) (68) 10 (335) Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents (40,329) (47,296) 31,547 22,309 Cash and cash equivalents at end of period 75,524 28,228 59,775 82,085 Cash and cash equivalents + 102,697 51,271 73,837 104,417 Cash management purpose investment Notes: 1. Figures less than unit indicated have been rounded down for amounts. 2. Consumption tax and local consumption tax are accounted for by the tax-exclusion method. 3. EBITDA = Operating profit + Depreciation and amortization + Goodwill amortization 77 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ (millions of yen) 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 335,554 363,891 385,932 405,984 421,439 424,548 471,488 235,515 262,315 276,664 289,210 287,270 280,761 311,868 100,038 101,575 109,267 116,774 134,168 143,787 159,619 56,886 57,608 59,450 65,287 75,873 85,272 94,481 899 878 986 1,316 1,227 1,213 1,101 20,065 20,080 20,087 22,450 25,395 27,576 29,681 4,527 4,582 4,715 5,136 5,802 5,993 6,751 2,347 2,492 2,458 2,105 2,155 3,038 2,678 3,651 3,641 3,786 4,362 4,935 5,842 6,348 1,567 1,843 1,853 1,789 1,712 1,768 1,705 8,401 8,823 9,640 11,170 14,246 16,722 16,740 74,027 86,567 84,126 77,528 91,814 88,933 101,223 43,152 43,967 49,816 51,486 58,295 58,514 65,138 1,533 1,891 2,544 1,455 2,705 1,839 1,023 44,686 45,858 52,360 52,942 61,001 60,354 66,161 11,518 (2,988) 349 6,132 1,304 4,638 16,366 23,283 14,261 21,175 19,209 19,513 21,042 26,356 32,920 28,612 31,527 38,880 42,648 45,064 55,145 402,784 432,222 469,010 593,213 621,695 628,944 652,671 176,804 189,206 208,121 298,565 306,943 295,915 309,781 8,462 10,273 9,885 26,469 62,138 152,610 159,541 225,980 243,016 260,888 294,647 314,751 333,029 342,890 67,569 63,456 62,767 53,915 65,384 63,790 68,528 57,861 42,854 42,712 55,582 65,085 99,485 102,716 — — — — 7,864 35,404 39,028 100,549 136,705 155,408 185,148 184,280 169,754 171,645 61,273 88,378 94,766 116,480 120,397 103,841 88,999 144,507 141,404 137,601 189,745 196,286 181,646 219,888 69,380 118,207 79,841 113,208 134,304 111,552 162,133 — — — 10,645 2,270 2,870 6,074 — 579 3,083 3,911 1,345 1,591 50 75,126 23,196 57,759 75,988 61,327 69,500 57,160 49,997 — 30,000 30,000 15,000 25,000 34,082 6,677 4,250 22,054 21,333 27,969 24,396 408 258,276 290,818 331,408 403,467 425,409 447,297 432,783 Corporate Information / Data 53,067 68,600 33,839 58,710 81,470 61,147 73,493 (47,731) (36,019) (32,234) (1,093) (75,344) (30,341) (17,882) (25,299) (34,055) (38,086) (13,800) (52,725) (41,348) (30,162) 5,335 32,580 1,605 57,617 6,126 30,805 55,610 27,767 34,544 (4,246) 44,910 28,744 19,799 43,330 (10,438) (10,723) (8,773) (10,536) 9,326 (34,327) (46,829) 62 721 337 694 (1,071) 624 (2,529) (5,041) 22,579 (6,830) 47,775 14,381 (2,897) 6,251 77,043 99,623 92,792 140,567 154,949 152,051 158,303 121,601 145,974 133,350 169,023 206,031 192,028 185,882 Integrated Report 2018 78 Consolidate Financial Data (millions of yen) 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Segment Information: External sales Consulting 22,761 25,631 27,353 28,370 30,574 36,168 (Sales to Financial IT Solutions 219,754 225,313 237,111 252,842 246,979 251,876 external Securities 115,904 115,646 116,534 123,896 119,128 118,412 customers) Insurance 50,162 49,813 56,414 57,082 51,982 51,836 Banking 27,909 31,763 34,584 37,541 40,286 42,225 Other financial 25,778 28,090 29,577 34,321 35,580 39,401 Industrial IT Solutions 83,615 87,322 97,938 101,538 107,208 141,662 Distribution 44,806 44,066 46,705 51,882 54,256 60,894 Manufacturing, service and other 38,808 43,255 51,232 49,656 52,952 80,767 IT Platform Services 28,850 37,579 34,779 28,720 29,241 30,117 Others 8,910 10,085 8,803 9,966 10,544 11,663 External sales Consulting Sales 22,908 25,820 27,749 28,823 31,161 36,923 + Sales for Operating profit 2,801 4,708 5,959 5,487 5,853 5,954 each segment Operating profit margin (%) 12.2 18.2 21.5 19.0 18.8 16.1 Financial IT Sales 219,916 225,345 237,649 253,802 248,188 253,281 Solutions Operating profit 22,280 27,809 22,621 29,171 26,461 27,349 Operating profit margin (%) 10.1 12.3 9.5 11.5 10.7 10.8 Industrial IT Sales 83,662 87,389 98,974 102,859 107,672 142,214 Solutions Operating profit 6,478 8,408 11,769 9,974 9,076 13,652 Operating profit margin (%) 7.7 9.6 11.9 9.7 8.4 9.6 IT Platform Sales 103,376 114,624 113,505 110,044 122,107 128,839 Services Operating profit 10,059 6,470 8,636 11,575 14,015 15,101 Operating profit margin (%) 9.7 5.6 7.6 10.5 11.5 11.7 External sales Consulting services 39,078 42,233 47,110 52,131 62,734 78,987 by service System development & 140,478 143,213 136,710 145,157 131,908 138,111 System application sales System management & 174,990 187,361 206,698 212,952 217,271 241,198 Operation services Product sales 9,344 13,124 15,465 11,197 12,634 13,191 Sales to main Nomura Holdings, Inc. 100,984 90,688 82,469 68,666 71,600 77,937 clients Seven & i Holdings Co., Ltd. 44,984 40,888 40,973 43,254 45,285 47,001 Overseas sales Overseas sales 4,938 6,945 8,655 14,618 18,925 43,559 Overseas sales ratio (%) 1.4 1.8 2.1 3.5 4.5 9.2 Notes: 1. Amounts have been rounded down to the nearest unit specified. However, percentages have been rounded off to the nearest digit specified. 2. Net sales by client includes sales to the client's subsidiary and sales made through leasing companies, etc. (millions of yen) 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Order volume Consulting 23,816 25,575 28,390 27,425 34,609 35,871 Financial IT Solutions 227,820 236,216 253,830 256,293 246,153 244,556 Industrial IT Solutions 90,999 88,079 101,380 104,650 116,335 162,945 IT Platform Services 27,578 44,127 31,215 23,352 31,423 30,393 Corporate Information / Data Others 9,446 10,123 9,153 10,840 10,463 11,727 Total 379,661 404,122 423,970 422,561 438,986 485,494 Order backlog Consulting 4,641 4,584 5,622 4,677 8,711 8,415 Financial IT Solutions 118,645 129,548 146,268 149,718 148,893 141,573 Industrial IT Solutions 50,930 51,688 55,412 58,523 67,650 88,933 IT Platform Services 14,222 20,769 17,205 11,837 14,019 14,295 Others 2,572 2,610 2,679 3,553 3,472 3,537 Total 191,012 209,202 227,188 228,310 242,748 256,754 Notes: 1. Figures less than unit indicated have been rounded down for amounts. 2. The amounts are based on sales price. 3. In regard to continuous services and those services for which fees are received according to the number of times used, etc., expected net sales for the following year is booked as the order amount at the end of each fiscal year. 79 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ (millions of yen) 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Productions and Orders: Actual production 240,794 264,839 280,562 279,405 277,736 304,044 Subcontracting costs 116,166 132,825 141,925 139,303 126,361 135,522 Of which are subcontracting costs to 16,943 21,387 23,482 23,476 18,815 19,532 Chinese companies Subcontracting ratio (%) 48.2 50.2 50.6 49.9 45.5 44.6 Subcontracting ratio to Chinese companies (%) 14.6 16.1 16.5 16.9 14.9 14.4 Notes: 1. Amounts have been rounded down to the nearest unit specified. However, percentages have been rounded off to the nearest digit specified. 2. The amounts are based on production costs. The amount for each segment is the figure before intra-company transfers between segments. The intracompany transfer amount has been eliminated in the adjusted amount. 3. The subcontracting ratio is the ratio against actual production; the subcontracting ratio to Chinese companies is the ratio against total subcontracting costs. (millions of yen) 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Capital Expenditures/Depreciation and Amortization/Research and Development: Capital expenditures 31,048 33,878 31,080 48,325 38,668 38,201 Capital expenditures (tangible) 14,880 11,217 8,349 20,285 13,640 16,188 Capital expenditures (intangible) 16,167 22,661 22,731 28,040 25,027 22,012 Depreciation and amortization 42,474 34,118 25,800 32,598 28,476 31,941 Research and development expenses 3,643 3,903 4,222 5,110 5,674 5,170 (%) 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Ratios: Gross profit margin 27.9 28.3 28.8 31.8 33.9 33.9 Operating profit margin 12.1 12.9 12.7 13.8 13.8 13.8 EBITDA margin 23.8 21.8 19.1 21.8 20.9 21.5 ROE (Return on equity) 10.5 10.2 10.8 10.6 10.7 12.9 ROA (Return on assets) 11.0 11.6 10.0 10.0 9.7 10.3 Debt/Equity ratio (times) 0.21 0.17 0.18 0.16 0.13 0.19 Equity ratio 66.9 70.4 65.6 66.2 69.1 64.2 Price earnings ratio (PER) (times) 16.6 20.5 23.2 20.1 22.6 22.1 Dividend payout ratio 36.6 35.9 36.5 41.1 42.4 39.1 Total return ratio 36.6 35.9 36.5 63.4 66.4 129.8 (yen) 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Per Share Information: Earnings per share (EPS) 158 176 171 181 228 Corporate Information / Data Diluted earnings per share (EPS) 149 176 170 181 227 Book-value per share (BPS) 1,657 1,765 1,646 1,750 1,760 Dividend per share (DPS) 56 70 80 80 90 Notes: 1. Amounts have been rounded down to the nearest unit specified. However, percentages have been rounded off to the nearest digit specified. 2. EBITDA = Operating profit + Depreciation and amortization + Goodwill amortization 3. ROE = Profit attributable to owners of parent / Beginning and ending balance average net assets 4. ROA = Ordinary profit / Beginning and ending balance average total assets 5. NRI implemented a 1.1-for-1 stock split effective 1st January, 2017. To reflect this stock split, earnings per share, diluted earnings per share and net assets per share as of and for the years ended March 2016 and 2017 are calculated as if the stock split took place on 1st April, 2015. 6. The dividend payout ratio is calculated to include dividends earmarked for the NRI Group Employee Stock Ownership Group. Integrated Report 2018 80 ESG Data E: Environment Accounting period: FY2018 (1st April, 2017 to 31st March, 2018) Scope of date collection and method of calculation: http://www.nri.com/~/media/PDF/global/csr/greenstyle/data/180630_e.pdf Key Sustainability Performance Indicators Environment load information INPUT (resources used) Environment load information OUTPUT (Emissions by Scope) Object AssurChange(%) Object of INPUT FY2017 FY2018 Assurof data ance collection Category FY2017 FY2018 ance data collection Scope 1 emissions (1,000t CO2) Electricity (1,000 kWh) 143,253 136,518 ✓ *1 Kerosene (kl) 35 32 ✓ NRI Group total 1 1 ✓ 55.2% *1 Energy ✓ Diesel (kl) 103 112 Japanese offices 1 1 ✓ 55.2% *2 resources For: use City gas (1,000 m3) 311 569 ✓ *3 Overseas offices — — — — — Cooling, steam, heat (1,000 GJ) 87 100 ✓ Scope 2 emissions (1,000t CO2) Total heat (1,000 GJ) 1,529 1,492 ✓ Water Electricity*1 resources Water works (1,000 m3) 200 201 ✓ *3 NRI Group total 77 73 ✓ –5.0% Cooling, steam, heat*2 Paper resources Business paper (t) 217 213 ✓ *3 Japanese offices 74 70 ✓ –5.7% *2 For: Overseas offices 3 3 ✓ 11.0% *3 Scope 1 emissions , Scope 2 emissions Total (1,000t CO2) Environment load information OUTPUT (impact on environment) Electricity*1 Object NRI Group total ✓ Kerosene, Diesel, OUTPUT FY2017 FY2018 Assurance of data 78 75 –4.2% City Gas, Cooling, collection steam, heat*2 Electricity (1,000 t-CO2) 72 68 ✓ *1 Japanese offices 75 72 ✓ –4.9% *2 Kerosene, diesel, city gas For: 1 1 ✓ Overseas offices 3 3 ✓ 11.0% *3 (1,000 t-CO2) *3 Greenhouse Cooling, steam, heat (1,000 t-CO2) 5 5 ✓ gases Category FY2017 FY2018 AssurChange(%) Object of emissions Electricity*1 ance data collection Total greenhouse gases Kerosene, Diesel, City Scope 3 emissions (1,000t CO2) emissions 78 75 ✓ Gas, Cooling, (1,000 t-CO2) steam, Purchased goods and heat*3 1 64 69 ✓ 8.0% *1 services Drainage for Volume of wastewater Capital goods ✓ business (1,000 m3) 40 35 ✓ *2 2 23 44 88.6% *1 Electricity*1 ✓ Fuel-and-energy-related Whole waste (t) 284 269 3 6 6 ✓ –1.0% Cooling, steam, Waste activities heat*2 paper Final disposal volume (t) — — ✓ *3 Recycling rate (%) 100.0% 100.0% ✓ 6 Business travel 6 7 ✓ 10.3% *1 Whole waste (t) 666 2,365 ✓ 7 Employee Commuting 2 2 ✓ 9.6% *1 Industrial wastes Final disposal volume (t) 22 75 ✓ *4 11 Use of sold products 9 7 ✓ –22.8% *1 Recycle rate (%) 96.6% 96.8% ✓ End of life treatment of sold 12 0 0 ✓ –58.8% *1 products Total 112 137 ✓ 21.9% Objects of data collection for *1~4 Environment load information INPUT (resource used) and OUTPUT (impact on environment) No. Name Explanation Objects of data collection for *1～3 Environment load information Scope of data collection for key sustainability performance OUTPUT (Emissions by Scope) *1 NRI Group indicators and the companies under II. Scope of data No. Name Explanation collection for the method of calculation Scope of data collection for key sustainability performance NRI Group’s Data Tokyo Data Center I, Yokohama Data Center I, Yokohama NRI Group Corporate Information / Data *2 *1 indicators and the companies under II. Scope of data Centers Data Center II, Osaka Data Center, Osaka Data Center II collection for the method of calculation Scope of data collection for key sustainability performance NRI Group companies Scope of data collection for key sustainability performance indicators and the column for the location of head office NRI Group companies *3 with a Head Office in indicators and the column for the location of head office Japan (domestic and overseas) under II. Scope of data collection *2 with a Head Office in for the method of calculation is for domestic companies Japan (domestic and overseas) under II. Scope of data collection for the method of calculation is for domestic companies The Data Centers in *2, Tokyo Head Office, Kiba Center, NRI Group Data Yokohama Center, Yokohama Minato Center, Osaka Scope of data collection for key sustainability performance *4 Centers and NRI Group companies Buildings Center, Yokohama System Development Center, Yokohama indicators and the column for the location of head office *3 with an overseas Learning Center Head Office (domestic and overseas) under II. Scope of data collection for the method of calculation is for overseas companies Notes: 1. Amounts have been rounded down to the nearest unit specified. However, percentages have been rounded off to the nearest digit specified. 2. Past figures are shown as figures for which impacts due to important acquisitions, etc. have been recalculated according to “The Greenhouse Gas Protocol: A Corporate Accounting and Reporting Standard – Chapter 5. Tracking Emissions Over Time.” 81 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Information on NRI Green Bond (3rd series unsecured corporate bonds) 1) Status of allocation of funds raised 3) Environmental assessment on target facilities FY2018 (1st April, 2017 to 31st March, 2018) (millions of yen) Yokohama Center (Yokohama Nomura Building) Category Amount Environment load information: Input (resources used) INPUT FY2017 FY2018 AssurBalance at the beginning of year 8,725 ance Expenditures for acquisition of buildings trust beneficiary rights –8,364 Electricity (1,000 kWh) — 3,086 ✓ Expenditures for acquisition of buildings and accompanying facilities –361 City gas (1,000 m3) — 269 ✓ Energy Balance at the end of year — resources use Cooling, steam, heat (1,000 GJ) — 15 ✓ Notes 1: The state of allocation of funds raised represents a summary of the Statement Total heat (1,000 GJ) — 62 ✓ of Cash Income and Expenditure prepared according to the Green Bond Cash Management Rules. 2: The Statement of Cash Income and Expenditure was subjected to an audit by Ernst & Environment load information: Output (impact on environment) Young ShinNihon LLC (an audit of non-consolidated financial statements or financial Assurstatement items [Audit Standards Committee Report 805]). OUTPUT FY2017 FY2018 ance Electricity (t-CO2) — 1,500 ✓ 2) Status of the project City gas (t-CO2) — 583 ✓ In April 2017, NRI acquired the trust beneficiary rights to the Cooling, steam (t-CO2) — 870 ✓ Yokohama Center (Yokohama Nomura Building), for which the Greenhouse Total emissions (t-CO2) — 2,953 ✓ proceeds from the NRI Green Bond are to be used, and began to gases emissions Emissions per floor area use the building as a tenant. — 0.18 (t-CO2/m2) Category Category Emissions per employee (t-CO2/ — 0.24 Quantity of industrial waste (t) 371 person) A Environment Recycling rate (%) 72.8 AssurYokohama Minato Center (Dia Building) FY2017 FY2018 ance Labor safety and health: Number of serious industrial Total heat from energy resources (1,000 GJ) 77 51 Social 0 accidents (including that of Greenhouse gas emissions (t-CO2) 3,963 2,537 subcontractors) Emissions per floor area (t-CO2/m2) 0.41 0.45 Whether there was any ESGGovernance related dispute (including that 0 Emissions per employee (t-CO2/person) B 0.54 0.60 of subcontractors) Comparison between Yokohama Nomura Building Assur•Held opening event including local residents FY2017 FY2018 ance and Dia Building Contribution Action taken for engagement and local office workers from 13th to 14th to local and interaction with local June, 2017. Improvements in emissions per employee — 39.4% communities communities •Winter illumination event held from 7th (target 9%) A÷B November, 2017 to 14th March, 2018. Notes 1. When conducting the environmental assessment on the Yokohama Nomura Building, a comparison was conducted with the Yokohama Dia Building that was the main transfer source. 2. Emissions per employee is calculated based on the standard use area per person of 2.5 tsubo (8.3m2) that is prescribed as the office standard for NRI. 3. Because the energy resources for the Yokohama Nomura Building are electricity, city gas, and cold water and steam, total heat, greenhouse gas emissions, emissions per floor area, and emissions per employee are calculated based on these resources. Corporate Information / Data Integrated Report 2018 82 ESG Data S: Social Number of employees (NRI Group data): 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Persons Percentage (%) Persons Percentage (%) Persons Percentage (%) Persons Percentage (%) Persons Percentage (%) Number of employees 8,123 100 9,012 100 10,757 100 11,605 100 12,708 100 By gender Male 6,432 79.2 6,980 77.5 7,980 74.2 8,375 72.2 9,285 73.1 Female 1,691 20.8 2,032 22.5 2,777 25.8 3,230 27.8 3,423 26.9 By region Japan 7,302 89.9 8,105 89.9 8,498 79.0 8,676 74.8 8,821 69.4 Europe 13 0.2 12 0.1 21 0.2 12 0.1 14 0.1 U.S. 33 0.4 41 0.5 293 2.7 383 3.3 392 3.1 Asia 775 9.5 854 9.5 1,945 18.1 1,995 17.2 2,052 16.1 Of which China 331 4.1 374 4.2 1,398 13.0 1,473 12.7 1,465 11.5 Australia — — — — — — 539 4.6 1,429 11.2 Employment related (Group used for new hires for the year; non-consolidated for others): 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 New hires for the year (persons) 308 328 299 289 338 Total turnover rate (%)* 2.4 3.2 3.3 3.5 3.9 Of which, voluntary resignations (%) 1.7 1.9 2.3 2.3 2.3 Average length of service (years) 13.0 13.4 13.8 14.3 14.6 New graduates hires retention rate after 3 years (%) 96.6 95.5 94.8 90.9 93.3 Average remuneration: all employees (thousands of yen) 10,911 10,892 11,560 11,514 11,660 *The total turnover rate is the percentage of the number of retirees compared to the number of employees at period end. Promotion of women’s participation and advancement in the workplace (Non-consolidated data): 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Female employees (%) 17.7 18.2 18.8 19.0 19.3 Female directors (%) 0.0 0.0 6.7 7.1 8.3 Female managers (%) 5.2 5.4 5.8 6.0 6.5 Female hires (%) 25.6 25.9 29.8 27.0 25.1 Childcare leave / Nursing leave (Non-consolidated data): 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Paid maternity leave (persons) 9 12 17 13 9 Preand post-childbirth leave (persons) 53 53 73 76 56 Childcare leave (persons) 66 56 96 94 85 Of whom were male employees (persons) 8 9 21 24 22 Partner childbirth leave (persons) *1 — — — 38 168 Number of employees utilizing shorter work hour system for childcare (persons) 70 79 96 107 107 Of which, male employees (persons) 1 1 1 2 1 Employees returning to work after childcare leave (%) *2 98.0 96.1 97.9 98.4 97.0 Employees remaining in work after childcare leave (%) *3 92.9 95.9 92.3 91.7 93.3 Nursing care leave (persons) 3 1 1 2 3 Note: These are the number of employees who started a period of leave by the end of the fiscal year in question. *1 The partner childbirth leave scheme was launched in January 2017. *2 Employees returning to work after childcare leave :Number of employees returning to work in the current fiscal year after taking childcare leave / number of employees expected to return to work after taking childcare leave in the fiscal year × 100% *3 Employees remaining in work after childcare leave :Number of employees who returned to work in the previous fiscal year after taking childcare leave and who were employed by NRI as of 31st March of the current fiscal year / number of employees who returned to work after taking childcare leave in the previous fiscal year × 100% Corporate Information / Data Employment of people with disabilities (NRI Group data): 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Employees with disabilities (persons) 109 108 117 119 134 Percentage of employees with disabilities (%) 2.1 2.1 2.2 2.2 2.2 Note: Number of employees with disabilities at NRI and its Group companies Health and Productivity Management (Non-consolidated data): 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Average overtime hours of employees per month (average) (hours) 34:46 32:58 29:45 27:13 22:01 Employees taking annual paid leave (%) *1 58.6 61.7 66.5 70.6 71.4 Employee work-related deaths (persons) 0 0 0 0 0 Work accidents (cases) *2 0 1 0 2 0 * 1 Starting from FY March 2016, this figure includes the summer break (up to 3 days a year) * 2 Figure represents the number of either fatal accidents or incidents necessitating four or more days’ leave due to a casualty accident. 83 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Information communication/Recommendation projects (Non-consolidated data): 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Books published 12 19 25 13 15 Contributions to newspapers and magazines (times) 278 210 229 273 298 Public lectures given (times) 943 1,088 1,161 937 962 TV/radio appearances (times) 117 81 126 102 158 Development of human resources/Development of society (Non-consolidated data): 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Entries to the NRI Student Essay Contest 1,518 883 2,622 3,103 1,767 Supporting career No. of schools 35 31 38 34 24 education programs No. of students Over 1,600 Over 1,700 Over 1,500 1,277 773 Client satisfaction survey (Non-consolidated data): 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Number of customer satisfaction survey responses (responses)*1 1,078 1,085 1,076 1,131 1,082 Customer satisfaction (%)*2 83.0 82.0 83.4 82.9 84.6 *1 Number of questionnaire response by project unit that NRI received an order for *2 Percentage that responded “Satisfied” or “Moderately satisfied” (total for top two items on five-grade scale) Employee satisfaction (Non-consolidated data): 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Employee satisfaction (%)* 64.2 — 60.3 — 80.5 *A response to a question on overall satisfaction is used for employee satisfaction. For the fiscal years ended March 2014 and March 2016, this is the percentage that responded “Satisfied” or “Moderately satisfied” on a five-grade scale, while for the year ended March 2018, this is the percentage that responded “Satisfied” or “Moderately satisfied” on four-grade scale that no longer contains “Neither nor”. G: Governance (As of 1st July) Member of Directors (Non-consolidated data): 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 Total number of Directors 9 10 10 9 7 Outside Directors 2 3 3 3 3 Female Directors 0 1 1 1 1 Status of the Board of Directors (Non-consolidated data): 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Number of the Board of Directors held (times) 14 14 15 14 15 Attendance average of all Directors (%) 97 98 96 96 98 Attendance average of Outside Directors (%) 92 89 88 90 93 Attendance average of all Audit & Supervisory Board Members (%) 99 94 97 99 99 Attendance average of Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members (%) 98 90 98 98 98 Status of the Audit & Supervisory Board (Non-consolidated data): 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Number of the Audit & Supervisory Board held (times) 17 17 19 18 18 Attendance average of all Audit & Supervisory Board Members (%) 98 95 98 99 100 Attendance average of Outside Audit & Supervisory Board Members (%) 96 92 98 98 100 Corporate Information / Data Number of notification & consultation (Non-consolidated data): 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 Number of notification & consultation (cases) 1 6 3 8 2 Integrated Report 2018 84 NRI Group Network (As of 1st July, 2018) For more about NRI Group offices around the world: http://www.nri.com/global/company/office/index.html Headquarters Overseas Bases Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. [U.S.] Nomura Research Institute Otemachi Financial City Grand Cube, Nomura Research Institute (Beijing), Ltd. 1-9-2, Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Holdings America, Inc. Shanghai Branch Tokyo, 100-0004, Japan Nomura Research Institute Nomura Research Institute Tel. +81(3)5533-2111 Shanghai Limited America, Inc. Beijing Branch Nomura Research Institute IT Solutions America, Inc. Nomura Research Institute (Dalian), Ltd. Pacific Branch Zhiming Software Beijing, Ltd. Domestic Bases NRI Secure Technologies, Ltd. Chengdu Branch NRI Netcom, Ltd. North America Branch Zhiming Software Shanghai, Ltd. NRI Secure Technologies, Ltd. Cutter Associates, LLC Hangzhou Branch NRI Workplace Services, Ltd. Brierley+Partners, Inc. Zhiming Software Dalian, Ltd. Los Angeles Branch Zhiming Software Wuxi, Ltd. NRI Data i Tech, Ltd. NRI Cyber Patent, Ltd. Zhiming Software Jilin, Ltd. NRI Social Information Nomura Research Institute System Services, Ltd. [Europe/Russia] Taiwan Co., Ltd. NRI Process Innovation, Ltd. Nomura Research Institute Europe Nomura Research Institute Limited Seoul Co., Ltd. NRI System Techno, Ltd. Luxembourg Branch Nomura Research Institute DSB Co., Ltd. Thailand Cutter Associates Europe, Ltd. NRI Mirai, Ltd. Nomura Research Institute Brierley Europe Limited Zhiming Software Japan, Ltd. Asia Pacific Private Limited Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. NRI Retail Next, Ltd. Moscow Branch Nomura Research Institute Singapore Pte. Ltd. NRI digital, Ltd. Manila Branch Brierley+Partners Japan, Inc. Nomura Research Institute Hong Kong Limited [Asia/Pacific] PT. Nomura Research Institute Indonesia Nomura Research Institute Holdings Australia Pty Ltd. Nomura Research Institute Consulting and Solutions India ASG Group Limited Private Limited Sydney Office Canberra Office Nomura Research Institute Financial Technologies India Pvt. Ltd. Melbourne Office Brisbane Office Adelaide Office ◆NRIの海外拠点 NRI Group worldwide offices NRI Shanghai NRI Beijing Shanghai Branch NRI Beijing Zhiming Software Shanghai Corporate Information / Data NRI Shanghai Beijing Branch NRI IT Solutions America Pacific Branch Moscow Branch Zhiming Software Wuxi Zhiming Software Beijing NRI SecureTechnologies North America Branch Zhiming Software Shanghai Zhiming Software Jilin NRI Dalian brierley+partners LA Branch Hangzhou Branch Zhiming Software Dalian Zhiming Software Beijing Cutter Associates Chengdu Branch NRI NRI Europe Luxembourg Branch NRI Seoul brierley japan NRI America NRI Hong Kong NRI Taiwan NRI Holdings America NRI Europe NRI India NRI Singapore NRI IT Solutions America brierley europe NRI FT India Manila Branch NRI Thailand ASG Brisbane brierley+partners Cutter Associates Europe NRI APAC ASG Sydney NRI Singapore ASG ASG Canberra NRI Indonesia Nomura Research Institute Holdings Australia ASG Adelaide ASG Melbourne 85 Nomura Research Institute Contents ▶ Corporate Data/ Share Information Corporate data (As of 31st March, 2018) Component ratio of shareholders (As of 31st March, 2018) Name Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. Headquarters address Otemachi Financial City Grand Cube, Financial institutions: 1-9-2 Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Individuals and 17.77% other shareholders: Tokyo 100-0004, Japan 12.27% Securities firms: Capital ¥18,600 million 0.87% Representative President & CEO Companies incorporated Shingo Konomoto in other countries: Companies incorporated 25.99% in Japan: Number of employees (Consolidated-base) 12,708 43.10% Note: The treasury stock is included in “individual and other shareholders.” Share information (As of 31st March, 2018) Listed stock exchange Tokyo Stock Exchange 1st. Section Code 4307 Major shareholders (As of 31st March, 2018) Fiscal year From April 1 to March 31 of the following year Number of Percentage Ordinary General June Shareholders shares held of shares Meeting of (1,000 shares) held (%) Shareholders Nomura Holdings, Inc. 69,438 29.02 A share unit 100 shares Nomura Facilities, Inc. 22,506 9.41 Authorized shares 907,500,000 shares JAFCO Co., Ltd. 13,156 5.50 Issued shares 251,000,000 shares State Street Bank and Trust Company 505223 Number of 11,186 11,017 4.60 (Standing Agent: Mizuho Bank, Ltd., settlement division) shareholders NRI Group Employee Stock Ownership Group 9,451 3.95 Transfer agent Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation Japan Trustee Services Bank, Ltd. (Trust Account) 8,475 3.54 (address for inquiries Shin-TOKYO Post Office posts) post office box No.29 137-8081, JAPAN Nippon Life Insurance Company 8,242 3.44 Mitsubishi UFJ Trust and Banking Corporation The Master Trust Bank of Japan, Ltd. (Trust Account) 6,655 2.78 Corporate Agency Division Tel: 0120-232-711 (toll-free) National Mutual Insurance Federation of Agricultural 4,478 1.87 Cooperatives Shareholder Fixed 30th September, 31th March Day for Dividend The Bank of New York 133522 (Standing Agent: Mizuho 4,233 1.77 Payment Bank, Ltd., settlement division) Note: NRI has 11,729,155 shares of treasury stock as of 31st March, 2018 which is not included in the major shareholders list above. Figures for number of shares held are rounded down to the nearest thousand and figures for percentage of shares held are calculated excluding treasury stock. Stock price and trading volume in the last ten years NRI Stock Price TOPIX ■Trading volume (1,000 shares) 250 50,000 200 40,000 150 30,000 Corporate Information / Data 100 20,000 50 10,000 0 0 2009.3 2010.3 2011.3 2012.3 2013.3 2014.3 2015.3 2016.3 2017.3 2018.3 (yen) High 2,335 1,971 2,023 1,726 2,041 3,008 3,876 4,600 4,225 5,590 Low 1,083 1,249 1,070 1,298 1,294 1,855 2,410 3,218 2,964 3,840 Year-end stock price 1,265 1,760 1,517 1,697 1,997 2,694 3,736 3,446 4,100 5,040 *1 The NRI stock price and TOPIX (Tokyo Stock Exchange Price Index) are indexed at 100 based on the closing price of stock on 28th March, 2008. *2 The NRI stock price and volume are displayed after adjustments for the stock split. Integrated Report 2018 86 Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. Otemachi Financial City Grand Cube, 1-9-2 Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan Tel. +81(3)5533-2111 http://www.nri.com Integrated Report 2018 この印刷物はFSC認証紙および植物油インキを使用しています。 Printed in Japan Sustainability Book 2018 Nomura Research Institute Dream up the future. Thatʼs the Nomura Research Institute Group Corporate Philosophy. is creating a new future. In our desire for creating a positive future by thoroughly considering the possibilities facing society in this era of rapid change where predictions cannot easily be made, we hope to contribute to society by creating new value. The NRI Group will continue our endeavors in meeting never-ending challenges as a “company creating future society.” Message from the President Based on our corporate philosophy of “discerning new social paradigms and assuming the role of implementing such paradigms” and “building clientʼs trust and prospering together with clients,” Nomura Research Institute (NRI) seeks to become a “company creating future society” and contributes to the sustainable growth of society. The former Nomura Research Institute was founded in 1965 with the purpose of service towards the promotion of industry, the economy, and the community through research surveys. Even after merging with Nomura Computer Systems in 1988, this fundamental stance has remained unchanged. Japan faces various issues including a declining population, an aging population, concern regarding ﬁ nancial collapse, and a decline in industrial competitiveness. When extrapolating from current conditions, it is diﬃ cult to image a bright future for Japan. In Japan, it is no longer possible to depend on the government. Today, regions and corporations must survive based on their own ability and responsibility. Amidst these conditions, corporations must transition from management which prioritizes only profit to management that ascertains social issues and implements solutions during business activities. This is the type of social responsibility-related activities that corporations have to carry out. In addition to taking the initiative to implement this new form of management, NRI seeks to exist as a corporation that supports our client corporations in resolving social issues through their business. Based on this vision, NRI endorsed the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC) in May 2017 and announced our participation in the UNGC. In order to earn continued trust from society and to fulﬁ ll expectations, NRI will anticipate trends in new technology while working to implement changes within our group. We will fulfill our social responsibility by conducting business that will resolve issues in future society. At the same time, we will sincerely listen to opinions from various stakeholders and work to regulate our own behavior. Shingo Konomoto President & CEO, Member of the Board Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. 1 Sustainability Book 2018 Contents Corporate Sustainability Philosophy topics: By the numbers Message from the President 1 10│11 Feature Global NRI Dream Up the Future Forum 2017 4│5 12│13 Feature Digital NRI Dream Up transformation the Future Forum 2017 (continued) 6│7 14│15 Sustainability Policy Information security Status of selection in ESG stock indexes 8│9 16│17 FinTech Support for human resources development 18│19 26│27 Participation Governance of the elderly and people with disabilities 20│21 28│29 Environmental Building Activities relationships with stakeholders 22│23 30│31 Work-style Global network reform Editorial policy 24│25 32│33 Feature NRI Dream Up the Future Forum 2017 Digital, Creating the Near Future Based on our corporate philosophy of “Dream up the future,” the NRI Group holds the annual NRI Dream Up the Future Forum in order to make recommendations for future society and to provide suggestions for business.The main theme for the three years starting from ﬁ scal 2017 is “Digital, Creating the Near Future.” In ﬁ scal 2017, based on the sub-theme of “Digital Changing Japanʼs Future,” we invited Jeremy Rifkin, a famous American critic of culture and economy. Through a lecture by Rifkin and discussion among various experts from NRI, the Forum provided macro recommendations and suggestions for business, such as the impact of a digital society and possible risks. Today, there is a technological revolution led by artificial intelligence (AI) and the Internet of Things (IoT). A wave of globalization is also sweeping across the world. In an environment where a digital economy is being established simultaneously throughout the world, many corporations are being forced to recreate their management and business into forms which diﬀ er completely from before. 4 ［Keynote Address］ Digital Changing Japanʼs Future ─ The Impact of the Sharing Economy Shingo Konomoto, NRI President & CEO Risk of a shrinking economy due to a digital shift A survey conducted by NRI showed that an increasing number of Japanese citizens feel that “the level of my corporations that use enormous amounts of customer lifestyle has improved” when compared to around 2010. information to visualize supply/demand and conduct This is despite the long-term stagnation of the global optimal matching while providing sharing services. The economy caused by the Lehman Shock and a sluggish near future will bring a sharing economy in which various Japanese GDP. One reason for this feeling of an improved goods and services are shared. This industry is predicted lifestyle is the digitalization of products and services. The to consist of massive platformers that provide sharing internet has increased convenience for consumers and services, highly-optimized manufacturing companies, and the consumer surplus (the difference between the total corporate groups that provide unique services for the amount that consumers are willing and able to pay and the sharing economy. total amount that they actually do pay) is increasing. General speaking, innovation causes the consumer Need for “commons” to manage shared assets surplus and the producer surplus to increase together. A new risk has arisen in which personal information and This occurs because, in addition to heightening the other data is held exclusively by massive platformers. In convenience of products and services, the marginal cost (the response, there is the need for “commons” that serve as cost added by producing one additional unit of a product an infrastructure for managing shared assets in a sharing or service) of producers decreases and demand increases. economy. Commons which can be used by corporations However, digitalization has dramatically decreased the and public institutions have been constructed in Japan. marginal cost. This has caused sudden decreases in the This has spurred the founding of numerous corporate cost of products and services. Consumer surplus increases groups which operate new industries. After a period of and producer surplus decreases at a speed that is much coexistence with the old economy, Japan is expected to faster than increases in demand. If the producer surplus transition to a new economic structure. decreases too quickly, there will be a negative impact on Commons are an infrastructure that are shared by the employee income and facilities investment. This will cause public and private sectors. Although some people may diminished equilibrium in the economy. think that Japan lags behind Western countries in building such infrastructure, our country is actually much closer to An era of sharing for various goods/services the form of an ideal digital society than Western countries. In addition to simply reducing costs, corporations are This is because Japan is largely unaffected by the digital expected to implement strategies that create new value. divide (disparity in the ability to access information). NRI is The success of this strategy largely depends on methods committed to contributing to the growth of a healthy and for utilizing big data. There has been an emergence of dynamic sharing economy in Japan. 5 Feature NRI Dream Up the Future Forum 2017 ［Special lecture］ Toward Smart Japan: “The Third Industrial Revolution” and “The Zero Marginal Cost Society” Jeremy Rifkin, Cultural and economic critic 【Jeremy Rifkin】A policy advisor to the EU and main European nations. When reflecting upon industrial revolutions in the past, He provides recommendations on policy and energy security to EU leaders and high-ranking officials. As advisor to German Chancellor Angela Merkel, there were major revolutions in three elements of social fulfilled a leading role in Industry 4.0. His written works include “The Third infrastructure: communication, energy, and transportation. Industrial Revolution: How Lateral Power is Transforming Energy, the Specifically, the first industrial revolution occurred in the Economy, and the World” (St. Martinʼs Press, 2011) and “The Zero Marginal Cost Society: The Internet of Things, the Collaborative Commons, and the 19th century brought major changes through telegraphs, Eclipse of Capitalism” (St. Martinʼs Press, 2014). coal/thermal power, and the steam engine. The second industrial revolution occurred in the 20th century through the telephone, electricity, and the internal combustion in which huge numbers of people cooperate to work engine. towards a shared objective. This type of commons will be jointly constructed and managed by participants, not by the IoT as the source of a new industrial revolution capitalist market or government. Currently, the advancement of the IoT is causing major If it is possible to construct diverse collaborative commons changes to the aforementioned three elements. Spreading throughout the world, capitalism will be forced to shrink. throughout the world as a communication medium, the Current capitalism will meet its demise in the near future. internet is connected to homes and offices, factories and We will shift to a sharing economy that is implemented stores, and goods in public locations where people gather. through collaborative commons. This has enabled detailed control of energy and transportation systems at an unprecedented level. By utilizing this infrastructure, society and the economy are undergoing massive changes. This is the third industrial revolution. The third industrial revolution will reduce marginal cost to nearly zero. Individual will be able to produce energy by using solar power generators connected to the internet. Using 3D printers will make it possible for anyone to manufacture a variety of products. Capitalism is nearing its demise When this kind of society is achieved, we will witness the emergence of “collaborative commons” 6 ［Dialogue］ Rifkin: Japan possesses advanced technology in fields such as IT, construction, and production. These fields will fulfill How will global digitalization an important role in configuring an IoT platform. I believe progress? And what is the that Japan has the potential to play a leading role in global leadership. position of Japan? Contributing to the growth of a sharing economy ［Speakers］ Jeremy Rifkin, Shingo Konomoto Another important issue is response to cyberattacks ［Moderator］ Maoko Kotani, Newscaster which are increasingly sophisticated and complex. Konomoto: The architecture of infrastructure which will After the special lecture by Jeremy Rifkin, a dialogue was support the third industrial revolution will be distributed; this held between Rifkin and Shingo Konomoto. Maoko Kotani is in contrast to the centralized structure which existed in the served as moderator for the dialogue. past. In order to reduce the threat posed by cyberattacks, we must formulate suﬃ cient security measures for all elements of Kotani: Listening to your lectures enabled me to understand conﬁguring an infrastructure. the importance of the world moving toward a sharing Rifkin: From a global perspective, the number of initiatives economy. What are some issues in achieving a sharing directed towards achieving a sharing economy will increase economy? exponentially. Rifkin: We need leadership on a global level. Konomoto: Japan has many conservative corporations. This will cause slow progress in the next few years. However, once Possibility of Japan leading the world a certain threshold has been exceeded, Japanese corporations will move forward with great speed. One mission of NRI is to Under the leadership of Chancellor Merkel, to whom support such corporations. Rifkin serves as an advisor, Germany is implementing policies towards a third industrial revolution. Examples include transition to a system of First installment of a three-part series by renewable energy and Industry 4.0. NRI exploring the direction of “Digital, Creating the Near Future” Konomoto: This is a nationwide endeavor; therefore, a certain amount of government Digital Capitalism leadership is required. Even so, collaboration Published by Toyo Keizai (May 2018) Supervised by Shingo Konomoto, with the private sector is also essential. President &a CEO of Nomura Research Institute Therefore, through discussions in general Written by Takeshi Mori and Hiroyuki Nitto economic circles, it is important to formulate a Now is the time to make choices for creating the future clear orientation and to change the awareness ̶ Based on our corporate philosophy of “Dream up the future,” NRI has of the general public. made multifaceted insights on the form of “Digital, Creating the Near Future.” This book is the ﬁ rst installment in a series detailing the results of our research. The book examines the essence of digital capitalism and presents three Leadership across national borders is scenarios for the expected form of future economic society. We hope that this essential in order to expand the movement book will stimulate discussion on what kind of future we should create. (Shingo toward a sharing economy throughout the Konomoto, President & CEO, Nomura Research Institute) world. 7 In fiscal 2017, NRI identified materialities (issue for Sustainability Policy meeting the expec tations of stakeholders). While responding to these materialities, NRI is pursuing social value unique to our company and creating a sustainable societ y by instilling our corporate philosophy of “Dream up the future.” Dream up the future. Creation of a sustainable society ・ Solutions to Social Issues through Business Activities (CSV) ・Human resource diversity ・Dialogue with civil society ・Management of information ・Customers interaction Four Materiality security and system ・Healthy employment ・Access to information society and labor-management relationship Provision of NRI ・Respect on human rights quality to support safe and secure information society Compliance with Provision of laws, regulations and opportunities for all risk management to kinds of professionals increase trust from to take on challenges society Creation of a future, low environmental ・Response on climate change impact society ・Enhancement of corporate governance ・Sustainable energy consumption ・Risk management ・Responsibility and conservation to the ・Ac tions against corrupt prac tices abroad environment ・Appropriate information disclosure to ・Environment-conscious supply chain the customers 8 Status of application for stocks used as ESG stock indexes T h e g l o b a l E S G i nv e s t m e nt a m o u nt i n 2016 w a s (GPIF) has s t ar te d o p erati o n b as e d o n E SG s to ck a p p r ox i m a t e l y U S$ 2 3 t r i l l i o n . T h i s i s s a i d to b e indexes from 2017. The GPIF manages 16 0 trillion equivalent to about one -four th of all global yen, the largest amount of any pension fund in the investment. world. Furthermore, NRI is a component of the main In Japan, the Government Pension Investment Fund ESG stock indexes. Dow Jones Sustainability World Index First selected in 2018 NRI is selected for all four ESG stock indexes Dow Jones Sustainability Asia/Paciﬁ c Index which are used for Japanese stocks and Selected continuously for 3 years from 2016 which are selected by the Government Pension Investment Fund. MSCI Japan ESG Select Leaders Index ＊ MSCI ACWI ESG Leaders Index ＊ Selected continuously for 3 years from 2016. Name changed from MSCI Global Sustainability Indexes in MSCI Japan Empowering Women Index 2017 (WIN) ＊ FTSE Blossom S&P/JPX Carbon FTSE4Good Developed Japan Index Eﬃ cient Index Index Selected continuously for 13 years from 2006 ＊ THE INCLUSION OF Nomura Research Institute, Ltd IN ANY MSCI INDEX, AND THE USE OF MSCI LOGOS, TRADEMARKS, SERVICE MARKS OR INDEX NAMES HEREIN, DO NOT CONSTITUTE A SPONSORSHIP, ENDORSEMENT OR PROMOTION OF Nomura Research Institute, Ltd BY MSCI OR ANY OF ITS AFFILIATES. THE MSCI INDEXES ARE THE EXCLUSIVE PROPERTY OF MSCI. MSCI AND THE MSCI INDEX NAMES AND LOGOS ARE TRADEMARKS OR SERVICE MARKS OF MSCI OR ITS AFFILIATES. 9 Sustainability topics: By the numbers ─ Main numbers and awards for the NRI Group Corporate Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. Amount of greenhouse gas emissions Name Consolidated 471.4 billion yen 26.9 ％ Sales Market (Fiscal year ended March 31, 2018) Reduction Results for ﬁ scal 2016 CO2 capitalization 1.265 trillion yen (compared to ﬁ scal 2013) Targets for ﬁ scal 2030 Number of employees (consolidated) 12,708 55.0 ％ Reduction Worldwide Oﬃ ces of the NRI Group Coverage ratio for environmental management system 42 oﬃces 92 ％ (ﬁ scal 2016) countries 14 and regions NRI concurrently implements ISO14001 and our unique NRI92 ％ EMS. Number of employees at worldwide oﬃ ces Reconstruction aid donations to disasteraﬀ ected areas in ﬁ scal 2017 3,886 Kumamoto Earthquakes reconstruction relief donation Ratio of employees 4,214,000 yen at worldwide oﬃ ces Great East Japan Earthquake 30.6％ reconstruction relief donation 9,000,000 yen 10 *Unless otherwise noted, the number listed here are all current as of March 31, 2018. Domestic awards Nadeshiko Brand Number and ratio of female managers The Ministry of Economy, 186 6.8 ％ Trade and Industry and the Tokyo Stock Exchange jointly selected listed corporations (as of April 1, 2018) which excel in encouraging NRI has formulated a behavior plan based on “the the empowerment of women Act on Promotion of Womenʼs Participation and in the workplace. This was Advancement in the Workplace.” Our target is to the second consecutive year increase the ratio of female employees serving as that NRI was selected for this managers to at least 7% by ﬁscal 2018. award. Top-Rank Eruboshi Certiﬁ cation (Stage 3) Ratio of employees returning to work after In January 2017, NRI was taking childcare leave designated by the Ministry of (Total for both men and women) Health, Labour and Welfare 98.5 ％ as a company that showed excellence in initiatives based o n “t h e A c t o n P r o m o t i o n (ﬁ scal 2017) of Women s Participation 252 employees took childcare leave. and Advancement in the 189 of these employees were men. Workplace.” Certiﬁ ed Health & Productivity Management Ratio of annual paid leave taken Outstanding Organization (White 500) 71.4 ％ (ﬁ scal 2017) Starting from February 2017, NRI has been certified for two consecutive years as a large Each office continues to corporation practicing superior implement independent health and productivity measures for promoting the management. The certiﬁ cation work-life balance of employees. is given by the Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry. 11 Contributing to the development of emerging nations in Africa, etc. 12 Exchanging opinions with the Investment Bureau of Côte d'Ivoire Global As a bridge between emerging nations and Japanese corporations, we support sustainable growth in Africa. The Japanese government oﬀers support for the development of African countries including technology transfer and infrastructure exporting. The government collaborates with Japanese companies to deploy numerous projects that offer long-term development by creating employment, building a workforce, improving infrastructure, and more. As a bridge between emerging nations and Japanese corporation, NRI is involved in numerous projects. By utilizing strong relationships that we have built with local governments and expertise obtained by implementing/supporting projects, NRI supports the creation of infrastructure for industry and technological innovation in Africa. We continually hold activities for sustainable growth and expansion in Africa. Icons positioned to the left of the main text From among the 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs*), we have listed goals which are considered as relevant to NRI Group initiatives introduced in the text (the same applies on the following pages). *SDGs: Shared global goals deﬁned by the United Nations for 2016 to 2030 in order to resolve global issues. Achieving this goal requires participation and cooperation from the national governments of UN member nations, local governments, corporations, NPOs, NGOs, and individual citizens. Successful alleviation of traﬃc in Moscow by using an advanced traﬃc signal system New Energy and Industrial Technology Development Organization (NEDO), Kyosan Electric Manufacturing Co., Ltd., NRI, and the Traﬃc Control Center of Moscow cooperated in a project to demonstrate the use of an advanced traﬃc signal system. In order to resolve the severe traﬃc jams in Moscow, the system was positioned at ﬁve consecutive intersections and the reduction in the movement time of automobiles was veriﬁed. Maximum traﬃc alleviation of 40% during periods of congestion was conﬁrmed. 13 Using artiﬁcial intelligence (AI) to reform working style 14 Inquiry screen using for TRAINA, software implemented on a trial basis by Sapporo Holdings Digital transformation We will soon enter an era in which AI is entrusted with appropriate tasks so that human beings can concentrate on work that only humans can perform. During the past few years, artificial intelligence (AI) has evolved dramatically and is now used in business fields. Sapporo Holdings Limited and NRI conducted a demonstration test to measure the eﬀectiveness of using the AI system TRAINA to respond to internal inquiries to back-oﬃce sections. The test showed that TRAINA is capable of responding to 45% of inquiries and that response time is shortened by approximately 80% when compared to conventional searching of FAQ. These results show that AI can be used to fundamentally improve ineﬃcient operations which are dependent on human skill and to contribute to improving productivity. Currently, testing has advanced to the stage of full-scale implementation for improved eﬃciency using TRAINA. NRI will actively support operation reform using AI and contribute to work-style reform at corporations. Holding public (open-application) programs for using the capability of ICT venture corporations to resolve regional issues Upon consignment from the Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications, NRI implemented the StartupXAct project. StartupXAct demonstrates information communication technology (ICT) solutions held by venture corporations in the local community by matching the issues held by local governmental authorities with venture corporations that possess the technology, expertise, etc., to resolve said issues. In fiscal 2017, NRI successfully matched seven venture corporations with four local governmental authorities: Teshio Town, Hokkaido Prefecture; Kyotango City, Kyoto Prefecture; Takamatsu City, Kagawa Prefecture; and Kumamoto City, Kumamoto Prefecture. 15 Provision of safe and secure infrastructure in future society 16 Image of autonomous driving using a connected car Information security We are developing infrastructure for future society to support safe driving. There are an increasing number of “connected cars” which are connected with a network to provide various functions. Practical implementation of autonomouslydriven vehicles which drive safely under the guidance of even more advanced networks will begin from 2020. Through the evolution of information communication technology (ICT), we seek to make cars into an even more comfortable means of transportation. Conversely, unlike conventional vehicles, autonomously-driven vehicles are exposed to the risk of cyberattacks. Our group company NRI SecureTechnologies, Ltd., has started an “Automotive Penetration Test” service for automobile manufacturers and is supporting to enhance security for vehicles. The NRI Group will construct infrastructure for supporting future society by utilizing the technology and expertise in achieving information security gained in a variety of business ﬁelds. Provision of Blockchain Assessment Service Blockchain has gained attention together with virtual currency. By dispersing and sharing data among numerous servers, blockchain makes it virtually impossible to falsify data. However, the threat of vulnerability still exists. NRI SecureTechnologies, Ltd. provides an assessment service for this technology, which is expected to be one eﬀective technology for supporting an advanced information society in the future. 17 Establishing an investment-type crowdfunding company for real estate 18 FinTech Real estate investment opportunities were previously limited to investment professionals. By using IT, NRI provides these opportunities to a wide range of independent investors. Many corporations are focusing on innovative financial services using information technology and on FinTech, a technology which makes those services possible. NRI provides several shared online services in ﬁnancial services. For some time now, we have also conducted surveys and research on FinTech, and have implemented trial FinTech technology. As one such initiative, NRI cooperated with the real estate asset management company Kenedix, Inc. to establish Bit Realty, Inc. in June 2017. Currently, we are preparing a platform operation business for investment-type crowdfunding focusing on real estate. Previously, unlisted real estate investment products were only available to institutional investors and other professional investors. However, NRI provides these opportunities to a wide range of investors through advanced real estate management conducted by experts, as well as a transaction system that is highly transparent, safe, and secure. NRI will continue to focus on implementing FinTech in society and on increasing the sophistication of FinTech. NRI Questionnaire Survey of 10,000 Consumers (Financial Edition) Starting from 2010, NRI has conducted this survey every three years in order to examine changes in the financial awareness and behavior of Japanese people. The 2016 survey showed that, despite attracting attention throughout the world, FinTech-related services are not growing as services familiar to consumers. To spread FinTech related services, it is necessary to simplify operation and to eliminate security concerns. 19 People with disabilities solve the social issue of labor shortage in the future 20 An employee of NRI Mirai, Ltd. ﬁlls trays with snack foods Participation of the elderly and people with disabilities NRI utilizes IT to promote participation of the elderly and people with disabilities. The Japanese population has been decreasing continually since 2011. It is estimated* that the population will decrease to approximately 119 million people in 2030. This is a decrease of approximately 7.4 million people when compared to the current population. Furthermore, the population of the working age generations from 20 to 64 years old is estimated to decrease to 53.5% of the total population in 2030. This is down from 56.0% in 2015. Based on the “Act on Employment Promotion etc. of Persons with Disabilities,” NRI established the special subsidiary NRI Mirai, Ltd. in 2015. Through NRI Mirai, we promote the employment of people with disabilities. Furthermore, through cooperation with NRI Retail Next, Ltd., a group company which operates convenience stores, we are holding proof of concept testing for systems in which people with disabilities serve as important labor for convenience stores, an industry facing a severe shortage of workers. *Estimated the medium-fertility (medium-mortality) from the Population Projection for Japan (2017 Estimate) issued by the National Institute of Population and Social Security Research. Participation of the elderly and invigoration of regions Through a system named “Ageless 80,” our group company NRI Social Information System Services, Ltd. supports the work of Silver Human Resources Centers which match regional needs with labor provided by the elderly. We seek to realize a future society which encourages energetic elderly individuals to participate actively and to deliver services which meet the needs of people requiring support through cooperation of surrounding individuals. 21 Our commitment to the 2℃ target is our corporate responsibility 22 Cold water vertical heat storage tank at Tokyo Data Center Ⅰ Environmental Activities By transitioning to a new energy eﬃcient data center, we achieve signiﬁcant reductions in the amount of greenhouse gases emissions. Two years have passed since international society agreed to the Paris Agreement in 2015. In accordance with Science Based Targets (SBT) based on the 2℃ target, an increasing number of corporations (particularly in Europe and America) are recognizing their responsibility to signiﬁcantly reduce greenhouse gases from a longterm perspective. The NRI Group agrees with Science Based Targets initiative (SBTi). We set the target of reducing greenhouse gases by 25% in January 2016 when compared to fiscal 2013. Afterwards, we transitioned systems to Tokyo Data Center I and other data centers with outstanding environmental performance. We achieved our goal by achieving a reduction of 26.9% in ﬁscal 2016. As our corporate social responsibility, NRI will continually strive to reduce greenhouse gases. Setting new environmental targets for 120,000 Absolute Scope 1+2 Emissions (tCO2 e) FY2013 (Base Year) 2030 100,000 108,005 tCO2 The NRI Group seeks SBT certiﬁcation by achieving environmental 80,000 FY2016 targets. We have set the new target of reducing greenhouse 55% reduction 60,000 78,958 tCO2 gases by 55% by ﬁscal 2030 when compared to ﬁscal 2013. In addition to the quantitative indexes, we have set the additional 40,000 indexes of “ratio of renewable energy usage at data centers” Emission Standards Model 20,000 Aimed Towards the Achievement and “ratio of environmental target settings at main business of the “Below 2℃” Goal partners.” 0 FY2013 FY2020 FY2030 FY2040 FY2050 23 Improving productivity through new working styles 24 Work-style reform We are improving productivity by increasing opportunities for employee interaction and developing an environment which enables to work ﬂexibly. From the second half of ﬁscal 2016 to the ﬁrst half of ﬁscal 2017, NRI relocated our Tokyo, Yokohama, and Osaka oﬃces to buildings which are environmentally friendly and have emergency generators that make the building highly resistant to disasters. In conjunction with these initiatives, we have also implemented new working styles with a focus on work-style reform. First, in addition to implementing Activity Based Working which enables employees to select a workplace depending on conditions at that time, we also developed an environment to enable video conferencing using employee computers. These changes have made it possible for employees to work from home. Furthermore, in order to encourage communication among employees, the new office buildings feature large cafe lounges which can be used for meals, meetings, and events. Oﬃce areas also have special features to encourage personal interaction. In addition to these facility-based initiatives, we are also implementing human-based initiatives for work-style reform in conjunction with the contents and characteristics of work at each department. We have successfully reduced overtime work and improved productivity. Yume-minato nursery school opens as an in-house nursery An increasing number of NRI employees are being forced to extend their childcare leave due to being unable to enroll their child at a certiﬁed nursery school for children. In response, we opened the Yume-minato nursery school on June 1, 2017 in conjunction with relocating our oﬃce in Yokohama. It is the first in-house nursery at NRI. This makes it possible for employees to avoid unintended career blanks and to resume working at their desired timing. 25 Allowing young people who will become leaders to focus on the future 26 Tomoka Tsutsumi, winner of the Grand Prize in the High School Division of the NRI Student Essay Contest 2017 Support for human resources development This contest provides an opportunity for young people to focus on the future, consider actions which must be taken, and express their passionate ideas. The NRI Group has held the NRI Student Essay Contest every year since ﬁscal 2006. Based on our corporate philosophy of “Dream up the future,” NRI holds this annual contest as an opportunity for young future generations to focus on the future, to seriously consider actions which they must take, and to express their passionate ideas. In fiscal 2017, in addition to expressing their passionate ideas in essay format, applicants are now judged in the new format of a presentation. At the final screening, outstanding presentations were given by students who advanced through the essay screening. The presentations left a lasting impression on the judges and many other audience members. Contributing to the future by cultivating the next generation Based on our corporate philosophy of “Dream up the future,” the NRI Group recognizes our important mission to cultivate the next generation which will serve as future leaders. In addition to career education programs for elementary school, junior high school, and high school students, NRI implements programs such as participating in the RikoChalle project. Operated mainly by the Gender Equality Bureau Cabinet Oﬃce, this project encourages female junior high school, high school, and university students to select a career path in the STEM ﬁelds. 27 Seeking corporate governance to serve as guidelines 28 Governor Koike of Tokyo (left) and NRI Chairman Shimamoto (right) at the awards ceremony for Corporate Governance of the Year Governance Received the Tokyo Governor Prize for the Corporate Governance of the Year Prize 2017. NRI was selected for the Tokyo Governor Prize at the Corporate Governance of the Year Prize 2017, which was held by the Japan Association of Corporate Directors. This prize is given to support corporations who have used corporate governance to achieve healthy growth in the mediumto long-term. The Tokyo Governor Prize recognizes corporations that conduct advanced initiatives for ESG (environment, society, governance) which are essential to achieving the “Global Financial City: Tokyo” vision being promoted by the Tokyo Metropolitan Government. NRI was selected for the Tokyo Governor Prize in recognition of how we were the ﬁrst Japanese business ﬁrm to issue green bonds and how we appoint female directors. First Japanese business ﬁrm to issue green bonds* The term “ESG investment” is now widely used. However, there are still very few cases of ESG bonds (bonds issued in order to resolve ESG-related issues) being issued in Japan. Based on our corporate philosophy of “Dream up the future,” NRI seeks to invigorate the green investment market in Japan and to realize a sustainable future society. In order to conduct equity acquisition and facility investment at the Yokohama Nomura Building (a building with outstanding environment performance), we issued the NRI Green Bonds. NRI was the first Japanese business ﬁrm to issue green bonds on a yen basis. *Green bonds: Bonds issued to procure funds required for business which contribute to the resolution of environmental issues such as global warming. 29 Seeking a sustainable society through repeated global discussions 30 Discussion among experts at the head oﬃce of Aviva Investors (London) Building relationships with stakeholders In response to global trends, NRI exchanges opinions with prominent foreign ESG investors and works to respond to social needs. It is said ESG investment of approximately US$ 23 trillion is invested in corporations that show consideration for the “Environment, Society, and Governance.” This is equivalent to one-fourth of the world's total investment amount. In response to these global trends, in August 2017, the NRI Group met with Steve Waygood, Chief Responsible Investment Officer at Aviva Investors, an ESG investment institution known throughout the world. At this meeting, we held our ﬁrst overseas dialogue with experts, exchanging opinions on topics such as “conditions surrounding ESGs” and “response expected from the NRI Group.” In this way, by continuing to hold discussions with various stakeholders, the NRI Group will ascertain demands from society and issues in the NRI Group. We will then work to reﬂect the knowledge gained into our management and business activities. CSR study session with partner corporations Every year, the NRI Group holds a study session with officials from business partners who compose our business supply chain. In fiscal 2017, the study session was attended by eighteen officials from nine of our main business partners. At the session, attendees share information on global conditions related to ESG, introduce ESG initiatives implemented by their respective companies, and exchange a variety of opinions. 31 Global network NRI Europe brierley europe Cutter Associates Europe NRI Europe Luxembourg Branch NRI Paciﬁc Moscow Branch NRI Secure North America Branch NRI Beijing brierley+partners LA Branch NRI Shanghai Beijing Branch NRI Dalian Zhiming Soft Beijing Zhiming Soft Dalian Zhiming Soft brierley+partners NRI Shanghai Jilin NRI Beijing Shanghai Branch Zhiming Soft Shanghai Cutter Associates NRI Zhiming Soft Wuxi brierley japan Zhiming Soft Beijing Chengdu Branch Zhiming Soft Shanghai Hangzhou Branch NRI Seoul NRI America NRI Holdings America NRI Consulting & Solutions India NRI Hong Kong NRI Taiwan NRI Singapore Manila Branch NRI FT India NRI IT Solutions America NRI Thailand ASG Brisbane NRI APAC ASG Sydney NRI Singapore ASG Canberra NRI Indonesia NRI Holdings Australia ASG Melbourne ASG Adelaide ASG Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. Nomura Research Institute (Beijing), Ltd. Nomura Research Institute Singapore Pte. Ltd. Moscow Branch Shanghai Branch Manila Branch Nomura Research Institute Holdings America, Inc. Nomura Research Institute Shanghai Limited Nomura Research Institute Hong Kong Limited Nomura Research Institute America, Inc. Beijing Branch PT. Nomura Research Institute Indonesia Nomura Research Institute IT Solutions America, Inc. Nomura Research Institute (Dalian), Ltd. Nomura Research Institute Consulting and Solutions India Private Limited Paciﬁc Branch Nomura Research Institute Taiwan Co., Ltd. Nomura Research Institute Financial Technologies India Pvt. Ltd. NRI SecureTechnologies, Ltd. Nomura Research Institute Seoul Co., Ltd. Nomura Research Institute Holdings Australia Pty Ltd. North America Branch Nomura Research Institute Thailand ASG Group Limited Brierley+Partners, Inc. Zhiming Software Beijing, Ltd. Sydney Oﬃce Los Angeles Branch Chengdu Branch Canberra Oﬃce Brierley Europe Limited Zhiming Software Shanghai, Ltd. Melbourne Oﬃce Brierley+Partners Japan, Inc. Hangzhou Branch Brisbane Oﬃce Cutter Associates, LLC Zhiming Software Dalian, Ltd. Adelaide Oﬃce Cutter Associates Europe, Ltd Zhiming Software Wuxi, Ltd. Nomura Research Institute Europe Limited Zhiming Software Jilin, Ltd. Luxembourg Branch Nomura Research Institute Asia Paciﬁc Private Limited 32 Editorial policy Nomura Research Institute has published a sustainability Organizations covered in this report report since fiscal 2005 to give our stakeholders This report focuses on NRI s activities, but also covers some an understanding of the NRI Group s initiatives for activities of the entire NRI Group and Group Companies. sustainability (including corporate social responsibility). The report also aims to facilitate internal and external Period covered by this report communication and to raise the level of our initiatives. This report primarily covers fiscal 2017 (April 1, 2017 to March 31, 2018), but also addresses some events from the From fiscal 2017, information on sustainability activities past, some activities after April 1, 2018, and certain plans and results is available in this booklet (Sustainability Book for future activities. 2018), through information disclosed on the internet, and through our Integrated Report 2018. Sustainability Book 2018 publication date December 2018 (the previous report was published in September The Sustainability Book 2018 was established by changing 2015, and the next report is scheduled for publication in September the name of our previous CSR Book. Just as in the previous 2019) CSR Book, we have tried to ensure that the Sustainability Book contains articles of interest to our stakeholders along Trademarks with the information that the NRI Group wants to convey, All proper names, including names of companies and and to present it in an interesting and easy-to-read format. products, found in the Sustainability Book 2018 are On the internet, we periodically disclose information trademarks or registered trademarks of the respective throughout the year. In addition to summaries of data, the companies. disclosed information also includes sustainability initiatives conducted by the NRI Group for sustainable growth of Disclaimer society. The Sustainability Book 2018 contains not only past and present facts about the NRI Group, but also plans and Integrated Report forecasts based on information acquired as of the date of https://www.nri.com/en/ir/library publication. Depending on changes in various conditions, there is the possibility that the results and events of these About the Cover future business activities may differ from the plans and These elephant statues are charity art schedules listed herein. Sustainability Book 2018 that are displayed at the entrance of The names of organizations, names of executive positions, our Yokohama Center (Yokohama etc., listed herein are current as of the time of the activities Nomura Building). These works of art or reporting. were sold at a charity event held by an organization called Elephant Parade® . The proceeds of the event are used to protect the Asian Elephant, an Inquiries about the Sustainability Book endangered species. NRI participates in this charity event which is held Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. annually throughout the world. We Sustainability & Responsibility Group were the ﬁrst Japanese corporation to E-mail：sustainability@nri.co.jp purchase a work of art at the event. Otemachi Financial City Grand Cube 1-9-2 Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan T e l：+81(3) 5877 7555 Fax：+81(3) 3243 7400 33 Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. This booklet is made of LIMEX, a limestone-based eco-friendly new Otemachi Financial City Grand Cube material. LIMEX uses no trees and 98% less water 1-9-2 Otemachi, Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-0004, Japan (20m³ per 1 ton) in the manufacturing process in comparison to ordinary https://www.nri.com/en coated paper. LIMEX emits 3% less CO2 (1666kg per 1 A portion (2,000kWh) of the power ton) in the raw material procurement and manufacturing consumed during printing and A “universal design” font has been process in comparison to coated paper, and 37% less (847kg bookbinding is covered by renewable Unauthorized reproduction prohibited. used in this book for ease of reading. per 1 ton) in comparison to polypropylene plastic. energy. Copyright © 2018 Nomura Research Institute, Ltd. All Rights Reserved. 800-0028-01-1812
