Communication on Progress (COP) ORB International Period covered by COP: 03 July 2018 to 03 July 2019 1. Statement of continued support by the Managing Director 1 July 2019 To our stakeholders: I hereby reaffirm ORB International’s ongoing support for the Ten Principles of the United Nations Global Compact. These ten principles are outlined below: Human Rights Labour 1. Businesses should support and 3. Businesses should uphold the respect the protection of freedom of association and the internationally proclaimed human effective recognition of the right rights; and to collective bargaining; 2. Make sure that they are not 4. The elimination of all forms of complicit in human rights abuses. forced and compulsory labour; 5. The effective abolition of child labour; and 6. The elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and occupation. Environment Anti-corruption 7. Businesses should support a 10. Businesses should work against precautionary approach to corruption in all its forms, environmental challenges; including extortion and bribery. 8. Undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. Encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. In this annual Communication on Progress, we will outline the actions we have taken in the last year to improve the integration of Global Compact and its principles into ORB’s business strategy, working culture, and day-to-day operations. We also commit to sharing this information with our stakeholders in the future. Yours sincerely, Jonathan Heald Managing Director, ORB International (UK) Communication on Progress (COP) 2. Description of actions taken Our approach to implementing the Ten Principles into our work is premised on our understanding that our stakeholders divide into four key groups, and that the needs of each group should be borne in mind when devising policy and planning our work. These groups are: 1. Our employees; 2. Our partner organisations and affiliates; 3. Our research participants across the world; 4. Society at large. While change can be enacted most easily at the lowest level, among our employees, we will continue to push to further the positive impact our work can have among our partners, research participants, and society at large, in line with the Ten Principles recognised in the Global Compact. Actions taken over the last year in the four key areas of Human Rights, Labour, Environment and Anti-corruption are outlined below, and we are committed to further action over the coming year. Human Rights • ORB International continues to ensure safe, suitable and sanitary work facilities for all employees and has made changes to the office environment to improve employee well-being (e.g. office decoration, provision of ergonomic equipment to prevent work-related strain injuries, introduction of optional standing desks, etc.); • ORB International operates a zero-tolerance policy for harassment of any kind (including but not limited to physical, verbal, sexual or psychological harassment, abuse or threats) and is instigating inter-office HR ‘check-ins’ to ensure any and all issues can be confidentially resolved; • ORB works to promote fair working practices among our partner organisations, particularly in the area of employing women in local interviewing teams; • ORB has written and implemented a Gender Inclusivity Policy, ensuring that the views and needs of women are considered throughout the research process, and at every step of our supply chain (e.g. including women in research as both participants and researchers, ensuring safe and appropriate interviewing conditions for female research participants, etc.); • As part of our commitment to accessible education and to contributing to the societies in which we work, ORB has had an ongoing partnership with a school project for orphaned children in Bungoma, Kenya for the last six years, supporting them with funding to enable them to rent their buildings. This year, with ORB support, the project was able to purchase its own land on which to build, ensuring that they are protected from the threat of ever-increasing rents and possible eviction and therefore able to safely expand and offer more local children access to education. Communication on Progress (COP) Labour • ORB continues to ensure that we do not participate in any form of forced or bonded labour, either directly or indirectly; • ORB has reviewed our pay policy for our remote-working Quality Control agents, moving from paying UK minimum wage (currently £7.70 £8.21 depending on age) to paying above the UK Living Wage to all agents, regardless of age; • ORB has improved the diversity of the workforce through recent appointments and implemented efforts to ensure that all future recruitment is as free as possible from bias or discrimination against any group. Environment • ORB has sought to make energy usage more efficient through re-insulating the office loft with BBA(British Board of Agrément) and EST(Energy Saving Trust) approved Icynene spray foam, installation of energy-efficient lightbulbs, and other measures; • ORB has installed a filtered water tap to replace multiple water coolers, thereby reducing reliance on plastic and delivery of bottles; • ORB has improved and expanded recycling processes at our London office to minimise the amount of recyclable waste that goes to landfill; • ORB has begun investigations into various carbon-offset schemes to help us reduce our carbon footprint. Anti-Corruption • ORB continues to work to factor the risk of corruption into project design and management when setting up new projects, especially in countries scoring low on Transparency International’s Corruption Perceptions Index; • ORB continues to work to implement ethical behaviour requirements when working with local partners, especially in countries where corruption is endemic. 3. Measurement of Outcomes Outcomes of our efforts in the last year are outlined below. In the coming year we will identify further ways in which the progress of our efforts can be measured so as to ensure we can monitor ongoing progress. • The pay increase for our remote-working QC agents to £9 per hour translates to an average gross increase of between £5.55 (for those over 25) and £9.13 (for those aged 21-24) per week (based on the average of 7 hours worked per week); • Reduced energy consumption related to efficiency improvements at London office (exact amount unavailable); • Reduction of bottled water consumption (and bottle delivery) to zero thanks to introduction of filtered water tap; Communication on Progress (COP) • Notable reduction in the amount of recyclable waste going to landfill thanks to improved recycling facilities (estimated at an improvement from <10% to >50%).
