2018 CORPORATE RESPONSIBILITY REPORT Our Responsibility 1 Arla Foods is a global dairy company CONTENT Forewords 3 owned by more than 10,300 dairy Arla’s foundation for sustainability Our business model 5 6 farmers in seven European countries. About this report Health 7 8 We believe sustainability and Inspiration Natural 11 15 Human rights 20 profitability go hand in hand, and that About Arla Company performance 24 25 our dedication benefits both society Owners Colleagues 26 27 and our business. Ambitions and progress Food 28 29 People 30 Responsible business 31 Sourcing 32 Nature 33 Key performance indicators 36 UN Global compact 37 Materiality analysis 38 2 Dairy farming in a changing world Sustainable dairy production is top of the agenda in Arla, and will continue to be so for the foreseeable future. The environmental footprint of dairy farming was also increasingly debated among consumers during the year. Being a cooperative with a collaborative mindset Arla has already come a long way and are well prepared to continue our contribution to making dairy production even more sustainable. For me, as the new chairman of Arla Foods, it is about how we can develop our dairy production in a project in Nigeria, focusing on the development of a We think about sustainability in the broadest sense: important that we as farmers actively address social and responsible and sustainable way, including milk quality sustainable dairy value chain, and our involvement in Respect for the environment, developing healthy sustainability agendas as these are core to our business, and animal welfare, while, importantly, also allowing China, where Arla is working together with local farmers, products for feeding the world’s rapidly growing our cooperative, and the global industry. We have farmers to continue to invest in the development of sharing our expertise in dairy farming and improving population while respecting human rights. This report worked with these agendas for many years, and during their business. herd health. More than 1,000 farmers have already will give you an insight into how our efforts, contribute 2018, we made incremental progress towards our 2020 been involved in these activities. to our corporate responsibility commitments and our targets across our business. We have strong collaborations with the scientific overall mission. “To secure the highest value for our community and, together with Aarhus university, have In Arla Foods, we are committed to being open and farmers milk while creating opportunities for their 2018 presented challenges and opportunities for dairy established a professorship and a five year research transparent. Consumers and customers demand it growth.” production on many levels, and the warm and dry project investigating how milk production can become and it is essential to securing dairy as an important summer affected dairy farming in most of Northern more sustainable. The target is to find solutions to part of the future. An example of how we set targets Europe. Therefore, it was encouraging that our strong key challenges in dairy production, looking into the for transparent milk production is Arlagården® Plus, balance sheet allowed the Board of Directors to propose possibilities to reduce the environmental and climate which ran its first full year in 2018, and which by the paying out the entire 2018 net profit to our farmer impacts while delivering healthy products to a growing end of 2018 covered 96 per cent of the Arla milk owners. population. pool. Together with our overall quality programme Arlagården® this will be an important tool to create In 2019, we will go further towards the new ambitious True to the DNA of the cooperative mindset, Arla even higher quality, better animal welfare and targets beyond 2020, set by Arla’s management collaborates with farmers around the world to support sustainable dairy production. Jan Toft Nørgaard and Board. I am looking forward to the discussions local dairy industries. Examples of this include our Chairman of the Board of Directors 3 Taking action on sustainability is key During 2018, public awareness of climate change increased in intensity and the urgency to act continues to build. At Arla, we are committed to accelerating the transition to sustainable dairy production and building confidence in dairy as part of a healthy and sustainable diet. Eating habits are changing and the world’s growing action between now and 2030. At EU and national engagement in Nigeria, supporting the local dairy and eaten enables our younger generation to make population is increasing the need for a more sustainable government levels climate strategies have been the industry and creating opportunities for local farmers, more informed choices, not only in terms of their own and nutritious diet. The Food and Agriculture main focus of discussions throughout the year. At the and our social enterprise programme in Bangladesh, health but also when it comes to the health of the Organisation within the United Nations (FAO) has COP24 in December, a range of measures to make the generating jobs for female micro-entrepreneurs selling planet. stated that dairy, due to it being nutrient dense, makes Paris Agreement operational in 2020 were agreed. Arla’s affordable nutrition in rural areas. a significant contribution to global health and recent Arla is committed to adapting the way we conduct FAO analysis shows that milk production continues to To accelerate our transition to sustainable dairy Our overall sustainability strategy focuses on the three our activities to the 10 basic principles of the United become more efficient and sustainable. farming and production, we will be rolling out our new areas on which we have the greatest impact and on Nations’ Global Compact, and to communicate these environmental strategy in 2019. It focuses on better which we can make the most important contributions principles to our stakeholders and the surrounding Through investments, new technology and optimised climate, clean air and water and more nature. It is to delivering UN’s Sustainable Development Goals: world. This report is part of that work. production and farming methods, Arla and its farmer guided by science based targets in line with planetary Increase access to dairy nutrition, Inspire good food owners have contributed to this result by continuously boundaries and will replace our current environmental habits, and Improve the environment for future Taking further action on sustainability is key for Arla and working to produce quality milk while reducing strategy towards 2020. generations. I am proud of the progress delivered by the organisation emissions. This has resulted in an average Arla emission and our farmer owners during 2018, as described in this intensity per kilo of milk being less than half the global In 2018, we joined the global celebration of the 70th In 2018, we have inspired better food habits in core report. I look forward to working together to drive more average. anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human markets and we are aiming to use our learnings to change in the years to come. Rights. Respecting human rights and welcoming build educational programmes in other markets in and It is, however, obvious that Arla, as a major dairy farming diversity are integral to the way we grow our business outside Europe. Our main focus is to empower children cooperative, needs to improve further. In October and gives us a broader perspective on the needs to make good food choices and gain knowledge, which 2018, UN’s Intergovernmental Panel on Climate we strive to meet around the world, not least in can be applied throughout life. A better understanding Peder Tuborgh Change (IPCC) released a report that calls for drastic emerging markets. Some of the examples include our of how food is produced and how it can be prepared CEO 4 Arla’s foundation for sustainability, Arla’s Code of Conduct – Our Responsibility – is our foundation for sustainable development. It and how we go forward covers all aspects of our business and is at the heart of every decision made in our company. Our Responsibility is approved by Arla’s Board of Directors. Arla’s Executive Management Team approves strategies, prioritises areas, ensures progress, annual follow up and sets direction for necessary improvements, and further updates of the Code. Vision Sustainability strategy HEALTH Creating the Our sustainability strategy supports the focus areas in our vision – Health, Inspiration and Natural – and at the future of dairy to core of the strategy we have our commitment to respect HUMAN bring health and international human rights principles. In this report, you RIGHTS find examples of how we work to grow our business, while inspiration to the acting responsibly in every step. NATURAL INSPIRATION world, naturally. ST R UCT ION S A ND G UIDE LIN ES How we work Good Growth A N DA R DS A IN AN DA TO R Y ST N P O L I C IE S DC OD responsibly strategy 2020 ES ,M ES OF All managers are responsible for embedding our Code of Our strategy to reach our vision is called Good PR A Conduct in Arla’s culture and business, and each and every Growth 2020. Everyone at Arla is committing to P R O C E SS colleague plays an important role in the implementation. growing the business in a good way. C TIC E CODE OF CONDUCT Our Code of Conduct is further operationalised in policies, We grow the value of our farmer owners’ processes, standards and codes of practice throughout our milk by developing our position as a value chain. Our overall due diligence process, which we leading global dairy company. apply before entering a new partnership or joint venture, covers economic, social, and environmental concerns. Read more about Good Growth 2020 on arla.com. 5 Our business model – Consumers and customers We use our knowledge and dedication to meet the contribution to society needs of consumers and customers around the world. We inspire good food habits, support our consumers in making informed choices and share knowledge about the origin of food. Arla Foods is a global dairy cooperative, with farmer owners in seven European countries. Our business impacts society in various ways, and through our collaborative business model, we promote sustainable development and good citizenship. We create jobs around the world, ensure livelihoods for farmers, and run a transparent and resource efficient business. ONE milk pool ONE milk pool from well-kept animals, with the same quality requirements across countries, in combination with a resource efficient production People, production chain, enables us to meet consumer expectations for and logistics safe, sustainable, nutritious and natural products. We provide a safe and healthy workplace for our approximately 19,000 engaged colleagues who work to improve our business – from ensuring world-class food safety standards in our production, to resource efficient and sustainable production, transportation and administration. Value creation Innovation We create sustainable growth opportunities for our farmer owners. We source and trade responsibly, Creating the future of dairy, we collaborate with creating livelihoods for farmers and workers in many many stakeholders throughout our value chain. countries, and we create value for consumers by With a strong innovative approach, we respond to the growing demand for healthy, affordable Farmer owners offering products to fulfill their demands. and sustainable products. We develop, use Arla farmers are at the core of our business, as both raw and share our knowledge about dairy farming, milk suppliers and owners of the cooperative. Together, nutrition and production technologies. we work to continuously improve dairy farming practices, and to further develop a well-functioning and transparent democratic organisation. 6 About this report In this report we summarise our sustainability activities and progress for the financial year 2018. We cover the significant social, ethical and environmental commitments and results we made in 2018 and some of the actions planned for 2019. Reporting scope Risk management The scope for this report is Arla colleagues Our approach to due diligence is integrated in and companies where we have management the way we work and do business along our value control, unless otherwise stated. Joint ventures chain. We identify, prevent and mitigate risks and other entities over which Arla does not related to our activities to help minimise adverse have management control are not covered in impact on people, society and business. We focus the quantitative reporting. However, we work on reporting on progress in relation to social with our partners to ensure an ongoing focus on and employee issues, environment, climate, sustainability issues. corruption, human rights and other topics material to us. During 2017, we updated our materiality analysis. We invited main stakeholders to prioritise the importance of 22 defined aspects related to our sustainability activities, see The report serves as our annual communication page 38. The outcome, in combination with on progress against the UN Global Compact and continuous dialogue with key stakeholders, as the statutory statement on CSR in accordance helps us improve the scope and focus of our with Section 99a of the Danish Financial work, reporting and communication processes. Statements Act. Furthermore, it serves as basis when relating to the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. This English master version has been translated into several languages. Governance For further information, please visit arla.com and read Arla’s Annual Report 2018. Our Executive Management Team governs our strategies. Daily implementation of strategies and policies to support sustainable development lies with relevant functions. Strategic issues in particular in relation to farm management are discussed and agreed with our Board of Directors. 7 HEALTH We use the power of milk to influence millions of consumers’ food habits. Our extensive range of tasty and nutrient rich products can contribute to healthier diets for consumers around the world. 8 HIGHLIGHTS 2018 HEALTH HEALTH uu External review of health strategy – provided input for further development. HUMAN uu Launch of on-the-go products, mixing grains, vegetables and dairy. RIGHTS uu Successful food safety focus – resulted in only two product recalls worldwide. NATURAL INSPIRATION D airy products are recommended as part of a efficiency and speed. It also helps us to improve Nutrition Criteria for Arla® branded products Sugar reduction daily diet from childhood to old age, across the transparency and control of our product data and The Arla® Nutrition Criteria secure the content of Arla® branded yogurts are leading the way when it world. The starting point for our health strategy our ability to share information about our products dairy protein and calcium, while limiting the amount comes to sugar reduction and we are continuously is our commitment to promote and offer healthy internally as well as externally. The roll-out of PLM of added sugars, salt and fat. The criteria are the working to further improve our portfolio. In 2018, and affordable dairy products around the world. Milk across Arla will continue for a further three years. guiding principles that support the development we made further progress by launching a series of naturally contains one of the richest combinations of of healthier Arla® branded products, and thereby flavoured yogurts with no added sugar, sweeteners, nutrients you can find in a single food source, such as Product innovation increase availability of healthier dairy products to our additives, stabilisers or concentrated fruit juices. The calcium, vitamine B2 and B12, iodine, a high content As part of our health strategy, we are continuously consumers. products are the first on the market to contain only of protein and a broad range of other vitamins and exploring how we can help people eat healthily and natural yogurt and fruit. minerals. we are developing new products to meet consumer’s We constantly strive to ensure our products fulfil the needs. We have recently launched a range of products Arla® Nutrition Criteria. Our ambition is to increase the Guidelines for natural ingredients Food safety comes first to deliver small and healthy in between meal options. percentage of products complying with the criteria Our technical guidelines support our efforts towards We want to help people to eat healthily, but first and One example is our new single-serving porridge with and achieve 95 per cent by 2020. In 2018, 91 per cent using natural ingredients when possible. We do, foremost, we want to ensure that eating or drinking yogurt. Another innovative product features a mix of of the Arla® Branded products in the milk, yogurt and however, use artificial ingredients, for example to our products is always safe. Our continuous efforts grains, legumes and vegetables to provide a better everyday cheeses categories comply with the criteria. secure the safety of products that are transported long resulted in a significant reduction in product recalls and on-the go product. This is a result of a decrease of plain milk sales and an distances and for providing calorie-reduced products withdrawals from ten in 2017 to two in 2018. To further increase of non-compliant yogurt volumes compared that deliver health benefits to our consumers. We are increase our accountability as a world class supplier of Health strategy review to 2016. The affordable and flavored milk categories striving to reduce our use of artificial ingredients and are premium foods, we established a quality and food safety As part of our constant work to improve our products, we improved by 16 per cent and the cheese category continuously searching for natural alternatives. board at top management level. invited a group of experts within different fields of nutrition improved by 2 per cent, compared to 2016. and health to critically review our health strategy. The Control of product lifecycle objective was to further strengthen the validity of the We are improving how we capture quality parameters strategy and to propose changes or adaptations. and other sustainability aspects of our products, throughout their lifecycle, by implementing a system of The experts pointed out that one of the strengths is that Product Lifecycle Management (PLM). PLM integrates the strategy has a preventive mindset and focuses on people, processes, data and systems to increase good food habits and the role our diet plays in relation to health. Furthermore, the review indicated that the 100 % strategy would benefit from an increased level of transparency in relation to consumer brands. Work now continues to further improve our health strategy. Nutritional benchmarking Access to Nutrition Index (ATNI) is a tool used by Food safety and customer centricity is core to our business. the Access to Nutrition Foundation, an independent 100 per cent of our production volume is manufactured at non-profit organisation to measure the world’s top 22 sites with GFSI (Global Food Safety Initiative) certification or food and beverage companies’ contribution to good similar, and in 2018, we had more than 100 customer audits on production sites. In 85 per cent of these audits, Arla received top nutrition against industry best practice. We have improved rating, demonstrating a clear alignment between our customers’ our overall ATNI score during the last two years, and our expectations and our performance. current position ranks us as number 11 (2016: 14). 9 Responsible marketing and health nutrition has been created, with support from Arla. communication The position will support the investigation of the As part of our efforts to make it easier for our consumers relationship between nutrition and health in diabetic to eat healthily, we align our health communication and pre-diabetic individuals and contribute to further with our nutrition criteria. To secure its relevance, health improvement of public health. communication is only used in association with Arla® branded products that fulfil our nutrition criteria. Benefits of a good breakfast In Sweden, we have collaborated with a municipality and We have a big responsibility in relation to the marketing two high schools in a socio-economically challenged of our products, especially towards children. In 2017, area to serve breakfast in the classroom during morning Arla joined the EU pledge initiative on responsible lessons. The initiative aimed to give insights into the food marketing to children. In 2018, the EU initiative relationship between breakfast and school performance, performed an external audit on our compliance to this and assessed the well-being, learning ability and focus of commitment, and the report will be available in 2019. the students. The evaluations show that eating breakfast External audits of this nature provide the impetus for increased the students’ ability to concentrate and continual development and fuel our desire to step up teachers concluded that the classroom environment our performance. improved. A further outcome of serving breakfast during the morning class was that more students were in Collaborative research attendance compared to when breakfast is served in the We collaborate with several stakeholders within health canteen prior to their first class. and nutrition to enhance our knowledge and to jointly develop new solutions that will bring benefits to our We have also completed a research study in Ghana consumers. The public-private partnership in nutrition in collaboration with Washington University School research – Arla Food for Health – in cooperation with of Medicine. About 1,000 children, between the Copenhagen and Aarhus University in Denmark has ages of six and nine years, were served breakfast continued its studies of the health effects of dairy, dairy porridge, either plain or enriched with milk protein, or a ingredients and dairy’s role in a balanced diet. combination of milkand rice protein. In this study, the children vulnerable to malnutrition benefitted from all In 2018, the partnership launched its third open three versions of porridge provided by the intervention. research call to search for research projects that will The study further showed that the children who were deliver insights into how dairy and dairy components given milk protein-enriched porridge, equivalent to one can be part of the solution to deliver health and welldaily glass of milk, performed better in cognitive tests being for people of all ages. Currently 10 different than the children in the other intervention groups. This research projects are ongoing, and the initial results indicates that it is relevant to continue exploring how were published in 2018. Read more about all the milk and dairy products, in combination with plantprojects here: based proteins, can create both healthy and affordable PRIORITIES 2019 www.arla.com/company/arla-food-for-health solutions that will improve the nutritional status uu Further improve and deliver on our health strategy, including Arla® Nutrition Criteria. and cognitive performance in vulnerable population At Steno Diabetes Center, Aarhus University Hospital, groups. uu Continue focus on food safety performance. Denmark, a new university professor position in uu Further define Arla’s ambition to limit added sugar. 10 INSPIRATION We inspire consumers around the world to eat well, and we find that new ideas, creative solutions and good decisions often come from collaboration and knowledge sharing. 11 HIGHLIGHTS 2018 HEALTH HEALTH uu 230 million consumers engaged online. HUMAN uu 140,000 school children visited a farm – learning about the origin of milk. RIGHTS NATURAL INSPIRATION uu Increased focus on research and collaboration on sustainable dairy farming. NATURAL INSPIRATION O ur business is fueled by inspiration. From our We do this by using our farmer owners in external Organic focus To broaden our contact with Danish school children, farmer owners sharing experiences on new communications, from TV-commercials to on-pack Arla wants to offer healthy and natural dairy products to we also provide study material, which aims to improve farming practices to consumers feeling inspired information, to stress the importance of the origin of milk, meet the needs and preferences of consumers around the culture around school meals, for example focusing to try new recipes or products to match their lifestyles. as well as of being a farmer-owned cooperative. Our farmer the world. We are the world’s largest supplier of organic on enough time to eat in a calm environment and We also want to inspire future generations to create owners in Denmark, Sweden, Germany, Belgium and the dairy products and have driven the organic dairy encouraging an open attitude to trying different foods. a better relationship with food, and one of the ways is UK, hosted open farm days, attracting more than 500,000 market for decades in Sweden and Denmark. Part of our The material is developed by Arla Foundation and in through our open farm activities where children and people in total. When cows are put out to pasture in the company strategy is to continue growing the organic 2018, 400 classes worked with it. adults can learn where milk and dairy products come spring in Denmark and Sweden it is even an online event, dairy category globally. from. reaching more than 2 million followers in 2018. Inspiring consumers to waste less Our organic strategy also includes a strong focus on During the year, food waste has become an even more Knowledge about life on dairy farms Over the years, our ’little farmer programmes’, in which product innovation. In Germany, we have launched a hot topic and the source of debate in many countries. In today’s world, many consumers are disconnected we invite school children to our owners’ farms, have new organic yogurt consisting only of organic yogurt Although we cannot quantify the effect of our efforts, from food production. We provide insight into the origin educated more than one million children about life (75 per cent) and organic fruit (25 per cent). To further Arla has worked for years targeting food waste among of our products and the work that takes place at our on farm. The visits are usually combined with study strengthen our organic position and increase availability consumers. Examples include offering tips and tricks owners’ farms, as we believe more knowledge leads to material for children to work with at school before and of organic dairy products to UK consumers, we have online and on the back of milk cartons, about how to better food choices. after the visit. In 2018, Denmark, Sweden and Germany acquired the rights to use the Yeo Valley® brand for milk, avoid food waste, and we give inspiration for cooking hosted more than 140,000 children on farm. butter, spreads and cheese. with leftovers in recipe databases and through apps and weekly meal planning tools. In the Middle East, consumers are also looking for new products. Launching Arla® Organic in MENA was a In 2018, Arla Sweden began labelling fresh dairy response to the raising consumer trend and a way for products including milk, cream and yogurt ’Best before, us to provide our retail partners with added value to a often good after’. This was to inspire and encourage traditional and commoditised milk category. consumers not to discard products only based on date. It is fine to consume many products that are beyond the Cooking inspiration best before date, especially if they have been stored at We believe inspiration and knowledge about cooking the correct temperature. is the best way to develop good food habits. Our recipe services provide cooking inspiration on our national websites, in brochures and via online apps. In our core European markets, we see a positive development in the number of consumers who believe that Arla helps them eat healthily. 500,000 In Denmark, our independent body, Arla Foundation, annually arranges food camps for 1,600 school children aged 13–14 years. The evaluation of these is positive, showing increased confidence in cooking among the young chefs as well as an interest in for example tasting We see great consumer interest in visiting farms and gaining an new vegetables. insight into the origin of dairy products and the work that takes place at the farm, with more than 500,000 visitors in 2018. 12 Increasing the recycling of packaging, especially Engaging farmers in the cooperative Further improving farm management skills through several on farm workshops, advisory work on plastics, is another frequently discussed topic and As a strong and visionary cooperative, Arla needs a We support our farmer owners to improve their local farms and by publishing a monthly newsletter essential in limiting waste. In the UK, Arla has joined pool of future farmer representatives. With the training management skills to handle the challenges of dairy containing advice and articles on dairy production. forces with a customer to inspire consumers to recycle programme, Arla Next, we want to inspire more Arla farming, including the volatility of the global dairy plastic milk bottles. Shoppers can scan the packaging to farmers to become elected representatives, and we industry. In the UK, we have launched the Arla R500 The partnership has been in charge of a project, find out how to correctly recycle them. In Sweden, Arla offer an international network within the cooperative. Resilience Programme with a strong focus on improving which aims to save costs in milk production, with engages in a recycling contest for school children and is The current training programme will conclude early people management and strengthening technical and seven participating farms, with close to 30,000 dairy using the backs of milk cartons to explain the recycling 2019 with 55 participants. Participants will be able financial skills. Over 300 farmer owners are working cows in total. The goal is also to improve farm income process and encourage consumers to contribute. to put themselves forward in the forthcoming 2019 within 16 benchmarking discussion groups across the and employee skills. Furthermore, it is establishing elections. UK, sharing best practice. know-how amongst local advisors and qualifying them Engaging consumers on social media to expand the approach to more farms. Following the In markets where Arla® is a well-known brand, social In our mentoring programme, elected members of Partnering to advance local dairy production success of our partnership it has been extended for an media is now the main platform for consumers to pose the Board of Representatives pair with newly elected Since 2012, Arla has cooperated with China’s Mengniu additional three years, to continue collaborating on questions and share opinions. In Northern Europe, our representatives from another country. The current Dairy Company to improve animal welfare, milk quality, farm efficiency improvements. consumer relations services received more than 80,000 mentoring programme has 38 pairs and will conclude at food safety, environmental impact, know-how and enquiries in 2018. Our digital sites had 230 million visits the Board of Representatives meeting in February 2019. knowledge in Chinese milk production. In 2018, the Embracing our role as a global food company and (2017: 148) resulting in interaction. main focus for the cooperation has been on improving cooperative, Arla is now broadening this kind of At Arla local farmhouse meetings (earlier referred to as the skills and knowledge of both farmers, farm workers collaborative approach to other markets. Arla is increasingly using short films to engage Arla Seminars) farmer owners meet in smaller groups to and employees working in the support system of consumers in cooking, and sharing tips and tricks, discuss current topics. Each market has specific targets dairy production. This has been done by hosting and also to raise topics including sustainable farming for the share of farmer owners attending these meetings. different seminars with over 1,000 participants in total, and increased recycling of packaging. To increase engagement and knowledge about farming among 15–25-year-olds in Sweden, two new social media initiatives were launched during the year. Market reputation 80 UK Germany Sweden 75 Finland Denmark 70 65 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 The diagram shows the overall scores on a scale of 0–100, with 100 being the highest and above 70 considered strong, awarded to Arla by consumers in a survey conducted by Reputation Institute in 2018. 13 In Bangladesh, where local dairy production only and labour rights, animal welfare and to promote a model that captures that work in a robust and rational • A four-year research programme on dairy in meets 40 per cent of local demand, Arla has signed an technology and innovation. manner, for the collective benefit of our customers, Arla sustainable diets from sustainable food chains, agreement to support further development of local and other suppliers of responsible dairy products. together with the Swedish farmers’ foundation for dairy production with our knowledge about sustainable Collaborative research and development agricultural research. dairy farming, food safety and technology. Arla is an active member of global networks and We also engage in and support research at universities • A five-year professor position and research project organisations with the ambition to contribute and institutes, to further strengthen the sustainability on improved feed efficiency and sustainable milk Cooperation with suppliers to increased knowledge and precompetitive performance of dairy farming and to better understand production at Aarhus University’s Centre for Circular As a cooperative, we value the strength of working developments within the industry. In 2018, we engaged the role of dairy in sustainable diets. Examples include: Bioeconomy, sponsored by Arla. together with others to develop our business. In in a project in the Sustainable Agriculture Initiative in collaboration with suppliers we can improve both their which we developed and tested a business-to-business and our performance in terms of quality, efficiency and model which assesses the company implementation environmental impact. of the Dairy Sustainability Framework, a joined initiative from the global dairy industry. PRIORITIES 2019 Arla has identified palm oil as a risk ingredient and is uu Continue focus on inspiring good food habits. aware of the environmental, social and human rights’ Our pilot consisted of five Arla customers who have challenges on many palm oil plantations. To improve engaged in a close dialogue with us on our approach to uu Knowledge sharing with farmers and suppliers. working conditions in Indonesia, we supported local drive sustainable dairy farming. The goal is to find uu Inspire consumers to reduce waste from food and packaging. workshops in collaboration with our main supplier of palm oil. Our primary objective has been to strengthen supplier understanding of labour issues and improve plantation management practices. Through the workshops, suppliers also gain a deeper understanding of responsible sourcing expectations. Supplier collaboration can also improve processing efficiency and reduce resource use. A project together with a supplier of cleaning detergents has resulted in 95 per cent of our sites optimising their processes delivering savings on water, chemicals, heating, product waste and energy. 62 projects have been completed and more than 300 are in the pipeline. Sharing experiences on responsible sourcing We participate in a two-year pilot project to test new guidelines for strengthening responsible sourcing and supply chain management practices globally. The guide was launched by OECD (Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development) and FAO (Food and Agriculture Organisation of the United Nations). It aims to minimise risks related to, for example, human 14 NATURAL With our focus on sustainable dairy production, future generations of a growing world population will be able to enjoy the benefits of nutritious dairy products. 15 HIGHLIGHTS 2018 HEALTH HEALTH uu 9,000 farmer owners evaluated their cows quarterly – focusing on animal welfare. HUMAN uu Increased focus on packaging to reduce climate impact and improve recyclability. RIGHTS uu Developed long-term environmental strategy – beyond 2020. NATURAL INSPIRATION T ogether with our farmer owners, we are in the unique position of being able to work with every step in our value chain, to make a positive contribution to a more sustainable future. We take our planet’s challenges seriously and work continuously to reduce the negative impact of our production. We know that dairy production has a climate impact and for many years we have worked with this as one of our most important issues to mitigate. Therefore, we have goals and target emissions at farm level in our sustainable dairy farming strategy as well as in our value chain with our environmental strategy 2020 targets. Sustainable dairy farming progress The goal in our sustainable dairy farming strategy is to reduce the emission of greenhouse gases from farms by 30 per cent per kilo milk, from 1990 to 2020. In 2018, we have continued our work with carbon assessments on farms, giving farmers the opportunity to receive recommendations on how to further reduce such emissions. Farm level emissions were reduced by 24 per cent in 2017 (2016: 23). Carbon assessments are reported one year after. we have initiated a project together with other large impacts of dairy farming, how to measure and increase production and information on land use. At year-end Many Arla farmers produce renewable electricity based companies within the food industry. The ultimate the positive effects and methodology developments 2018, 84 per cent of our farmer owners had registered, on solar, wind or biogas. The amount produced is deliverable is to have a method that will support and to forward the debate on sustainable foods. Please see representing 96 per cent of farmer owners’ milk pool. comparable to 61 per cent of the annual use on farm. encourage farmers to adopt and implement activities page 14 for more examples of research collaboration. From January 2019, our organic farmers in Denmark and practices that promote carbon sequestration. The experience of working with the documentation will cover their net electricity use on farm by buying Increased transparency with Arlagården® Plus centre, which was introduced in late 2017, is positive, and renewable electricity certificates. This is already the Furthermore, we invest in research for a more Arlagården® Plus is our digital documentation centre, the information is a useful tool for farmers to benchmark case for organic farmers in Sweden. sustainable dairy production. In Denmark, Arla is which increases our transparency and helps farmer animal assessments and other farm performance. funding a professor position in collaboration with owners to make continuous improvements on farm. One important way Arla farms contribute with positive Aarhus University’s Centre for Circular Bioeconomy, Every quarter Arla farmers enter detailed information We are developing an animal welfare index in environmental impact, i.e. ecosystem services, is the to lead a five year research project aimed at reducing about their farm, for example about animal welfare – cooperation with Copenhagen University, Denmark. The uptake of carbon in grasslands, hedges and pasture the climate impact of dairy production. And in Sweden, using the systematic approach to assess the wellbeing index will create a common ground for discussing and lands, which mitigates climate change. Nevertheless, Arla is funding research into sustainably produced dairy of each cow individually. The value of this is an working systematically with animal welfare on farm, and there is not scientific consensus on how to calculate as part of sustainable diets, in collaboration with the increased focus on individual cow welfare, and targeted further improve animal welfare. The index is based on carbon sequestration in dairy farming. To develop a Swedish farmers’ foundation for agricultural research. actions to mitigate problems. The farmers also enter indicators from Arlagården® Plus. method for estimating carbon sequestration on farm Five projects are addressing how to reduce negative information about farming practices, renewable energy 16 In 2018, a food waste mapping model for our sites was being made to deliver significant savings in the use of introduced to identify food waste points, identify causes natural gas. and facilitate plans to target food waste in a structured manner. Our ambition is to use at least 50 per cent renewable energy at corporate level by 2020, taking into When products cannot be sold, we prefer to donate consideration national legislation and availability. them to charitable food banks, preferably members in The share of renewable energy in 2018 was 27 per the Food Banks of Europe. Other preferred uses of our cent, indicating that more action is needed. However, surplus products and of by-products from production, is we continued to work across sites with projects to animal feed and reprocessing. The most common use improve energy efficiency, and thereby reduce climate of our food waste is anaerobic digestion followed by impact. The performance for 2018 from our operations sewer and land application. Keeping track of volumes has been reduced by 25 per cent since 2005, thus and destinations enables Arla to identify improvement achieving this target two years ahead of time. potential in moving resources up the value hierarchy, making better use of the valuable nutrients in the raw Water efficiency materials. In 2018, Arla focused on supporting sites where environmental permits may limit production or In addition to supporting our farmer owners’ Structured work to reduce food waste In 2018, we joined the initiative Friends of Champions expansion plans. We continuously seek possibilities to management of their dairy cows, the documentation Food waste is an important issue which has recently 12.3, a network of organisations and companies increase efficiency. During 2018 we made significant centre provides Arla with information that can be used gained increased attention in the public debate. For focusing on halving food loss and waste by 2030. water consumption reductions of about 1 million m3 to further strengthen our dialogue with consumers years, Arla’s ambition has been to halve food waste Additionally, we take part in a project at the Royal compared to 2017. and customers who are increasingly interested in the in production and at consumer level. However, only Swedish Academy of Engineering Sciences in Sweden, sustainability performance of our products, specifically recently has a methodology for quantifying and with the goal of creating a national reporting system for Transport improvements related to caring for the cows, feeding and land use. reporting food loss and waste been agreed. Arla has food waste along the food value chain. Our climate target for transport remains challenging decided to adhere and report according to this standard as biofuel availability is low and costs are high in many Climate impact quantification for our production chain, using 2015 as the base year. Environmental strategy 2020 countries. Overall, Arla reduced its climate impact from Together with external experts we have developed The results show that we have reduced food waste For Arla’s own operations, our environmental strategy transport by 12 per cent from 2005 to 2018. Arla’s Science Based Targets, which is an increasingly below 2 per cent of raw material use. 2020 sets the objectives for our environmental and used approach to take responsibility for achieving the climate work. Working towards our goals, we experience Paris Agreement ensuring a maximum temperature We cannot quantify food waste at consumer level both possibilities and challenges. We have committed increase below 2 degrees Celsius. In November, we sent in an aggregated way right now, but we are actively to reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 25 per cent our committed targets to SBTI (Science Based Targets developing methods to handle this complexity and are by 2020 within operations, packaging and transport, 84 % Initiative). also in dialogue with expert organisations such as the compared to the 2005 level. Since 2005, Arla’s total Waste and Resources Action Programme (WRAP) in the climate impact has decreased by 22 per cent, despite As part of that process, we have calculated Arla’s UK. For the time being, we proactively work to influence increased production. total climate impact for milk production, transport, consumers to reduce food waste. For more information production and packaging to be 18.4 million tonnes on how we work, see page 12. Energy-efficiency and renewable energy greenhouse gas emissions, based on information from By far the biggest project being initiated in 2018 (to be 2015. This work to quantify our impact forms a basis for The most important measure to reduce food waste is to finalised in 2020) is the energy performance boost at At year-end 2018, 84 per cent of our farmer owners had our target setting beyond 2020. maximise the amount of raw material sold as products. Nr. Vium in Denmark. A net investment of 23 MDKK is registered data in Arlagården® Plus. 17 In these markets, our products’ packaging may contribute to littering and disturbance of ecosystems. One of the examples is in Bangladesh where milk powder is sold in portion size sachets. The product helps address malnourishment of vulnerable consumer groups, as it is an accessible and affordable nutritious product. However, there is a risk that the sachets are not discarded properly and end up as litter. To mitigate the negative effects, we have initiated a dialogue with NGOs on how we can collaborate to find a way to improve packaging waste handling together with local stakeholders. Our green ambitions Arla has developed a new long-term environmental strategy, focusing on three areas: Better Climate, Clean Air and Water and More Nature. These areas are prioritised because they are the ones on which Arla has In 2018, EU-regulation on biofuels changed with relation to climate impact reduction and improved The possibilities to recycle varies between countries the highest impact, quantified in the Environmental potential impacts on both availability and costs going recyclability. and municipalities. To improve recycling opportunities, Profit and Loss study conducted in 2015, and in other forward. For Arla it is important that stable policies guide Arla contributes to various initiatives, for example, research. They are also the areas where Arla risks our investments. In Sweden for example, we invest in For many of our products, plastic is currently the working with municipalities in Denmark to improve contributing to the so-called planetary boundaries vehicles that can run on different fuels, as we are eager best choice of packaging material for several reasons recycling systems and avoid littering, contributing to being exceeded, causing the Earth’s systems to to safeguard our fossil free transportation commitment. including food safety and shelf life. Where food safety funding of recycling systems in Sweden and Germany destabilize. In addition, these are also areas which regulations permit, we work to increase the use of and pushing developments in the UK through the enable us to contribute to several of the UN Sustainable Packaging climate goal achieved recycled plastic, plastic made from renewable sources voluntary Courtauld committment. Development Goals. We have already achieved our environmental strategy and plastic materials suitable for material recycling. This 2020 goal of reducing climate impact from packaging way we contribute to a more circular flow of plastic in A dilemma related to packaging is the export of Detailed targets and plans will be developed for each of by 25 per cent from a 2005-baseline. This is the result society and a reduction in the climate impact of the products to markets where packaging waste handling the areas during 2019, ahead of the new environmental of continuously decreasing the weight of individual plastic materials we use. and recycling systems are lacking or are not optimal. strategy being executed in 2020 and onwards. packaging formats, without impacting functionality, as well as increasing the percentage of renewable and Recycling of packaging material recycled packaging material. We have also continued Our goal is that 100 per cent of our packaging to take responsibility for sourcing responsibly produced material is recyclable in 2020. Currently 89 per cent packaging materials, for example, carton and paper of Arla’s packaging is possible to recycle in one of our which is FSC (Forest Stewardship Council) certified. core markets. To close the last challenging gap and PRIORITIES 2019 reach this ambitious goal, we work with our research uu Focus on environmental strategy 2020 goals, including sustainable dairy farming. In response to the 2018 debate on plastics, insufficient and supplier network to find innovative packaging recycling and littering, we re-focused our packaging materials and solutions. uu Further packaging improvements, including product development and innovation. goals and efforts to deliver further improvements in uu Continue development of new environmental strategy beyond 2020, including Science Based Targets. 18 Improved packaging A 3 YS W Producing millions of products every day, small step-by-step packaging improvements can have a large TO IM PR GING aggregated impact. Also, when we implement new innovative solutions, there is an opportunity to scale them across the company, contributing to change. We have three guiding principles for further improving our packaging: Fossil to renewable, Circular economy and Cooperation in the value chain. In 2018, we have launched several new packages that deliver on these principles. In particular, our focus has been on plastics. We want to shift to renewable raw materials and our packaging should be recyclable. We also want to increase the use of recycled plastic, while safeguarding food safety. Contributing to a market for high quality recycled plastic materials is important to creating a more circular society. KA OV A C We reduce greenhouse gas emissions from our packaging by using less fossil based plastic and more renewable sources. Our milk cartons with brown paperboard, launched in Sweden in 2017, have ED P now been introduced in Denmark and the Netherlands. Combined FOSSIL TO with the use of renewable plastic, this innovation has reduced RENEWABLE greenhouse gas emission per package by up to 35 per cent. Our packaging must be recyclable in core Aylesbury dairy in the UK The clear plastic lids on crème markets where sold and contain more recycled is leading the industry’s fraiche and on-the-go pots now materials. In Nijkerk dairy in the Netherlands, campaign on improved consist of 85 per cent products that were previously packed in white packaging with the recycled PET, lowering HDPE-plastic (High Density Polyethene) are now introduction of 40 per climate impact by packed in clear PET with PET sleeves. In addition cent recycled material approximately CIRCULAR to improving recyclability, the bottle weight has in existing bottles. 70 per cent. ECONOMY been reduced by approximately 20 per cent. We have a close collaboration with our packaging suppliers for further developments. We also engage with stakeholders COOPERATION IN such as municipalities and NGOs to improve recycling of our THE VALUE CHAIN packaging and we depend on consumers to contribute. 19 HUMAN RIGHTS We are committed to respecting human rights and to positively impacting people and societies along our value chain in line with our values and commitments. 20 HIGHLIGHTS 2018 HEALTH HEALTH uu Conducted workshop in Nigeria to identify human rights risks in the dairy value chain. HUMAN uu Continued partnerships with GAIN Nordic and DanChurchAid in Zambia and Ethiopia. RIGHTS uu Included commitment to work against forced labour in our farmer owners’ membership terms. NATURAL INSPIRATION A dvancing respect for human rights is key It is essential to Arla to operate in a responsible manner to sustainable development. During recent and we expect our business partners to live up to the years, we have strengthened our focus on same standards. Whenever we enter into a new joint human rights, especially in emerging markets, venture in these markets, we roll-out the entire due but also in more mature markets. Our continuous diligence process to assess areas where Arla could human rights work minimises Arla’s risk of having potentially cause, contribute to or be directly linked to adverse human rights impacts, and also contributes adverse impact. to the UN Sustainable Development Goals, through for example creation of decent jobs. In Indonesia, for example, our focus this year has been to support the business integration process to prevent Governance and policies adverse human rights impacts in our joint venture Arla works to ensure that we respect human rights, operations. At the end of the year, our business partner and we continuously embed our human rights policy faced sanctions by the certification body Roundtable on in our business processes and plans. This is part of our Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO) on the grounds of adverse compliance with the UN Guiding Principles on Business human rights impacts in palm oil plantations. We have and Human Rights. Human rights is a reoccurring topic been in dialogue with our partner, received updated on our top management’s agenda as it is Arla’s priority documentation, encouraged a constructive approach to stay focused and continuously raise competences and an open dialogue with RSPO. We follow-up on within the area. this matter and expect our partner to demonstrate compliance. Human rights due diligence process During the year, we have continued the systematic Furthermore, we prioritise to conduct human rights implementation of our human rights due diligence assessments in markets where we have production process in compliance with UN Guiding Principles on facilities, including Saudi Arabia and Bangladesh. Business and Human Rights, see illustration below. Training and coordinating As a multinational dairy company, we have a large To further embed our human rights policy and number of entities in our value chain. We have therefore processes in the business, several non-European prioritised focus on our non-European growth markets functions have been trained on how to integrate human where we face the highest risk of negative impacts due to rights in their daily business operations. national contexts and complexity in business operations. Public communication Communication digitally country by Human rights country High level Business partner Prevention and of how human Human rights due diligence process country risk assessment assessment mitigation plan rights impacts are assessment addressed By enhancing our tools and streamlining our approach, aligning it with relevant and Annual reporting responsible functions in the business, we are developing a more comprehensive, efficient and integrated approach to assessing human rights risks. 21 resolved. During 2018, improvements have been made Better access to affordable nutrition in in Oman and United Arab Emirates. However, minor Bangladesh issues are still outstanding, and will be a priority for Arla is the lead commercial partner in a project to 2019. create a last-mile-distribution network of 5,000 female micro-entrepreneurs in Bangladesh. The four-year In Saudi Arabia, new employer-provided project, supported by the Danish development accommodation has been rented to ensure that we cooperation Danida, aims to increase access to our comply with ILO (International Labour Organisation) affordable dairy products for approximately 1.8 million standards. Fifty per cent of our colleagues in Riyadh rural low-income consumers. BoP Innovation Centre is moved to the new accommodation during autumn the lead non-commercial partner, and two Bangladeshi 2018, with remaining colleagues moving gradually organisations, dNet and iSocial, will recruit, train and during 2019. manage the network of female micro-entrepreneurs. Supporting diversity Calf rearing in Indonesia We believe a diversified workforce enhances Together with our Indonesian business partner, we productivity and innovation, no matter where in the have initiated a calf rearing project on East Java, where world. At our site in Saudi Arabia, we have actively the first model stable has been established. In autumn This includes commercial and supply chain To improve milk quality, the project introduces new strived to attract and hire more female colleagues. 2018, a capacity building seminar for Indonesian dairy competences as well as quality and legal managers. milking technology, which will change the traditional We attend career fairs to meet potential candidates farmers on sustainable and efficient cow management hand milking to milking in parlours. Traditionally, the and we accommodate the working hours and work was conducted. To assess our non-European growth markets, we have women own the milk and the introduction of new environment required to attract female colleagues, for established a core team with competences relating to technology might adversely impact their job and income example we ensure equal remuneration and benefits in Milky Way Partnership project in Nigeria joint ventures and contract manufacturing, security, opportunities. Other risks identified are the involvement contrast to local customs. Arla is the lead business partner in a partnership project quality and corporate responsibility. We ensure of children in traditional small-holder farming, health and to develop a sustainable dairy value chain in Nigeria in exchange of findings, alignment of mitigation plans and safety risks at the dairy plant, and food safety risks. A joint Partnerships for sustainable development cooperation with SEGES, Danish Agricultural and Food improved follow-up through regular on-site visits. One mitigation plan was defined at the end of the workshop. During the year, we have strengthened our involvement Council, Care DK, CORET, a Nigerian farmer association, of the outcomes in 2018 was the mitigation of identified in partnerships with civil society organisations to and Milcopal, a farmer cooperative. Supported by the security risks related to Arla drivers in Saudi Arabia. Decent work and accommodation promote sustainable dairy sector development. Danish development cooperation Danida, the five-year Through training courses, we ensure that Arla drivers In the Middle East, we employ a vast number of We have also enhanced our dialogue with national project aims to increase the livelihoods of pastoralist possess the adequate competences to fulfill their work migrant workers. These colleagues are potentially governments to ensure that our local engagement farmers through training and milk off-take agreements duties and to minimise the risks of accidents. in a vulnerable position as they live and work in actively supports national plans to implement the with Arla. During 2018, the four farm clusters were host countries and are thereby at risk of not being Sustainable Development Goals. selected as pilot sites, innovative milking parlors were Follow up in Nigeria granted the same legal rights as national workers. We designed and ordered, and trainers for capacity building of In 2015, Arla performed the first human rights due acknowledge our particular responsibility as employer Joining complementary partnerships facilitates the farmers were hired. diligence in Nigeria. Following this, the project Milky to respect the human rights of these colleagues. pooling of knowledge, expertise, technology and Way Partnership was initiated to improve market driven financial resources, to support the achievement of the Arla Foods Ingredients partnerships sustainable growth in the local dairy value chain. In The process of improving the housing facilities that Sustainable Development Goals in developing countries Arla Food Ingredients has continued partnerships with 2018, we conducted a workshop in Nigeria for involved Arla provides in the Middle East has continued in Qatar, and to strengthen Arla’s long term presence in the GAIN (Global Alliance for Improved Nutrition) Nordic project partners to identify human rights risks within the Oman, United Arab Emirates and Saudi Arabia. All growth markets. Examples of partnership projects in and DanChurchAid in 2018. Projects include: project’s dairy value chain. remaining non-compliance issues in Qatar have been which we are participating: 22 Nutritious long-life drink in Zambia Local production of nutritious food in Ethiopia The UK Department for International Development Arla Foods Ingredients and DanChurchAid have entered a is funding a GAIN Nordic project to establish local partnership agreement to share knowledge and expertise production and sales of a nutritious long-life drink to and develop new affordable food concepts. The first joint address malnutrition among children and women in initiative is the Sustainable Food Platform, a project to Zambia. promote local production of nutritious food for people living in or around refugee camps. Ethiopia is the primary The drink will be made from local milk and will include country in focus, with links to Uganda and Kenya. additional whey permeate, which will both enable higher production volumes and increase nutritional value. As a In 2018, the Sustainable Food Platform was awarded GAIN Nordic partner, Arla Foods Ingredients has designed funding by P4G – a global forum that supports publicthe drink and provided training to a Zambian dairy. private partnerships with a focus on accelerating sustainable development. P4G is funded by the Danish Sustainable dairy supply chain in Ethiopia government and hosted by World Resources Institute. Arla Foods Ingredients is the lead business partner in another GAIN Nordic Partnership project that is working Modern slavery to develop a sustainable dairy supply chain in Ethiopia Modern slavery is a serious challenge in our supply in cooperation with a local dairy and dairy farmers. chains. Since the publication of our first modern slavery Supported by the Danish development cooperation statement in 2017, we have taken steps to further Danida, the three-year project aims to bring safer and strengthen our processes to mitigate the risks, including better dairy nutrition to low-income families. improved internal data checking and procurement. During 2018, Arla Foods Ingredients supported the We have trained UK colleagues in awareness of development of affordable, nutritious yogurts that are forced labour and human trafficking, and initiated planned for market launch by the end of 2019. In the communication in our global functions. Our autumn, all project partners attended a workshop in commitment to work against forced labour has been Denmark. This provided an opportunity for Arla Foods included in the membership terms for all our farmer Ingredients to train representatives from the Ethiopian owners, and we have shared knowledge about how to dairy in yogurt production. spot the signs of modern slavery with farmer owners in the UK. In our training and communication, we have also included how to escalate concerns either through our whistleblower function, or other reporting channels. There were no reports in relation to this during 2018. PRIORITIES 2019 uu Finalise housing upgrade project in the Middle East. uu Establish last-mile-distribution network in Bangladesh. uu Continue modern slavery communication and training. 23 ABOUT ARLA Key facts and figures about our business, and about the farmer owners and colleagues who make it happen. 24 About Arla Arla Foods is a global dairy company and a cooperative owned by dairy farmers in seven European countries. Our products are sold under well-known brands around the world. Diagram6: Revenue_product_p24 COMPANY PERFORMANCE net profit has been prepared by Arla’s Board of Directors. Milk price Revenue by product group It recognises that many Arla farmers are facing a tough In 2018, the average performance price decreased by Results 2018 financial situation due to the summer’s drought in 4.5 per cent to 36.4 EUR-cent/kg, compared to 38.1 Fresh products and milk powder 43 % Arla’s net revenue in 2018 amounted to EUR 10.4 Europe, and that it is in Arla’s best interest for this year’s EUR-cent/kg last year. This decrease was largely driven Cheese 26 % billion, compared to EUR 10.3 billion in the previous net profit to be paid out to the farmer owners. The by lower commodity market prices, impacting our milk Butter and spreads 15 % year. The profit for the year was EUR 301 million, final decision is taken at the Board of Representatives price particularly in the first quarter of the year. Ingredients, whey products and non dairy 16 % compared to EUR 299 million in 2017. meeting in February 2019. An approval would be a one-year only deviation from the company’s usual profit Brexit preparations Diagram5: Revenue_market_p24 The revenue by product group was similar to 2017. The dairy industry is volatile and to secure future appropriation policy. Arla is the biggest dairy company in the UK and will growth and a long-term competitive milk price for continue to be a significant player in the UK dairy our farmer owners, we have initiated a three-year Market development industry after Brexit, supporting thousands of jobs, and transformation programme. The purpose of the Arla maintains its position as the world’s fourth largest being home to 25 per cent of our farmer owners. Every Revenue by segment programme is to transform the way we work, reduce dairy company in terms of volume of milk intake. The year, 10,000 Arla containers cross the UK border, and Arla bureaucracy, cut unnecessary costs, reinvest more in global dairy market is increasingly competitive and fastis focusing on maintaining free trade and minimising the Europe 63 % selected strategic initiatives, and save EUR 400 million moving putting pressure on us to continuously deliver negative effects of a potential increase in bureaucracy. International 15 % during the period. The programme is already delivering on customer and consumer expectations. We maintain Arla Foods Ingredients 6 % and contributing positively to the company’s milk price our strong position by focusing on consumer demands Acquisition in the Middle East Trading and other 16 % to farmer owners. and continuous innovation of products and packaging, a At the end of the year, Arla announced the planned more diversified product portfolio and product launches acquisition of a processed cheese business in the Arla’s total revenue has increased by 1 per cent since 2017. Pay out of net profit in new markets. Arla is expanding sales in South East Middle East region, currently licensed under the Kraft® For further information, see Arla’s annual report. Given the positive development of Arla’s financial Asia and in Sub-Saharan markets. brand. The acquisition also gives Arla full ownership of a Diagram19: Milk price changes_A_p24 balance sheet, a proposal to pay out the entire 2018 state-of-the-art cheese production site in Bahrain. The deal is expected to take effect by the end of May 2019. Milkprice EUR EUR 0.5 0,5 CEO 0.4 0,4 0.3 0,3 HR Finance, IT & Legal 0.2 0,2 2014 2014 2015 2015 2016 2016 2017 2017 2018 2018 The graph shows the prepaid price, and the dots the average performance price. Marketing & Milk, Members Innovation, Arla Foods Supply Chain Europe International & Trading Communication, Ingredients Sustainability Chairman Jan Toft Nørgaard CEO Peder Tuborgh 25 OWNERS strong Arla for the benefit of current as well as future Following the ambition that all farmer owners will be generations of farmer owners and ensure a stronger members of one area, one region and one district, Democratic organisation dialogue between farmer owners across the borders. farmer owners in the UK and Central Europe have voted Arla’s mission is to create value for its farmer owners. ’yes’ to becoming direct members of Arla Foods amba. Diagram3: Raw_milk_p25 All farmer owners have the opportunity to influence During 2018, among other things, elected As a result of the vote, these farmers will now fully align important decisions through the democratically representatives have been involved in workshops, with Danish and Swedish members who, as founding governed farmer cooperative. discussing Arla’s future environmental strategy. members, already have direct membership status of Arla Foods amba. Raw milk intake, million kilos Arla has 10,319 owners in seven countries: Denmark, Owner strategy Denmark 4,937 UK 3,196 Sweden, UK, Germany, Belgium, Luxembourg and the The purpose of Arla’s owner strategy is to ensure a wellEntrance fee Sweden 1,826 Netherlands. All elections and polls are held according functioning and transparent democratic structure. The Farmers joining Arla pay an entry fee of 7.5 eurocents Germany 1,762 to the ’one owner, one vote’ principle. strategy includes the ambition of the same democratic per kilo of milk produced during the first year. The fee Belgium 517 Luxembourg 156 governing body and rules for all individual farmer reflects the value new farmer owners get access to as Netherlands 52 In July the chairmanship in Arla changed. Former vice owners in Arla, taking into account local variations in a member of the cooperative with its capital, products, Non-owner milk 1,457 chairman Jan Toft Nørgaard was appointed new chairman the four geographical areas (Denmark, Sweden, the UK brands, dairy facilities etc. However, the entry fee is not Arla’s total milk intake amounted to 13,903 million kilos in 2018, and Heléne Gunnarson new vice chairman. The new and Central Europe). paid by a farmer who takes ownership of an existing Arla which means that the milk intake is almost unchanged compared chairmanship stated their focus will be to ensure a farm. to 2017. Owners’ milk represents 90 per cent of total milk intake. Germany, Belgium, Denmark Sweden UK Luxembourg and the Netherlands 2,593 owners 2,630 owners 2,289 owners 2,807 owners Denmark and Sweden 40 district councils Germany, Belgium, UK Luxembourg and the Netherlands Local organisations Local organisations Denmark and Sweden 6 regions Board of Representatives 175 owners and 12 employee representatives Area Council DK Area Council CE The chart shows the number of owners/members as of December Board of Directors 31, 2018. All elections and polls are held according to the ’one 15 owners and 3 employee representatives owner, one vote’ principle. The Board of Representatives is Arla’s Area Council SE Area Council UK top decision-making body. 26 COLLEAGUES efforts to minimise bias in selection and assessment, Training at all levels Cooperating with unions and our hiring managers are supported by HR resources Continuous training of colleagues at all levels is A good forum for internal dialogue is our Works Councils, Transforming the business throughout the recruitment process. important. During the year, we have continued our at both local and global level. The councils normally Part of the current transformation programme is the focus on training in work environment, dairy technology consist of employees as well as employer representatives continued streamlining of our corporate operations and Safe colleagues and local training within functions and roles, which also and work to secure the conditions necessary for the support functions. This process was initiated in the first We want all our colleagues to stay safe at work, our includes the ’train the trainer approach’. company’s continued competitiveness and development, half of the year, with significant changes implemented target is zero work accidents, and we have for many and for the well-being and safety of all employees. across global functions. This included changes in teams, years worked systematically to prevent accidents. In Denmark, we have set aside funds to train dairy responsibilities, ways of working and also resulted in To advance this work, we introduced a step change workers for the past 12 years. The funds are financed The European Works Council (EWC) is our high level almost 340 full-time positions being made redundant, programme ’Arla Cornerstones’ in 2017. The basic through the collective agreements, so the workers forum for open dialogue and for discussing corporate the majority at the head office in Aarhus. Many of principle of the programme is that most accidents are use some of their salary for their own training. The matters in Arla. The EWC comprises employee the redundancies were handled by closing vacancies a result of unsafe behavior, and it focuses on rooting unions see the benefits of investing in their members’ representatives from each of the EU countries in or natural exists to minimise the number of affected global operating standards, boosting operational safety competencies and employability and every year more which Arla has more than 150 employees. Arla’s CEO, colleagues as much as possible. competences and embedding our existing behaviour than 2,000 course enrollments are paid for by these Executive Vice President for supply chain and Executive safety programme. funds. Vice President for human resources represent the Throughout the year, the European Works Council’s company management at these meetings. The Select Select Committee has been closely involved in dialogue During 2018, ’Arla Cornerstones’ has been further In other countries, we try to create a similar shared Committee of the EWC is always informed prior to about the changes. Our Works Councils on national developed, and we have seen an increase of almost training agenda. We hope that in the future, we will major changes in the Arla organisation. and local level were informed before changes were 25 per cent in positive safety metrics such as near miss witness the same level of training financed through executed. reporting and behavioral observations, coupled with a joint training funds in our other core markets. To strengthen the global perspective of business decrease in the accident frequency by almost 17 per practices, Arla continues its dialogue with International Colleague engagement survey cent. All production sites have conducted a series of Talent programmes Union of Food, Agricultural, Hotel, Restaurant, Catering, The annual engagement survey, Barometer, was workshops to both understand and influence behaviors. Over the last three years, we have recruited Tobacco and Allied Workers’ Associations International conducted in October and sent to 17,784 colleagues in Furthermore, we have completed a successful pilot of 50 graduates from 26 different countries and five (IUF). In 2018, ourDiagram4: dialogue with IUF focused on the Colleagues_p26 15 different languages. The response rate was 85 per ’Arla Cornerstones’ in our logistics operations and we continents to our international graduate programmes prevention of gender-based violence (including sexual cent, eight per cent less than last year. The Barometer have set the ambition for all our drivers starting their (Future 15 and Production Management). The gender harassment). result continues to be strong, but this year the results Cornerstones journey in 2019. We strive to further split is more or less even with a small overweight of Colleagues per country also reflect the uncertainty, which follows the changes increase awareness on workplace safety through female graduates. Denmark 7,180 the company is undergoing. For the first time in years, colleague collaboration in labour relation forums. Sweden 2,924 the Barometer scores have dropped. The focus areas We have not made any new recruitments for our UK 3,278 Germany 1,756 for the coming year are: communication, leadership and In cooperation with our partners we make sure all internal talent accelerator programmes, but continued Saudi Arabia 939 decision making. colleagues who travel as part of their role, expats and the on-going training with 53 participants representing Poland 501 their families are safe before, during and after they 14 nationalities. Furthermore, a total of 455 colleagues Finland 315 Netherlands 329 Recruitment policy travel. We develop, manage and execute consistent (186 females, 269 males) have participated in Arla’s North America 497 Arla has a global recruitment policy that outlines talent strategies and programmes that promote and enhance leadership development, people management and Other countries 1,188 acquisition processes across all markets. The process colleague security, safeguard company assets and change programmes. The average number of full-time employees (FTEs) in Arla was 19,190 in ensures validated tools as well as a smooth candidate respond to security related incidents. 2018. The diagram shows FTE figures at year-end 2018 and differ from experience. We use assessment tools that support our the average FTE figures. 27 AMBITIONS AND PROGRESS We are committed to sustainable development, to work towards ambitions and targets and to report transparently on progress. 28 Ambitions and progress FOOD/FOOD SAFETY FOOD/NUTRITION Policy/ambition As a global food company, food safety is key to Arla. It is identified as our most material aspect by internal Policy/ambition Access to adequate, affordable and healthy food is a basic human right, and we want to provide high quality as well as external stakeholders. We are dedicated to ensuring that our products are safe to consume and products that match consumers’ nutritional needs around the world. Our Arla® Nutrition Criteria are the work across our value chain including at farm level. guiding principles that support the development of healthier Arla® branded products. The nutrition criteria secure the content of beneficial dairy protein and calcium, while limiting the amount of added sugar, salt Impact on society Unsafe foods pose serious risks to consumers’ health. Food safety is therefore important for the general and fat. health, daily life, economic development, and social stability in a society. Arla’s role is to ensure that our products are safe for consumers to eat and drink, and that the content of the product is clearly labelled Impact on One of the most important factors for a healthy life is our diet. Physical as well as cognitive health through on the packaging. society all stages in life depend on quality nutrition. By offering a wide range of nutritious products for different needs, Arla contributes to healthy eating patterns as well as addressing different aspects of malnutrition, and Impact on Arla Food safety incidents can pose a serious business risk. Incidents can impact customer and consumer trust thereby supporting more prosperous societies. negatively and may also involve legal risks and severely damage Arla’s reputation. Food safety problems can also lead to reduced production efficiency, increasing food waste along the value chain. Impact on Arla Contributing positively to healthy and sustainable diets is important to build Arla’s reputation and responsible growth, and key to fulfill stakeholder expectations on Arla. Targets No discard of milk due to antibiotic-residue. No unsafe products sent to market – no recalls. Targets Arla® Nutrition Criteria: 95 per cent of Arla® branded products fulfill the criteria in 2020. Progress 2018 Affordability: By 2030, we have reached 30 million people in the lower income segment with a daily serving Product recalls 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 size of 7 gram skimmed milk. Recalls 6 7 6 10 2 Progress 2018 Arla® Nutrition Criteria: Currently 91 per cent Arla® branded products fulfill the criteria. Despite our strict quality and food safety routines, we have recalled products on 2 occasions during the Affordability: Currently we reach 15 million people in the lower income segment with a daily serving size of year, as the products did not meet required standards. 7 gram skimmed milk. Compared to previous years, there was a significant reduction of recalls. This improvement is a result of Impact on 2.2 By 2030, end all forms of 3.4 2030, reduce by one third Diagram10: Antibiotics_p27 combined efforts in different areas. Among other things, we have worked in a structured way with some Sustainable malnutrition, including achieving, by premature mortality from strategic suppliers as well as at our production sites. Our focus has been improved standardised work as Development 2025, the internationally agreed targets non-communicable diseases through well as structured problem solving to prevent repeated failures with major impact on our performance. Goals and on stunting and wasting in children prevention and treatment and promote Targets under 5 years of age, and address the mental health and well-being Securing raw milk quality, tonnes The diagram shows the volume of discarded milk nutritional needs of adolescent girls, Tonnes at our dairies in our owner countries. pregnant and lactating women and 6,000 older persons 5,000 Cows maybe treated with antibiotics when they 4,000 are ill. We have procedures to prevent milk from 3,000 treated cows reaching the consumer. This milk is 2,000 discarded at the farm during the treatment period 1,000 and for a period afterwards. 0 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 As an extra precaution, all milk is tested before it Central Europe Sweden is unloaded at the dairy. If it contains antibiotic UK Denmark residues it is discarded. The volume of discarded milk continues to decrease. Impact on 2.1 By 2030, end hunger and ensure Sustainable access by all people, in particular Development the poor and people in vulnerable Goals and situations, including infants, to safe, Targets nutritious and sufficient food all year round 29 PEOPLE /HEALTH AND SAFETY* PEOPLE/DECENT WORK Policy/ambition Our colleagues are key to the success of our business. Our overall ambition is to provide all colleagues Policy/ambition We want to ensure a workplace with a diverse workforce, characterised by mutual respect and trust, with safe and healthy working conditions. We are committed to preventing accidents, injuries and workpromoting equal opportunities allowing colleagues to live up to their full potential. Our policies on Human related illnesses. We apply a systematic approach to setting targets, tracking progress and work in close Rights, Diversity and Anti-harassment governs how related issues are handled in a structured manner. dialogue with colleagues to mitigate problems and reduce risks. Further, our Works Councils, at both a local and global level, help secure workplace decisions are made in the best interests of both colleagues and company. Impact on society We have a complex and long value chain and offer a large variety of jobs across geographies and societies. One part of our license to operate is our ability to ensure safe and healthy working conditions. Impact on society We recognise our responsibility to respect basic human rights in the workplace and across markets, to contribute to sustainable societal development. We want to ensure that both current and future colleagues Impact on Arla Not safeguarding the health and safety of our colleagues poses a business risk to Arla in terms of loss are treated in a fair non-discriminatory manner, which will in turn support prosperous societies. of efficiency, profitability and the opportunity to attract competent colleagues. Further, the ultimate risk related to safety is serious injuries and fatalities, which pose business risks such as legal action, Impact on Arla We respect basic human rights in the workplace by ensuring an open inclusive dialogue, taking the Diagram13: Accidents_at_work_p28 reputational damage and loss of license to operate. perspectives and innovative approaches of people with diverse backgrounds into account. This approach mitigates significant business risks to Arla, as well as the risk of legal actions and reputational damage. Targets Our target is zero work accidents. Targets Zero discrimination, harassment including sexual harassment and bullying. The ambition is that no team Progress 2018 Work accidents The diagram shows number of work accidents should consists of more than 70 per cent of the same gender, age group or nationality. 30 involving more than one day’s absence per million 25 working hours. Progress 2018 Diversity statistics for teams are calculated monthly and communicated to the business. 20 Gender balance, female percentage, % 2016 2017 2018 We do not have specific statistics for road traffic 15 Directors and above 22 22 23 accidents, but continuously train drivers in safe 10 Vice president and above 16 12 14 driving. 5 0 There are significantly fewer women than men among our top managers. Only 14 per cent of vice 2005 2010 2015 2017 2018 presidents and senior vice presidents are female, which is far from the 28 per cent among all colleagues. For information about diversity at Board level, see Arla’s Annual Report. Impact on 3.6 By 2020, halve the number 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote Our formal grievance mechanism has in 2018 worked with two cases. For both cases, measures have been Sustainable of global deaths and injuries from safe and secure working environments taken, and the cases are closed. Development road traffic accidents for all workers, including migrant Goals and workers, in particular women migrants, Targets and those in precarious employment. Impact on 5.1 End all forms of discrimination 8.7 Take immediate and effective Sustainable against all women and girls measures to eradicate forced labour, Development everywhere. end modern slavery and human Goals and trafficking and secure the prohibition Targets 5.5.2 Proportion of women in and elimination of the worst forms of managerial positions child labour, including recruitment and use of child soldiers, and by 2025 8.5 By 2030, achieve full and end child labour in all its forms productive employment and decent work for all women and men, 17.9 Enhance international support including for young people and for implementing effective and persons with disabilities, and equal targeted capacity-building in pay for work of equal value developing countries to support national plans to implement all the sustainable development goals, including through NorthSouth, South-South and triangular cooperation *) Currently, sites in Nigeria, Senegal and Bangladesh are not fully integrated in our reporting. 30 RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS/ANTICORRUPTION AND BRIBERY RESPONSIBLE BUSINESS/COMPLIANCE Policy/ambition Conducting our business in an honest and ethical manner is key to maintaining our license to operate, Policy/ambition Arla is committed to complying with applicable legislation and regulation in all the countries in which our reputation and responsible growth. Arla’s Anti-bribery policy sets out our zero-tolerance approach to we operate. We develop our policies to capture relevant legislation and provide training for employees in bribery and corruption and our commitment to upholding all relevant laws in all jurisdictions in which we policies and processes relevant for their job function, and we track and act upon non-compliance. During operate. Gifts and hospitality to and from third parties are controlled by rules and must be registered. 2018, we have had a special focus on compliance to the new General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). Impact on society Bribery and corruption present risks to societies by undermining trust in public institutions and the Impact on In order to contribute to a sustainable societal development, it is important that Arla complies with laws and mishandling of resources. Where funds and priorities are diverted to activities that will benefit corrupt society regulations in general. Managing the risks associated in particular with the protection of personal data, in individuals, fair competition is undermined. With our global presence, and long and diverse value chain, we our increasingly digitalized societies, is a key area, as breaches may lead to privacy and human rights being impact societies across the world, and have an opportunity to contribute to positive societal development violated. by honest and ethical business conduct. Impact on Arla There are multiple business and reputational risks associated with non-compliance to laws and regulations Impact on Arla Any kind of involvement in bribery or corruption would present risks of heavy legal fines and loss of in general. To mitigate risks in our value chain in relation to GDPR, such as adverse actions from business opportunities. A finding of involvement in bribery would be damaging to our reputation and governmental entities, for example, fines and sanctions Arla has put in place processes for handling personal impacts the business environment. data. Targets Zero corruption and bribery, zero facilitation payments. Targets No fines or sanctions – to comply with legislation and regulation. Progress 2018 Strengthened processes Progress 2018 Data privacy During 2018, our internal controls and policy monitoring activities have been further strengthened Share of white-collar employees having completed e-learning on data privacy 98 % in order to ensure that all payments from Arla to external parties are valid and have a proper business purpose. Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in fines 0 Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations resulting in non-monetary sanctions 0 Payments fulfill the 4-eye principle, meaning the approval of two people. Currently we are looking into further strengthening this process to manage risks. Competition law training Reporting on Whistleblowing function Number of colleagues trained face-to-face 557 Since its inception in 2012, Arla has received 96 reports from its whistleblowing function. In 2018, the whistleblowing function received 18 reports of which 8 led to further investigation. Depending on the outcome of the investigation, appropriate measures have been taken. 10 reports could not be handled Substantiated complaints concerning breaches of customer privacy 0 in the whistleblower system du to legal reasons. The reporter is informed about alternative reporting channels. Number of incidents of non-compliance with regulations and/or voluntary codes resulting in fines Impact on 16.5 Substantially reduce corruption Incidents regarding product information and labelling 0 Sustainable and bribery in all their forms Development Decisions regarding marketing 0 Goals and Targets Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and/or 0 regulations in the social and economic area Significant fines and non-monetary sanctions for non-compliance with laws and/or 0 regulations in the environmental area 31 SOURCING* Policy/ambition Our ambition is for our preferred suppliers to follow our code of conduct for suppliers, which governs Impact on 2.3 By 2030, double the agricultural 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable environmental, social and human rights aspects. Furthermore, to support a more sustainable production Sustainable productivity and incomes of small-scale management and efficient use of of raw materials with particular challenges, we have sourcing policies for soy, palm oil and cocoa. Development food producers, in particular women, natural resources Goals and indigenous peoples, family farmers, Impact on society Sourcing of both goods and services is identified as having important environmental, socio-economic and Targets pastoralists and fishers, including 12.4 By 2020, achieve the human rights’ impacts on societies. We acknowledge our opportunity to influence suppliers, and thereby through secure and equal access to environmentally sound management also societies, through our demands on sustainable and responsible business practices. land, other productive resources and of chemicals and all wastes throughout inputs, knowledge, financial services, their life cycle, in accordance with markets and opportunities for value agreed international frameworks, and Impact on Arla A well-functioning supply chain, with sustainable and responsible business practices, is key to our addition and non-farm employment significantly reduce their release to air, production, profitability and reputation. water and soil in order to minimize their 2.4 By 2030, ensure sustainable food adverse impacts on human health and Targets All preferred suppliers to sign our code of conduct for suppliers. production systems and implement the environment resilient agricultural practices that 100 per cent responsible sourcing of palm oil, soy and cocoa, defined as certified products according to increase productivity and production, 13 Take urgent action to combat internationally recognised third party certification systems. Palm oil ingredients must be certified according that help maintain ecosystems, that climate change and its impacts to the standard of Round Table of Sustainable Palm Oil (RSPO), segregated certified. Soy in animal feed strengthen capacity for adaptation must be certified according to the standards organic, ProTerra or Round Table for Responsible Soy (RTRS) to climate change, extreme weather, 13.1 Strengthen resilience and or covered with RTRS certificates. Cocoa must be UTZ-certified for Arla® branded products and Cocio. drought, flooding and other disasters adaptive capacity to climate-related and that progressively improve land hazards and natural disasters in all Progress 2018 Responsible sourcing and soil quality countries Preferred suppliers 1,500 6.3.1 Proportion of wastewater safely 15.1 By 2020, ensure the conservation, Preferred suppliers have signed our code of conduct for suppliers 92 % treated restoration and sustainable use of Supplier audits with a focus on CSR and food safety have been performed terrestrial and inland freshwater 42 (This is a 30 per cent reduction compared to 2017 due to the internal transformation project) 6.4.1 Change in water-use efficiency ecosystems and their services, in Share of certified soy 100 % over time particular forests, wetlands, mountains and drylands, in line with obligations Share of certifiedDiagram9: palm oil Global_contracts_p39 98 % 8.7 Take immediate and effective under international agreements Share of certified cocoa 100 % measures to eradicate forced labour, end modern slavery and human 15.2 By 2020, promote the External spend managed by the procurement department 80 % trafficking and secure the prohibition implementation of sustainable and elimination of the worst forms of management of all types of forests, halt Global contracts The diagram shows the external child labour, including recruitment and deforestation, restore degraded forests spend handled by Arla’s use of child soldiers, and by 2025 end and substantially increase afforestation Packaging 25 % procurement department, child labour in all its forms and reforestation globally Logistics 21 % divided across product and Business services 18 % service categories. Our 10 8.8 Protect labour rights and promote Ingredients 18 % largest suppliers account for safe and secure working environments Maintenance, repair, operations 10 % 18 per cent (19 per cent in for all workers, including migrant Energy 8 % workers, in particular women migrants, 2017) of our total external spend. and those in precarious employment In 2018, the following companies were our five largest suppliers in order of size of spend: Elopak (packaging materials and machinery), Tetra Pak (packaging materials and machinery), PCL Transport (distribution), Superfos (packaging materials and machinery) and Dentsu Aegis London (media). *) Currently, sourcing for core markets is fully integrated in our reporting. Middle East, USA and Canada are to be included during 2019. 32 NATURE/SUSTAINABLE DAIRY FARMING Policy/ambition Arla’s environmental strategy 2020 is targeting sustainable dairy farming as one of the most important Progress 2018 Arlagården® Plus areas to address in our value chain together with climate, energy & water and zero waste. The ambition (continued) for all areas is to minimise negative and maximise positive impacts by targeted actions at farm level, in Share of farms participating 84 % production and logistics, and together with consumers. Climate impact Carbon footprint, 2017 data* 1,13 kg CO2e/kg ECMw Impact on society We have identified raw material production, especially milk, as our most significant environmental impact on society, involving greenhouse gas emissions, land use, biodiversity impacts and contamination of Reduction 1990–2017 24 % water. *) Milk volume weighted estimate based on farm data from DK and the UK and national averages from DE and SE. Model for calculation is under continuous development and the absolute figure will change when the Impact on Arla Climate change, water stress and malfunctioning ecosystems are threats to our supply chain, mainly model is adjusted. When adjustments are made we always recalculate the baseline to ensure a consistent to our farmer owners and other farmers providing our agricultural raw materials. Rising costs and/ reporting of progress. or declining availability are business risks going forward. Not addressing environmental and climate challenges pose reputational risks as well. Arlagården® audits All Arla farms are audited according to our quality assurance programme Arlagården® a minimum of once in Targets To mitigate risks identified at farm level, one of our strategic goals is to reduce climate impact per kilo every three-year period. In the UK, our farmer owners also adhere to the UK industry standard, the Red Tractor of milk at farm level by 30 per cent from 1990 to 2020. Further, to improve interaction with nature Farm Assurance Dairy Scheme, and are assessed every 18 months to ensure compliance to both standards. In we engage in the development of methodology to promote biodiversity and ecosystem services, for total, 4,770 audits were carried out during 2018 across all seven owner countries. example. Also, Arla promotes sustainable dairy farming at farmer workshops for sharing of best practice and expertise. Impact on 2.3 By 2030, double the agricultural 15.1 By 2020, ensure the conservation, Sustainable productivity and incomes of small-scale restoration and sustainable use of Progress 2018 Sustainable dairy farming Development food producers, in particular women, terrestrial and inland freshwater Carbon Energy Farm Goals and indigenous peoples, family farmers, ecosystems and their services, in assessments assessments workshops Targets pastoralists and fishers, including particular forests, wetlands, mountains through secure and equal access to land, and drylands, in line with obligations UK 2010–2017 2,747 – 555 other productive resources and inputs, under international agreements Sweden 2013–2017 584 372 55 knowledge, financial services, markets Denmark 2013–2017 1,190 22 39 and opportunities for value addition and non-farm employment Central Europe* 2013–2017 * Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands 12 – 12 2.4 By 2030, ensure sustainable food and Belgium. production systems and implement Total 2010–2017 4,533 394 661 resilient agricultural practices that increase productivity and production, that help maintain ecosystems, that strengthen UK 2018 310 – 32 capacity for adaptation to climate change, extreme weather, drought, flooding and Sweden 2018 24 37 – other disasters and that progressively Denmark 2018 149 – – improve land and soil quality Central Europe* 2018 * Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands and Belgium. 46 – – Total 2010–2018 5,062 431 693 The table shows the number of activities carried out in line with our sustainable dairy farming strategy. 33 Diagram15: Water_p32 NATURE/ENERGY AND CLIMATE* Policy/ambition Arla’s environmental strategy 2020 is targeting three areas: climate, energy & water and zero waste, in Progress 2018 Water consumption, million m3 Arla’s goal is to improve water efficiency in production m/ton addition to sustainable dairy farming, reflecting the material environmental impacts identified in our value (continued) by 3 per cent annually. During 2018 the total water 25 chain. The ambition for the three areas is to minimise negative and maximise positive impacts by targeted consumption was reduced with approximately actions in production and logistics, and together with consumers. 20 1 million m3. compared to 2017. The water used per ton 15 of processed milk was reduced by 3 per cent between Impact on society The use of energy, water and packaging materials in processing risk contributing to climate change, 10 2017 and 2018, and 27 per cent since 2005. The diagram depletion of non-renewable resources and airand water pollution. Waste related to our business, both at includes all Arla facilities at the end of 2018. Previous 5 years’ data has been updated. dairy sites and at consumer level, cause multiple environmental impacts. 0 2005 2010 2015 2017 2018 Impact on Arla Climate change, water stress and malfunctioning ecosystems are threats to our supply chain, mainly to Diagram12: Climate_impact_p32 our farmer owners and other farmers providing our agricultural raw materials. In addition, our processing Water from wells on site External mains water sites depend on access to clean and abundant water resources, energy and other raw materials such as packaging materials. Rising costs and/or declining availability are business risks going forward. Not addressing environmental and climate challenges pose reputational risks as well. Climate impact, million tonnes of CO₂-e Arla’s goal is to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from Million tonnes of CO₂-e Targets Our environmental strategy sets goals for our supply chain, focusing on climate impact and resource operations, transportation and packaging by 25 per cent 2.0 efficiency. Climate targets stipulate a reduction of 25 per cent in greenhouse gas emissions from each of by 2020, compared to the 2005 levels. Since 2005, the areas packaging, transport and processing 2005–2020 (scope 1+2+3), see page 36. 1.5 Arla’s total climate impact has decreased by 22 per cent, despite increased production. Most challenging is to reach 1.0 targets for transportation. Energy targets include an improved energy efficiency of 3 per cent per year at site level, and to use at least 50 per cent renewable energy by 2020. For water the target is to improve water efficiency in 0.5 production by three per cent annually. 0 2005 2010 2015 2017 2018 Zero Waste targets include zero waste to landfill from our sites by 2020 and a 50 per cent reduction in Diagram11: Energy_consumption_p32 Packaging Operations food waste in production for 2015–2030. We cannot quantify food waste [of our products] at consumer Diagram8: Waste_p32 level but we are addressing it with inspiration and information. For packaging, the target is to have 100 per Transport cent recyclable packaging by 2020, defined as technically possible to recycle in new applications. Progress 2018 Energy consumption, TWh Arla’s goal is to improve energy efficiency in production Waste, tonnes Arla’s goal is zero waste to landfill by 2020. The TWh/ton 3.5 by three per cent annually. The increase in energy Tonnes development of total waste from 2005–2018 is directly 3.0 consumption since 2010 is closely connected to the 40,000 connected to the increase in number of sites. The 2.5 growth of Arla with more sites, higher production proportion of waste that is recycled and incinerated volumes and a greater mix of products. The share of 30,000 2.0 is increasing and waste to landfill has decreased by 1.5 renewable energy has increased continuously and 20,000 77 per cent. The food waste proportion of purchased 1.0 reached 27 per cent 2018. The energy used per ton of raw materials, of which most is raw milk from our farmer 0.5 processed milk was reduced by 20 per cent between 10,000 owners, has reduced since 2015. 0 2005 and 2018. The diagram includes all Arla facilities at 2005 2010 2015 2017 2018 the end of 2018. Previous years’ data has been updated. 0 2005 2010 2015 2017 2018 Oil Bioenergy Gas District heating Hazardous Incineration Electricity Landﬁll Recycling *) Currently, sites in Nigeria, Senegal and Bangladesh are not fully integrated in our reporting. 34 NATURE/ENERGY AND CLIMATE (continued) Progress 2018 Renewable energy, % (continued) Total 27 Food waste 2015 2016 2017 2018 Proportion of purchased materials 2.36 % 1.52 % 1.97 % 1.90 % The food waste proportion of purchased raw materials has reduced since 2015. Sent to anaerobic digestion/biogas production 333,209 tonnes Animal feed and reprocessing 175,055 tonnes Donations to charity 1,100 tonnes Impact on 6.3.1 Proportion of wastewater safely 12.2 By 2030, achieve the sustainable Sustainable treated management and efficient use of natural Development resources Goals and 6.4.1 Change in water-use efficiency Targets over time 12.3 By 2030, halve per capita global food waste at the retail and consumer 7.2 By 2030, increase substantially the levels and reduce food losses along share of renewable energy in the global production and supply chains, including energy mix post-harvest losses 7.3 By 2030, double the global rate of 12.5 By 2030, substantially reduce improvement in energy efficiency waste generation through prevention, reduction, recycling and reuse 13 Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 13.1 Strengthen resilience and adaptive capacity to climate-related hazards and natural disasters in all countries 35 Key performance indicators Arla uses a range of performance indicators to measure its sustainable and responsible business development. The indicators are inspired by the Global Reporting Initiative (GRI) and are in line with the material issues we need to address. This table presents 11 indicators of special interests and their connection to the Sustainable Development Goals and the GRI indicators. Area Arla definition 2016 2017 2018 SDG GRI Page Food safety Number of recalls 6 10 2 2 27 Animal welfare Top level in udder health 1 53 % 56 % 53 % 12 16 Nutrition critera Arla® branded products fulfilling Arla® Nutritional Criteria (fresh dairy products and cheese) 93 % –2 91 % 2 27 Transparency Fraud or bribery cases (convictions) 0 0 0 16 205-3 29 Responsible sourcing Signed CoCs for preferred suppliers 76 % 87 % 92 % 12 30 Employee health & safety Accident frequency3 11.47 9.85 8.2 8 403-2 28 Climate impact4 Total reduction of GHG emissions (scope 1+2)5,6 24 % 25 % 30 % 2/13 305-1,2 32 Recycling and waste Total reduction of waste to landfill5 82 % 77 % 77 % 12 306-2 32 Water consumption Total reduction of water consumption 5 6.1 % 4.8 % 9.5 % 2/6 303-1 32 Renewable energy Share of total consumption 21.2 % 24 % 27 % 7 302-1 32 Gender balance (female percentage) Director and above 22 % 22 % 23 % 5/8 28 1 Share of farms reaching top level. 2 Calculated every second year. 3 Accident frequency per 1 million working hours. 4 Scope 1 emissions are the direct emissions from the company transports and facilities. Scope 2 emissions are the indirect emissions caused by the energy that the company purchase, i.e. electricity, steam, heating or cooling. Scope 3 emissions are the indirect emissions from purchased goods and services but also from end-of-live processing of sold products. In 2015, we did the most recent quantification of Arla’s total climate impact (scope 1-3). It showed that the total climate impact was approximately 18.4 million tonnes of greenhouse gas emissions, of which scope 1 and 2 emissions accounted for 2 and 3 per cent, respectively. Scope 3 emissions accounted for 95 per cent of Arla’s total climate impact. Milk accounted for more than 95 percent of the scope 3 emissions. 5 Baseline 2005. 6 Please see www.lifecycleinitiative.org/starting-life-cycle-thinking/life-cycle-approaches/carbon-footprint/ 36 UN Global Compact In early 2008, Arla signed up to the Global Compact, the UN initiative to promote ethical business practices. As a participant, we are committed to observing the Global Compact’s 10 fundamental principles. Since 2008, Arla has been a member of the Global Compact’s Nordic Network. In May 2009, Arla signed up to Caring for Climate, a voluntary and complementary action platform seeking to demonstrate leadership around the issue of climate change. In 2010, Arla’s CEO signed a CEO Statement of Support for the Women’s Empowerment Principles, an initiative from the Global Compact and UNIFEM (the UN Development Fund for Women). Read more about the Global Compact and its principles at www.unglobalcompact.org, and more about Arla’s Code of Conduct at arla.com. Human Rights 1. support and respect the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights; and 2. make sure that they are not complicit in human rights abuses. Labour 3. uphold the freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining; 4. the elimination of all forms of forced and compulsory labour; 5. the effective abolition of child labour; and 6. the elimination of discrimination in respect of employment and ­occupation. Environment 7. support a precautionary approach to environmental challenges; 8. undertake initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility; and 9. encourage the development and diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies. Anti-corruption 10. work against corruption in all its forms, including extortion and bribery. 37 Materiality analysis Through our materiality analysis, first performed in 2014 and updated in 2017, we aim to identify material aspects in the views of our main stakeholders, and use this knowledge to better prioritise our activities. External stakeholders including consumers, customers, In addition to prioritising our activities, we also use the owners, non-profit organisations and financial results to help us improve the scope and focus of our institutions in Denmark, Sweden, the UK and Germany/ reporting and communication processes. Furthermore, Central Europe have taken part in the analysis. All the study serves as a basis when relating to the Global stakeholder groups have received a survey and Reporting Initiative (GRI) guidelines. been asked to prioritise 22 defined areas of interest. Moreover, a group of non-profit organisations were Based on the results from the study in 2017, we have interviewed to get a deeper understanding of their identified food safety, animal care and natural products views and opinions. as key areas of focus. These are followed by product innovation, healthy and affordable food and responsible sourcing. Higher Food safety 1 Food safety Animal 2care Animal care Natural3products (including Natural products organic) (including organic) Product4innovation Product innovation Importance to external stakeholders Healthy and affordable food Responsible sourcingsourcing 6 Responsible Transparent and accountable 7 Transparent and accountable business business Supply chain efficiency Greenhouse gas 9 Greenhouse emissions 1 Food gas emissions safety 2 Animal care Recycling 10 and wasteproducts Recycling 3 Natural & waste (including organic) Working11conditions Working conditions 4 Product innovation Employee training 12 Employee and development training 6 Responsible sourcingand development Product13 information Product supp. information 7 Transparent informed choiceschoices supp.business informed and accountable Water availability 14 Water and quality availability 9 Greenhouse and quality gas emissions © Arla Foods amba, 2019 Stakeholder dialogue 15 Stakeholder 10 Recyclingdialogue & waste 11 Working conditions Sharing16 knowledge Sharing knowledge 12 Employee health ontraining and foodand food ondevelopment and health Fair behaviour inProduct foreign Project coordinator: Arla Foods 17 Fair 13 behaviour inmarkets foreign information markets supp. informed choices Biodiversity, 14 Water availability and quality keep and keep 18 Biodiversity, develop and develop Production management: Anna Michélsen 15 Stakeholder dialogue Jobs and19econ. growth Sharing Jobs16and knowledge econ. theoncountryside ingrowth health in theand food countryside Text: Arla Foods in collaboration with Anna Michélsen Diversity20and 17 Fair behaviour in foreign markets inclusion Diversity & inclusion Graphic design: Waldton Design, We love people (p.6) 18 Biodiversity, keep and develop High Farmer 21development emerging 19 Jobs and econ. Farmer development markets growth in the countryside emerging markets Graphic production: Formalix Local community 22 Local 20 Diversity & inclusion engagement 21 community Farmer development engagement emerging markets Photography: Hans-Henrik Hoeg and Arla’s archive High Importance to internal stakeholders Higher 22 Local community engagement Illustration cover: Lotta Klöverbäck, Urax Reklam 38
