MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group UN GLOBAL COMPACT COMMUNICATION ON PROGRESS 2017/18 MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 02 2017/2018 Table of Content PREFACE 03 Preface 22 Employees and society Working and social conditions ABOUT THIS REPORT 04 About this report Employee development UN GLOBAL COMPACT Preliminary remark Diversity INDEX Business model Social commitment SUSTAINABILITY 05 UN Global Compact Index 28 Climate and resources STRATEGY AND Energy and resource management KEY TOPICS 07 Sustainability strategy and key topics Climate protection CUSTOMER Our understanding of sustainability Materiality analysis 36 Transparency and integrity EMPLOYEES Global sustainability objectives Compliance AND SOCIETY Our strategic sustainability focus Opportunity and risk management Sustainability management Data protection and information security CLIMATE AND RESOURCES Sustainability in supplier management 14 Customer TRANSPARENCY Innovation and new business models 44 Outlook AND INTEGRITY Sustainable products and services Brand management and customer communication 45 Imprint OUTLOOK IMPRINT MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 03 2017/2018 Preface PREFACE Being a leading consumer electronics retailer, we bear a great responsibility towards our employees, customers and business partners. We are therefore now taking a strategic ABOUT THIS REPORT approach to our position as a role model in our industry. By adopting our sustainability stratUN GLOBAL COMPACT egy last year, we are reinforcing responsible action in our corporate processes. And by the INDEX same token, we are systematically contributing to the United Nations’ Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs), which are an invaluable source of guidance regarding sustainable developSUSTAINABILITY ment. STRATEGY AND KEY TOPICS On 6 August 2018, the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group joined the UN Global Compact and thus CUSTOMER signed up to its ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection, and the fight against corruption. The principles of the Global Compact are impor“WE WANT OUR STORES EMPLOYEES tant guidelines for our strategy, our corporate culture and our daily work. After all, only by AND SOCIETY AND ONLINE SHOPS taking a holistic view of sustainability can we make improvements and continue to act sucTO BECOME PLACES OF TRUST.” cessfully as a responsible company. CLIMATE AND FERRAN REVERTER RESOURCES We aim to be a corporation which understands and meets the expectations of our customers TRANSPARENCY and society at large. We want our stores and online shops to become places of trust. This also AND INTEGRITY entails acting sustainably and devising sustainable solutions. We bring people and technology together – that’s our mission. Yet it also involves reliability, trust and responsibility to society. OUTLOOK IMPRINT In this, our first progress report since joining the UN Global Compact, we describe our continuing development, goals and challenges, and set out what we intend to achieve. Best wishes Ferran Reverter Planet CEO MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 04 2017/2018 About this report PREFACE Preliminary remark Business model ABOUT THIS REPORT The UN Global Compact is the biggest and most important alliance for In terms of revenue, sales area and headcount, the MediaMarktSaturn Preliminary remark responsible corporate governance worldwide. Voluntary adherence to Retail Group is Europe’s leading consumer electronics retailer and proBusiness model its ten principles is intended to shift the protection of human rights, vider of related services. Our integrated online and fixed-location UN GLOBAL COMPACT the maintenance of international labour standards, and support for offerings reach millions of customers every day. Therefore, we bear a INDEX environmental protection and the fight against corruption to the cengreat deal of responsibility for shaping sustainable development in the tre of commercial activity worldwide. By joining the Global Compact, consumer electronics sector. We see ourselves as a partner, daily comSUSTAINABILITY we expressly support these principles and report annually on our activpanion and navigator of our customers. STRATEGY AND ities and attainments in a Communication on Progress. Some of the KEY TOPICS country organizations in the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group have also Our portfolio of brands and offerings enables us to respond flexibly to CUSTOMER signed up to the UN Global Compact and publish their own Communithe needs of different customer groups and different countries. The cations on Progress. company includes the brands MediaMarkt and Saturn, which compreEMPLOYEES hensively network their more than 1,000 fixed-location stores with AND SOCIETY Measured by sales, number of employees, and impact on the environonline sales platforms. In addition, the group operates pure play ment and society, the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group is the foremost e-retailers like iBood as well as the music streaming service JUKE. CLIMATE AND RESOURCES company in CECONOMY AG. Together with CECONOMY AG, we develAnother important part of our portfolio is our own brands PEAQ, oped the sustainability strategy and also defined the content for its KOENIC, ISY and ok. TRANSPARENCY CSR (corporate social responsibility) reporting. For the 2017/18 financial AND INTEGRITY year, CECONOMY AG has prepared a separate non-financial group MediaMarktSaturn is majority-owned by CECONOMY AG. report pursuant to the German CSR Directive Implementation Act. Due OUTLOOK to the considerable overlaps between key non-financial aspects and IMPRINT the ten principles of the UN Global Compact, CECONOMY’s jointly prepared report forms the basis for the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group’s Communication on Progress. MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 05 2017/2018 UN Global Compact Index On 6 August 2018, the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group joined the UN PREFACE Global Compact and thus signed up to its ten principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards, environmental protection, and the ABOUT THIS REPORT fight against corruption. UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND KEY TOPICS The ten principles of the UN Global Compact Page CUSTOMER HUMAN RIGHTS EMPLOYEES Principle 1: Supporting human rights 36 – 38; 41 – 43 AND SOCIETY Principle 2: Exclusion of any human rights abuses 36 – 38; 41 – 43 CLIMATE AND RESOURCES LABOUR Principle 3: Upholding freedom of association 22/23; 36 – 38; 41 – 43 TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY Principle 4: Elimination of all forms of forced labour 22/23; 36 – 38; 41 – 43 OUTLOOK Principle 5: Abolition of child labour 22/23; 36 – 38; 41 – 43 IMPRINT Principle 6: Elimination of discrimination 22 – 25; 36 – 38; 41 – 43 ENVIRONMENT Principle 7: Precautionary environmental protection 28 – 32 Principle 8: Initiatives to promote greater environmental responsibility 23/24; 28 – 32 Principle 9: Diffusion of environmentally friendly technologies 14 – 20 ANTI-CORRUPTION Principle 10: Measures to combat corruption 36 – 38 MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 2017/2018 PREFACE ABOUT THIS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND KEY TOPICS Our understanding of sustainability Materiality analysis Global sustainability objectives Our strategic sustainability focus Sustainability management CUSTOMER EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY CLIMATE AND RESOURCES TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY OUTLOOK SUSTAINABILITY IMPRINT STRATEGY AND KEY TOPICS MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 07 2017/2018 Sustainability strategy PREFACE and key topics ABOUT THIS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT Our understanding of Materiality analysis sustainability INDEX In the materiality analysis carried out in 2017/18, we identified key strategic SUSTAINABILITY approaches for our further development. They were also included in STRATEGY AND Exactly how our company grows and creates value is crucial to us. To CECONOMY’s nonfinancial statement. KEY TOPICS remain successful, we need to harmonize our business activity throughOur understanding of sustainability out the value chain with the ecological, social and legal framework. After defining the scope, potentially relevant issues were identified and Materiality analysis MediaMarktSaturn intends to set an example to the entire retail sector then subdivided into logical clusters. This sustainability context formed Global sustainability objectives – and we are determined to make our economic activity both responsithe basis (1 in the diagram) for the following steps of analysis. Over 30 Our strategic sustainability focus ble and sustainable. interviews with managers in the company were conducted and systematiSustainability management cally evaluated to determine the impact on the environment and society (2) as well as the business relevance of each issue (3). Having assessed the CUSTOMER impact and business relevance, we prioritized certain issues (4) by identifying areas where our activities have a high impact on the environment EMPLOYEES and society, and which are also highly relevant to our business. The AND SOCIETY CECONOMY AG Management Board and the management team of the EXACTLY HOW OUR COMPANY MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group then validated the findings and defined CLIMATE AND RESOURCES GROWS AND CREATES VALUE them in more detail (5). As a result, we identified twelve issues. Our TRANSPARENCY IS CRUCIAL TO US. approaches, strategies and actions are outlined below. AND INTEGRITY MEDIAMARKTSATURN INTENDS OUTLOOK TO SET AN EXAMPLE TO THE IMPRINT ENTIRE RETAIL SECTOR. MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 08 2017/2018 Materiality analysis Our key subjects PREFACE ABOUT THIS REPORT Customer › Innovation and new business models UN GLOBAL COMPACT ›S  ustainable products and services INDEX 2 ›B  rand management and customer GRAFIK 01 communication SUSTAINABILITY Determination STRATEGY AND and assessment KEY TOPICS of the effects Employees Our understanding of ›W  ork and social conditions sustainability 1 ›E  mployee development Materiality analysis 4 5 › Diversity Definition of Global sustainability objectives the sustainability Prioritisation Validation Our strategic sustainability focus context Climate & Sustainability management › Energy and resource management resources ›C  limate protection CUSTOMER 3 EMPLOYEES Determination and Transparency AND SOCIETY assessment of the › Compliance & integrity business relevance ›O  pportunity and risk management CLIMATE AND ›D  ata protection and information RESOURCES security › Sustainability in supplier management TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY OUTLOOK IMPRINT MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 09 2017/2018 Global sustainability objectives In August 2018, the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group joined the United DECENT WORK AND ECONOMIC Nations Global Compact (UNGC). We firmly subscribe to its ten princiGROWTH ples and have undertaken to actively contribute to implementing the We have about 59,000 employees across the world PREFACE Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and to submit a report (Comand feel duty-bound to offer them a safe, pleasant munication on Progress, COP) every year to the United Nations on our workplace. In addition, we make sure that environABOUT THIS REPORT progress in the field of sustainability. mental and social standards are observed and supUN GLOBAL COMPACT ported by our suppliers, too. We ensure our corpoINDEX By defining its 17 SDGs, the United Nations set out a clear roadmap for rate growth is sustainable, including by contributthe sustainable development of society within ecological limits. We ing to the local economy. And we support the rise SUSTAINABILITY view the SDGs as an obligation upon us, which is why we have resolved in economic productivity by encouraging technoSTRATEGY AND to align our business model with them. We want to strengthen our logical innovation. KEY TOPICS positive influence while systematically reducing negative effects. Our understanding of sustainability Materiality analysis Given our business model and our influence, we used the materiality Global sustainability objectives analysis to identify five SDGs on which we have a particular influence. INDUSTRY, INNOVATION AND Our strategic sustainability focus We want to contribute to meeting these important objectives, which is INFRASTRUCTURE Sustainability management why we have translated them into our own key principles. Well aware Promoting innovation and new business models is that there is still much to be done, we continue to work on them one of our core competencies. Digitalization is curCUSTOMER unceasingly. rently an important catalyst for crucial transformation processes. It also offers us new solutions for EMPLOYEES present and future challenges, such as ways of AND SOCIETY helping to reduce the consumption of natural CLIMATE AND resources and energy and making production susRESOURCES tainable. TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY OUTLOOK IMPRINT MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 10 2017/2018 RESPONSIBLE CONSUMPTION AND PARTNERSHIPS FOR THE GOALS PRODUCTION Many of today’s and tomorrow’s sustainability As the leading European retailer in the sector of challenges are complex and affect a huge array of consumer electronics, we feel duty-bound to creactors along the value chain. We therefore rely on PREFACE ate added value for our consumers while also close partnerships with our stakeholders to jointly developing solutions to ecological and social chaldevelop viable, enforceable solutions for our ABOUT THIS REPORT lenges. With around 6 million customer contacts industry. UN GLOBAL COMPACT per day, we are able and willing to shape the marINDEX ket for sustainable solutions in our sector. We take the expectations, desires and needs of our stakeSUSTAINABILITY holders seriously, and help our customers to be STRATEGY AND responsible, sustainable consumers. KEY TOPICS Our understanding of sustainability Materiality analysis Global sustainability objectives CLIMATE ACTION Our strategic sustainability focus Being a retailer, we cause environmentally harmful Sustainability management CO2 emissions, for instance because of the stores we operate as well as our logistics and transport. CUSTOMER We are responsible for minimizing our negative impact on the climate and increasing our direct EMPLOYEES sphere of influence. AND SOCIETY CLIMATE AND RESOURCES TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY OUTLOOK IMPRINT MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 11 2017/2018 Our strategic sustainability focus Together with the five SDGs, the significant issues we identified form MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group’s value chain. They also help us to the basis for our strategic sustainability focus. Highlighting the ways in achieve our overarching goal of consolidating sustainability in the core which we can bring our influence to bear, they are backed up by speprocesses of our company. PREFACE cific objectives and actions, and are closely linked to the ABOUT THIS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT Customer Employees Climate & resources Transparency & integrity INDEX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND KEY TOPICS Our understanding of sustainability Sustainable Sustainability in Materiality analysis innovations supplier management Global sustainability objectives Our strategic sustainability focus Sustainability management CUSTOMER EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY Sustainable Sustainable CLIMATE AND logistics products RESOURCES TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY OUTLOOK IMPRINT Sustainable Sustainable Sustainability in stores services stakeholder communication MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 12 2017/2018 Sustainability management Sustainability organization The Management Board is the highest sustainability body in CECONOMY and is responsible for strategic decisions and following up Management Board of CECONOMY on objectives and progress. Sustainability is frequently on the agenda PREFACE of its meetings. This is where the various sustainability projects are driven forward and decisions are taken. ABOUT THIS REPORT Management of the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group UN GLOBAL COMPACT ‘Sponsors’ at the highest levels of management as well as project manINDEX agers from the departments of the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group and Department Sustainability CECONOMY AG are behind the key topics and initiatives of our sustainSUSTAINABILITY ability strategy. They promote these issues in their areas of responsibilStrategy & Program Stakeholder Reporting & STRATEGY AND ity and are responsible for the integration and development of sustainKEY TOPICS Governance Management Management Communication ability in their departments. Our understanding of sustainability Materiality analysis The Sustainability Strategy Committee discusses the focus and topics Sustainability Strategy Group Global sustainability objectives before developing them further and deciding on actions. It acts as a Our strategic sustainability focus platform for interlinking the various issues and promoting sustainabilEnhancement of the sustainability focuses by the determination Sustainability management ity as a whole. Coordinated by the Sustainability department, experts and implementation of measures and targets regularly meet to plan the concrete implementation of the sustainabilCUSTOMER ity strategy within the overall strategy and merge it with business operations. EMPLOYEES Sustainability Manager Business owners/ Subsidiaries AND SOCIETY country organizations departments The sustainability manager is the central contact in each country CLIMATE AND organization. The sustainability managers are tasked with directly Implementation of the Integration and Implementation of RESOURCES introducing the sustainability strategy into each country organization. strategy in countries implementation of sustainability They carry out national activities based on the overarching sustainabilsustainability in each TRANSPARENCY ity strategy. department AND INTEGRITY OUTLOOK The role of our system of sustainability management is to ensure a high degree of transparency both internally and externally, to strengthen IMPRINT the framework of each sustainability initiative, and to follow up on its implementation. In addition, sustainability management supports interaction with internal and external stakeholders and continues to develop sustainability communication. MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 2017/2018 PREFACE ABOUT THIS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND KEY TOPICS CUSTOMER Innovation and new business models Sustainable products CUSTOMER and services Brand management and customer communication EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY CLIMATE AND RESOURCES TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY OUTLOOK IMPRINT MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 14 2017/2018 Customer In order to future-proof our company and remain a trailblazer in retail innovation, we attach special importance to promoting and developing new business models, technology and methods which have the power to change retail. To facilitate innovation in an agile manner, the Our customers’ needs and expectations form the starting point for all MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group has founded a separate company PREFACE our strategic considerations. Our solutions are intended to simplify called MediaMarktSaturn N3XT, which works closely with the country their everyday lives – and also to help them become responsible conorganizations and subsidiaries of the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group, ABOUT THIS REPORT sumers. For this reason, we need to gauge and improve the social and and is headed by the Chief Innovation Officer (CINO) of the UN GLOBAL COMPACT ecological impact of our products and services throughout their lifecyMediaMarktSaturn Retail Group. The CINO in turn liaises with the Chief INDEX cle. To ensure customer satisfaction, we are working to incorporate Technology Officer (CTO). sustainability as a fundamental component of our brand images. And SUSTAINABILITY we are harnessing the benefits of digitalization to improve process MMS N3XT consists of three areas: STRATEGY AND management and keep our customers delighted. KEY TOPICS • Innovation Research constantly evaluates new technologies, use cases, solutions and firms. The existing business model is continuCUSTOMER Innovation and new business Innovation and new business ously questioned by means of innovation activities. Two more aims are to discover possible disruptive paths and to evaluate various models models Sustainable products types of digital technology. The team identifies relevant innovations and services from a large number of proposals and prepares their testing or even Brand management and We can inspire our customers, make our company fit for the future, and piloting in our company. customer communication promote sustainable changes by means of new products, services and EMPLOYEES business models. Attention is paid to the entire value chain – from sup• The results are assessed in a co-creation process with the Digital AND SOCIETY plier management and logistics processes to the products and services Transfor­mation & Projects department, and the most suitable prooffered, our stores, the useful life of our products and services, and jects are chosen based on their practical relevance. After testing, CLIMATE AND recycling. Existing business models need to be analysed with regard to the findings are summarized and forwarded to other departments. RESOURCES customers’ changing expectations as well as the resulting impact on TRANSPARENCY the environment and society. This also entails reviewing the short-term • The Retailtech Hub is open to startups throughout the retail value AND INTEGRITY sales and earnings logic. We are determined to develop viable conchain (not just in consumer electronics) and also other retail compacepts and generate sustainable added value for our customers, the nies in order to encourage cooperation and partnership. Run with OUTLOOK company, and society at large. We want to improve internal processes accelerator experts from the Plug and Play Tech Center in Silicon by means of innovative technology, and to continuously improve the Valley, the Retailtech Hub focuses on jointly implementing pilot IMPRINT customer experience in our stores and online. projects for tomorrow’s retail sector. To find out more about the Retailtech Hub, visit www.retailtechhub.com. MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 15 2017/2018 We have already launched important pilot projects with MMS N3XT in support. The participating startups receive mentoring in several areas the key areas of digital points of sale, automation, connectivity, virtu– and since mid-2018, coaching has included corporate responsibility alization and digital culture. and sustainability management. By operating the Retailtech Hub, we aim to become a pioneer of susPREFACE tainable innovation in retail. Therefore, since June 2018, sustainability has been another selection criterion when choosing which startups to ABOUT THIS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND KEY TOPICS CUSTOMER We recently introduced a pilot project to make recycling Innovation and new business models of unwanted smartphones as easy as possible for our cusSustainable products tomers. At three Saturn stores in Berlin, used smartphones and services can now be exchanged for shopping vouchers using a serBrand management and customer communication vice which is completely automatic. The customer places the smartphone inside the machine and answers a few EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY questions about it. Then the smartphone is scanned. The phone’s residual value is calculated and this amount is CLIMATE AND RESOURCES offered to the customer in the form of a Saturn gift card. Broken smartphones can also be left in the machine free TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY of charge for recycling. Saturn is collaborating on this project with Israeli startup Cellomat. OUTLOOK IMPRINT MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 16 2017/2018 Sustainable products Informing our customers as well as labelling and highlighting sustainable products and services in our stores and the online shop are also and services crucial when promoting sustainable consumption. When it comes to the sustainability of the products we stock, we can PREFACE exert the most influence on our own brands. Together with our suppliMore information and the inclusion of sustainability in customer ers, we work to make the manufacturing of the products we sell more communication is contained in the section ‘Brand Management and ABOUT THIS REPORT sustainable. However, products also impact the environment during customer communication’. UN GLOBAL COMPACT their useful life. One prominent example is electrical and electronic INDEX appliances, items built to high sustainability standards having lower We support innovative product solutions and services which enable power consumption than other articles. Moreover, innovative cusresponsible consumption. The services we offer already allow products SUSTAINABILITY tomer services help to extend the lifecycle of a product, which in turn to be used for longer and then to be properly recycled when they are STRATEGY AND contributes to conserving resources. We believe there is a growing no longer required. At our SmartBars, we offer services such as the KEY TOPICS market for products and services with high ecological and social benewhile-you-wait repair of faulty smart phones and other gadgets. In the CUSTOMER fits, which hence offer improved sustainability and can be positioned 2017/18 financial year, over 440,000 repairs were carried out at our Innovation and new business on the market in various ways. SmartBars – and since the end of 2018, there has been a SmartBar in models every store. Home visit repairs and tech advice are available in GerSustainable products Several departments in our group are responsible for shifting towards many from Deutsche Technikberatung and the RTS Service Group, and and services a more sustainable product range. The Sustainability Strategy Committhese services are also offered abroad through various contractors. If Brand management and tee is a central platform connecting, coordinating and discussing procustomers no longer need a device which still works, they can turn it customer communication posals and concepts. The management of the MediaMarktSaturn Retail into cash quickly and easily via Flip4New. And products’ usage and lifeEMPLOYEES Group is regularly informed of progress. cycles can also be optimized thanks to the possibility of leasing devices. AND SOCIETY Outside our own brands, the main challenge when it comes to improvCLIMATE AND ing the sustainability of our product range is our limited influence on RESOURCES the development of new items and on manufacturers. We have more TRANSPARENCY latitude as far as services are concerned since many of them are develAND INTEGRITY oped by us, sometimes in teamwork with external contractors. The greatest potential for sustainable development can be harnessed by OUTLOOK creating joint solutions in dialogue with our business partners. IMPRINT MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 17 2017/2018 Our maintenance and repair services as well as our recommerce concepts improve product lifecycles and encourage more responsible consumption. Furthermore, these services offer potential growth by combining economic success with ecological and social progress. PREFACE ABOUT THIS REPORT Core results of Brand Health Tracking 2018: Sustainability aspects are important or very imporUN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX tant to 80 per cent of respondents when choosing electrical/electronic products. SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND About three quarters of our customers would like to KEY TOPICS have more information about sustainability. CUSTOMER Innovation and new business models We are keen to help our customers become more responsible consumSustainable products ers. In order to find out more about their needs and expectations, in and services October 2018 we conducted a customer survey. Eighty per cent of the Brand management and respondents declared that sustainability aspects were important or customer communication even very important to them when choosing electrical and electronic EMPLOYEES products. And around three quarters of all MediaMarkt customers said AND SOCIETY they would like to receive more information about sustainability from In our customer communication, we want to provide more MediaMarkt. There is a similarly high level of interest in obtaining more CLIMATE AND information about sustainability among Saturn’s customers, too. Due information about sustainability matters and improve conRESOURCES to growing awareness, more than 60 per cent of respondents would be sumers’ knowledge. In Poland, a learning platform has been TRANSPARENCY willing to pay more for durable, energy-saving products. Our activities created which contains information about the sustainable AND INTEGRITY in this area are part of our strategic priority ‘Sustainability in Stakeuse of products. holder Communication’. OUTLOOK Our own brands: IMPRINT IMTRON’s sustainable products company IMTRON are already listed on the EcoTopTen platform for Our own brands allow us to implement new product ideas and solutop-quality eco-friendly products. Run by the independent Öko-Institions ourselves – and we plan to make even more use of these opportut, EcoTopTen rates both brand-name products and own-brand items tunities in future. Selected products from the range of our own-brand by ecological criteria, including running costs. These ratings are reguMediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 18 2017/2018 larly revised. In February 2019, 19 products made by our own brands Old electrical appliances and their contribution were included in EcoTopTen’s ratings. We aim to increase the number to resource efficiency of products that meet EcoTopTen’s criteria. As well as optimizing product lifecycles, another area where action can be taken to boost the efficiency of the resources contained in electriPREFACE For more information on EcoTopTen’s list of criteria, go to cal appliances and electronic devices is what happens to unwanted www.ecotopten.de. items. Electronic scrap is one of the fastest growing waste streams in ABOUT THIS REPORT the world. According to the Global E-Waste Monitor (2017), 44.7 million UN GLOBAL COMPACT In addition to the EcoTopTen rankings, customers are also informed tonnes of electrical and electronic equipment was thrown away worldINDEX about products of interest by means of labelling. As well as meeting wide in 2016, even though electronic waste is often valuable. After all, the statutory requirements, we often also include extra information many devices or at least some of their components are still functional SUSTAINABILITY and advice in product displays. and could be reconditioned and reused. However, only about 20 per STRATEGY AND cent of global electronic scrap is properly collected and recycled, KEY TOPICS In order to reduce products’ environmental impact during their usage meaning precious raw materials are lost, even though they could be CUSTOMER phase, we develop separate concepts for individual groups of items. In recovered and returned to the production cycle. We need to shoulder Innovation and new business Italy, for example, IMTRON has teamed up with an external partner to full responsibility for the electrical appliances and electronic devices models sell reconditioned, refilled ink cartridges. In the realm of lighting, we sell. Sustainable products IMTRON offers an energy cost calculator under its own brand ISY. Cusand services tomers can use it to calculate how much electricity they can save by Brand management and ACCORDING TO THE GLOBAL E-WASTE buying an LED bulb and how long it will take for it to pay for itself. customer communication Being able to calculate energy savings and transparency regarding the MONITOR 2017, 44.7 MILLION TONNES OF EMPLOYEES increased lifetime are expected to encourage customers to switch to ELECTRICAL AND ELECTRONIC EQUIPMENT AND SOCIETY energy-saving LED bulbs. WAS THROWN AWAY WORLDWIDE IN 2016, EVEN THOUGH ELECTRONIC WASTE IS OFTEN CLIMATE AND RESOURCES VALUABLE. WE NEED TO SHOULDER FULL The IMTRON energy cost calculator can be found on www.imtron.eu/#exklusivmarken. RESPONSIBILITY FOR THE ELECTRICAL TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY APPLIANCES AND ELECTRONIC DEVICES Packaging is another important environmental factor in the manufacWE SELL. OUTLOOK ture of own-brand products. To effectively combat the significant amount of waste packaging, IMTRON has issued its own packaging IMPRINT directive based on the five Rs: Remove, Reduce, Reuse, Renew and Our strategy to boost resource efficiency is based on extending prodRecycle. The aim is for less and less material to be used in order to uct lifecycles and supporting the recycling of secondary raw materials reduce the overall volume of packaging. To this end, we are also explorfrom end-of-life electrical and electronic devices. While our repair ing the use of new types of packaging materials. services prolong the useful life of products, we also ensure that old MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 19 2017/2018 electrical and electronic items which can no longer be reused or posal partner. The scrap is then professionally treated, recycled and repaired are properly collected and recycled within the statutory disposed of in an environmentally friendly manner. The disposal and framework. In the European Union, the return and recycling of end-ofreconditioning of items produced by IMTRON are arranged by each life electrical and electronic equipment is regulated by the WEEE country organization in line with national legislation. (Waste of Electrical and Electronic Equipment) Directive, which is PREFACE translated into national law in each Member State. ABOUT THIS REPORT Brand management and As a retailer, we are legally obliged to take back old appliances. The UN GLOBAL COMPACT companies and brands of the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group in all the customer communication INDEX countries of the EU where we operate take back waste electrical and electronic equipment from our customers – and not just at bricks-andIn recent years, awareness of responsible consumption in society has SUSTAINABILITY mortar stores, but also online. Since waste management systems and grown considerably. As a retail company, we are duty-bound to explain STRATEGY AND national implementations of the WEEE Directive vary from one Memto our customers the sustainability aspects of the products and serKEY TOPICS ber State to the next, the exact details are the responsibility of each vices we sell by means of relevant communication so that they can CUSTOMER country organization. make informed purchase decisions. Innovation and new business models Our customers can either hand in their old devices at stores or have The MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group’s strategic retail marketing is hanSustainable products them taken away when a new appliance is delivered to their home. dled by MediaMarkt Saturn Marketing GmbH within the subsidiary redand services (We frequently even take back electrical and electronic equipment blue Marketing GmbH. redblue acts as a partner and provides support Brand management and which we are not obliged to accept.) It is then processed and recycled for the operational implementation of brand strategies. customer communication by waste management contractors. In Germany alone, MediaMarkt and EMPLOYEES Saturn took back more than 50,000 tonnes of end-of-life electrical and In 2017, we developed a communication concept for sustainability for AND SOCIETY electronic equipment in the 2017/18 financial year. the MediaMarkt and Saturn brands. Its aim is to highlight sustainability at the point of sale, on websites, in publicity and in advertising in order CLIMATE AND IMTRON’s obligations as a manufacturer to provide customers with more information regarding sustainability – RESOURCES and hence help them become responsible consumers. TRANSPARENCY In addition to our duties as a retailer, IMTRON is subject to additional AND INTEGRITY regulations as a manufacturer of electronic products. Domiciled in GerThis has now been implemented and tested at Saturn in the form of a many, IMTRON has joined stiftung EAR, the German register for waste sustainability guidance system under the slogan ‘Go green now’. It enaOUTLOOK electric equipment. It records the quantities sold and pledges to propbles customers to easily spot appliances which score well when it erly recycle or dispose of the same amounts. When notified by stiftung comes to conserving resources and saving energy. IMPRINT EAR, it picks up skips full of waste equipment from public waste management companies and forwards the scrap to its long-term waste disMore details on the list of criteria forming the basis for labelling are contained in the section ‘Sustainable products and services’ and can be found online at www.ecotopten.de. MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 20 2017/2018 We are currently testing a concept for sustainability communication In addition to measuring customer satisfaction, we use numerous cusfor the MediaMarkt stores, too. The Austrian online shop highlights the tomer loyalty tools. Good service is key here. As well as boosting cusbest energy-saving products under the slogan ‘Green and good’ and tomer retention, loyalty programmes also help us increase customer provides tips on saving energy. A similar approach on MediaMarkt Gersatisfaction in the long term. MediaMarkt’s loyalty programme focuses many’s website is currently planned using a label marked ‘Alles im on specific membership campaigns as well as selected national and PREFACE grünen Bereich’ (‘Keen and green’). Measures are also planned or local services. At Saturn, a similar customer loyalty programme has already underway at bricks-and-mortar stores in Austria. And this conbeen set up comprising a customer card with a number of levels. It difABOUT THIS REPORT cept has already been implemented at the MediaMarkt stores in Gdafers from the MediaMarkt Club in that Saturn Card members collect UN GLOBAL COMPACT nsk and Warsaw, with other Polish stores set to follow. Bits in order to progress from one level to the next and thus gain more INDEX and more benefits. Bits can be earned not just by making online and During the pilot phases, we collected plenty of information and identiin-store purchases, but also by writing product reviews, making recomSUSTAINABILITY fied areas for improvement. These findings are now being used to mendations, and submitting more detailed membership profiles. STRATEGY AND improve our communication concepts and activities in online and Accordingly, the Saturn Card helps to improve customer feedback. KEY TOPICS bricks-and-mortar shops. In future, we will focus in particular on CUSTOMER anchoring sustainability in our brand images. The findings from the The results of our customer satisfaction surveys at MediaMarkt and Innovation and new business pilot projects are extremely useful when it comes to strategically incorSaturn have been constantly high in recent years. In the 2017/18 finanmodels porating sustainability aspects into our brands and communication. cial year, the NPS rose significantly overall compared to the previous Sustainable products year in both online and bricks-and-mortar retail, confirming that we are and services Customer satisfaction on the right track. Brand management and customer communication Only satisfied customers keep returning – which is why customer focus EMPLOYEES and customer satisfaction are key elements of our company’s strategic AND SOCIETY objectives. The key performance indicator used is the net promoter score (NPS). We employ this KPI to regularly review our position on the CLIMATE AND market, the findings contributing to strategic decisions and operaRESOURCES tional measures in our stores. TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY OUTLOOK IMPRINT MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 2017/2018 PREFACE ABOUT THIS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND KEY TOPICS CUSTOMER EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY Working and social conditions Employee development Diversity EMPLOYEES Social commitment CLIMATE AND RESOURCES AND SOCIETY TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY OUTLOOK IMPRINT MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 22 2017/2018 Employees and society Our transformation into a more customer-focused, more agile, more Working and social conditions PREFACE digital company is based on the skills and abilities of our 59,000 employees.¹ They are our prime asset as we master future challenges. We place great emphasis on all staff benefiting from good, fair working ABOUT THIS REPORT We therefore attach the utmost importance to providing working conconditions, as this translates into high employee satisfaction. We UN GLOBAL COMPACT ditions which are good, fair and sustainable for all employees. This is therefore work continuously on measures to offer our staff a safe, INDEX crucial if we are to nurture and maintain the motivation and dedication attractive working environment tailored to their individual requirenecessary to remain a leading international retailer specializing in conments. SUSTAINABILITY sumer electronics. STRATEGY AND In the 2018/19 financial year, an international staff survey will be conKEY TOPICS Ensuring good working conditions and genuine diversity as well as ducted to gauge our employees’ expectations and conclude measures CUSTOMER developing and supporting our employees are enshrined in our corpofor improvement. An important role is played by schemes to enhance rate strategy as an essential requirement for our company’s success. occupational safety, to give staff a voice, and to promote employees’ EMPLOYEES health in a high-employment sector like retail. AND SOCIETY The MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group’s Human Resources department Working and social conditions coordinates all strategic personnel matters, and supports and advises In the 2017/18 financial year, uniform parameters for occupational Employee development the HR departments of the country organizations and subsidiaries. HR health and safety were defined for the first time throughout the group, Diversity departments and heads from the country organizations and subsidiarand the methods used to obtain these figures were analysed and Social commitment ies of the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group and from CECONOMY AG standardized. This means that starting in the 2018/19 financial year, the meet up regularly at the quarterly International HR Workshops. At relevant figures can be collected in a standardized manner and then CLIMATE AND RESOURCES these meetings, participants work on aspects of HR and decide prioriused to improve occupational health and safety. Sick leave at the ties. Moreover, various expert and project committees are convened as MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group increased slightly in the period under TRANSPARENCY required to examine relevant matters such as working and social condireview to 3.2 per cent. AND INTEGRITY tions, employee development and diversity. All key figures on the topics mentioned are averages for the year under review. In order to keep improving working and social conditions, we maintain OUTLOOK dialogue with works councils on social matters. Between March and IMPRINT May 2018, regular works council elections were held in some companies in the group. A good work–life balance is extremely important, which is why we help our staff achieve a better balance between their personal and professional lives. Ideally, we would like to offer all our employees 1N  umbers of employees are always mean figures for the period under review (unless stated otherwise). Employee figures do not include the Russian country organization. MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 23 2017/2018 flexible hours and more scope to work at home whenever possible. Employee development However, we realize that not every job allows flexitime. Even so, our goal is for every member of staff – both store employees and adminisDevelopment opportunities and further training are of the utmost trative personnel – to strike the best possible balance between their importance at the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group. They are equally private life and work. We therefore work constantly to improve flexible important for the training and personal development of our employPREFACE staff planning. Various time-off models such as a ‘me day’ now and ees, presenting the company as an attractive employer, and safeguardthen and even sabbaticals can be used to improve the work-life baling the development and future of the group. ABOUT THIS REPORT ance. Moreover, working from home is common in many departments. UN GLOBAL COMPACT And about 22 per cent of staff at the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group Over the next few years, personnel development will mainly address INDEX work part-time (19.1 per cent in Germany, and 24.1 per cent in all the the three strategic areas of leadership, talent development and cusother countries where we operate). tomer focus. The aim is for employees to participate in transformation SUSTAINABILITY processes. Strategic concentration on customers is to be backed up STRATEGY AND One of the aims of this is to boost staff retention. The turnover rate² at with focused employee development. Responsibility for carrying out KEY TOPICS the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group in the 2017/18 financial year was training schemes for the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group is borne by CUSTOMER 26.5 per cent. The employee entry rate is about 27.3 per cent. the respective country organizations. EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY Working and social conditions Employee development Diversity Social commitment CLIMATE AND RESOURCES TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY OUTLOOK IMPRINT 2 T urnover includes both voluntary redundancies and departures due to termination, retirement or death. MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 24 2017/2018 To enable employees to play to their individual strengths, we promote their personal and professional development with various further training programmes at all stages of their careers. Efficiency and effectiveness are increased by means of technical solutions, and staff are offered tailored training using a learning management system. This tool PREFACE helps individual employees to hone their skills and hence contributes to their professional development within the group. Of course, further ABOUT THIS REPORT training means that vacancies can be filled with suitable internal talent. UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX Employee development is based on a combination of external and internal training as well as on-the-job training. From 2019, we will SUSTAINABILITY improve our two management programmes Foundation Leadership STRATEGY AND and Advanced Leadership and gradually open them up to all the counKEY TOPICS try organizations in the coming years. The MediaMarktSaturn Retail CUSTOMER Group offers formal training in 17 different careers and took on 2,940 trainees in 2017/18. We intend to continuously improve our strategy for EMPLOYEES employee development and training. For this reason, we are also workAND SOCIETY ing to define and introduce appropriate control metrics for the entire Working and social conditions company. Employee development Diversity Enthusiasm for sustainability is contagious, as the quarSocial commitment terly community meetings at the Ingolstadt campus show. CLIMATE AND Staff are motivated by the chance to touch base with each RESOURCES other at these workshops and share ideas for a sustainable TRANSPARENCY future. AND INTEGRITY In addition, the Sustainability department regularly uses the OUTLOOK series of talks entitled Fast Forward to inform colleagues IMPRINT about the company’s sustainability issues. The objective of this knowledge-sharing programme is to give different target groups an opportunity to build on their training or alternatively to share their knowledge with others. MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 25 2017/2018 Diversity financial year, we aim to increase the proportion of women in the two management levels below the Management Board – in the first level of Because our customers and their demands are extremely varied, we management to 15 per cent and in the second to 45 per cent. In order need staff who can contribute different viewpoints and solutions. The to increase the general proportion of women in the company, we supmore diverse our employees, the more wide-ranging the abilities and port them in junior talent programmes and executive development PREFACE knowledge in our company. All in all, in the 2017/18 financial year endschemes. In 2017/18, 37 per cent of the trainees at the MediaMarktSaturn ing on 30 September 2018, we employed staff from 128 nations. ProRetail Group in Germany were female. The proportion of women in the ABOUT THIS REPORT moting this internal diversity is an important factor for the company’s executive development programme Foundation Leadership was also 37 UN GLOBAL COMPACT success. Through CECONOMY’s Code of Conduct, the compliance per cent. INDEX guidelines ‘Style & Practice’, and other documents, we create the conSUSTAINABILITY ditions for every employee to be given the same opportunities regardless of their ethnic background, sexual orientation, possible disabilities, WE BELIEVE THAT THE STRATEGY AND KEY TOPICS religion or world view. By doing so, we deliberately strengthen diverCONSCIOUS APPRECIATION OF sity in our company. DIVERSITY HAS A POSITIVE IMPACT CUSTOMER ON OUR WORK. EMPLOYEES More information on compliance is contained in the section ‘Compliance’. AND SOCIETY Because our customers and their demands are extremely varied, we Working and social conditions need employees who can contribute different viewpoints and soluEmployee development tions. In order to promote the recognition, appreciation and inclusion Diversity The CECONOMY Code of Conduct can be viewed on of diversity in the workplace, in 2018 CECONOMY signed the Diversity Social commitment https://www.ceconomy.de/en/ under Company, Compliance. Charter. Almost 2,900 companies and institutions with far more than 9 million employees in total have already signed this employer initiative CLIMATE AND RESOURCES to promote diversity in businesses and institutions. We believe that The MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group’s compliance guidelines the conscious appreciation of diversity has a positive impact on our TRANSPARENCY ‘Style & Practice’ are posted on www.mediamarktsaturn.com/en work. We are also committed to promoting equality between men and AND INTEGRITY under Compliance. women. MediaMarktSaturn therefore took part in and passed the online assessment for the ‘top4women’ seal of quality. The main criteOUTLOOK rion for this award is an express desire to consistently build up the IMPRINT To us, diversity means valuing social differences. This also includes profemale talent pool, retain women with great potential, and offer them moting a percentage of women to management positions reflecting long-term career prospects. the employee structure. Women currently account for 39.4 per cent of the total workforce, and 20.5 per cent of executive positions. To increase this share, back in 2011 we voluntarily pledged to promote women to the top three tiers of management. By the end of the 2018/19 MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 26 2017/2018 Social commitment Social commitment is an integral part of MediaMarktSaturn’s corporate culture. And being Europe’s largest consumer electronics retailer, we intend to live up to our responsibility. We are active in this regard in all PREFACE the country organizations, both internally and externally. The selection of projects and actions supported reflects local and regional conditions ABOUT THIS REPORT and requirements. And we plan to make our activities even more effecUN GLOBAL COMPACT tive by developing a group-wide Corporate Citizenship Strategy. INDEX In the 2017/18 financial year, the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group SUSTAINABILITY donated around €340,000. Of this total, about 30 per cent went to STRATEGY AND local organizations and projects in the Ingolstadt region. A large share KEY TOPICS of the donations is attributable to the country organizations and is CUSTOMER supported by the dedication of our employees. For example, as part of the annual Christmas raffle, our colleagues in Spain collected donaEMPLOYEES tions for Associación Síndrome Asperger, an initiative set up to help AND SOCIETY people with Asperger’s syndrome and their families. The Spanish counWorking and social conditions try organization matched all donations, doubling the amount. MeanEmployee development while, employees of the Swedish country organization spoke out in Diversity favour of higher social commitment during a company survey and The Swedish Childhood Cancer Fund’s ‘Ge 10 kronor’ (‘Give Social commitment decided to support the Swedish Childhood Cancer Fund. 10 krona’) campaign supports young cancer sufferers. In CLIMATE AND September 2018, MediaMarkt customers (both online and RESOURCES Under the corporate volunteering programme at Redblue (MediaMarkt’s and Saturn’s marketing company), employees take part in in-store) were invited to donate 10 krona to the organizaTRANSPARENCY social projects. With so many members of staff keen to give up their tion when making a purchase. A total sum of €25,000 was AND INTEGRITY time for a good cause, Redblue introduced the Social Day in July 2018 raised for the fund. to support and coordinate their volunteering activities. One day a year, OUTLOOK employees can devote themselves to a social project of their choice IMPRINT during their paid working hours. Redblue helps by suggesting suitable charities and also encourages social activities. The response is thoroughly positive: between July and December 2018, over 50 employees took up this invitation to work on social projects. MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 2017/2018 PREFACE ABOUT THIS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND KEY TOPICS CUSTOMER EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY CLIMATE AND RESOURCES Energy and resource management Climate protection CLIMATE AND TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY OUTLOOK RESOURCES IMPRINT MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 28 2017/2018 Climate and Energy consumption: Energy procured for stores and administrative buildings (MWh ’000) PREFACE resources Total energy consumption 2015/16 702.3 2016/17 687.9 2017/18 680.4 ABOUT THIS REPORT Being a retail company specializing in consumer electronics, we are aware of our impact on the environment and on the availability of Scope 1 energy consumption 55.3 59.6 59.9 UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX resources. Our administrative hubs, our fleet of vehicles, and our more Natural gas 52.6 56 56.3 than 1,000 stores consume energy and other resources. Greenhouse SUSTAINABILITY gases are emitted in our upstream and downstream value chain, for Heating oil 2.7 3.6 3.6 STRATEGY AND instance by production and logistics. Environmental protection and the KEY TOPICS smart management of energy and resources are important aspects of our sustainability strategy as we seek to make our growth and develScope 2 energy consumption 647 628.3 620.5 CUSTOMER opment sustainable. We are determined to develop viable solutions to Electricity 610.1 590.9 575.8 EMPLOYEES support environmental protection, climate change mitigation, and the AND SOCIETY conservation of resources. District heating 35.2 34.4 42.9 CLIMATE AND District cooling 1.7 3 1.8 RESOURCES Energy and resource Energy and resource management management Energy consumption per sq.m 229 228 225 Climate protection of retail space (kWh) TRANSPARENCY We face the challenge of systematically and sustainably reducing energy Electricity consumption per 199 196 190 AND INTEGRITY sq.m of retail space (kWh) consumption throughout the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group, especially OUTLOOK in our stores, which account for much of our total power demand. We have adopted a two-pronged approach comprising an efficient energy IMPRINT management system and continuously modernizing our stores and administrative buildings. organizations and subsidiaries on related aspects of newbuild and The country organizations are responsible for managing their own modernization projects. The property managers of all the energy usage. The MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group’s energy consumpMediaMarktSaturn Retail Group’s country organizations meet up at tion is aggregated in Corporate Property Management, where potenleast twice a year at the International Corporate Property Meeting to tial savings are analysed and the management of energy and resources coordinate strategies, actions and processes, talk about their recent is improved. Energy-saving targets for the whole group are coordiexperience, and discuss the impact of new legal requirements and nated with this department, which also advises and supports country social factors on property management. MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 29 2017/2018 Digital energy meters and sensors measuring temperature and air quality provide us with the extensive data necessary for the efficient management of energy and resources. Stores’ consumption of electricity, gas, district heating/cooling and heating oil is continuously measured by smart meters. Immediate action can be taken if consumption PREFACE levels rise. ABOUT THIS REPORT Based on all this data, in 2011 the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group UN GLOBAL COMPACT launched a far-reaching programme entitled Saving Energy 2.0. Taking INDEX 2011 as its base year, its original goal was to reduce the volume of electricity purchased by the stores by 15 per cent by the year 2020. In the SUSTAINABILITY event, this target was overfulfilled ahead of time, with reduction STRATEGY AND already reaching as much as 23 per cent by 2017. This equates to conKEY TOPICS sumption being cut by nearly 130,000 MWh of electricity and some CUSTOMER 65,000 tonnes of CO2. Based on this success, we are now preparing a To reduce the consumption of resources, we have already follow-up programme to deliver a further decrease in electricity condiscontinued the sale of plastic bags in our stores in 10 of EMPLOYEES sumption of 15 per cent by 2025. Since the targets are based on a likethe 14 countries where we operate. In seven countries, we AND SOCIETY for-like approach, i.e. on comparable adjusted figures, about 700 of the now offer customers carrier bags for life made from recymore than 1,000 stores are included in this assessment. CLIMATE AND cled PET bottles instead. Considering their entire lifecycle, RESOURCES these bags have a better carbon and environmental footEnergy and resource BETWEEN 2011 AND THE END OF 2017, management print than other types. Climate protection WE SAVED NEARLY 130,000 MWH TRANSPARENCY OF ELECTRICITY AND AND INTEGRITY ABOUT 65,000 TONNES OF CO 2. OUTLOOK Guidelines (SPG) based on the gold standard of the LEED (Leadership in The energy-saving targets are achieved by a combination of methods Energy and Environmental Design) classification system for green IMPRINT including more energy-efficient in-store lighting. With LED strip lightbuilding. In addition to energy efficiency, it includes aspects such as ing now fitted in over 300 stores, eventually all our stores will be conimproving comfort and well-being, the responsible treatment of verted to LED. resources, and reducing hazardous substances in building and other materials. The objective is to consolidate sustainability in construction We want to raise the bar by making sure our building activities conand the day-to-day activities of the stores in all the country organizaserve resources and are environmentally friendly. To achieve this, the tions. Moreover, we aim to help our customers make sustainable purMediaMarktSaturn Retail Group has drawn up Sustainable Property chase decisions. MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 30 2017/2018 Climate protection Carbon footprint: Greenhouse gas emissions The German government has set ambitious goals for combating cli(t ’000 CO2/CO2 equivalent)1 mate change. For example, Germany is to become largely carbon-neu2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 tral by 2050. As a retailer, we support these goals and take responsibilPREFACE ity for the emissions arising directly or indirectly through our compaTotal greenhouse gas 318.1 270.2 134.2 ny’s activities. The biggest share of the CO2 emissions we cause and emissions2 ABOUT THIS REPORT which we can directly influence come from our stores and logistics UN GLOBAL COMPACT operations. Following in-depth studies, we have pledged to reduce INDEX environmentally harmful emissions throughout the value chain in order Greenhouse gas emissions 318.1 255.4 118.2 to minimize our impact whilst remaining competitive. By doing so, as excluding vehicles SUSTAINABILITY well as responding to political and social expectations and also rising STRATEGY AND energy prices, we intend to make an active contribution to climate KEY TOPICS protection. Scope 1 greenhouse gas 11.5 27.3 28.5 CUSTOMER emissions (direct) For this reason, in the 2017/18 financial year, we overhauled our carbon Natural gas 10.8 11.5 11.5 EMPLOYEES accounting system and professionalized the assessment process. AND SOCIETY Together with an external contractor, we reviewed the processes used Heating oil 0.7 0.9 1 in carbon accounting and analysed the available data. As a result, the CLIMATE AND Vehicle fleet – 14.9 16 RESOURCES survey processes and the overall data quality have been significantly Energy and resource improved for both Scope 1 and Scope 2. In the 2017/18 financial year, management we published our own carbon accounting pursuant to the Greenhouse Scope 2 greenhouse gas emis306.6 242.9 105.7 Climate protection Gas Protocol for the first time. sions (indirect, market-based) TRANSPARENCY Our next goal is to add Scope 3 emissions to our greenhouse gas Electricity3 293.3 229.8 89.7 AND INTEGRITY reporting. We have already begun to prepare for this and will continue District heating 12.6 12.1 15.3 OUTLOOK to do so in the 2018/19 financial year. We are also working on a climate strategy with corresponding CO2 reduction targets. District cooling 0.7 1 0.7 IMPRINT For more information on the project ‘Greenhouse Gas Reporting for Greenhouse gas emissions per 104 84 39 Scope 3 Emissions’, see the section ‘Sustainable logistics’ below. sq.m of retail space (kg, excluding vehicles, market-based) 1 Based on emissions factors provided by the VDA German Association of the Automotive Industry updated in 2017. 2 Total greenhouse gas emissions in the 2015/16 business year exclude vehicle fleet data. 3 Market-based emissions pursuant to GHG Protocol Scope 2 Guidance. Scope 2 emissions from electricity procurement calculated using the location-based method for 2017/18 with VDA emissions factors: 275,500 tonnes CO2 equivalent. MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 31 2017/2018 CO2 emissions in stores Sustainable logistics We are continuously working to reduce energy consumption per Overall responsibility for the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group’s logistics square metre of retail space. This is a key contribution to preserving lies with the COO. Country organizations are in charge of their logistics resources, but also to climate protection, as CO2 emissions are created and transport flows. The volume of goods transported is especially PREFACE by generating energy. In the 2017/18 financial year, the total energy high in Germany. The current supply chain is divided into online and consumption of stores and administrative buildings amounted to bricks-and-mortar retail. Bricks-and-mortar retail currently uses a ABOUT THIS REPORT 680,4000 MWh. This equates to 225 kWh per square metre (down from decentralized procurement model in which each store has its own UN GLOBAL COMPACT 228 kWh in 2016/17). In addition to the energy-saving measures stream of goods which the store manager structures independently. INDEX described in the section ‘Energy and resource management’, we are Suppliers are responsible for delivering goods to the stores. They conprogressively switching from conventional electricity to green power tract freight forwarders to deliver directly to the store or an external SUSTAINABILITY in our stores. Without neglecting economic factors, we have already warehouse it has rented. At the end of the transport chain is the cusSTRATEGY AND converted 77 per cent of MediaMarkt and Saturn stores which choose tomer, who either picks up a product in-store or has it delivered. At the KEY TOPICS their own electricity supplier to green power. moment, this delivery is normally managed by each store indepenCUSTOMER dently. Emissions from our stores (greenhouse gas emissions excluding the EMPLOYEES vehicle fleet but including administration) totalled 118,200 tonnes of In online retail, the country organizations in the MediaMarktSaturn AND SOCIETY CO2 in the 2017/18 financial year (compared to 255,300 tonnes in Retail Group contract fulfilment partners to operate online ware2016/17). See in relation to retail area, this corresponds to 39 kg of CO2 houses, from where goods are directly delivered to the customer or, if CLIMATE AND RESOURCES per square metre (2016/17: 84 kg). The data for Scope 2 is based on the customer prefers, to the store for collection. In some cases, goods Energy and resource market-based calculation. According to this method, the quantities of bought online are taken from the store’s inventory rather than the management electricity purchased are reported using the emissions factors provided online warehouses. Climate protection by the suppliers. Accordingly, electricity from green electricity tariffs and renewable energy sources produces no emissions in Scope 2. As In order to make logistics activities and transport flows more efficient TRANSPARENCY the majority of our stores now purchase certified green electricity, and transparent in future, the company’s supply chain management is AND INTEGRITY Scope 2 emissions have been slashed. By comparison, in a locationcurrently being overhauled. The aims of this new system are to make OUTLOOK based analysis using the typical energy mix of a country, total CO2 our logistics processes faster and more reliable, and to increase transemissions in 2017/18 (excluding the vehicle fleet) would have been parency and data availability, so that the resulting CO2 emissions can IMPRINT 304,000 tonnes or 100 kg of CO2 per square metre of retail space. be accurately gauged. MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 32 2017/2018 Accordingly, certain functions and new logistics systems will shortly be Greenhouse gas emissions from logistics tested in selected regions of Germany in conjunction with suppliers and other business partners. Both the functions and the test regions As a result of this new, more centralized approach, we are expanding will then be gradually expanded. The aim of this transformation is to our direct scope of responsibility in logistics and boosting transparmove goods as little as possible to ensure they arrive punctually and ency regarding transport routes, the distances travelled, fuel consumpPREFACE efficiently where and when they are required. tion and freight capacity utilization. This will enable the greenhouse gases arising to be gauged more accurately and hence reduced in ABOUT THIS REPORT More specifically, the local organization of stock and transport planthe long run. The figures recorded create transparency about the types UN GLOBAL COMPACT ning is to be replaced by centrally managed processes based on and levels of logistics and transport related CO2 emissions. They enable INDEX a national warehouse. Stores will then be supplied by the national us to draw up targets and report progress based on recognized standwarehouse on centrally planned round trips. Apart from the stores, our ards (Greenhouse Gas Protocol; EN 16258) and methods (Global LogisSUSTAINABILITY suppliers will also benefit from having a central point of contact and tics Emissions Council Framework). After previously concentrating STRATEGY AND delivery. on stores’ energy consumption, using this new assessment system KEY TOPICS means we can gradually extend our climate protection goals to include CUSTOMER In addition to the national warehouse, regional warehouses are Scope 3 emissions (logistics/transport). In the first stage, we will focus planned, too. They will be systematically distributed across Germany on emissions in our direct sphere of influence – mainly the deliveries EMPLOYEES and are mainly planned for large appliances which need to be carried contracted by MediaMarktSaturn. In future, primary data can be colAND SOCIETY by two members of staff. The regional warehouses will deliver to indilected on the emissions intensity of transport, helping us to actively vidual stores and to customers directly. In addition to efficient delivcontrol emissions reduction. CLIMATE AND RESOURCES ery, they will in future help us offer customers welcome additional serEnergy and resource vices such as set-up, installation, and removing and disposing of old management appliances. Tests have shown that high delivery precision can be Climate protection achieved, including with short delivery windows of three hours. TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY THE NEW CARBON ACCOUNTING METHOD OUTLOOK ENABLES US TO GRADUALLY EXTEND IMPRINT OUR CLIMATE PROTECTION TARGETS TO SCOPE 3 EMISSIONS. MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 33 2017/2018 MediaMarktSaturn’s current supply chain PREFACE Industry, suppliers, distributors ABOUT THIS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX SUSTAINABILITY Supply chain STRATEGY AND KEY TOPICS Supply logistics MediaMarktSaturn CUSTOMER Stores Selling space EMPLOYEES Customer AND SOCIETY Store warehouses logistics CLIMATE AND External warehouses RESOURCES Energy and resource management Online-shops Climate protection Package warehouses Customer TRANSPARENCY logistics AND INTEGRITY Large device warehouse OUTLOOK IMPRINT Customers MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 34 2017/2018 MediaMarktSaturn’s future supply chain PREFACE Industry, suppliers, distributors ABOUT THIS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX SUSTAINABILITY Supply chain STRATEGY AND KEY TOPICS Supply Markets MediaMarktSaturn Selling space CUSTOMER logistics Beschaffung und National Logistik GmbH warehouses Market warehouses EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY External warehouses Customer CLIMATE AND RESOURCES logistics Energy and resource Regional Online-shops management warehouses Climate protection Package warehouses TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY Distribution Customer logistics: Large devices OUTLOOK IMPRINT Customers MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 2017/2018 PREFACE ABOUT THIS REPORT UN GLOBAL COMPACT INDEX SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND KEY TOPICS CUSTOMER EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY CLIMATE AND RESOURCES TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY Compliance Opportunity and risk management Data protection and information security TRANSPARENCY Sustainability in supplier management OUTLOOK AND INTEGRITY IMPRINT MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 36 2017/2018 Transparency and integrity The key requirements for our company’s long-term success are good Integrity – the driver and goal of compliance – is our watchword in our PREFACE corporate governance and extending our standards – such as transparcommercial activity and an integral part of our leadership approach. ent, compliant, reliable and secure processes as well as responsible Creating the framework for compliance is a management task. ABOUT THIS REPORT conduct and integrity – to the supply chain. UN GLOBAL COMPACT The risk-based Compliance Management System (CMS) is primarily INDEX The fact that the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group operates across based on the prevention, detection and sanctioning of corruption and Europe and its decentralized structure make implementing a groupantitrust violations, and serves to protect our employees from breaches SUSTAINABILITY wide governance, risk management and compliance (GRC) system of compliance. In addition, it is intended to protect the company from STRATEGY AND complicated, yet all the more vital. The partly different corporate culreputational or financial harm and limit the liability of the management KEY TOPICS tures and modes of operation of the individual companies need to be in the event of compliance breaches by individual employees. The CUSTOMER integrated without neglecting the different social and legal systems in Compliance team is responsible for averting major risks and so its role the countries where we operate. The central pillar of our activities is boils down to prevention. This distinguishes it from the Group Audit, EMPLOYEES the Code of Conduct, which defines the basic values we share. We are Consulting & Security department, which by performing regular audits AND SOCIETY firmly committed to a policy of transparent conduct, integrity, fairness and forensic investigations focuses on detection. Sanctions are and respect, and we abide by the law. Violations of these values and imposed by Human Resources. We regularly identify compliance risks, CLIMATE AND RESOURCES rules may result in existential risks and damage to our company’s repuset up the necessary organizational structures, and have the risks rigortation, undermining our stakeholders’ confidence in us. ously monitored and controlled by the responsible departments. TRANSPARENCY Responsibility for ensuring compliance lies with the Management AND INTEGRITY Board of CECONOMY AG and the management teams of the group Compliance Compliance companies. The group-wide compliance function supports the comOpportunity and pany management teams by developing and continuously improving risk management As well as leading to economic problems, corruption and unethical corthe CMS. The Group’s CMS is frequently reviewed by the Supervisory Data protection and porate behaviour also have a direct impact on the company and its Board and the Audit Committee. The group’s GRC (Governance, Risk information security employees. Compliance breaches can result in high fines being imposed and Compliance) Committee regularly discusses current concerns as Sustainability in supplier management on the company, criminal sanctions against employees, and claims for well as the further development and improvement of the CMS. The compensation from customers, competitors and suppliers, as well as GRC process at the level of CECONOMY AG is intended to provide the OUTLOOK severe reputational harm and lasting loss of confidence. Serious violaBoard of Management and the Supervisory Board (and also shareholdtions may also lead to financial losses and damage public confidence in ers via the annual report) with a uniform, comprehensive overview of IMPRINT the company and the political system. our opportunities and risks as well as of the effectiveness of the individual subsystems. MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 37 2017/2018 In order to counteract regulatory violations in the long term, the comThese guidelines are augmented and defined in more detail by specific pliance culture must be practised at all levels of the company – from directives published by CECONOMY as well as by the group companies, the Management Board and executives down to every single employee. which reflect national circumstances and business practices of the varThe Management Board of CECONOMY AG and the management teams ious countries and specific issues. of the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group support this culture through an PREFACE appropriate ‘tone from the top’ and company-wide training and comBreaches of the law, the Code of Conduct or other directives and regumunication measures. lations are not tolerated. Any violations can be reported in confidence ABOUT THIS REPORT to executives and compliance officers, who also answer employees’ UN GLOBAL COMPACT CECONOMY’s Code of Conduct also supports this compliance culture. queries. INDEX It is available internally and externally and is binding on all employees, executives and board members. The compliance guidelines ‘Style & One key element of the CMS set up by CECONOMY is a group-wide SUSTAINABILITY Practice’ complementing the Code of Conduct also apply to all employcompliance reporting system. It can be used by employees and third STRATEGY AND ees of the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group. parties (anonymously, if they prefer) to report observed or suspected KEY TOPICS CUSTOMER EMPLOYEES AND SOCIETY The CECONOMY Code of Conduct can be found on www.ceconomy.de/en under CLIMATE AND RESOURCES Company, Compliance. To communicate the guidelines, the MediaTRANSPARENCY MarktSaturn Retail Group has launched a comAND INTEGRITY pliance campaign known as ‘WE PLAY FAIR’. The compliance guidelines of the Compliance MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group entitled It prioritizes raising employees’ awareness in Opportunity and ‘Style & Practice’ are posted on risk management order to empower and encourage them to recwww.mediamarktsaturn.com/en Data protection and ognize critical situations and respond accordunder Compliance. information security Sustainability in ingly. The campaign is updated on a regular supplier management basis and addresses different areas of focus. OUTLOOK It has been rolled out throughout the group, including in all its country organizations and IMPRINT stores. MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 38 2017/2018 compliance incidents. The system was explicitly extended to include To identify relevant opportunities and risks, we conduct macroecowhistleblowing on human rights abuses when the Human Rights Policy nomic research, study relevant trends, and analyse markets and the was signed in 2018. An ad hoc team is always set up to investigate sericompetition. Additionally, we address the critical success factors of ous incidents and take appropriate action. our business models and significant cost drivers of our company. Opportunity and risk management is an integral part of the entire PREFACE To raise employee awareness, Group Compliance also conducts regular organization. Effective processes and maximum transparency are individual or e-learning compliance training. In the year under review, achieved by combining top-down and bottom-up approaches with the ABOUT THIS REPORT no material incidents of corruption were reported to Group Compliactive involvement of the various units and departments. UN GLOBAL COMPACT ance. INDEX We are already identifying environmental and social risks, too, and assessing their relevance to the company – for example, regarding SUSTAINABILITY STRATEGY AND Opportunity and potential risks posed by climate change. KEY TOPICS risk management Opportunity and risk management is used to pursue the overarching CUSTOMER objective of identifying and evaluating potential positive and negative The risk landscape has profoundly changed in recent years in the light developments for our company early on, and if necessary, taking and EMPLOYEES of strong market fluctuation, trendsetting technological innovations, monitoring appropriate action. AND SOCIETY digitalization, and pertinent state regulations. These global challenges are accompanied by climate change and dwindling natural resources In order to effectively implement our sustainability strategy, our susCLIMATE AND RESOURCES and, together with the rapidly growing world population, pose new tainability management system will have to be even more closely risks to the environment, society and the economy – yet they may also dovetailed with Opportunity and risk management. This is why a speTRANSPARENCY open up new opportunities. For us as a company, it is important to be cialist from the Risk Management department is also a permanent AND INTEGRITY able to identify, understand and properly evaluate the challenges member of the Sustainability Strategy Group. We are currently working Compliance which are relevant to us in good time. Incorrect assessments could lead to harness the synergies of the two groups and to define an integrated, Opportunity and to serious commercial risks and missed opportunities. holistic approach. risk management Data protection and The success of our company hinges on how well we deal with opportuinformation security nities and risks in our comprehensive Opportunity and risk manageSustainability in supplier management ment system. OUTLOOK IMPRINT MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 39 2017/2018 Data protection and Within the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group, data protection is based in the Data Privacy Office. The DPO is the central point of contact for all information security domestic and foreign companies in the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group. To comply with internal and statutory regulations, it supports We are driving digitalization forward and using the smart networking the collection, processing and deletion of personal data of customers, PREFACE of different data and information for our business model. Responsibly partners and employees. Besides, the DPO advises on necessary technihandling the data of our customers, employees, business partners and cal and organizational measures to ensure that the personal data colABOUT THIS REPORT investors is therefore of great importance in our business activities and lected by the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group is processed lawfully. UN GLOBAL COMPACT processes. We do everything we can to prevent the misuse of data and INDEX associated risks. Cross-cutting and sector-specific directives and procedures exist in the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group for the structuring and standardization SUSTAINABILITY We use extensive IT security measures to counteract the failures of ITof data processing processes. Any national peculiarities as well as caseSTRATEGY AND based business processes, IT security incidents and cyberattacks, which by-case decisions regarding data subjects of stores or the respective KEY TOPICS are among the biggest threats in the retail sector. By doing so, we procountry organizations are dealt with by the country organizations’ CUSTOMER tect confidentiality, availability and integrity, and avoid threats and national data protection officers. any resulting economic harm. EMPLOYEES In addition to data protection, to safeguard the trust of our customers, AND SOCIETY Data protection means protecting the individual from the infringement business partners and other stakeholders, information security is of their personal rights and privacy through data misuse or the unauanother area of key importance for us. In strategic coordination with CLIMATE AND RESOURCES thorized use of data. This principle as well as compliance with relevant the area of data protection, information security creates the technical laws such as the EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) are requirements for the operational implementation of data protection. TRANSPARENCY embodied at our highest decision-making level and have the highest Information security is essentially divided into the following three AND INTEGRITY priority. areas of responsibility: Compliance Opportunity and Our new general privacy policy contains the principles of data protecMaintaining the IT infrastructure risk management tion and applies from the 2018/19 financial year. We conduct internal Data protection and audits to monitor compliance with data protection regulations. InciEnsuring the confidentiality of data and information information security dents or suggestions for improvement regarding data protection can Sustainability in supplier management be reported by all stakeholders using contact points such as central The technical implementation of data protection email addresses. All reports received are examined and answered OUTLOOK promptly. IMPRINT MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 40 2017/2018 These areas are governed by the following principles: IT Security departments in the country organizations and subsidiaries implement the IT security strategy in their companies and, if need be, Protecting availability: All relevant information is always available observe national peculiarities and regulations. when it is needed. By constantly implementing and adapting our IT security strategy, we PREFACE Protecting confidentiality: All relevant information is only disare preparing ourselves for current and future requirements regarding closed to the limited group of authorized people. cybersecurity and data protection. Under this strategy, various techniABOUT THIS REPORT cal and organizational measures for detection and prevention, and in UN GLOBAL COMPACT Protecting integrity: All relevant information has not been falsified particular to raise awareness, were implemented in the 2017/18 finanINDEX and is complete at all times. Changes to this information can only be cial year. made by the group of people authorized to do so. SUSTAINABILITY We implemented a raft of strategic and organizational measures to STRATEGY AND Information security is kept separate from other IT management funcprepare for the GDPR, which entered into force in May 2018. ProacKEY TOPICS tions and integrated into general enterprise security, enabling a holistively, the GDPR Preparatory Project was launched in autumn 2016. It CUSTOMER tic analysis of the company’s risk and security situation. The central emphasized the comprehensive and correct implementation of meassteering body for the approval, further development and review of the ures to meet the GDPR’s requirements while maintaining a balance EMPLOYEES IT security strategy as well as for drafting decision papers is the between business requirements and compliance challenges. First of all, AND SOCIETY MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group’s IT Security Board, on which all the weaknesses in the existing system were analysed in order to eliminate necessary departments are represented. them. Suitable measures have already been taken regarding accountaCLIMATE AND RESOURCES bility and data protection management, documentation, information Information security is managed within the MediaMarktSaturn Retail obligations, and the rights of data subjects. TRANSPARENCY Group using an extensive Information Security Management System AND INTEGRITY (ISMS). The Corporate IT Security unit controls and coordinates the Keen attention continues to be paid to employees’ awareness of data Compliance ISMS and has a policymaking function. It draws up the management protection requirements at all levels of the group. New employees Opportunity and principles and the IT security policy for the MediaMarktSaturn Retail receive a data protection induction during the onboarding process, risk management Group. The ISMS clearly defines the responsibilities and tasks for ensurand training and information campaigns are held on a regular basis. At Data protection and ing information security. MediaMarkt Saturn Technology supports Corthe start of 2018, for instance, we held an awareness campaign entitled information security porate IT Security regarding implementation and acts in the ‘Data Protection and You’. A regular newsletter explaining relevant Sustainability in supplier management MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group as an IT contractor and service proaspects and problems of day-to-day data protection was launched as vider. It implements and establishes standards, processes and technical well. To consolidate this issue in the company, we also developed an OUTLOOK controls for the implementation of the IT security strategy. e-learning programme on relevant aspects of the GDPR. It began in mid-2018 and is mandatory for all MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group IMPRINT employees. MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 41 2017/2018 Alongside executives, in particular employees of company departnetworks, from which we benefit financially. The upstream operations ments who have access to and work with sensitive data regularly have potential effects on humans and the environment. Making value attend intensive training on data protection and data security. chains socially, ecologically and economically sustainable is beset by numerous challenges from ensuring decent working conditions to protecting the environment and natural resources. We see it as our duty to PREFACE improve transparency within our supply chains. Additionally, we want to gradually assume more responsibility for the social and ecological ABOUT THIS REPORT compatibility of the manufacturing processes of all our products (own UN GLOBAL COMPACT MediaMarktSaturn’s data protection strategy and its brands and third-party brands alike). We are certain that more sustainINDEX able procurement practices help us to stand out from the competition, implementation received the ‘In-house Team of the Year’ improve our reputation with customers, partners and employees, and SUSTAINABILITY JUVE Award in the period under review. The further develreduce potential business risks. STRATEGY AND opment of our Data Privacy Office as well as our GDPR KEY TOPICS implementation strategy came in for special praise. To We also rely on partnerships to improve sustainability standards in the CUSTOMER select the award-winners from legal and similar departsupply chain. Ongoing dialogue with our suppliers and business partners is essential to systematically increase environmental and social EMPLOYEES ments, the Cologne-based legal publisher JUVE polled standards throughout the value chain. AND SOCIETY clients, competitors, junior lawyers and judges. As well as legal expertise, particular attention was paid to strategic Our strategy for sustainable supplier management in the CLIMATE AND RESOURCES and proactive orientation and the future potential of the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group is made up of various elements. Firstly, along with other companies in the consumer electronics industry, we action taken. TRANSPARENCY are a member of the Responsible Business Alliance (Electronic Industry AND INTEGRITY Citizenship Coalition). The RBA is working on a uniform standard for Compliance social, ecological and ethical aspects of the supply chain in an effort to Opportunity and permanently improve supplier management in the industry. Our suprisk management plier management system is also based on the standards of the amfori Data protection and information security Sustainability in Business Social Compliance Initiative (BSCI), which form an important basis for our supplier relationships. Sustainability in supplier management supplier management The MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group’s procurement directive is the OUTLOOK As Europe’s biggest consumer electronics retailer, we want to make supreme framework and is mandatory on all procurement organizathe best products and services available to customers anywhere and tions in the group. It applies to all employees, creates binding, transIMPRINT anytime on our various sales channels. Our range includes brand-name parent minimum standards for all purchasing activities of third-party products from internationally renowned manufacturers and own-brand brands, and establishes responsibilities, processes and documentation items made by IMTRON GmbH. All products involve long, complex suprequirements. ply chains with ramified global production, procurement and supply MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 42 2017/2018 The MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group has signed up to the German govthis will be binding on all purchasing agreements in Indirect Spending ernment’s National Human Rights Action Plan, and published its own Sourcing – unless the contractual partner has their own equivalent or Human Rights Policy in December 2018. In connection with this, the superior certification. greatest risks to human rights along our value chain were identified with the aid of risk mapping and a panel of experts. The duty to respect Our own brands: PREFACE human rights is a central tenet of the sustainability strategy of the Supplier management by IMTRON MediaMarktSaturn and part of our commitment to SDG 8. This underABOUT THIS REPORT taking by the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group is to be communicated in In addition to retailing brand-name products made by well-known UN GLOBAL COMPACT full to our employees by the end of 2019. Dialogue on this with external manufacturers, the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group also sells products INDEX stakeholders is also being stepped up. By talking to partners, we want supplied by our own-brand company IMTRON GmbH. As a wholly to learn and improve. For example, the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group owned subsidiary of the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group, it is responsiSUSTAINABILITY is represented in the Human Rights Peer Learning Group of the UN ble for its own supplier management. IMTRON’s business purpose is to STRATEGY AND Global Compact. centrally provide MediaMarktSaturn country organizations with highKEY TOPICS quality products made by the own brands ok., KOENIC, PEAQ and ISY. CUSTOMER At MediaMarktSaturn, we regard procurement practices, directives Furthermore, IMTRON is also setting up a division for exclusive licensed and regulations as dynamic processes which are subject to continuous brands and products. EMPLOYEES improvement. This is how we aim to continue to develop. AND SOCIETY IMTRON’s own Procurement Directive ensures compliance with defined In addition to procuring the third-party products that we offer our cusprocesses and methods in purchasing and is the responsibility of CLIMATE AND RESOURCES tomers, we also purchase products and services for our own business IMTRON GmbH’s management. It regulates all the procurement prooperations and administration. In contrast to the Procurement departcesses and minimum requirements for all products and goods-related TRANSPARENCY ment, which purchases goods for retail, the Indirect Spending Sourcing services. Moreover, it establishes responsibilities and the standards AND INTEGRITY department coordinates the procurement of non-retail goods and serwhich processes and documents have to meet to ensure high transparCompliance vices. It manages indirect procurement for the MediaMarktSaturn ency in procurement. The directive reflects the overarching directives Opportunity and Retail Group as a whole. of CECONOMY AG and the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group, and is risk management binding on all employees and departments of IMTRON GmbH and its Data protection and We also adhere to the principles enshrined in the Code of Conduct of wholly owned subsidiary IMTRON Asia Hong Kong Limited. Compliance information security the Responsible Business Alliance relating to indirect spending. The with the Procurement Directive is verified both by the internal control Sustainability in supplier management Sustainability Strategy Circle discusses and assesses significant aspects system and by means of spot checks by the MediaMarktSaturn Retail of sustainable procurement as well as measures and successes. These Group’s Internal Auditing department. The results are reported to OUTLOOK measures also include drawing up our own Code of Conduct for the IMTRON’s management team and translated into specific improvement MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group based on that of the RBA. In future, action plans. The PD itself is subject to an annual internal plausibility IMPRINT check and is regularly updated and revised accordingly. MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 43 2017/2018 IMTRON has been a member of the amfori Business Social Compliance Membership of the amfori BSCI obliges IMTRON to regularly conduct Initiative founded to protect employees’ rights in production plants audits of its suppliers. A BSCI audit is considered to have been passed since 2014. The amfori BSCI Code of Conduct is based on the SA8000 if the supplier scores a D rating. standard developed by Social Accountability International, the Universal Declaration of Human Rights of the United Nations, the UN Global PREFACE Compact, the core labour standards of the International Labour OrganSuccessful BSCI audits1 ization, and OECD directives. The principles of the amfori BSCI include ABOUT THIS REPORT 2015/16 2016/17 2017/18 active environmental protection, health and safety in the workplace, UN GLOBAL COMPACT and the general prohibition of child and forced labour. These principles Number of audited suppliers 75 of 87 104 of 116 117 of 1242 INDEX are summarized in a Supplier’s Code of Conduct and explained to all Percentage of audited 86.2 89.7 94.42 IMTRON’s suppliers and business partners. The Supplier’s Code of ConSUSTAINABILITY suppliers duct is an integral component of all product contracts and is binding STRATEGY AND on all IMTRON’s suppliers. All existing and new suppliers of IMTRON KEY TOPICS own-brand products are bound to compliance with the sustainability 1 Successful social audits based on own imports (audits of all manufacturers in defined criteria by this Code of Conduct. risk countries where IMTRON produces goods for import demonstrate the successful imCUSTOMER plementation of the BSCI system or an equivalent social standard system by certification by an independent third party). EMPLOYEES The Sustainability, Compliance and Contract Management department 2 Figures correct as of 26 February 2019. AND SOCIETY carries out central monitoring of compliance with criteria and requirements. For example, it verifies whether each supplier has a valid amfori CLIMATE AND RESOURCES BSCI audit. All suppliers which have traded with IMTRON over the past Of IMTRON’s 124 suppliers from ‘risk countries’, audits were passed by two years are obliged to sign an annex to their contracts containing a 94.4 per cent. IMTRON has adopted amfori BSCI’s definition of risk TRANSPARENCY code of conduct based on the amfori BSCI. Every single one of IMTRON’s countries. The resulting monthly overview enables improvements and AND INTEGRITY suppliers had signed such a code of conduct by 30 September 2018. deteriorations to be reported to IMTRON’s management on a regular Compliance Likewise, every IMTRON order is subject to the approval of this departbasis. We will continue to ensure that audit results do not worsen and Opportunity and ment. IMTRON’s procurement decisions are therefore moulded by the to prepare and implement action plans in conjunction with suppliers. risk management amfori BSCI, establish minimum standards for business partners, and Data protection and result in every manufacturer regulating themselves. information security More information on risk classification is contained on the amfori BSCI Sustainability in supplier management website (www.amfori.org) under Country Risk Classification. OUTLOOK IMPRINT MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 44 2017/2018 Outlook PREFACE In the 2018/19 financial year, we will continue to expand our sustainaDigitalization and new technological developments play a vital role in bility activities and consistently implement our sustainability strategy. our work. To remain ready for the future, these opportunities and chalABOUT THIS REPORT The overall direction is set by the focal points defined along our value lenges are at the centre of our work – and we will redouble our efforts UN GLOBAL COMPACT chain and the goals described therein. to promote innovation and new business models. INDEX We regard ourselves as a responsible partner and companion of our SUSTAINABILITY More details on the sustainability strategy are contained in the section customers. That’s why we want to help them make informed choices. STRATEGY AND ‘Sustainability strategy and sustainability management’. Accordingly, we will step up the communication of sustainability inforKEY TOPICS mation on our products and services, and increasingly highlight criteria CUSTOMER A raft of measures from our sustainability strategy are already being such as energy efficiency and the conservation of resources. successfully implemented by all the MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group’s EMPLOYEES country organizations. We are accelerating this process by developing We will amplify our reporting on sustainability and non-financial inforAND SOCIETY and implementing country-specific sustainability programmes and tarmation. This includes continuously optimizing data collection and mongets based on our overarching sustainability strategy. This enables proitoring processes – and thus improving overall data quality. CLIMATE AND RESOURCES gress and success to be continuously monitored, yet also ensures any problems occurring during implementation are quickly identified and Our greenhouse gas audits will be intensified in the 2018/19 financial TRANSPARENCY resolved. year, especially with respect to scope 3 emissions. Furthermore, the AND INTEGRITY development of our own climate strategy is high on our agenda. Materiality analyses are regularly performed to ensure we always OUTLOOK remain focused on all relevant matters and can spot new challenges IMPRINT early on. We take the expectations of our stakeholders seriously and intend to reinforce dialogue with them. MediaMarktSaturn Communication on Progress 45 2017/2018 Imprint PREFACE Publisher Editorial Deadline ABOUT THIS REPORT MediaMarktSaturn Retail Group February 2019 UN GLOBAL COMPACT Corporate Communications & Sustainability INDEX Media-Saturn-Holding GmbH Image credits SUSTAINABILITY Wankelstraße 5 STRATEGY AND 85046 Ingolstadt p. 35: Josh Calabrese, www.unsplash.com KEY TOPICS Germany CUSTOMER sustainability@mediamarktsaturn.com EMPLOYEES Managing Director: Ferran Reverter Planet AND SOCIETY The company is registered with the Registry Court Ingolstadt under HRB 1123 CLIMATE AND RESOURCES VAT identification number: DE 165229796 TRANSPARENCY AND INTEGRITY OUTLOOK IMPRINT
