STATEMENT OF CONTINUED SUPPORT I am pleased to announce that Bacher A/S continue to support the UN Global Compact principles, with respect for human rights, workers' rights, the environment and anti-corruption. The principles are a key element of our business strategies. The purpose of this report is to communicate our ongoing progress on the key issues to our stakeholders. Since last year we have had many changes to our company. Both in regards of organizational changes and the acquisition of another company. Most importantly in regards of our work towards becoming more a sustainable business, we are proud to be granted access to the UN Global Compact Young SDG Innovators program. Andreas Schjølin will be attending as an SDG Youth Innovator and we will from the board and top management follow the program closely. Carsten Lauth, CEO Bacher A/S Bacher A/S supplies corporate clothing and workwear. Our many years of experience and production know how in production of clothing is an asset for our target groups; large industries and retailers. Bacher A/S offers complete solutions directly to our target groups and also offers warehouse and logistics handling in addition to tailor made web solutions. THE SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT GOALS Bacher A/S will in 2020 focus more on our sustainable conduct and our work will be considered as a total remodeling compared to earlier as we for the first time has allocated specific resources to an employee working on the subject. As our organization change and become more global, we need to reshape our strategies on how we want to work with social responsibility and sustainability. We want to become the preferred partner in regards of sustainable work wear and raise the bar regarding how we conduct our business. The rest of 2019 we will be working on determining which goals we believe to have the possibilities to positively impact and incorporate the United Nations Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) in our future COP report and in our business objectives. Above you see the current goals that we have selected as highly relevant to our business. We will examine our impact on each of the goals in the coming months. So far, we have selected seven goals that we believe we can facilitate and work with through our business activities. Four goals have our attention in particular – number three “Good Health and Well-Being”, number eight “Decent work and economic growth” and number twelve “Responsible Consumption and Production”. These will be important elements in structuring our new Sustainable policies. SDG number seventeen “Partnerships for the goals” is also of tremendous value to us and will certainly be regarded as one of the more important aspect of our strategy in the communications and general strategy to come. HUMAN AND LABOUR RIGHTS Bacher A/S supports and respects the protection of internationally proclaimed human rights and ensures that we are not complicit in violations of these. We seek to promote a culture of respect for the law and principles, internally within the company and among our stakeholders. Furthermore, we want to ensure that none of our clothing are produced under conditions that violate internationally proclaimed human rights. Our employees are our most important resource. We aim to ensure that all our employees feel appreciated and are working to ensure that all our processes are described and understood. We believe that the key to our level of service is accomplished when we can produce a positive atmosphere in our offices – not only for our employees but also for our customers. We have incorporated a Code of Conduct into the organization internally. It is a requirement for all our suppliers to independently prepare, implement and comply with this Code of Conduct. In 2018 we further have incorporated a management system that encompasses most of our important processes and should secure that no actions that violates the UN Global Compact Principles. Our recruitment procedures focus on qualifications and competencies, and we never distinguish between age, gender or religion when recruiting employees. We are proud that we have not observed or been informed about any forms of human rights violations in the organization. However, we are always aware that we cannot have full control over how work is carried out by our subcontractors, but we aim to choose our suppliers with consideration to their sustainability profile and we honesty about their production facilities and consideration to human and workers’ rights is in high regards. By creating a broad composition of employees, from different backgrounds and with different experiences and competencies, we feel an improvement in the sharing of experience, and a more positive corporate culture. We have achieved a broad composition of women and men in our staff. ENVIRONMENT In order to reduce our waste, we have made a procurement policy that consider care for the environment and we strive to make the best possible adjustment of our purchases in general. This means that our ordering system has been updated and we will be working with optimizations regarding purchases over the next year. During 2018/2019 we have made a materiality assessment and we could conclude that the most important topics we face in regards of sustainability is regarding our environmental footprint. This was also one of the reasons we choose to apply for the SDG Young Innovators program as we felt that we could benefit from bringing our challenges in regards of the environment impact to other likeminded companies and professionals and work within a framework that forces us to consider our challenges from different perspectives. We hope that this project will help us to become even more specific about what our biggest challenges are and how to formulate detailed plans to address these problems. So far, we have chosen to work with our recycling challenge and we what to become much better ourselves and hopefully educate our suppliers and customers to become even more sustainable in their purchasing and production. Further with our production placed in many different parts of the world, we, as many, face the challenge of sustainable transportation and believe that we could become much better if we work smarter and more efficiently. Further we hope that we can create partnerships that can educate our business in general and show that it can be feasible and achievable to focus even more on the environmental impact that clothing has on the planet. Finally, we hope that we can encourage more companies to produce responsible and with recycling, upcycling and ecologically production in mind. ANTI-CORRUPTION At Bacher A/S we maintain an open dialogue with our suppliers, and we believe that a close relationship is important. We try to maintain a commitment to dealing with them directly and never deal through intermediaries. All suppliers have been made aware of our policy of zero tolerance for all forms of corruption, including bribery. Bacher A/S will not accept any kind of corruption related to our business and we expect all our employees and partners to embrace this. With this said we do also want to be able to have a conversation with our suppliers and expect them to inform us if they notice anything within their supply chain that could contradict the rules stipulated in our Code of Conduct of in regards of the principles of the UN Global Compact. We are happy to inform that we have not registered or been made aware of any cases from our suppliers in relation to corruption. If we should become aware of this, we will take it seriously and act immediately. If violations are too wide-ranging, we have the right to terminate any kind of cooperation with the accused party.
