Corporate Social Responsibility Report 2018 Parcel delivery network of Content We are DPDgroup Page 4 DrivingChange in a nutshell Page 12 Employer of choice Page 14 Carbon neutral commitment Page 22 Smart urban delivery Page 30 Closer communities Page 36 Innovative entrepreneurship Page 44 2 3 Our vision 2018 has been another year of growth in operational footprint in the city. We which our intra European volumes grew by constantly adapt our processes to new 12%, driven mainly by e-commerce evasion. operating conditions in order to protect the We’ve delivered more than 1.3 billion carbon environment and improve quality of life in neutral parcels, consolidating our position cities. In 2018, our European business units as a leader on the European Courier, Express deployed 43 smart urban delivery solutions and Parcel (CEP) market. We have entered, in 7 countries (in cities such as Warsaw, however, a more challenging environment, London, Berlin, Barcelona, Tallin…) including with strengthened competition, price urban facilities with customer-centric pressure, driver shortages, increasing last features and low carbon emission delivery mile delivery costs and new urban operating methods. Chronopost France announced rules due to congestion, and pollution in its commitment to make deliveries in Paris dense urban areas. with 100% low emission means by mid2019, a first in our sector in France. These In this context, the company must focus are crucial steps to position us as the more than ever on key aspects including delivery experts and better contribute to quality of service, urban logistics, service limitation of pollution and congestion in innovation, and people management. The city centres. DPDgroup Corporate Social Responsibility programme DrivingChange supports our Our commitment reflects La Poste’s CSR core business priorities and focuses on strategy, our shareholder, which aims to areas where we can make the difference go beyond compliance, in order to set an and supports the evolving needs of our exam­ple in the industry and to support the society. societal transformation in terms of carbon emissions, digital responsibility, and the We have implemented a market-leading ecological transition. carbon neutral commitment since 2012. Having met our 2020 carbon reduction This communication on progress confirms target well in advance, we have defined a our commitment to the Sustainable new carbon reduction target of 30% per Development Goals (SDGs) which help parcel by 2025 in order to ensure that our guide our sustainability strategy. We are core operations to gain even more efficiency and implement low carbon technologies on the road and in our facilities. On behalf of DPDgroup, I express my continued support for the UN Global Compact and renew our ongoing DPDgroup We are paving the way for smart urban logistics by combining a best-in-class customer experience with a seamless commitment to the initiative and its principles. Paul-Marie Chavanne President and CEO of GeoPost 4 5 DPDgroup at a glance DPDgroup is Europe’s second largest parcel delivery Facts and figures network. DPDgroup combines innovative technology and local knowledge to provide a flexible and user-friendly service for both shippers and shoppers, the final customers. With its industry-leading Predict service, DPDgroup is setting a new standard for convenience by keeping customers regularly informed on the progress of their delivery. With more than 75,000 delivery experts and a network 1.3 billion 7.3 billion of more than 42,000 Pickup points, DPDgroup delivers 5.2 million parcels each day through its DPD, parcels euros in revenue (+8% growth in revenue vs. 2017) Chronopost, SEUR and BRT brands. delivered worldwide in 2018 DPDgroup is the parcel delivery network of GeoPost, which posted sales of €7.3 billion in 2018. GeoPost is a holding company owned by the French company Le Groupe La Poste. All-time record of 9 million Who we are parcels delivered on Cyber Monday (26 November 2018) Present through own operations in 2nd largest parcel delivery network in Europe 23 countries Growth in cross-border flows in Europe Growth in BtoC in Europe +13.6% in revenue +16% in volume 75,000 42,000 Pickup points +1,000 hubs and depots delivery experts Activity in volume: Parcels delivered to over 230 61% BtoB 39% BtoC countries 6 7 Our DrivingChange programme CSR Governance Paving the way to a more sustainable business, and more efficient urban delivery solutions; driving At DPDgroup, governance of CorDrivingChange is DPDgroup’s CSR programme – a innovation inside and out; and building meaningful porate Social Responsibility starts programme inherent to who we are and how we do connections in the communities where we work. at the highest level of our company. business. The European Our most senior decision-makers At the heart of these four priorities stands being an Operating Board help to define our CSR strategy DrivingChange focuses on four priorities where we Employer of Choice. Providing a mindful, respectful and oversee its implementation, The European Operating Board feel we can make the most meaningful difference and ethical workplace for all employees and partners supported by a robust governance oversees the evolution of the within parcel delivery and beyond: by reducing and forms the foundation of our business and an aim to strategy, and meets 4 times a structure designed to enable the year to review and approve the neutralising our carbon footprint; providing smarter which we all contribute in our day-to-day practices. management of environmental, solatest developments. cial, and ethical topics throughout our business. Since its launch in 2016, our Corporate Social Responsibility strategy, Our Corporate Social Responsibility DrivingChange™, reflects the high The Corporate network standards and sector-leading ambitions of Le Groupe La Poste. ImporSocial Responsibility 19 Corporate Social Carbon neutral Smart urban tantly, it focuses on the environdepartment Responsibility delegates from our European commitment delivery mental and social issues where we stand to make the greatest diffeDirected by an European Operating Board member. business units. They are responsible for the It holds the day-to-day resoperational implementation Being dedicated to making Improving everyday urban life by rence. Given our strong presence in ponsibility for defining and of the strategy, and meet every parcel we deliver giving greater delivery choices, Europe, we seek to create positive implementing the strategy, three times a year to carbon neutral, for all our while reducing our impact on the local impacts in all the European and coordinating with our share progresses and best Corporate Social practices. customers, at no extra cost. road. countries where we operate, helResponsibility network. ping to lead the way on accelerating the low carbon transition and digital responsibility. Employer of choice Working with international standards Closer Innovative DPDgroup follows a range of international Corporate Social Responsibility standards: communities entrepreneurship Bringing people together Sharing our expertise and to support and build the e ntrepreneurial spirit to help communities to which we local enterprise thrive. are closest We follow the United Nations We have adopted the ISO 14001 Environmental Programme’s (UNEP) management system standard recommendations for a carbon within our operations to guaneutral world by the end of the rantee a structured approach to century through our partnership the management of environmenwith CO2logic, and are developing tal issues. This standard covers a low carbon strategy based on 74% of employees. the Science Based targets initiative Providing a mindful, respectful and ethical workplace for all our to stay within a 2 degree trajectory employees and partners. towards 2100. 8 9 Our commitment to the United Nations Global Compact Our DrivingChange programme is based on our comthe Ten Principles. This report serves as DPDgroup’s pany’s strong values and culture of integrity. In 2016, Communication on Progress (COP). DPDgroup reached DPDgroup joined the United Nations Global Compact the Global Compact Active level in 2017 and 2018. DPDgroup identified the 4 most relevant SDGs in light of the group’s impacts and committed to its Ten Principles related to human on society, opportunities and the existing DrivingChange programme: The strategy of the UN Global Compact is to drive burights, labour conditions, environmental preservation siness awareness and action in support of achieving and anti-corruption. The UN Global Compact is a vothe Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) by 2030. luntary initiative to implement universal sustainability By respecting and supporting universal principles, UN principles. It was launched in 2000 by Kofi Annan, forGlobal Compact business participants can play an immer UN Secretary General. portant role in helping to realize the SDGs. By embracing and incorporating the Ten Principles of the UN Global Compact into our operations, we are not only upholding our basic responsibilities to communities and to the environment, but also setting the stage for our group’s long-term performance and success. As part of its commitment to the UN Global Compact, Goals DPDgroup is required to communicate its progress on Promote sustained, Make cities and Take urgent action Strengthen the means inclusive and human settlements to combat climate of implementation Our contribution to the Sustainable sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable change and its impacts and revitalise the global partnership for sustainable Development Goals and decent work for all development DPDgroup strives DPDgroup works in Through its Carbon Through its Closer In 2015, all 193 United Nations Member States committed to the 17 United Nations Sustainable Development to empower its close cooperation neutral commitment, communities initiatives, Goals (SDGs), a set of objectives laying out an agenda towards 2030 for achieving a fairer and more sustainable employees, foster an with city authorities DPDgroup actively DPDgroup brings future by addressing our world’s most pressing social and environmental challenges. Fulfilling these ambitions inclusive workplace, to support and contributes to fighting communities and will require unprecedented efforts from a wide range of actors and the private sector stands to play an imporand promote innovative promote clean air by climate change. individuals together initiatives that support deploying smart urban to achieve a common tant role. Additionally, the SDGs provide a strategic framework for companies seeking to create long-term value sustainable economic delivery solutions to purpose and build a and innovate to meet society’s evolving needs. As a company committed to building resilience for the future and growth. deliver parcels more sustainable future. creating value for its stakeholders, DPDgroup is committed to supporting the SDGs. We are actively contributing effectively. to 4 SDGs through our DrivingChange programme: 2018 Highlights Employer Smart urban Carbon neutral Closer of choice delivery commitment communities 82% of our 43 smart urban 100% of our 679 organisations employees have delivery solutions transport and supported permanent contracts deployed in Europe* energy consumption emissions offset in 28,402 employees 72% of the 75% of our pick-up 2018 have been involved in DPDgroup employees and delivery fleet is at community initiatives were trained least compliant with -15.2% of CO2 the Euro 5 standard emissions per parcel Innovative in 2018 (vs. 2013) entrepreneurship *A smart urban delivery solution combines an 22 initiatives urban depot with lowmanaged by 10 emission transport European business units 69 entrepreneurs supported 10 11 DrivingChange in a nutshell Key figures Ambitions SDG 100% of our transport and energy consumption emissions offset To reduce our CO2 emissions per in 2018 (the equivalent of 997,569 tonnes of CO2e) parcel by 30% by 2025 Carbon neutral -15,2% of CO2 emissions per parcel in 2018 (vs. 2013) To maintain our leadership by commitment keeping 100% of our deliveries #1 on the voluntary carbon offset market in the CEP sector carbon neutral 43 smart urban delivery solutions deployed in Europe (smart urban delivery solutions combine urban depots with low emission delivery transport) Smart urban To have 5,000 low emission delivery 2 major European city centres will be 100% served by low delivery means in place by 2025 emission delivery means by the end of 2019 75% of our pick-up and delivery fleet is at least compliant with the Euro 5 standard 100% of business units conducted Closer communities initiatives Closer 28,402 employees involved To further increase our delivery experts’ level of involvement communities 679 organisations supported in community initiatives 3 local Foundations (SEUR in Spain, DPD Germany, DPD Poland) 69 entrepreneurs supported To implement innovative Innovative 22 initiatives from 10 European business units entrepreneurship programme to entrepreneurship foster social innovation 13 Social entrepreneurs from the Ashoka network empowered and intrapreneurship by DPDgroup since 2011 100% of our business units have implemented our Code of Business Conduct 82% of our staff are on permanent contracts Employer To become an Employer of Choice of choice 72% of DPDgroup employees trained, representing 51,799 training days in total (25,254 employees trained) 28% of women among the workforce 12 13 Employer of choice 2018 Key figures 100% of our business units have implemented our Code of Business Conduct 82% of our staff are on permanent contracts 72% of DPDgroup employees trained, representing 51,799 training days in total (25,254 employees trained) 28% of women among the workforce Ambition Providing a To become an Employer of Choice mindful, respectful and ethical el How? i s u workplace for V all • Providing a mindful, respectful and ethical workplace for all employees and partners is inherent to our business and an aim to which we all contribute in our day-to-day practices our employees • On the path to being an employer of choice, we focus on two fundamental pillars of and partners our business: Our Our people ethics United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all 14 15 As an organisation working with 75,000 delivery experts, it is our responsibility to empower all our people in Employer DPDgroup’s mission, enabling everyone to contribute to business success and customer satisfaction. We seek of choice to ensure that every employee plays a role in fostering a responsible, innovative and inclusive culture. As a responsible employer, we also take a rigorous approach to doing business ethically at every level of our business. We require all employees to uphold our commitment to ethics and integrity. Our people The courier, express and parcel industry is a significant employer that relies crucially on its workforce to achieve Respecting fundamental human rights customer satisfaction. At DPDgroup, each business unit is responsible for adopting a tailored approach to human resources, in line with country requirements and local needs. In particular, our award-winning employee emDPDgroup is committed to respecting human rights powerment programme (in the UK), DNA, seeks to enable all our employees to respond effectively to the challenges and needs of each country through a common participative approach. in line with the International Labour Organization's Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work, and the DPDgroup UN Guiding Principles on Business and Human Rights. is committed The organisation signed a global agreement on human Encouraging employee Interview rights and freedom of association with the UNI Global to protecting empowerment (DNA) Union in March 2017, further reinforcing its commitment to protect workers’ rights. workers' rights Originally created for and by DPD UK, our DNA em“Gender diversity can foster collaboployee empowerment programme aims to support ration, tolerance and understanding. each business unit in engaging its workforce through It can lead to more productivity and strong leadership and a compelling vision. Firstly, the effectiveness. whole unit reflects on the group’s mission, vision and We need more young women, digital values, creating a simple communications plan to help natives, to cope with the changes in engage and empower everyone to get involved. This is the work environment and company then integrated into everyday systems, processes and culture. Companies in our sector training, and rolled out to all employees and contracshould offer women real training in tors. Adopting this approach contributes to nurture our digital and R&D and also support and service culture. coaching within female networks for We have already implemented DNA in 11 countries, with instance.” more countries scheduled for 2019. Marusa Kozan Digital project manager at DPDgroup Promoting diversity As a major employer, DPDgroup provides employment for 75,000 people, including employees and subcontractors. Of our direct employees, 82% have 75,000 permanent contracts. In a traditionally male-domidelivery experts nated industry, 28% of roles at DPDgroup are held by women. This proportion reaches 52% in central sup82% port functions. Conscious of this disparity, we are tawith permanent contracts king action to help foster more gender diverse teams. 16 17 Employer of choice Our people Guaranteeing health and wellbeing Empowering and taking care of our subcontractors DPDgroup is striving to become an employer of choice in our sector in every location where we do business. We As part of our commitment to establish positive and mutually beneficial relationships with our partners, are taking a multi-faceted approach, improving benefits, adopting a globally consistent set of values, promoting a DPDgroup also aspires to be the company of choice for our subcontractors. Our drivers' commitment to sense of belonging, and helping our employees to achieve a good work-life balance. first-rate service is fundamental to our continued success. We signed a European Works Council Agreement in 2008, followed by the European recommendations on Quality Interview of Life at Work in 2015. We are committed to running an employee satisfaction survey within all European business units every two years, and develop tailored action plans to address employees’ concerns. In 2018, around 73% of DPDgroup employees from 18 countries responded, with 72% voicing their satisfaction with their working “We want to be attractive to subcontractors, particularly by making shifts more environment. The results are encouraging for DPDgroup, as 73% of respondents clearly see how their own work comfortable. This means, for example, providing them with a framework contract that contributes to the overall goals and 63% would recommend the company as an employer. We also conducted allows them to buy clean vehicles. We also propose packages enabling subcontractors to the second edition of our ‘Work and Joy’ programme at our headquarters. This programme seeks to empower create their own companies. We do our best to propose the most appropriate support.” employees to improve their work-life balance through collaboration, co-creation and caring. Recognising the varying levels of maturity within different business units, we organise frequent HR seminars, Bernard Haurie as well as an annual European Works Council, bringing together HR directors from each business unit to share Deputy Director General and Senior knowledge and best practice from multiple countries. Vice President for Innovation, HR and eCommerce, GeoPost. Developing skills and training DPD Poland DPD United Kingdom Training is an integral part of the way we do business. We believe in enabling all our employees to benefit DPD Poland offers its subcontractors a range DPD UK has a strong commitment to paying from the opportunity to progress by developing new of discounts on products and services such its drivers the best rates in the industry. DPD skills or strengthening existing competencies. More as private healthcare programmes, phones, UK will also gives all drivers the flexibility to than 25,000 employees participated in at least one cars and life insurance. move between different employment statraining session in 2018. tuses including employed, Owner Driver Workers and Owner Driver Franchisees. Overall, DPDgroup provided in 2018 more than 570,000 hours of training. Our focus on training forms part of a broader Learn, Improve and Share Expertise programme, a user-friendly platform providing e-learning courses on service culture as well as soft skills for sales and customer service teams, drivers and managers. In 2018, we provided free translations of our four-part induction programme to all our business units, with shorter induction modules available for drivers. 18 19 Our ethics Employer of choice Integrating Corporate Social Responsibility into the way we do business means acting responsibly and with a Our sustainable procurement approach long-term view, going beyond commercial interests and compliance to make a positive contribution to society. To achieve this, it is vital that we prioritise ethics in everything we do. We operate according to clearly defined In 2018, we began rolling out our group-level Sustaiprinciples within the strategy, culture and operations guidelines for ethical business conduct, based on universally recognised standards. nable Procurement Charter. Established in 2017, the of our company, we invite all our suppliers to join us in Charter is based on recommendations set out by the committing to responsible practices and upholding the International Labour Organization and the Ten PrinCharter. Suppliers’ commitments concern social and ciples of the United Nations Global Compact (UNGC). environmental practices (e.g. ensure environmental DPDgroup’s stance on ethics provides a global Ethical business practice is also reflected in the four It addresses issues relating to social and environmental risks are identified, evaluated and managed), anti-corframework for the whole group, and is based on five commitments of the group’s service culture: practices, ethics and anti-corruption. ruption (e.g. consider gifts and invitations with discerncore values: ment) and ethics (e.g. respect laws on confidentiality Through our Sustainable Procurement Charter, we aim and personal data protection). to be a friendly, responsible and pragmatic business partner. As we continue to embed the Charter’s underlying 5 4 values commitments Anti-corruption Solidarity Respect Care about the Recognise and In keeping with our Code of Business Conduct and our commitment to the Principles of the UNGC, DPDgroup person, not just respond to each prohibits all forms of corruption in our dealings with stakeholders. We apply the three key principles that govern the parcel customer’s needs Transparency Accountability Le Groupe La Poste’s anti-corruption plan: Zero Tolerance, Everyone Concerned and Everyone Vigilant. We have also started to implement an anti-corruption compliance programme, in line with the French law Sapin II, introThink ahead Create a smile with duced in 2016. To comply with this law, we have mapped the risks connected to all our activities, and developed and act fast every customer Open-mindedness internal whistle-blowing systems for each business unit, along with employee training and supplier assessments. to reassure contact In 2018, La Poste commissioned external consultants to conduct an anti-corruption audit in line with the French AntiCorruption Agency’s guidelines. Code of conduct Personal data protection We continuously seek to embed the group’s stance and best practice, as enshrined by the Convenon ethics into our daily activities. In particular, all tions of the International Labour Organization, for To comply with the European Union General made significant progress on GDPR compliance, employees and external service providers must example (including on forced labour, health and Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), which came and an audit of the past two years’ efforts is comply with our Code of Business Conduct, devesafety, discrimination, pay, freedom of association into force in May 2018, we have implemented a underway, there is still much to do. We look loped by DPDgroup in 2012. Within our company, and collective bargaining). major data protection initiative across DPDgroup, forward to strengthening our data protection we encourage employees and partners at all levels integrating data protection changes throughout efforts and developing further tools to support We regularly review and update the Code, and the organisation’s processes and culture. our teams in 2019 and beyond. to use the Code to guide their decision-making added our most recent section on anti-corruption DPDgroup's Data Protection Officer holds the and stakeholder interactions. Each DPDgroup buin 2017. responsibility for overseeing these efforts. siness unit must implement the Code of Business Conduct in accordance with national law. Each European business unit has appointed an employee responsible for managing data Our Code reflects the principles of our Sustainable protection. In 2018, we established a dual focus Procurement Charter and globally defined rights on compliance and IT security at the group level in order to support the DPDgroup GDPR community. Since early 2018, any group projects involving Appropriate governance mechanisms to foster ethical practices personal data are designed to respect privacy considerations from the outset, as required by DPDgroup’s governance system acts as a mechanism to implement and promote compliance with our Code the GDPR. We have also developed some tools of Business Conduct. At a group level, senior executives an Anti-Corruption Officer and a Competition Comsuch as an assessment questionnaire to help pliance Officer oversee the implementation of our fair competition and anti-corruption programmes. Within business units evaluate all new data-related each country, every business has an Ethics Officer in place. Employees can report breaches of the Code in various projects, among other tools. Although we have ways. They can contact any of the above offices directly, or use our whistle-blowing system, which guarantees complete confidentiality. 20 21 Carbon neutral commitment Being dedicated 2018 Key figures to making every 100% of our transport and energy consumption emissions offset in 2018 parcel we deliver (the equivalent of 997,569 tonnes of CO2e) carbon neutral, for -15.2% of CO2 emissions per parcel in 2018(vs. 2013) all our customers, at no extra cost #1 on the voluntary carbon offset market in the CEP sector Ambitions • To reduce our CO2 emissions per parcel by 30% by 2025 • To maintain our leadership by keeping 100% of our deliveries carbon neutral How? We are reducing our impact on climate change and have been carbon neutral since 2012 by taking a three-pronged approach: We measure We reduce We offset our carbon footprint our CO2 emissions the remaining transport with externally audited per parcel and energy consumption methods and tools emissions United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Take urgent action to combat climate change and its impacts 22 23 Transportation currently accounts for around a quarter of the world's energy-related carbon emissions. As Carbon neutral freight transport activities are projected to increase by around 80% by 2050 compared to 2005, the delivery commitment sector faces a significant challenge in reducing its environmental impact. Every day, DPDgroup’s 75,000 delivery experts deliver more than 5.2 millions parcels in 23 countries across Europe. This express delivery network is highly important to us and our clients, but it also contributes to global greenhouse gas (GHG) emissions. To address this challenge, the group has developed an ambitious commitment, central to our DrivingChange programme: to make every parcel we deliver carbon neutral at no extra cost for our customers. We measure We reduce Measuring our own impact In 2018 Building a strong understanding of our emissions allows us to manage them effectively. As parcel volumes increase and the demand for delivery services grows, a robust emission reduction plan is critical to making every parcel In order to manage and reduce DPDgroup’s carbon we deliver carbon neutral. In 2018, we continued to improve the efficiency of each parcel delivered, achieving an emissions, we first develop a thorough understanding average of 0.83 kg of CO₂e per parcel, a reduction of 15.2%, compared to 2013. of the emissions generated from our own operations. 1,214,873,718 Parcels We use an internal reporting tool, ‘RESPIRE’, to collect energy consumption data related to transport, 997,569 TCO2e emissions Our new 30% carbon reduction goal depots and hubs, in the 18 subsidiaries fully owned by DPDgroup. Each business unit is required to monitor its In 2018, we defined our new carbon reduction goal – to as well as our indirect (Scope 3) emissions, which will energy use and carbon emissions closely, supported by reduce our carbon emissions by 30% by 2025 per parbe increasingly important as our e-commerce parcels quarterly reports. 0.821 kg cel compared to 2013 – and committed to the Science expand. We have also now included building energy Based Targets initiative, in order to help ensure our consumption from our office buildings to our hubs and We continuously improve the tool in order to ensure its CO2e emissions per parcel goals are sufficiently ambitious and contribute to indepots in our new target, and therefore in our carbon effectiveness and reliability. For example, our subsidia-4.07% Vs 2017 ternational efforts to keep global warming below 2C° reduction efforts. ries benefit from Avoided Emissions indicators, which by 2050. The goal will encompass our own operations allow them to measure gains from ongoing energy and fuel reduction initiatives. The tool aligns with international standards such as ISO 14064, the European standard EN 16258, the French 45,000 TCO2 Prioritising low carbon transport: towards 5,000 low emission vehicles avoided by our low emission fleet standard BEGES and our internal protocol, and data is and renewable energy consumption by 2025 externally audited annually to ensure its accuracy. In 2018 For our last mile operations, we use light and electric commercial vehicles to pick up and deliver parcels to our customers. Electric vehicles are one of the most Through our low emission delivery approach, effective means to reduce the carbon footprint of our we travelled pick-up and delivery operations. For example, we are more than 7 million km using cargo bikes in city centre locations to achieve zero emission deliveries and prevent further traffic Engaging customers in measuring congestion. Other initiatives being deployed are the natural gas vehicles and eco-driving training. By 2025, their impact we expect to have a low emission delivery fleet of Together with fuel efficiency training sessions, DPDgroup has offered customers the ability to measure this helped us to avoid 5,000 vehicles. This objective will be possible thanks to their own impact since 2016, providing them with a the combination of more reliable and affordable new Carbon Calculator tool that delivers an estimation 2,000 tonnes technologies, as well as new urban logistics schemes of the footprint of customers’ parcels on request, of CO₂ emissions involving multiple and smaller urban depots reducing taking into account the exact route. The calculator the overall average distance of our delivery rounds. enables individuals and businesses to build a better understanding of their impacts. It also responds to the needs of the group’s growing base of environmentallyconscious customers. The analysis is performed for every parcel that enters the group’s transport network. The tool was recently verified by third party SGS, a verification and certification company, against the requirements of the European standard EN 16258. 24 25 Carbon neutral commitment We reduce All long distance fleet to be less than 5 years on average by 2025 DPDgroup sites will be supplied with 80% electricity produced DPDgroup operates the largest European road To achieve this goal, several initiatives will be implefrom renewable sources by 2025 network, which allows us to transport almost all our mented by our business units. For example, DPD PoEnergy consumption is essential to the proper funcreduction objective and our offsetting scope. This deparcels by truck instead of by airfreight. This leading land requires its long distance transport suppliers not tioning of our sites. DPDgroup network is composed cision allows us to monitor our countries’ efforts to network reduces the impact of our operations, and to use any vehicles older than five years by contract. of offices and operational sites such as depots, where reduce energy consumption within the scope of our we are continuously optimising it. For long distance This measure allows our Polish Business Unit to enparcels are prepared for hubs and last-mile operations, carbon neutral commitment efforts. Achieving a 30% transport, we use trucks and containers to send parsure an efficient transportation of parcels as well as where parcels are sorted, ready for delivery to their reduction of CO2 per parcel by 2025 will also mean accels from one consolidation hub to another, before the reduced environmental impact. In addition to the redestination. The energy used in our buildings is vital for quiring 80% of our electricity from renewable sources. last-mile delivery. newal of our fleet, DPDgroup is testing alternative iniour parcel delivery activity, powering our sorting sysBy 2018, 39% of our electricity was already sourced tiatives such as road trains in the Netherlands and natems, lighting and heating. from renewable energy. We estimate that more than To support our new carbon reduction target, DPDgroup tural gas trucks in France. The road trains allow a single 17,000 tonnes of CO2 were avoided due to this initiahas committed to only use long distance vehicles with From 2019, the CO2 emissions related to building entruck to carry over 1.6 times more load and therefore tive. an average age of less than 5 years by 2025. With more ergy consumption will be included in our new carbon reduce the total distance covered. Natural gas trucks efficient technology becoming available in the market, run on an alternative fuel that helps lower the carbon renewing the fleet is key to reducing fuel consumption, intensity of our long distance routes. and therefore, our CO2 emissions. Case study DPD Lithuania has confirmed its partnership with renewable energy company ENERTY, following a pilot phase in 2016. “Together with the DPDgroup network and our partners, DPD Lithuania is contributing to reducing emissions and becoming a socially responsible business. Our electricity consumption has already decreased by 10%.” Some of its buildings are also equipped with solar panels that provide part of the electricity they need to function, thereby reducing the Robert Vilkaitis environmental impact of its activity. In 2018, CEO Baltics more than 1 million kWh were produced by General Manager of DPD Lithuania these installations, which contributed to avoiding 600 tonnes of CO2. 26 27 Carbon neutral commitment We offset Offsetting projects We are carbon neutral at no extra cost for our customers Brazil India The final step of our three-pronged approach is to of the most rigorous carbon standards on the market – offset all remaining CO2 emissions from transport, and the Verified Carbon Standard (VCS). Transforming landfill gas Creating clean power from this year, the energy consumption of our buildings, in order to achieve carbon neutrality. We include the Additionally, every project is verified by a third party into clean energy through wind turbines to guarantee accurate measures of CO2e savings. indirect emissions from outsourced transport in our This project consists of a collection, With this project, wind turbines generate Both environmental and socio-economic benefits offsetting scope. In this way, DPDgroup holds the CEP transport and treatment system for electricity which is then licensed to are considered when selecting an offsetting project. sector No. 1 position on the voluntary carbon offset landfill gas, producing electricity to both become part of the electricity grid of In order to help accelerate the shift to sustainable market. power its own site and sending electricity India. This reduces the need for the energy, all of the projects we fund focus on renewable Since we launched our carbon neutral commitment in energy, energy efficiency, or the circular economy. to the Brazilian national grid. The major country’s national grid to rely on fossil 2012, we have delivered 6 billion carbon neutral parcels. These are not tax-exempt and we do not have equity constituent of landfill gas is methane fuels, particularly coal fired power investments in the projects we support. (CH4), which has 21 to 25 times the impact plants, to meet its growing electricity We developed our offsetting programme, and the of CO2 on the climate. Through this project, requirements. This in turn helps to prevent associated projects, in partnership with CO2logic, The offsetting projects in India and Brazil have helped methane is destroyed through a high further climate change. a pioneer in leading companies towards carbon to offset our 2018 carbon footprint worth 997,569 temperature flare, generating electricity, neutrality. Our projects are related to renewable and tCO2e. This investment not only offsets 100% of our reducing the need to create electricity clean energy production. The project we support in GHG parcel delivery emissions, it also drives social and from finite fossil fuels, and reducing GHG India produces renewable energy from wind power. economic improvements. emissions into the atmosphere. In Brazil, we support a project collecting landfill gas to produce clean energy. Both projects are verified by one #1 on the voluntary carbon offset market in the CEP sector 28 29 Smart urban delivery 2018 Key figures 43 smart urban delivery solutions deployed in Europe* 2 major European city centres will be 100% served by low emission delivery means by the end of 2019 75% of our pick-up and delivery fleet is at least compliant with the Euro 5 standard * Smart urban delivery solutions combine urban depots with low emission delivery transport Ambition Improving To have 5,000 low emission delivery means in place by 2025 everyday urban life by giving greater How? delivery choices, while reducing our impact on the road We reduce the impact We act for greater delivery choices We implement urban depots to avoid of our last-mile to improve everyday life unnecessary distance delivery fleet United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Make cities and human settlements inclusive, safe, resilient and sustainable 30 31 More than 73% of people in Europe live in cities, and urban vehicles account for 40% of CO2 emissions related to Smart urban road transport. With urbanisation and e-commerce thriving, the resulting traffic congestion contributes signidelivery ficantly to climate change and air pollution. Due to rising public health concerns, many city authorities restrict or ban polluting vehicles in city centres. To respond to these challenges and provide convenient delivery options for customers, DPDgroup is continuously implementing smart and sustainable delivery solutions. Smart urban delivery is one of the core commitments that will help DPDgroup become the leading urban delivery company in Europe, through service innovation, last-mile logistics and user-centric delivery solutions. We reduce We act Our new ambition Our 2018 initiatives We aim to have 5,000 low emission delivery means in place by 2025 (including electric vehicles, natural gas-poweIn 2018, we took another step towards becoming the leading urban delivery company in Europe with major anred trucks and cargobikes etc). These vehicles will be primarily deployed in cities to help reduce our environmental nouncements in two European cities. Chronopost has committed to making deliveries across Paris with a 100% footprint when delivering parcels. low emission fleet by mid-2019, and DPD Germany is set to introduce total e-mobility in the centre of Hamburg. Building on these initiatives, we seek to launch similar initiatives in multiple cities. Our approach Every day, we deliver more than 5.2 millions parcels across 23 countries in Europe. Our fleet comprises 59,000 vehicles, of which alternative vehicles represent 1%. We tailor our services to the individual needs of each city, progressively deploying urban depots and low carbon transport solutions. The optimisation of everyday operations is also central to our urban lo5.2 millions gistics initiatives. We engage with local authorities to parcels each day anticipate and react rapidly to new requirements and legislation. We continuously strive to lower the environmental impact of our fleets by taking measures to improve France Germany fuel efficiency, and reduce carbon emissions and pollutants. In particular, we focus on using the latest Euro Chronopost makes Paris DPD Germany to apply Standard and implementing advanced vehicle technology. 42,000 deliveries with a 100% e-mobility in Hamburg's parcel shops low emission fleet city centre Importantly, we listen to our customers, and continuously innovate to provide sustainable solutions and In November 2018, we deployed low In November 2018, DPD Germany announced create efficiency delivery services. emission vehicles in the Ney, Rungis, Bobigny that it would convert its entire parcel deliveries and Alfortville areas of Paris, and the Parisian in the inner city districts of Hamburg to low Urban depots of Concorde, Beaugrenelle emission vehicles. The company will replace Our two core signature services are: and Bercy. The new low emission fleet, fully Hamburg’s ten conventional delivery rounds, • Our Predict service provides with a one-hour time slot in advance, and the opportunity to reschedule. 59,000 deployed by mid 2019, will consist of electric models (Renault Kangoo ZE, Nissan ENV replacing all diesel vehicles and reaching zero emission parcel deliveries by summer 2019 in vehicles 200), compressed natural gas vehicles (FIAT the Altstadt, Neustadt, Hafencity, St. Georg Increasing the first delivery rate means a reduction Ducato) and electric-assisted carrier tricycles and Hammerbrook districts, as well as in the of 4% of CO2 emissions per parcel compared to a and trolleys, and will seek to deliver 25,000 Steinwerder and Kleiner Garasbrook areas. standard last mile delivery on business-to-consumer parcels per day. parcels. To achieve this goal, DPD Germany is using a The initiative forms part of a low emission mix of small vehicles such as cargo bikes and • Our Pickup network offers customers to be directly urban logistics policy implemented by e-scooters, together with larger vehicles delivered in 42,000 parcel shops, in 23 European countries, with nearly 95% within 15 minutes from recipients’ homes. 23 Chronopost France over the last 20 years. Chronopost France's CEO, Martin Piechowski, such as fully electric vans and trucks. The purchase of these vehicles is partly subsidised countries in Europe is dedicated to continuing the efforts already through a local city initiative. underway. 32 33 Smart urban delivery We implement Our urban depots DPDgroup takes a ‘micro-distribution’ approach, meaning that we establish depots within or near city centres, Spain consolidating deliveries by van before using low carbon transport delivery solutions to cover the last mile to the recipient. Our urban depots are chosen for their location near to areas where we experience high parcel volumes SEUR inaugurates a new urban for delivery. The sites can be car parks or shops that are no longer in use. Depending on the available space, the depot in the centre of Barcelona site might benefit from a sorting mechanism (on larger sites) or simply storage (on smaller sites). The overall objective is to use a single approach to feed the urban depot from a site outside the city, thereby reducing the disSEUR has inaugurated a new urban hub in the tance travelled and emissions produced. Once the parcels arrive at the urban depot, then low emission vehicles centre of Barcelona. SEUR already has 11 urban can begin the last-mile delivery. depots in Spanish city centres, including Madrid, Bilbao, Seville, Segovia, Valencia and Zaragoza. The shorter mileage involved allows for increased productivity, adoption of alternative fuel vehicles and new These urban depots are typically located in areas operating approaches. These include cargo bikes or other efficient alternative delivery methods such as deliveof high population density. They allow the comring parcels on foot to customers’ homes or to one of the 42,000 parcel shops or parcel locker terminals, where pany to be closer to customers, shorten deliveconsumers can collect their parcel at their own convenience. ry distances and improve the sustainability of its These city centre locations, combined with improved operational processes, allow us to improve efficiency while distribution operation. The new Barcelona hub is reducing the number of vehicles required and optimising loads, resulting in lowered emissions of carbon and located in the Eixample district, and will make an particulate matter. average of 800 daily shipments. This will include urgent solutions for one or two-hour deliveries, a popular service derived from e-commerce provided by SEUR through SEUR Now. Local pollution and information about our fleet United Kingdom In 2018 DPDgroup measures two air pollutants in particular – DPD opens the UK's first both a direct consequence of our delivery activity: parall-electric parcel depot ticulate matter (PM) and nitrogen oxides (NOx). Unlike we reduced* our emissions of greenhouse gas emissions, which have a global impact, in central London these pollutants, emitted by all vehicles, represent a loNOx PM cal health hazard. DPDgroup is therefore actively replaIn October 2018, DPD opened the UK's first allelectric parcel depot in the heart of London’s cing its conventional diesel and petrol delivery vehicles Westminster district. With floor space of 5,000 -12% -14% with alternatives, such as electric vehicles, biogas vehicles or bicycles. In 2018, we reduced our emissions square feet, it has the capacity to deliver 2,000 parcels a day. * per kilometre and compared to 2017 of NOx by 12% and PM by 14%, compared to 2017. Using all-electric vehicles to both deliver We use the Euro Standard, which defines the accepparcels to DPD Westminster, and make the final table limits for exhaust emissions and pollutants, to delivery to customers, DPD will initially achieve 75%* measure the impact of our fleet. The standard currently has six stages ranging from Euro 1 (lowest perfora reduction of 45 tonnes of CO2 annually. This is of our fleet now meets set to increase as more all-electric vehicles and ming vehicles) to Euro 6 (highest performing vehicles). depots are introduced. the euro 5 and 6 standards As cities around Europe increasingly take measures to reduce air pollution, it is vital that we continuously im*compared to 70% in 2017 prove the efficiency of our fleets. 75% of our fleet now meets Euro 5 or 6, compared to 70% in 2017. 34 35 Closer communities 2018 Key figures 100% of business units conducted Closer communities initiatives 28,402 employees involved 3 local Foundations (SEUR in Spain, DPD Germany, DPD Poland) 679 organisations supported Ambition To further increase our delivery experts’ level of involvement in community initiatives How? We support communities in two ways: Solidarity Employee transport commitment Providing our delivery Sharing our time, and logistics expertise passion and skills to local projects Bringing people together to United Nations Sustainable support and build Development Goals the communities to which we are Strengthen the means of implementation and revitalise the global closest partnership for sustainable development 36 37 As a delivery expert, DPDgroup connects closely with local communities on a daily basis. We have a unique opCloser portunity to support the communities in which we work and help them in their project thanks to our delivery Communities expertise. DPDgroup employees are able to put forward local solidarity projects that are important to them. On a voluntary basis, our committed people share their time, skills and resources to support communities and grow together. Our ambition is to make a positive contribution to the communities to which we are closest. Interview Why did DPD Poland decide to set How do you promote the diverse up a Foundation? projects to raise funds? The idea came from our CEO, Rafał We use our internal media and we Nawłoka, who defined our couriers are strongly supported by the Huand linehaul drivers as our closest man Resources Business Partners community. They are subcontracteam, which reaches every depot Malgorzata MAJ tors and therefore do not benewith information and practical, orPR Manager of DPD Poland fit fully from social solutions ofganisational support. CEO of the DPD Poland Foundation fered to our own employees by The management of DPD Poland the company and the state. As the established the DPD Poland Founmost vulnerable group performing dation in October 2017 to show crucial jobs as drivers and couriers, real support to our subcontractors they are most exposed to the efor their families in need, among fects of road accidents, which can others, through charitable giving dramatically affect them and their and volunteering. Through the families. The Foundation seeks to Foundation, DPD Poland engages take care of this very special comboth employees and subcontracmunity. tors in raising funds voluntarily for its closest community – couriers, What are the objectives of the drivers and their families – supporFoundation? ting those facing challenging life situations or health concerns. In this The aim of the Foundation is to proway, the company cares for and vide social help to our couriers and includes subcontractors within its linehaul drivers and their families in own DPD Poland community. challenging life situations. In October 2018, the foundation held a “Take a cake” fundraising Which project are you most proud event, inviting employees at each of? depot and head office to enjoy deliWe are proud of every single procious homemade cakes in exchange ject. for a contribution to a sealed donaIt is difficult to compare or value tion box. Some 1,000 employees them. Each case is a different story, helped to raise €17,000. For the first and every individual faces diverse 18 months, the foundation helped difficulties. 18 subcontractors or their children with disabilities or facing serious or Do the employees of DPD Poland terminal illnesses. get involved? We are very active and united by the idea of helping our colleagues. Our employees participate significantly as volunteers and donors and in other Foundation initiatives. 38 39 Solidarity transport Closer Communities U  sing our delivery and logistics expertise to support communities where we operate DPD Slovenia DPD Netherlands Chronopost Portugal DPD Switzerland Delivering Christmas presents Providing IT support and Delivering gifts: Selling oranges to raise money to disadvantaged families training to children in Tanzania Christmas Angels for sick children 55 participating employees 20 computers donated to 1,000 gifts donated to the Salvation Army 2,245 oranges collected underprivileged children DPD Slovenia provided free delivery of 50 Chronopost Portugal supported the Salvation DPD Switzerland partnered with leading Christmas gifts for children whose families To help create a brighter future for Army in delivering Christmas gifts to children’s charity Terre des hommes to help are affected by poverty. underprivileged children and enable more underprivileged children. Gifts were donated raise money to support medical treatment children to attend secondary school and via the “Angel Tree Programme” and sent for sick children by delivering 2 tonnes of university, DPD Netherlands employees to a Chronopost Pickup point, before being oranges. The money raised will bring access supported an IT training initiative. The collected and delivered to the Salvation Army. to medical care, nutrition and hygiene to team delivered 20 laptops to children of thousands of children. Rhotia Valley in Tanzania, helping them to continue their studies and take part in initiatives design to empower young entrepreneurs to start their own business. DPD Ireland Supporting disabled people with the Irish Wheelchair DPD France Association (IWA) Delivering ROSE magazines 120 participating employees for charity DPD Ireland supports the Irish Wheelchair 15 employees supported Association (IWA) in improving quality of life a breast cancer charity among people with disabilities through donations and logistics assistance. The organiDPD France has supported the ROSE breast sation reaches more than 20,000 members cancer charity for 6 years by providing free in their homes and communities each year. leaflet delivery services, helping the organisation to provide information and raise awareness of the rights of women affected by the disease. 40 41 Employee commitment Closer Communities Sharing our time, passion and skills to support communities DPD DPD Belgium DPD Latvia DPDgroup Headquarters DPD Lithuania Collecting funds for Raising funds for Fighting malnutrition Making children’s dreams Red Nose Schools disabled children by planting fruit trees come true 72 participating employees €1,300 raised for the Poga 3 millions steps to raise €10,000 Donations to 105 day care centres Rehabilitation Centre DPD Belgium sells red noses to the Red DPDgroup supports the non profit organiEmployees at DPD Lithuania raised €5,730 Nose Fund, managed by the King Baudouin 34 employees participated in a fundraising sation “Les Enfants du Soleil” that supports for the NGO Vaikų svajonės and its Childrens Foundation to raise money for people sports challenge in support of disabled and educates children living in the streets of wishes” project, which connects donors with suffering with mental health issues. Through children, with the winning team running, Madagascar. The “Fighting malnutrition by social workers in underprivileged families at this initiative, 470 schools have registered as cycling and skating 6,616km, and raising planting fruit trees” project was proposed Christmas time. In 2018, they delivered 4,995 Red Nose Schools, helping to support more €1,300 for the Poga Rehabilitation Centre. by an employee at DPDgroup's head office. parcels to day care centres via DPD’s pickup than 412,000 pupils with mental health Our donation will help the centre to help Through sport challenge, we raised €10,000 network. difficulties. disabled children to walk by using the step for the project, which will begin in spring robot G-EO System, one of the world’s most 2019. advanced rehabilitation robots. DPD DPD Slovakia DPD Hungary Supporting a guide dog Delivering food to people training school in Bratislava in need €4,500 of donations 110 participating employees Through its longstanding support of BratisDPD Hungary held a charity cake sale and raise lava’s Dog Training School, DPD Slovakia has €300 for the Hungarian Food Bank Associahelped to fund the breeding and training of tion, a food charity helping to combat poverguide dogs for the blind and people with ty, hunger and malnutrition by delivering food sight impairments, helping to improve their parcels to people in need. The team’s support quality of life. helped to fund the delivery of 3,571 food parcels in 2018. 42 43 Innovative entrepreneurship 2018 Key figures 69 entrepreneurs supported 22 initiatives from 10 European business units 13 Social entrepreneurs from the Ashoka network empowered by DPDgroup since 2011 Ambition To implement innovative entrepreneurship programmes to foster innovation and intrapreneurship Sharing our expertise and How? entrepreneurial We support entrepreneurship in three ways: spirit to help local enterprise thrive We stimulate We empower We support employee innovation social entrepreneurs external entrepreneurship United Nations Sustainable Development Goals Promote sustained, inclusive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment and decent work for all 44 45 Entrepreneurship and innovation sit at the heart of DPDgroup and have been integrated into the way we do Innovative business since our inception. We grew by acquiring expert delivery companies, founded by entrepreneurs, and Entrepreneurship our decentralised structure allows our business units independence to innovate to meet the needs of their customers. With the rise of e-commerce parcel volumes are expected to double by 2025 and on-demand delivery in the rapidly evolving CEP sector, we see multiple opportunities to innovate into the future. To strengthen our positive impact and create more shared value in the communities where DPDgroup operates, we support and empower innovative local entrepreneurs. We stimulate employee innovation Our employees know our business better than anyone. Empowering our employees to innovate and giving them the opportunity to develop and share new business ideas is central to leading the way in our industry. DPDgroup Headquarters Our innovation and CSR departments encourage employees to share their boldest ideas each year as part of Le Groupe La Poste’s ‘20 projects for 2020’ initiative. The winners receive three months of dedicated support to MobileOwl inter-university develop their idea and demonstrate its potential, with our innovation team supporting them through training, delivery solution mentoring, flexible working (up to 20% of their time can be dedicated to the project) and funding. The result could be new processes or services, or even new business units or subsidiaries that support our business goals and help Led by two employees from DPDgroup us to grow. At the same time, participants grow professionally too, developing new skills. headquarters, one of the winning team was MobileOwl, an inter-university delivery In 2018, 10 business units participated in the competition, including Estonia, DPD France, DPDgroup Headquarters, solution targeting ERASMUS exchange Germany, Latvia, Lithuania, Netherlands, Poland, Russia and SEUR in Spain, with 32 teams competing, and a total students, who move across Europe as of more than 80 employees. After the first phase of selection, eight projects were chosen to be supported by part of their studies. Using the Owlbox experts to help them advance further in the competition. DPDgroup entered two winning projects. delivery solution, students can send goods in a reliable way. The project is done in partnership with their universities and student associations. The solution has been tested with some DPDgroup business units, DPD Baltics and commercially with universities and students. International parcel-forwarding with ‘Buy World’ The ‘Buy world’ project is a parcel-forwarDPD Poland ding solution developed by three DPD Baltics employees for consumers purchasing goods Lithuania Innovating to optimise packaging via foreign websites. It provides them with a virtual address in the e-merchant’s country, materials and reduce waste and cross-border transport via DPD, with the Packaging is vital to transporting and delivering consignee becoming a customer. The solution parcels safely and effectively. To support our reflects US-led ambitions for parcel-forwarclients in packing their parcels appropriately, ding, and the winning tems will launch a pilot we provide them with an automated tool to in 2019. Poland help them optimise their packaging according to their needs. The tool replaces the previous manual system of ordering packaging materials, providing clear information and images of the packing materials available. The new system, a joint innovation of our operations and marketing team, has led to increased customer satisfaction, while saving our employees’ time, ensuring more safely packed parcels in a more readily transportable format, and reducing excess packaging and waste. 46 47 Innovative Entrepreneurship We empower social entrepreneurs We support external entrepreneurship DPDgroup supports social entrepreneurs who think These sessions encourage employees to understand DPDgroup provides support to innovative entrepreneurs in the communities where we operate. In this way, we laterally to solve pressing social challenges through the potential of social innovation and co-create new grow together. Our aim is to help local entrepreneurs develop their projects through a range of initiatives, such our longstanding partnership with Ashoka, the world’s solutions with social entrepreneurs. as providing special rates or free shipping services, granting awards or financial support, and helping to develop largest global network of social entrepreneurs. We share their skills. In 2018, DPD Germany supported Ashoka fellow Raphael a belief that collaboration and social entrepreneurship Fellmer’s SirPlus project, launched in 2017, providing will help empower people to accelerate positive What is Innovation for DPDgroup ? logistics support, access to its personal network and change in society. Three pillars for innovation at DPDgroup event sponsorship. Working with partners in Germany’s Through our current three-year agreement, renewed food supply chain, SirPlus seeks to significantly reduce Digital transformation & Smart Urban logistics High tech markets Ecommerce Tech & vehicles allowing us Strong innovation needed in 2017, we support social entrepreneurs by helping food waste and revolutionise the food industry by Developing technologies that to better respond to our to support DPDgroups new them to: helping to make food-saving more professional and give full control to consumers: customers’ needs while markets, like delivery of fresh mainstream. In Germany alone, 20 million of tonnes of on-demand deliveries, smart addressing sustainability & frozen food (traceability, • Find solutions to workforce inclusion, social cohesion, notifications, etc. issues temperature, safety) food are wasted each year, the equivalent of 500,000 urbanisation, local economic development, and lowtruckloads. SirPlus is therefore contributing to saving carbon innovation. natural resources, preventing overproduction and • Address logistics challenges. waste, and lowering CO2 emissions. Everyone involved Interview benefits, with food retailers saving on disposal costs DPDgroup is committed to selecting and supporting and consumers gaining access to more affordable, at least three Ashoka Fellows financially between 2017 DPDgroup is targeting both increIsraeli startups Trucknet and Mobisustainable food. In the future, SirPlus aims to expand and 2019. In parallel, Ashoka will organise six discovery mental and disruptive innovations leye. within Europe and internationally. sessions for DPDgroup employees across Europe, dein three key areas: Digital transforsigned to foster inspiration and collective innovation. Olaf Klargaard Open innovation is also about enmation & Ecommerce, Smart urban DPDgroup’s gaging our customers in our prologistics and High tech markets. Director of cesses, and make sure we are in line Innovation However, defining strategy is not with market needs. A good example getting results, it is rather about is the project co-built in France implementation and culture. In with Cdiscount, the Ecommerce that view, DPDgroup is leveraging marketplace, and Chronopost to its corporate values – autonomy test smart keys, allowing deliveof business units and entreprery at home in the absence of the neurship culture – to implement an consignee. open innovation approach. Last but not least, open innovation Open innovation with startups: the relies on our employees. Though diversity of size, geographies and focused on our company, this is an culture that can be found in our BUs open approach, as we are asking constitutes a fantastic ground for the crowd of our workforce to be cooperation with startups, where creative, out of traditional channels. various stages of experimentation DPDgroup 2018 Intrapreneurship can be implemented before induscampaign was a great success, with trialization. A couple of illustrations: 32 teams from 10 countries worin Slovenia, we’ve launched payking on projects of new businesses. ment through mobile wallet with Our mission is to engage our emMbills, a local startup. In Spain and ployees, startups and customers to Portugal, we’ve been testing the innovate with us! first steps of autonomous vehicles (placing cameras in vehicles and exploring driving assistance) with 48 49 Innovative Entrepreneurship Initiatives DPD Estonia Chronopost France Promoting smart delivery solutions DPD Estonia offers advanced delivery options including Cleveron Innovating to advance sustaiparcel robots and CleverPods, smart post boxes capable of storing nable deliveries standard post, parcels and thermal boxes for grocery deliveries. Chronopost France employees are helping to advance a more sustaiCleveron parcel robots are located at various public places in Estonia, nable delivery method by supporting start-up K-Ryole in optimising and function together with DPD Pickup system, while CleverPods its pioneering, electrically assisted trailer for deliveries. The K-Ryole can be rented for residential addresses. DPD Estonia is supporting trailer, which was invented in 2016 and has a capacity of 250kg and Cleveron in expanding its business by offering DPD deliveries to the 1.2 m3, can easily be pulled on foot or by bike, adapting itself to the locations where its robots are based and helping to test and improve circumstances and the user’s speed. In July 2018, Chronopost dethe CleverPod solution. livery employees tested some modifications to the electrically assisted trailer, the K-Ryole, helping to overcome a few constraints to making deliveries. Chronopost’s feedback enabled the manufacturer to design a vehicle that is better suited to parcel delivery. Due to its DPD Czech Republic small size (85cm) and agility, the K-Ryole can easily be used in dense, urban areas, helping to overcome the challenges of urban logistics. Exchanging batteries to power continuous The manufacturer won an innovation award from the city of Paris in electric deliveries 2018, and its collaboration with Chronopost is helping the company to grow its business and trailer offering, raising its profile and credibiCzech start-up BattSwap offered DPD Czech Republic the opporlity among potential clients. tunity to test its battery exchange solution in the electric Fiat Ducato van. Battswap’s technology makes it possible to rapidly replace a discharged battery with a charged one, avoiding loss of time during charging. The e-van can therefore be used continuously with no breaks. DPD Czech Republic tested the e-van at its depot and for parcel deliveries, and subsequently bought it in December 2018 with the support of DPDgroup. The e-van is currently leased to a subcontractor in Prague city centre. In the future, we will seek to install the DPD Slovakia start-up’s battery swap system at our Prague depot. Advanced modern fleet technology To equip our fleets with the latest technology and reduce our CO2 emissions, we promote electric vehicles, wherever possible. Since DPD Croatia 2014, we have been working with electric van manufacturer Voltia to develop a solution for electric urban deliveries, and in 2018, we Supporting a leading e-commerce provider implemented advanced electric vehicle technology, adding 4 new DPD Croatia supports the country’s first e-commerce company, e-vans to our 9 vehicles fleet. These e-vans will save 20 tonnes of Monri Payments, which is the leading independent Croatian payment CO2 annually. Building on these efforts, we aim to become an inindustry service provider. In 2018, it supported the company through dustry leader in sustainable urban logistics in Slovakia, as we move financial donations and skills sponsorship, and also by participating in towards our goal or making 10% of our delivery fleet electric by the events, helping them to achieve media coverage. end of 2020. 50 51 About this report This is DPDgroup’s third Corporate Social Responsibility report, published in May 2019. This report covers 19 business units across Europe, all under full ownership of DPDgroup. The current coverage represents 88% of revenue. We are working on a progressive inclusion of other business units fully owned or under financial control to the DrivingChange programme. Unless otherwise stated, this report only includes information related to 2018. DPDgroup operates under the following brand names: DPD, Chronopost, SEUR and BRT. The information in this report has been gathered through reporting tools, documented information and internal and external stakeholder interviews. We would like to thank all those who contributed to this report. Please direct questions on this report or topics related to our corporate social responsibility programme to drivingchange@dpdgroup.com Discover our CSR webpage on: www.dpd.com/group/en/sustainability 52 53 Parcel delivery network of 26, rue Guynemer 92130 Issy Les Moulineaux, France drivingchange@dpdgroup.com | dpdgroup.com | @DPDgroup_news
